The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 49 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Fans disgruntled by Irish performance 
The Irish end week 12 with a 7-2 record after falling to the ASU Sun Devils during Saturday’s game 
By OWEN LANE 
news writer 
The notre dame football team suffered a tough loss to arizona state university (asu) on saturday as the sun devils scored 28 points off turnovers on their way to beating the irish, 55-31, at sun devil stadium in Tempe, arizona. 
senior John doran, the leprechaun mascot for notre dame, cited the injuries on defense and multiple turn­overs as major contributing factors to notre dame’s poor performance. 
“we spotted them a bunch of points, and it’s tough to come back from that,” doran said. “i think we showed in the second half that we could move the ball, but it was too late.” 
The irish also faced a noisy stadium full of loyal asu fans looking to support a sun devils team trying to prove its place in the top 10. 
“The arizona state crowd was also impressive,” doran said. “The crowd was loud, and the band did a good job of leading their ‘a-s-u’ chant. as it was really our second true away game, it was second only to Fsu so far in loudness.” 
see asu PAGE 6 



smc welcomes seniors’ dads 


NDSP reports 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
as juniors, saint mary’s students dedicate a week­end to their moms. This past weekend, saint mary’s se­niors turned their attention to welcoming their dads to campus for father-daughter events as part of senior dad’s weekend. 
senior class president lauren osmanski and se­nior class vice president Tori wilbraham worked together to plan this year’s senior dad’s weekend. 
see smc PAGE 7 

Photo courtesy of Mary Kate McLaughlin 
SMC Seniors Mary Kate McLaughlin, Nicole O’Toole and Audrey Kiefer went on a tour of Notre Dame Stadium with their dads. 


robbery on campus 
Observer Staff Report 
at about 2 a.m. saturday morning, three men in a silver sedan approached a notre dame student on cam­pus, demanded the student get in the car, took the stu­dent to an off-campus loca­tion to withdraw cash and robbed the student, accord­ing to an email from ndsp on saturday afternoon. 
The student was ap­proached on notre dame ave. between the morris inn and holy cross dr., the email stated. Following the incident, the three perpetra­tors returned the student to campus. 
“one of the men got out of the vehicle and instructed the student to come with them,” the email stated. “They demanded money and took the student to a gas sta­tion and a grocery store so he could get cash for them. They then brought the student 
see robbery PAGE 6 


OIT warns students, faculty of phishing scams 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
phishing emails – “fraud­ulent emails and copy-cat websites [that] trick you into revealing valuable per­sonal information,” accord­ing to the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec) 
– continue to target notre dame students and faculty. 
Kolin hodgson, senior in­formation security analyst for notre dame’s office of information Technologies (oiT), said the use of phish­ing scams is increasing not just at notre dame but worldwide. 
“This year, there are about 50,000 new campaigns a month worldwide,” he said. “here on campus students were specifically targeted in sept. 2014 [when] almost 3,000 students got a phishing email within 48 hours.” 
First, hodgson said the phishers motivate their 
see phishing PAGE 6 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 11 FooTball INSIDE 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you miss most about home? 

Alexander Kershner 
freshman 
stanford hall 
“my own gallon of milk.” 

Ben Swanson 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“my four little siblings.” 

Cole Feldman 
sophomore 
Knott hall 
“my family, definitely.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Maddie Organ 
freshman 
pasquerilla west 

“watching packer games with my family.” 

Nick Pennington 
freshman 
Knott hall 
“home-cooked meals.” 


Shannon Meyer 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“The mountains.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds greg hadley Katie mccarty 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 

Photo Viewpoint 

CGI Info Session Snite Salon Series SSLP Info Session Faculty and Staff Pep Rally 
michael yu gabriella leskur 
Geddes Hall Snite Museum of Art Geddes Hall Mass TBA 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Log Chapel 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Learn about the Discussion of this Learn about the 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Pep rally for Notre Dame 


Corrections 

Common Good Initiative. month’s Salon Summer Service RSVP to vs. Northwestern 
The observer regards itself as selection. Learning Program. Bracke.4@nd.edu. football game. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ACMS Colloquium “Grand Illusion” Sarah Fox Reading Artist Talk Men’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hayes-Healy Center DeBartolo Performing Hammes Notre Dame Snite Museum of Art Purcell Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 
4:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. Arts Center Bookstore 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Professor Yanming Di 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Sculptor Deborah The Irish take on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
will speak. Classic film. Poet Sarah Fox shares Butterfield will speak. Binghamton. 
we can correct our error. 

her latest work. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 



‘celebrate asia’ unites students of asian languages 
By WEI LIN 
news writer 
students from different na­tionalities came together to celebrate the unique cultures of china, Japan and Korea yesterday at the fourth annu­al celebrate asia event in the 
laFortune student  center  
ballroom.  
associate  professor  

michael brownstein headed the celebrate asia planning committee, which includ­ed professional specialist noriko hanabusa, associate professor yeonhee yoon and assistant professional spe­cialist weibing ye, represent­ing the Japanese, Korean and chinese language programs, respectively. 
cindy Zyniewicz, the ad­ministrative assistant of the department of east asian languages and cultures, said the event showcased the culture of each country represented in the depart­ment. she said celebrate asia brought together students with an interest in the study of asian languages to cele­brate all of east asia. 
The goal is to give stu­dents a cultural context for the language they study by exposing them to cultural activities and foods of east asia, Zyniewicz said. 
students were required to participate in at least eight of the 14 event activities, which included practicing calligra­


“Through this event we can identify the parallels between the cultures and make out the differences by having firsthand experiences with cultures.” 
Teri Dye 
junior 
phy, paper folding (origami) and paper cutting (jianzhi). students practiced taekwon­do and tai chi, tested their hand-eye coordination with a ping-pong challenge and challenged others to a tradi­tional chinese board game (wuzi qi). 
hibachi grill catered chinese food, including dumplings, sesame balls and spring rolls. Zyniewicz said the committee bought sushi from martin’s supermarket and Korean food from sunny’s Korean restaurant. 
Zyniewicz said she ex­pected a turnout of around 200 participants, and most of the attendees were major­ing or minoring in one of the three languages offered by the department of east asian languages and cultures. 
Junior Jeffrey wang, an in­ternational economics ma­jor, said the event was a great way to learn about differ­ent asian cultures at notre dame. 
“it can really help student gain a global perspective while having fun at the same time,” he said. 
Junior and chinese minor Teri dye said that, although all asian cultures have simi­larities, they are also very different. 
“Through this event we can identify the parallels be­tween the cultures and make out the differences by having firsthand experiences with the cultures,” she said. 
Freshman dennis Zheng said he would definitely at­tend the event next year. 
“it really allows me to explore the cultures outside of my own, and [it’s] enter­taining at the same time,” he said. “one thing i would sug­gest changing is maybe the location of this event. a lot of people showed up, and it’s a bit crowded for the number of activities available.” 
celebrate asia was spon­sored by the liu institute for asia and asian studies, center for the study of languages and cultures, Kellogg institute For international studies, Teaching beyond the classroom grant and the department of east asian languages and cultures. 


Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 







Campus groups celebrate Hindu festival Diwali 
hindu festivals,” singh said. “it is based on the ramayana, in which lord rama returns from his ex­ile and finds that ravana has ab­ducted his wife. 
“he has a massive battle with ravana, and after he wins the bat­tle, he returns home. The people celebrated his return by lighting every room in every house, filling the city with light.” 
in hindu homes around the world, diwali – named the fes­tival of lights – is celebrated by lighting oil lamps, candles and all the lights in the house, bursting firecrackers and fireworks, say­ing prayers to many of the hindu deities and inviting many people over for dinner and sweets, singh said. diwali is celebrated in the fall season after the monsoon and during the harvest, and it also marks the beginning of a new year. 
“i am always reminded of diwali during halloween because as a child i would go around to my neighbors’ houses and eat candies and sweets during the diwali fes­tival,” singh said. “but diwali is much bigger than halloween. it is like Thanksgiving, christmas and new years combined into one.” 
despite not being hindu, wong said she and her family still take part in diwali celebrations. 
paid adverTisemenT 
By PAUL STEVENSON 
news writer 
campus ministry, along with the indian association of notre dame, the graduate student union and international student services and activities, hosted a diwali festival celebration sunday in laFortune ballroom as part of the prayer from around the world series. 
diwali, a major hindu festival which celebrates the triumph of to graduate and multicultural stu­dent ministry, said the celebra­tion was first organized a decade ago with the help of physics pro­fessor umesh garg, who helped coordinate a hindu prayer ses­sion as one of the first events. 
“about 10 years ago, at the initiative of students, campus ministry started the series, of­fering the opportunities for vari­ous faith traditions to share their forms of praying with the campus communities,” wong said. 


“About 10 years ago, at the initiative of students, Campus Ministry started the series, offering the opportunity for various faith traditions to share their forms of praying with the campus communities.” 
Priscilla Wong 
senior advisor 

graduate and multicultural student ministry 
good over evil, light over dark and knowledge over darkness, recog­nizes the return of lord rama, an incarnation of the hindu god vishnu, from a 14-year exile and the banishment of the demon ravana, according to the notre dame website. 
priscilla wong, senior advisor (iand), said diwali is one of the biggest events on the hindu cal­endar, although different sects of hinduism celebrate it for different reasons. 
nishant  singh,  gradu­ 
ate co-president of the  indian  
association  of  notre  dame  

“diwali is the most ancient of 


“my son was friends with some hindu boys when he was grow­ing up so he always went over to their house for diwali to celebrate with his friends,” wong said. “my daughter also married a hindu so although i am not hindu, diwali is a very important time for me.” 
The celebration on sunday be­gan with prayers, called puja, that were offered to the gods by gradu­ate students shailaja Kunda and rashi Talwar. The prayers were concluded with a traditional clos­ing song, called the aarti. after the aarti, guests were invited to a din­ner of traditional indian cuisine. 
“The meal, much like the fes­tival, is heavily based on color,” singh said. “each different color represents a different god, and we invite the gods to sit upon the food and join us during the festival.” 
after the meal, the festival con­cluded with dancing to indian songs. 

Contact Paul Stevenson at psteven4@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 




Students fundraise for Center for the Homeless 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
saint mary’s students from dr. Terri russ’s public communications class par­ticipated in the fundraiser, college dancing with our stars, on Thursday for the south bend center for the homeless. 
saint mary’s junior lauren hlavin said the fundraiser brought students from notre dame, holy cross and saint mary’s together in an ef­fort to raise money for the center as the winter months approach. 
The fundraiser also advo­cated for the work the center for the homeless does in the community, hlavin said. emily sims, the director of events, media and donor relations for the center, or­


“I love to bust a move, and that was definitely the place to be. Doing it for such a great cause only made it that much better. ... The atmosphere was electric, and everyone was having the best time.” 
Lauren Hlavin 
junior 

ganized the fundraiser and recruited participants from 
paid adverTisemenT 

the schools, hlavin said. 

according to the center for the homeless website, the center links men, women and children with programs, agencies and people in an effort to break the cycle of homelessness. 
To raise money for the cen­ter, each school’s group of participants choreographed a dance which was per­formed in front of three judg­es, hlavin said. attendees voted for the different danc­es, with each vote represent­ing a $10 donation, she said. 
“i love to bust a move, and that was definitely the place to be,” hlavin said. “doing it for such a great cause only made it that much better. … The atmosphere was elec­tric, and everyone was hav­ing the best time.” 
saint mary’s senior morgan carroll said the teams from the different schools com­peted to raise the most mon­ey for the center in the form of votes or donations placed before the event. The money raised will be used to sup­port guests at the center for the homeless, she said. 
“it costs the center around $40 a day for every guest living with them,” carroll said. “given the high num­ber of guests at the center, the money needed adds up quickly.” 
hlavin, carroll and fellow communications students work with members of the center every Tuesday, hlavin said. 
“i think the biggest im­pact we’ve made that i’ve been able to personally no­tice is letting their voices be heard,” hlavin said. “when my classmates and i arrive at 5 p.m. every Tuesday, we see their faces light up be­cause they know we’re here she said. 
carroll said she enjoyed preparing for and partici­pating in the fundraiser. she said she is grateful for the work the center provides to the south bend community. 
“Knowing that our class was able to make the differ­ence between sleeping on the streets or putting a roof over someone’s head was re­warding on so many levels,” carroll said. “The dancing was just a plus.” 
hlavin said the fundraiser raised close to $2,000 for the center. 
“i couldn’t have asked for a better evening with friends, food and philanthropy,” she said. 

Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


for them.” 
working with the center for the homeless makes in-class lessons about home­lessness a reality, carroll said. 
“it is easier for the volun­teers to understand why the vicious cycle of poverty ex­ists today and understand the ways in which we can combat this harsh reality,” 



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



lecture explores role of irish literature in world 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
ph.d. candidate Kara donnelly discussed the role of irish literature relative to other literary genres in the lecture “contemporary irish 

novels and world literature in english: The case of the irish booker” at Flanner hall on Friday. 
donnelly said she wanted to examine specifically the influence of irish literature on the world stage. 
“Today i’d like to ask the following question: ‘what 

Phishing 
conTinued From page 1 
targets to provide them with their email and password. 
“phishers use threats like ‘your credit card will be can-celled’ or ‘your email will be shut down’ to motivate,” he said. “once they have mo­tivated you, the first goal is complete.” 
The primary goal of phish­ing scams, however, is mon­ey, hodgson said. 
“They will try to use [the username and password] on your credit card com­pany, bank, Facebook, ebay, amazon, Twitter, snapchat, google ... everywhere you have an account,” hodgson said. 
This is why college stu­dents and large universi­ties in particular have been increasingly targeted by these phishing campaigns, hodgson said. 
“college students have money, but universities have a couple other things that are useful to the phishers,” he said. 
among these are the ad­
“Phishers use threats like ‘your credit card will be cancelled’ or ‘your email will be shut down’ to motivate. Once they have motivated you, the first goal is complete.” 
Kolin Hodgson 
senior information security 
analyst 
OIT 
vanced computer operating systems, exclusive research data and fast internet connection that allows phishers to send out more phishing emails very quick­ly, hodgson said. 
at notre dame, students and faculty provide their log-in information to phish­ing scams every month, which hodgson said often leave them unable to access any notre dame resources online. 
The sec says one of the best ways to avoid falling into a phishing scam is to verify the validity of the email. 
according to the sec web­site, “if you have reason to believe that a financial in­stitution actually does need personal information from you, pick up the phone and call the company yourself.” 
hodgson said students at notre dame should never provide their nd log-in in­formation in response to an email, nor should they 
ever click on a link provided 
“They will try to use [the username and password] on your credit card company, bank, Facebook, eBay, Amazon, Twitter, Snapchat, Google ... everywhere you have an account.” 
Kolin Hodgson 
senior information security 
analyst 
OIT 
in a potentially scamming email. 
To identify phishing emails, the sec website rec­ommends looking for three common trends: real com­pany names and logos, urls that appear to be legitimate but direct to incorrect lo­cations and messages of urgency. 
hodgson said there are several steps available for notre dame students who are “phished.” 
“if you gave up your user­name and password, change your passwords immediately ... report it ... and run a thor­ough virus scan,” he said. 
although computers and email companies continu­ally improve their detection of phishing emails, hodgson said they cannot stop them all. 
“The new frontier of infor­mation security is the indi­vidual making choices about what to open and what to re­spond to,” he said. 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at alyon@nd.edu 
ASU 
conTinued From page 1 
lorraine sedlacek, a de­voted notre dame alumna who has attended at least one football game in most of the years since her gradu­ation in 1978, said she trav­eled with her family from their home in new Jersey to see the game. 
“The atmosphere in the stadium was electric,” she said. “The asu fans were pumped, and there were tons of them. There was lots of tailgating, a large, packed, vocal student section and proud alumni and fans. There was a sea of gold shirts in the stadium. The band was a big and active part of the crowd much like our band. The reaction to the big plays was pandemonium.” 
is the relationship between irish literature and world literature in english?’” she said. “This question isn’t simply, ‘can i get a job in one of those fields?’… rather, my question is when an irish author is active in international literary cul­ture, how is she perceived and classified?” 
donnelly said addressing this question requires an awareness of the role of irish literature in commonwealth and post-colonial literature, both of which were intrinsic to the development of world literary studies. 
irish literature was an an­tecedent and “role model” to commonwealth litera­ture, which in turn was a “precursor to post-colonial studies and then to global anglophone literary stud­ies,” donnelly said. 
many of the anti-imperial 
despite asu’s distance from notre dame, the irish managed to attract a con­siderable fan presence in Tempe. 
“The notre dame fan base out here was terrific,” doran said. “we have Friday night pep rallies with the local alumni clubs when we are on the road, and this was one of the best ones. hundreds of notre dame fans and alum­ni came out to see our pep rally. John huarte, reggie brooks, Troy niklas and John carlson all spoke at the rally. i had a lot of fun doing that.” 
at the game, sedlacek said the stadium contained two large sections of notre dame fans. 
doran and sedlacek both attested to the fans’ loud enthusiasm during notre 
and anti-establishment themes of modern irish lit­
“Rather, my question is when an Irish author is active in international literary culture, how is she perceived and classified?” 
Kara Donnelly 
Ph.D. candidate 
erature were embodied in commonwealth and post-colonial literary studies, and irish literature contrib­uted to the development of world literature as a whole, she said. 
“indeed, the irish authors were part of the internation­alizing trend,” she said. 

dame’s brief turn-around in the second half, but 
“The ND fans’ reaction to our abysmal performance was complete shock and disbelief.” 
Lorraine Sedlacek 
Notre Dame alumna 

sedlacek said at the end of the game, notre dame fans’ could hardly believe what they had seen. 
“The nd fans reaction to our abysmal performance was complete shock and disbelief,” sedlacek said. “it was the same disbelief i felt while sitting at the bcs bowl against alabama. For me, 
donnelly said part of the international success of irish literature can be attributed to the man booker prize, an award which “aims to pro­mote the finest in fiction by rewarding the best novel of the year written by a citi­zen of the united Kingdom, the commonwealth or the republic of ireland,” accord­ing to the prize’s website. 
The significant number of irish novelists who have won the award have enhanced the presence of irish litera­ture in international circles, a demonstration of “the glo­balization of the publishing industry,” donnelly said. 
irish  literature  is  fun­ 
damentally  distinct  from  
commonwealth  and  post- 

colonial literature, as well as the broader category of world literature in english, however, donnelly said. 
“in the discourses about 

i couldn’t believe this was the same team that played against Fsu. [The third quarter team] was the nd team we expected to play the whole game. i just feel bad for the team. They are better than they played.” 
some supporters found positive takeaways. 
“at the end of the day this team showed that they will always keep fighting,” doran said. “we have a solid, young team, and we still have a great opportunity to do big things this season and in the future.” 
The loss drops the irish to a 7-2 record with a home game against the northwestern wildcats on saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Owen Lane at olane@nd.edu 
world literature, irish litera­ture appears both too early and too late,” she said.  “it’s 
“Indeed, the Irish authors were part of the internationalizing trend.” 
Kara Donnelly 
Ph.D. candidate 
too early in the sense that the oppositional models of world literature look to irish modernism as antecedents for their anti-imperial poli­tics and aesthetics. it’s too late in the sense that, on the international stage, it loses its national specificity in such a way that it comes across as unmarked.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 


Robbery 
conTinued From page 1 
back to campus.” 
according to the email, the student did not see any of the men carrying a gun, but it was implied they were armed. 
“The suspects were de­scribed as three black males wearing dark clothing,” the email stated. “They had no facial hair or visible marks or tattoos. one of the men had dreadlocks. one of the men was about six feet tall, medium build. all three ap­peared to be between 20-23 years old.” 
The email reminded stu­dents they should travel in groups and use safe trans­portation options such as li­censed taxis or the Transpo bus system. 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 

SMC 
conTinued From page 1 
senior mary Kate mclaughlin said the weekend provided saint mary’s seniors with spend quality time with their dads and an opportuni­ty to create lasting memories with fellow belles. 
“it was hilarious to be able to see the girls and their dads interacting,” mclaughlin said. “it was an entirely dif­ferent dynamic than Junior mom’s weekend.” 
The events began Friday in stapleton lounge in le mans hall with a wine and cheese reception for the belles, their dads and saint mary’s professors. 
senior sarah hossfeld said she enjoyed the reception the most because it was the mo­ment when all of the dads were able to meet one another and professors. 
“i never thought my dad would get to meet some of my favorite nursing profes­sors except for at graduation,” hossfeld said. “i was so glad that the first reception was so inviting and fun, and we also got our gift bags there with a saint mary’s senior dad’s weekend beer mug and T-shirt.” 
The evening continued at o’rourkes public house on eddy street where belles and their dads gathered to unwind together in a pub setting, wilbraham said. 
on saturday, wilbraham and osmanski planned notre dame stadium tours be­ginning at noon. The belles and their dads toured the locker room, saw the play like a champion Today sign and walked on the field, wilbraham said. 
“i know that was definite­ly my dad’s favorite part of the weekend,” hossfeld said. “when he walked out onto the field, he said it was the most beautiful sight his eyes had ever seen. it was awesome to share that moment with him, and i know many of the other girls agreed that that was one of the coolest events of the whole weekend.” 
Following the stadium tours, the fathers and daugh­ters were invited to o’rourke’s to watch notre dame play arizona state, wilbraham said. afterwards, a dinner and auction were held at the hilton garden inn gillespie center. 
“This was the first time we’ve ever planned a dinner for daughters and their dads, which was a huge success,” wilbraham said. “we were sorry we had to shut it down when it got late because all of the girls were having so much fun dancing with their dads and enjoying the photo booth. we hope we started a new tra­dition with the dinner.” 
wilbraham said college president carol ann mooney attended the dinner, along with vice president for student affairs Karen Johnson. The auction, which included prizes such as front-row graduation tickets, notre dame football tickets, a spring break basket and chicago blackhawks tick­ets, raised $13,000 that will go toward senior week. 
“we also announce our new senior class campaign, called 90 for 90,” wilbraham said. “we are trying to get 90 percent of students to donate towards the senior class gift fund, rep­resenting the 90 million dol­lars the college has raised for this year’s ‘Faith always, action now’ campaign. 
“we already have over 55 percent of the senior class participating, so that was a huge success for us.” 
The weekend’s events con­cluded on sunday with mass at the church of our lady of loretto. 
mclaughlin said she was glad to see everyone having such a great time with their dads, and it was an unforget­table weekend. 
“i loved showing my dad all around south bend and taking him to our favorite places to go out as seniors,” mclaughlin said. “we had so much fun together at all of the different events. it was just a perfect weekend.” 
The weekend gave students an opportunity to do some­thing they don’t often have a chance to, especially while they’re away at school. 
“it’s not too often we get to spend one-on-one time with our dads,” wilbraham said. “it makes me so happy that it was such a success.” 

Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 




Photo courtesy of Julia Brehl 

Senior Emily Moore and her father Chris Henager pose with the historic “Play Like a Champion Today” sign after touring the stadium. 
berliners celebrate 25 years after fall of wall 
Associated Press 
berlin  — The citizens of berlin on sunday released almost 7,000 balloons into the night sky, many carrying messages of hope to mark the 25th anniversary since the fall of the wall that once divided their city. 
The symbolic act recalled the giddy night of nov. 9, 1989, when thousands of people from the commu­nist east streamed through the berlin wall to celebrate freedom with their brethren in the west. 
“For peace and free­dom,” berlin mayor Klaus wowereit told a crowd of ten thousands that had gathered at the city’s icon­ic brandenburg gate as he gave the signal to release the balloons, which has been placed, illuminated, along a 15-kilometer (9-mile) stretch of the former border. 
earlier he thanked the former leaders of poland, hungary and the soviet union — lech walesa, miklos nemeth and mikhail gorbachev — for hav­ing helped set the stage for germany’s peaceful revolution. 
gorbachev — who is still a popular figure in germany 
— was greeted with affec­tionate shouts of “gorbi, gorbi” by the crowds. 
hours earlier german chancellor angela merkel had honored the memory of the 138 people who died along the berlin wall, and the countless others who suffered during its 28-year existence. 
The latter included dorothea ebert, a violinist who was imprisoned in east germany after a failed at­tempt to escape. on sunday, ebert played a piece by bach that she had practiced over and over during her impris­onment — on an imaginary violin, because the commu­nist authorities refused to let her have a real one. 
merkel also paid tribute to those who helped bring down the wall, calling its collapse an example of the human yearning for freedom. 
“it was about reclaiming freedom, about being citi­zens, not subjects,” merkel said at the main memorial site for the wall on bernauer strasse. 
The protests that forced east german authorities to relax travel restrictions for their citizens were spurred by changes that had already taken place elsewhere in eastern europe. merkel said the wall’s collapse should be regarded as a sign of hope for people suffering in ukraine, syria and iraq. 
“The fall of the wall has shown us that dreams can come true,” said merkel, who grew up in east germany. “nothing has to stay the way it is, however big the hurdles are.” 
merkel noted that nov. 9 is a significant date in german history also for being the day when, in 1938, nazi paramilitaries launched a pogrom against the coun­try’s Jewish population in what became known as Kristallnacht — the “night of broken glass.” 
“That was the opening note for the murder of mil­lions,” said merkel, adding that on nov. 9 each year “i feel not just joy, but the re­sponsibility that german history burdens us with.” 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Better than art school 
Samantha Coughlin 
graphic designer 

i have yet to write a paper this se­mester, a suspect statement for some­one who has justified her complete lack of a social life with the ultimate excuse: thesis. my coursework this semester consists entirely of “mak­ing,” which is both an incredibly freeing and extremely frustrating framework. i’ve oscillated a bit be­tween majors and departments while at notre dame, but i finally found my place within the design program. i’ve had semesters entirely based on test taking, others incredibly heavy with essays and now i’m finishing off my degree with a schedule purely com­posed of studio classes. and it’s ex­hausting. if i’ve learned anything from this semester, it’s that i am so happy i didn’t go to art school. 
notre dame is known for football, for its business school, for its catholic stance. it’s certainly not known for design. we have a good program, but a design education at notre dame just doesn’t stand up to a degree program like maryland institute college of art (mica) or rhode island school of design (risd). They pump out super stars with robust portfolios that snag coveted positions at the industry’s top firms at the snap of their fingers (yes, it’s really that easy to find a job). notre dame graduates place well, but it takes us one or two years to catch up to the performance level of our art-school-educated peers. They sim­ply do more design work than us, and like anything else, skills improve with practice. 
The promise, however, is that a couple years after that, us liberal arts graduates end up directing the scene. The reasoning behind that is that we are taught to think differently; we are required to take classes across disci­plines and expose ourselves to con­cepts and topics outside of our direct area of interest. i didn’t realize how important that was until i stopped taking general electives. Forcing my­self to be equally inspired and creative across five studio classes is draining, and consequently, i don’t think i’m making my best work. i miss the abil­ity to break away into different modes of thinking; i need cross-pollination of thought. 
if i went to art school, i would have a better portfolio. i’d also be two steps closer to full-on crazy. balance is in­credibly important. love your major, but don’t restrict yourself to a single field in college. This is the time to ex­plore, and it’s incredibly easy to get burnt out in the pursuit of passion. 
Contact Samantha Coughlin at scoughlin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Football safety as important as glory 
with the annual turn to fall colors and cooler weather, many come to campus with their children, tossing pigskin on the quad, hearing the band play on the steps and cheering the irish on in the stadium. with recently reported research in mind, and trou­bling stories about grave injury and early death on the gridiron, some of these same parents will have con­versations with their sons in the near future, coming to the conclusion that participation in football should be limited, or that they may not play the sport at all. when will notre dame have this conversation about its own loyal sons? 
notre dame is now investing greatly in its football program, but not enough in comprehensive efforts to determine football’s safety. To build one of the nation’s largest football stadiums, with but a minor commitment to examine and educate regarding the risks and consequences of the gridiron, is to punt our true identity. 
as a catholic research institution with a tremen­dous football legacy, the university has a triple re­sponsibility to openly investigate the problems facing football. 
For notre dame was founded for the open pursuit of truth via many disciplines, is dedicated to the defense of god-given human dignity and has benefited more than any other university from the sport. 
Richard Klee ‘02 
doctoral candidate department of Theology oct. 29 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Few men are willing to brave the disapproval of their fellows, the censure of their colleagues, the wrath of their society. moral courage is a rarer commodity than bravery in battle or great intelligence. yet it is the one essential, vital quality of those who seek to change a world which yields most painfully to change.” 
Ernest Hemingway 
american author and journalist 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Show respect to all legends 
it is with a great deal of respect for your univer­sity and athletic program that i write this letter. 
as an alum, and now retired staff member, of arizona state university (asu) i enjoy not only the pride that we have in our academic institution but also respect held by counterparts who claim the same for their own. That pride is to some extent personal but can be displayed in various manners to include one’s actions and apparel at sporting events. 
during our football game on saturday, i noted many notre dame fans who wore shirts with a statement showing pride in football heroes and legends from the past. i myself felt a sense of re­spect for the very nature of what such heroes rep­resent to all of us. indeed, notre dame has had many such heroes over a very long, storied football past. although the shirts were clearly intended to herald those who made their mark in football, there are many others, i am sure. books and even movies have been produced to tell the stories of some notre dame legends. 
asu, with a shorter academic history, and cer­tainly a lesser sports history, has had some of its own heroes but, with few exceptions, the reverence to those we celebrate will probably not extend much past our own alumni and fan base. however, it is one exception, pat Tillman, that brings me to write this letter. 
by now, the story of his departure from a lucra­tive nFl career to join the united states army, along with his brother (another asu graduate), is well known. This year marks the 10th anniver­sary of his death by so-called “friendly fire” in afghanistan. over the past decade, asu has done much to celebrate what he stood for. 
much of his lasting legacy was, and continues to be, far from sun devil stadium and opposing foot­ball fields, but college football’s sphere was where his wonderful character first came to light in the public eye. his retired number, 42, is highlighted in the stadium along with other sun devil greats and many fans still wear a jersey with his number. The asu pat Tillman Foundation was established to honor him and other service veterans, and through that organization, many former service women and men have been able to receive support in their academic pursuits. 
indeed, we do honor pat Tillman during some of our games and yesterday was no exception, being that it was a veterans day weekend game. however, as we sat in the stands while Tillman and the Foundation were being honored, some of the notre dame fans were overheard making dispar­aging comments about him and asu’s tendency to herald him. members of my party refrained from allowing those unfortunate comments to catalyze a verbal confrontation. i would hope that all could understand that it is appropriate for asu to show­case the memory of Tillman, a hero in his own right. we have our legends as well. in pat Tillman’s case, he continued to earn our respect long after he graduated and left the asu field for the nFl, and then beyond. many continue to benefit from that legendary respect, and we were sorry (even disturbed) that at least those fans who sat near us could think that while your heroes and legends could be heralded in a long-term manner, ours could not. 
Jan Snyder, Ed.D. 

alumnus and retired staff member arizona state university nov. 9 
continued commencement confusion 
Amanda Peña 
Find your voice 

with construction around notre dame stadium already begun, it’s difficult to imagine the 2015 commencement having a fighting chance to remain in the stadium. The administration announced its relocation to purcell pavilion in august, and logis­tical organization is well underway. 
by moving the location from the stadium back to purcell, students will no longer have unlim­ited seats for their families; instead, they are each granted only three tickets. 
in a meeting with chuck hurley, registrar of the university, and dennis brown, university spokesperson, on oct. 6, i shared more than 40 testimonies submitted to me from various seniors to demonstrate our frustrations about the recently changed commencement details. The early an­nouncement in august shocked many and left most of us feeling angry about the lack of transparency in the decision-making process. 
going into this meeting, i set out to understand why construction on the stadium would be halted for the 2015 football season but not for commence­ment weekend. it is without question that our lady profits incredibly on any given game-day weekend; therefore, i understood how influential football must be in many administrative decisions. The construction project would need to be planned and completed in phases that would honor the 2015, 2016 and 2017 football seasons’ presence on our campus. what i didn’t understand, though, was why they lacked the same concern and passion to keep our commencement in the stadium. as many seniors and i have discussed, we feel this decision undervalues our collective academic accomplish­ments when stacked against the tradition of notre dame football. 
i learned they have been discussing these decisions since the spring, and although some student representatives were involved in the decision-making process, i reminded them the general student body was not made clearly aware that crossroads was potentially impacting com­mencement or that this discussion was even taking place. To demonstrate this, i distributed a survey to the class of 2015 via survey monkey on the nd students for stadium commencement coalition Facebook page. here are the results as of nov. 5: 
coming into the 2014-15 school year, 554 of 634 students were under the impression the 2015 commencement ceremony would be held in the stadium. 
prior to the university releasing information aug. 28 about the impact of crossroads on the 2015 com­mencement, 527 students were unaware that the ceremony would have limited tickets available; 95 students were aware, and 12 answered n/a. 
prior to the university’s notification oct. 8 that tickets would be limited to three per student, 498 students invited more than three guests to the 2015 commencement ceremony; 88 had not; 47 an­swered n/a. 
of 632 students, 275 had four to five family mem­bers planning to attend this ceremony; 223 had six or more family members; 98 had one to three mem­bers; 36 answered n/a. 
of 630 students who invited more than three guests to the ceremony, 507 were under the impres­sion that they would be able to attend the ceremo­ny; 25 were not, and 98 answered n/a. 
of the invited guests exceeding the three-ticket limit, 296 students answered they had already booked their flights and hotels; 205 had not, and 133 answered n/a. 
on the black market for an extra commencement ceremony ticket, 344 students answered they would be willing to pay less than $100; 116 would pay be­tween $100-$200; 31 would pay more than $200; 140 answered n/a. 
These results suggest many students were un­aware of changing commencement decisions. This lack of transparency and consideration for families making commencement weekend plans is not only unacceptable but will consequently create a situ­ation in which more financially capable families can increase their ceremony attendance. it bur­dens families who have already made travel plans and forces students to select which three mem­bers can share in the special moment with them. university president Fr. John Jenkins stated in the observer article “may commencement to be held in stadium” dated oct. 8, 2009, that the 2010 com­mencement ceremony was decidedly moved to the stadium because reducing guest seating was “an unacceptable course of action. … rather than limit the number of tickets available, forcing families to choose which grandparents and siblings can at­tend, we want to welcome everyone to share in this proud moment.” if that’s the case, shouldn’t the administration be doing more to protect this com­mencement location, or does it pale in comparison to the football season’s importance? 
as brown explained, there are “plenty of alterna­tives to host commencement, as in previous years.” To be sure, the 18 other diploma ceremonies with unlimited seating would be amazing enough to supplant the experience our families could have together in the stadium. besides, they can be sepa­rated to view the event on projector screens across campus as well as broadcasted on local television. The only thing that matters is that they see it, right? 
Amanda Peña is a senior with a self-designed major in sustainable development and minor in poverty studies. She enjoys having fruitful discussions on race, poverty, gender and interpersonal relations. She can be reached at apena@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

Editor’s note: This article is part of a weekly column in which a writer introduces an online-streaming film or television show each Thursday, then gives critical analysis the following Monday. 
as winter starts to close in on campus, “snowpiercer,” a film about the worst winter ever, has recently been added to netflix, making it the perfect fit for “weekly watch.” 
“snowpiercer” is about more than just a really cold winter. it’s about a train filled with the last remnants of humanity circling the globe forever so they do not freeze to death. as initially ridiculous and unwatchable as this may seem, “snowpiercer” proves itself to be one of the better action films of 2013 and much more than meets the eye, providing engaging, original action se­quences for those itching for a big summer blockbuster and a well-crafted narrative littered with social com­mentaries and political allegories for the more artsy viewers. 
The ability to blend radically different concepts to­gether in an action film is what makes “snowpiercer” such a gripping movie. “snowpiercer” is south Korean director Joon-ho bong’s first english language film, and he nails the fusion of eastern and western influences. 
in this regard, “snowpiercer” is absolutely one-of-a­kind, syncing together a story based on French comic “le Transperceneige,” stylized fight scenes inspired heavily from Joon-ho bong’s previous works and the acting capabilities of americans such as chris evans into something uniquely beautiful. 
“le Transperceneige,” published in 1982, was an ex­cellent source to tap, and provides the foundation for one of the most interesting, novel and relevant sci-fi films in recent history. after an accidental human-engineered apocalypse that leaves earth frozen solid (a failed attempt to reverse global warming), the last survivors of humanity are trapped on the rickety ark, a world-crossing train that runs on perpetual energy. within this locomotive, people are separated by railway cars into an incredibly rigid and ruthless societal struc­ture that relies on fear, anxiety and the occasional class warfare to survive. masses are crammed into the back of the train, where they suffer the brutality of the police state and the sole sustenance of insect-based protein bars. 
as the group of rebels from the back of the train, led by the grim, reluctant carter, played by chris evans 
(a.k.a. captain america), we are exposed railcar by rail-car to this fantastical and horrifying world. The closer carter and his rebels get to the front, the more affluent and sickening the train becomes, unveiling nightclub lounges populated by wealthy drug addicts numb to all but their dependence and classrooms where the chil­dren of the wealthy are taught that the train engine is sacred and the conductor a sort of prophet, among other monstrosities. Through scenes like this, “snowpiercer” creates a narrative that forces viewers to encounter ex­treme social inequality, the dangers of a police state and a number of other important contemporary issues. 
we also see increasingly bloody and intense action sequences as the rebels approach the front of the train. 
The prime example of Joon-ho bong’s creativity and in­genuity in these fights was in the bridge railcar on new years’ day. here mr. bong excels, staging a dynamic and kinetic fight scene that rivals those of any big-budget film. staging fights on a train creates a uniquely claus­trophobic atmosphere that heightens the anxiety and intensity. in the new years’ day Fight, carter and the other rebels clash against the train’s axe-wielding black-mask-wearing security forces. since the train compart­ment is so narrow, the assailants and the rebels can only move forward, into each other’s lovingly violent grasp. 
bong relishes and indulges in this scene, pulling out all the stops and exposing viewers to a visceral amount of gore, violence and dark humor. blood splatters across the train’s windows, creating a stark contrast to the white terrain of the frozen world outside. and when the train enters a tunnel and the world goes dark, the tension exponentially intensifies since the rebels are defenseless against the security forces’ night vision goggles. overall, this is probably one of the most memo­rable action sequences of this year and a contender for my new favorite action scene. 
“snowpiercer” keeps audiences on their feet with the action, but this engaging film does not just pan­der to adolescents addicted to violence and explosion, thanks to its quality narrative and engaging social commentary. by staying sharp and self-conscious, “snowpiercer” breaks out of the mold of the standard summer sci-fi blockbuster. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 

could “moonrise Kingdom” become the next magic Kingdom? 
it could if wes anderson collaborates with mark mothersbaugh as he announced he intends to in the foreword of mothersbaugh’s art book, “myopia,” re­leased earlier this week. 
“i hope to soon secure the means to commission the construction of an important and sizeable theme park to be conceived and designed entirely by mark mothersbaugh,” anderson said. “For 40 years, he has set about creating a body of work which amounts to his own magic Kingdom where the visitor is amused and frightened, often simultaneously.” 
mark mothersbaugh has collaborated with anderson frequently, having scored four of his films. mothersbaugh also co-founded the band devo, recog­nizable for their 1978 hit, “whip it.” 
wes anderson’s venture into theme park design brought to mind — in classic Kanye wes anderson link­age — Kanye’s “clique,” in which Kanye admits, “i just want to build hotels and nail it.” This potential expan­sion of anderson’s whimsical, detail-oriented worlds from the screen to reality would add a new dimension to his classically 2d work. 
however, the vague promises presented in “myopia” left me itching for further pastel-hued, symmetrical 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

details — so i came up with some potential ideas myself. 
normally when i hear the words “theme park,” i cringe at visions of couples making out in two-hour-long roller-coaster lines or the inevitable bikini-clad girls because there is one log ride where they might get wet and therefore need to wear swimwear all day. 
however, a wes anderson theme park would elimi­nate these displeasing amusement park normalcies. The accepted clothing of choice would, of course, be to dress as your favorite andersonian character. The options are endless: saddle shoes and binoculars for mothers who need to keep track of their coonskin-capped children, sweatbands for the days it is sweltering, fur coats for the cooler months, and it only seems fitting that the ride at­tendants wear uniform blue polos and red beanies. 
The park would serve mendl’s pastries instead of turkey legs. The souvenir ears of choice would be fox — deviating from overdone mouse ears. There would be no mascots or princesses walking around; rather, bill murray would always be wandering around, a little mel­ancholy, and you wouldn’t ask for autographs because that’s tacky. There would be designated “slow-motion” sections where you must act as if you are hopping a train to india or are coyly about to release a bunch of bees on bill murray. The speakers around the park would emanate the coordinating soundtracks at each movie-themed ride, echoing The Kinks and alexandre desplat instead of “it’s a small world” on perpetual repeat. 
There would be a dajeerling limited train car to ride around the park. you could scour max Fischer’s elaborate herman J. blume marine observatory for the “Jaguar shark” in a submarine ride. you also could ride the fast-paced bottle rocket roller coaster or make your way through a dirt maze in order to escape boggis, bunce and bean. you could explore the eccentric home of the Tenenbaums or make your way over to the boy scout camp area and rent a kit to make your own adven­ture camp for the night. 
however, if you are not so keen on sleeping under the stars and potential lightening, you could take a quick lift ride and check in at the grand budapest hotel. but watch out for the elevator, which would be an over-saturated version of The Tower of Terror (and my mom said my time spent on desktop computer rollercoaster Tycoon wouldn’t pay off). 
of course, the theme park would be located in mothersbaugh’s hometown of akron, ohio (shout-out to my home state). 
with the success and expansion of universal studio’s “harry potter world” and the new hogwarts hotel open­ing in london, the idea of a park and hotel recreating the feels of anderson’s cinematic greatness — allowing one to venture into a world apart from the mundane everyday and into a colorful alternate reality — sounds like a prosperous plan. get max Fischer on the project committee immediately. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ARIZONA STATE 55, NOTRE DAME 31 | monday, november 10, 2014 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 
down in flames 
Golson ‘plays with fire,’ commits five turnovers as Devils burn Irish, 55-31, in Arizona desert 
Sloppy mistakes finally cost the Irish 

Brian Hartnett 
Managing Editor 
TEMPE, Ariz. — Notre Dame’s 55-31 loss to Arizona State on Saturday was an ugly mess in many aspects. 
It was as Irish head coach brian Kelly said, “sloppy football.” 
but most of all and perhaps worst of all, it wasn’t entirely unexpected. 
Now, I don’t mean to say most people expected Notre Dame to lose by 24 and surrender more points than it had given up in a single game since 1985. Many people, including myself, felt the Irish would win or at least keep it very close against a fellow top-10 opponent. 
Rather, I mean to say that the mistakes Notre Dame has repeat­edly made all year finally came back to hurt them in a big way — in this case, it hurt them enough to knock them out of the college Football Playoffs conversation. 
It’s only natural for football fans to assume that mistakes refer to turnovers, and that is correct in this case. 
Simply put, Notre Dame and Everett Golson in particular, have excelled at turning the ball over since late September. 
There were the five turnovers against Syracuse. The three turnovers against Stanford and against North carolina. The one interception which helped swing momentum in Navy’s favor. 
And now the five turnovers that led to the team’s downfall Saturday afternoon. 
When Notre Dame plays largely turnover-free football, it can com­pete with any team in the coun­try, as seen in the team’s close loss to Florida State. And most of the time, the Irish can overcome their mistakes — they’re a strong enough team to get past their own errors when facing weaker op­ponents like Syracuse and North carolina. 
but against tougher competi­tion like Arizona State, turnovers are liable to get the Irish burnt, as Golson admitted after the game. 
Turnovers got the Irish burnt under the warm Arizona sun Saturday, as five Notre Dame turnovers helped produce 28 
see SLOPPY PaGe 3 


By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing Editor 

TEMPE, Ariz. — On a warm Saturday in the valley of the Sun, No. 8 Notre Dame was scorched by a turnover-riddled offensive performance, which put the Irish in a deep hole early and sti­fled their late comeback attempt in a 55-31 loss to No. 11 Arizona State at Sun Devil Stadium. 
Arizona State (8-1, 5-1 Pac-12) scored 28 points off five Notre Dame turnovers, returning two interceptions for touchdowns and scoring on drives of 13 and 23 yards following a fumble and an interception, respectively, by the Irish (7-2). 
“If you look at it really closely, we turned the ball over five times,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “You can’t turn the ball over. Our guys were ready to play, and you can’t play sloppy like that.” 
Notre Dame found itself facing a 31-point deficit late in the first half when Arizona State sopho­more kicker Zane Gonzalez kicked a 28-yard field goal to put the Sun Devils ahead 34-3. The field goal marked the end of a stretch in which Arizona State scored on six of seven drives, three of them aided by Notre Dame turnovers. 
“We didn’t come out and take care of business in the first half,” Irish senior running back cam McDaniel said. “We played flat, and it showed. We turned the football over. You just can’t do that with a team like Arizona State.” 
That same 31-point deficit was later whittled down to three, however, as Notre Dame scored the next 28 points unanswered. Notre Dame cut Arizona State’s lead to 34-31 after senior run­ning back Amir carlisle hauled in a 25-yard touchdown pass 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
LLOYD CARRINGTON 

SUN DEVILS REDSHIRT JUNIOR CORNERBACK 
On an aggressive Sun Devils defense that forced five Notre Dame turnovers, carrington was all over the place. He finished second on the team with eight tackles, sacked Everett Golson once, forced a fumble and returned an interception for 58 yards to effectively seal the victory for Arizona State. 
from Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson with 6:37 re­maining in the game. 
Notre Dame’s second-half production provided a glimpse of what Notre Dame expected to do offensively entering the game, Kelly said. 
“We just did what we were supposed to do in the first half in the second half,” he said. “We moved offensively like we were expecting to move in the first half.” 
Arizona State responded with a two-minute, 75-yard touchdown drive capped by a four-yard touchdown pass from redshirt senior quarterback Taylor Kelly to freshman run­ning back Demario Richard with 
4:29 left in the game. 
“We definitely came up short when we needed to come up big,” Irish junior defensive line­man Sheldon Day said. “We definitely missed some key opportunities.” 
Less than a minute later, the Sun Devils were back in the end zone, as redshirt junior corner­back Lloyd carrington snatched a ball Irish sophomore receiver corey Robinson had bobbled and returned it 58 yards for the score and 17-point lead. 
Arizona State’s 55 points represented the most scored against Notre Dame since the Irish allowed 58 to Miami in 1985. Despite the high point 
see DEbAcLE PaGe 2 
Turnovers slow ND offense, lead to 28 ASU points 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant Managing Editor 
TEMPE, Ariz. — The No. 8 Irish struggled to handle the defen­sive heat Saturday against No. 11 Arizona State at Sun Devil Stadium, as they lost 55-31. 
Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson threw for 446 yards and two touchdowns, but he also threw four interceptions — two of which were returned for touch­downs —  and had one lost fumble. The Sun Devils (8-1, 5-1 Pac-12) capitalized on the turnovers, as 28 of their points resulted from the mishaps. Despite a late attempt, Notre Dame (7-2) was unable to come back from the early hole its turnovers had created. 
“Five turnovers and a mishan­dled field goal is the story,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “You can’t expect to win football games against good teams and turn the ball over five times. Two of them pick-sixes and two of them in short-field drives.” 
The aggressive Sun Devils de­fense provided many opportuni­ties for the Notre Dame offense to succeed, but its defensive looks also proved to be problematic, Golson said. 
“Honestly I think it’s all on me, you play with fire as much as I did today, you know you are going to get burnt eventually,” Golson said. 
Golson almost lead an Irish comeback, bringing Notre Dame from 34-3 to 34-31 with 6:37 left in the fourth quarter. After an Arizona State touchdown drive, however, Notre Dame’s last-gasp comeback attempt ended when Golson’s pass was bobbled by sophomore wide receiver corey Robinson into the hands of Sun Devils redshirt junior cornerback Lloyd carrington, who returned it for a touchdown to seal the game at 48-31. Although the Irish were able to claw back into the game, too many mistakes buried them, Golson said. 
“There was not a point in that game where I thought we were going to lose,” Golson said. “I thought we were going to come back and find a way to pull it out. Just certain mistakes happened. If you are going to play like that in the first half, you almost have to be perfect in the second half, and we 
see TURNOvERS PaGe 3 THE ObSERvER | monday, november 10, 2014 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 



REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

Senior quarterback Everett Golson threw for a career-high 446 yards Saturday, but he also threw four interceptions and lost a fumble. Golson turned the ball over on three straight possessions in the first half, helping grant the Sun Devils an early lead. Irish head coach’s brian Kelly’s com­ments ring true — Golson must take better care of the ball. 
RUNNING BACKS 

The Irish gained only 41 yards on 38 rushing attempts. Sophomore running back Tarean Folston averaged only 2.7 yards on the ground and had to be pulled for senior cam McDaniel after struggles in pass protection. 
RECEIVERS 

10 Notre Dame receivers hauled in passes, several of them for long gains, and sophomore Will Fuller made a nice touchdown catch. but sophomore corey Robinson’s bob­ble on a fourth-quarter pass led to an Arizona State touch­down and the end of Notre Dame’s comeback hopes. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The offensive line looked ill-equipped to handle Arizona State’s constant blitzes and struggled to protect Golson, yielding seven sacks. The offensive line’s failure to cut down Sun Devil linemen at the line of scrimmage led to tipped passes and interceptions. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The Irish defensive line allowed 188 rushing yards, the third-most it has given up this season. Notre Dame struggled to contain Sun Devils running back D.J. Foster, who gained 5.7 yards per carry, and didn’t effectively get to Arizona State quarterback Taylor Kelly. 
LINEBACKERS 

Playing in its first game without senior Joe Schmidt, the Notre Dame linebackers put forth a pedestrian effort overall. Like the rest of the defense, the unit had some very productive drives, but failed to make crucial stops on several others. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Playing without graduate student cody Riggs, Notre Dame’s secondary kept an explosive Arizona State attack reasonably in check and forced a fourth-quarter intercep­tion. but some assignment errors by the unit allowed the Sun Devils to score when Notre Dame could afford it least. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

continued struggles with field-goal holding led to a missed field goal as the Irish looked to make a comeback. The punt reeturn unit looked like return teams of old, though senior receiver Amir carlisle did a solid job on kickoff returns. 
COACHING 

It’s always difficult to decide whether the blame for turn­overs lies on faulty preparation by the coaching staff or simply failed execution by the players. Regardless of the cause of Saturday’s turnovers, the Irish looked over­whelmed on both sides of the ball at times and didn’t seem ready to handle what Arizona State threw at them. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.0 (C) 

Notre Dame’s habit of turning the ball over caught up with it Saturday, as the Irish looked sloppy from the beginning. The Irish played an abys­mal first half, but it does speak to the team’s ability that it was almost able to complete a comeback. Still, Saturday was the type of game that Notre Dame has to avoid if it wants to be an elite program. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
DEMARIO RICHARD’S 40-YARD CATCH 
Having surrendered 28 consecutive points to Notre Dame, Arizona State needed a spark of life on offense. Richard’s catch brought the Sun Devils down to the four-yard line, and his subsequent touchdown catch put Arizona State up by 10, giving them a cushion with minutes to play. 

debacle 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

total, Kelly said the defense, which was without senior line­backer Joe Schmidt and graduate student cornerback cody Riggs, shouldn’t shoulder too much of the blame. 
“This game was not set up for us to rely on our defense to come up with a big stop,” Kelly said. “This game was set up for the of­fense to win the game.” 
Notre Dame outgained Arizona State, 487-412, and Golson threw for 446 yards, the fifth-most iin a single game in program history. The Irish, however, led the Sun Devils in several other categories — in­terceptions, committing four to Arizona State’s one, fumbles, losing the only fumble of the game and sacks allowed, giving up seven versus the one the Sun Devils allowed. 
Notre Dame’s turnover prob­lems began when Arizona State freshman defensive lineman Tashon Smallwood sacked Golson and forced a fumble, recovering it on Notre Dame’s 13-yard line. The Sun Devils jumped out to their first lead on the next play, as Kelly found red-shirt junior Jaelen Strong, who made a one-handed touchdown catch to put Arizona State up 10-3. 
Arizona State’s next touch­down came in a similar se­quence. Sun Devil redshirt junior defensive lineman Demetrius cherry tipped Golson’s pass, and the ball landed in the hands of senior defensive end Marcus Hardison on Notre Dame’s 23­yard line. The Sun Devils scored three plays later when freshman running back Demario Richard ran it in from one yard out. 
Kelly said Arizona State’s de­fense didn’t sneak in any sur­prise alignments or looks in the first half. 
“Everything that we practiced, everything that we saw last year, we saw this year,” he said. “Absolutely no changes in what they did.” 
Soon after Notre Dame crossed midfield on its next drive, another tipped pass went to Arizona State senior safety Damarious Randall, who re­turned it 59 yards for the touch­down and 21-point lead. 
Kelly said the interception came as the result of a misinter­pretation regarding how the play was supposed to be run. 
“We have run and pass routes,” he said. “The ball should’ve been handed off. Everett saw it differ­ently. … We have to do a better job coaching him so that when he sees that look, he doesn’t think that he’s supposed to throw the football.” 
Taylor Kelly’s second touch­down pass, this one a 43-yard strike to sophomore receiver cameron Smith, capped the Sun Devils’ fourth consecutive touchdown drive, putting them ahead 31-3. 
Notre Dame made its at­tempt to stop the bleeding with a 17-yard touchdown pass from Golson to sophomore receiver Will Fuller with 11 seconds left in the first half. The Irish added a touchdown run by McDaniel in a third quarter in which they held Arizona State to 32 yards and zero points. 
“We realized our offense need­ed us, and we were just trying to rally the whole game,” Irish sophomore safety Max Redfield said. “… It’s just a matter of elim­inating the big plays and pulling together as a unit.” 
McDaniel scored again in the fourth quarter to cut Notre Dame’s deficit to 10 points. The Irish captain said the late scores put Notre Dame in a po­sition on which it should have capitalized. 
“We know how to play in big games because we’ve won big games,” he said. “There is no ex­cuse why we didn’t come back in the second half. We had them.” 
With the loss, Notre Dame, which was ranked 10th in the college Football Playoff commit­tee’s rankings before Saturday’s game, will most likely find it­self out of the playoff hunt. Still, McDaniel said the team’s goal for its final three games remains the same. 
“Right now, there is no excuse not to win the rest of our games,” he said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

Golson on record pace 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant Managing Editor 

TEMPE, Ariz. — Senior quarterback Everett Golson set a number of career highs in Notre Dame’s 55-31 loss to Arizona State. Golson threw for four interceptions, a single-game career high. but Golson’s five turnovers marked the most in a single game in his college career. 
Despite the five turn­overs, Golson threw for 446 yards — the fifth-most pass­ing yards in a single game in Notre Dame history and the most by an Irish quarter­back since Jimmy clausen threw for 452 yards in 2009. 
Scoring 

The 55 points are the most the Irish have conceded in a contest since Miami scored 58 against them on Nov. 30, 1985. 
The 17 points given up by Notre Dame in the first quar­ter are the most allowed since Michigan State went up 17-0 over the Irish on Sept. 16, 2006 in East Lansing, Michigan. 
miscellaneous 

If Notre Dame had been able to come back from a 34-3 defi­cit, it would have marked the second-largest comeback in FbS football history. The largest comeback in FbS football histo­ry came in 2006, when Michigan State overcame a 35-point defi­cit to beat Northwestern, 41-38. 
Irish sophomore tight end Durham Smythe caught his first career pass in the first quarter Saturday. Smythe’s catch was a 7-yard reception on third-and-three to give the Irish a first down on Notre Dame’s first drive of the game. It was 

see GOLSON PaGe 3 NDSMcObSERvER.cOM | monday, november 10, 2014 | THE ObSERvER 



KARLA MORENO | The Observer 

A host of Arizona State defenders reach for a deflected pass during Arizona State’s 55-31 victory over Notre Dame on Saturday. The Irish committed five turnovers in the loss. 
Turnovers 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
weren’t able to do that today.” 
Golson has had turnover prob­lems throughout the season, entering Saturday’s game with seven interceptions and five lost fumbles on the season. He said most of his errors are mental ones and are often a result of him try­ing to do too much. 
“I think it’s the competitor in me, just trying not to give up on the play,” Golson said. “Like I said, I got burnt today. I should have made different calls, I had a lot of tipped balls, just things like that. I’ve got to clean it up.” 
The coaching staff has heav­ily emphasized ball security to Golson, Kelly said, but he added that at a certain point, Golson has to implement these tips in a game. 
“We’ve been working with him,” Kelly said of Golson. 
Sloppy 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Arizona State points. 
The turnovers came in all varieties — tipped passes caught by defenders, bobbled passes that fell into cornerback’s hands, fumbles from defensive pressure. 
At their core, they reflect the bigger issues with the Irish offense. 
Golson has had trouble secur­ing the ball, losing six fumbles on the season. Notre Dame’s receiver corps, while generally a bright spot for the team, has had costly drops. And Golson has repeatedly had defenders right in his face, due to struggles with running backs pass blocking and general struggles from an offen­sive line that had to be revamped one quarter of the way through the season. 
Taken individually, these 
Golson 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 2 
Smythe’s only catch of the game. 
Irish senior running back cam McDaniel had his first “Sooner or later, he’s got to take it on himself to take care of the foot­ball. I don’t know what else to do. We’re at that point now where it hurt us in the game. He knows it.” 
Kelly said the most frustrating part about Notre Dame’s turn­overs was that Irish “knew” what Arizona State’s defense was go­ing to bring and practiced for it all week. 
“What I’m upset about is how crazy it is that we saw everything for a week — the same stuff to­day that we saw all week — and we turned it over five times,” Kelly said. “We shoe dust the right defensive end and don’t bring him down. We get the ball tipped. We inexplicably put the ball on the ground on a scramble. They’re maddening mistakes. We could’ve moved the ball today ef­fectively. Our defense would’ve hung in there and done enough for us to get a win on the road. but 
issues might not tank Notre Dame’s still-potent offensive attack. but add them all together, and they form a recipe for disas­ter, especially against a team like Arizona State that can effectively capitalize off those mistakes. 
Arizona State might be the team on Notre Dame’s schedule most capable of doing that. but that doesn’t mean the remain­ing schedule is devoid of such teams — Louisville leads the na­tion with 22 passes intercepted and USc has the eighth-best turnover margin in the country. Either of those teams is good enough to challenge a turnover-free Irish team, and both of them are certainly good enough to defeat a turnover-plagued Irish team. 
Protecting the ball won’t be the magic formula that guaran­tees victories in Notre Dame’s remaining games. The Irish 

career multi-touchdown game. 
Arizona State head coach Todd Graham became the fifth coach to beat Notre Dame at two different schools. Graham also defeated the Irish as the head coach of Tulsa in 2010. 
it didn’t happen today, and that’s what I’m most upset about.” 
Although not every turnover was Golson’s fault, Kelly said, the senior’s progress as a quarter­back will have to come from play­ing smart and playing without mistakes. 
“It’s one of the deals where you take one step forward and two steps back, and then [Golson] comes back in the second half and he does some really good things. He’s got to strive for con­sistency. If he plays clean in the first half, who knows where we’d be right now. We just have to get a consistent performance. And that means a clean performance and taking care of the football. Not all those mistakes were his, but I think the first one kind of set a bad tone to the game.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
defense has recently been prone to giving up plenty of points and it might be without two key starters for the rest of the season. And an entire column could be devoted to Notre Dame’s regres­sion in special teams over the last few weeks — particularly in the areas of punt returns and field goals. 
but by cleaning up the slop­piness on offense , Notre Dame will ensure its offensive play-makers get a good chance to play to their potential. And better yet for Irish fans, it will ensure the ugliness that ensued at Sun Devil Stadium on Saturday will be a thing of the past. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Irish graduate student cor­nerback cody Riggs did not play into Saturday’s game due to a foot injury. 
Contact Brian Hartnet at bhartnet@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
3  7  7  14  31  
17  17  0  21  55  

NOTRE DAME 3, ARIZONA STATE 0 
Kyle brindza 46-yard field goal 
6:19 remaining 

NOTRE DAME 3, ARIZONA STATE 3 
Zane Gonzalez 47-yard field goal 
3:46 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 45 yards, 2:33 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 10, NOTRE DAME 3 
Jaelen Strong 13-yard pass from Kelly (Gonzalez kick) 
3:19 remaining 

Drive: One plays, 13 yards, 0:06 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 17, NOTRE DAME 3 
Demario Richard one-yard run (Gonzalez kick) 
2:16remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 23 yards, 0:57 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 24, NOTRE DAME 3 
Damarious Randall 59-yard interception return (Gonza­lez kick) 
14:20remaining 

ARIZONA STATE 31, NOTRE DAME 3 
cameron Smith 43-yard pass from Kelly (Gonzalez kick) 
11:12remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 64 yards, 1:54 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 34, NOTRE DAME 3 
Zane Gonzalez 28-yard field goal 
1:09remaining 

Drive: 14 plays, 61 yards, 5:19 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 34, NOTRE DAME 10 
Will Fuller nine-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
0:11remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 75 yards, 0:52 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 34, NOTRE DAME 17 
cam McDaniel one-yard run (brindza kick) 
5:12remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 56 yards, 3:44 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 34, NOTRE DAME 24 
cam McDaniel one-yard run (brindza kick) 
9:12remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 50 yards, 2:29 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 34, NOTRE DAME 31 
Amir carlisle 25-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
6:37remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 59 yards, 0:41 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 41, NOTRE DAME 31 
Demario Richard 4-yard pass from Kelly (Gonzalez kick) 
4:29 remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 75 yards, 2:08 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 48, NOTRE DAME 31 
Lloyd carrington 58-yard interception return (Gonzalez kick) 
3:41 remaining 

ARIZONA STATE 55, NOTRE DAME 31 
Taylor Kelly two-yard run (Gonzalez kick) 
0:52remaining 

Drive: Four plays, eight yards, 2:20 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
TOTAL OFFENSE  
487  
412  




THE ObSERvER | monday, november 10, 2014 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 


KARLA MORENO | The Observer 

Irish senior kicker Kyle Brindza reaches down to pick up the loose ball after Notre Dame botched a field-goal try to begin the fourth quarter during Arizona State’s 55-31 win over the Irish at Sun Devil Stadium on Saturday afternoon in Tempe, Arizona. 
Everett Golson committed five turnovers, including two pick-sixes, 
and Arizona State blasted Notre Dame, 55-31, at Sun Devil Stadium on Saturday afternoon in Tempe, Arizona. After falling behind 34-3, 
‘DEBACLE IN THE 
the Irish stormed back to a 34-31 deficit in the fourth quarter before Arizona State pulled away. The loss effectively ends Notre Dame’s 
DESERT’ 
chances of earning a spot in the College Football Playoff. 




The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

in luigi pirandello’s 1921 play, “six characters in search of an author,” the dramatist challenges our understand­ing of the differences between art and reality. This last weekend, in an adaption written and directed by notre dame graduate patrick vassel (2007), “six characters” came to notre dame to blur further the lines that sepa­rate the two. 
in pirandello’s original play, the six characters invade a play rehearsal for another one of pirandello’s works. They take over rehearsal, demanding that their story be told, and just as the producer does in vassal’s version, the di­rector eventually acquiesces. as the actors attempt to rec­reate the story as it was told to them, the characters protest that the illusion being created is not accurate. and when rebuffed, they cry out that this illusion is their only reality. 
The line between illusion and reality is further compli­cated by vassal’s choice to move the setting of the play. This change pushes the already confused line between art and reality further — now the audience must balance between the story of the characters, the “reality” created by the actors on the “irish bachelor” and, of course, the real world referenced and assumed by the cast and crew of the “irish bachelor.” The entire play hinges on question­ing what is real and what is art and how we differentiate between the two. 
The question of artifice is present from the beginning, as the audience watches the cast prepare to rehearse the finale of the “irish bachelor.” They are asked to practice reacting appropriately when the signs along the edge of the stage are lit up, telling the audience when to laugh, “aw” and applaud. when the characters first invade the scene, the producer, played by Tyrel london, protests their requests to act their own story as they remember it. 
“you want improv? Try chicago. This is a reality show,” he tells them. 
not all of the play is entirely preconceived. after the show, i spoke with mary patano, who played mary in the “irish bachelor.” she said that much of how the ac­tors reacted to the invading characters was improv or at least were created as part of the rehearsal process. each night, the show could be somewhat different — on open­ing night, the cast admonished an audience member for a phone going off. This layer of improv adds yet another dimension to the already-complicated soup of reality and art. 
The action of the play is dominated by the role of the Father, played by FTT major austin swift. he acts as the spokesperson for the characters, contested by the step-daughter (played by patricia Fernández de castro­sámano) and silently condemned by both the mother (Kitty baker) and the son (cameron hart). swift pulls off the role beautifully; he is cerebral, attempting to philoso­phize away his personal mistakes and reacting stoically the passionate outbreaks of his step-daughter. 
swift creates the reasonable, logical man the Father wishes to present to the producer with a touch of the the­atrical, serving to remind the audience that he is a charac­ter in a melodrama. 
he is contrasted by Fernández de castro-sámono, whose passionate reactions to the Father’s long, reasoned speeches serve to question the storyline he spins. she sings, she screams, she laughs and she refuses to be hid­den behind the man she says has wronged her. 
not to be forgotten are the other two adult characters, the son and the mother. They are pivotal but remain si­lent throughout most of the play. The mother is distraught and the son refuses to participate in the recreation of the family’s shame. still, the actors baker and hart make their presences known on the stage. at any moment during some of the Father’s speeches, one imagines one or both of them might finally leap out at him in anger to silence him on these personal matters. 
perhaps one of the most effective parts of the play is how it uses the culture of notre dame to maintain its relevan­cy to the audience. The three actors (phil mosey, mary patano and lizzie pagura) reference nd-smc tensions, football and other aspects of nd culture in their reactions to the characters’ story. it was at these points that the au­dience reacted most audibly. 
as the producer, london acted as the bridge between the two worlds. his attempts to manage both sides of the action were believable, and his exasperation when his at­tempts failed was almost palpable. 
The final scene of the play leaves many of the questions presented in the play unanswered. The play moves quick­ly and seems to speed up in the final moments. no longer do we have the long, extended explanations given for ear­lier scenes. The final deaths of the two children happen without reason or explanation — it is pure action. all we are given is the Father’s final statement: “reality, sir, this is reality.” and no more. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Living in a fantasy world 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
sundays can be pretty stressful. not because most of us are scrambling to get homework done last minute, but because we’re glued to the television screens, hop­ing our fantasy players are scoring as many points as possible. 
as a participant of two fantasy football leagues, i understand the struggle of watching guys hurt your team by dropping passes, not making the extra push for the end zone or when the most irrelevant players score touchdowns when your fan­tasy player should have made that play. 
similar to matthew berry’s love/hate column, i’m going to give out midseason awards for the best fantasy players and the most disappointing fantasy players. note: all of my rankings for players are based on ppr scoring rules. 
Biggest surprise of the season: Golden Tate 
coming into the 2014 sea­son, everyone knew calvin Johnson was the unques­tioned leader of the lions’ receiving corps, but the new­ly acquired golden Tate has shown he is just as dangerous as Johnson in fantasy. Tate has scored at least 10 points every single week this sea­son in ppr leagues. in weeks five, seven and eight, Tate racked up totals of 26, 31 and 28 points respectively, which helped rank him the seventh best receiver in fantasy. in matthew berry’s preseason fantasy football rankings, Tate was the 101st best player. Through 10 weeks, Tate has scored the 19th most points out of all fantasy players. 
Comeback player of the year: Arian Foster 
arian Foster is looking like the beast he was in 2012 where he scored 17 total touchdowns. last season, the Texans running back played only eight games due to inju­ry, scoring a mere 109 points. This season, in the same number of games, Foster has scored 180 points, is the third-ranked running back of the season and has scored the sixth most fantasy points thus far. his production will only continue to grow as the Texans still have to play four games against the aFc south, which has some of the worst rush defenses in the league. 
Biggest disappointment of the year: LeSean McCoy 
in my high school league, i took mccoy with the third overall pick in the draft, and i regret that decision every time i am forced to start him in my lineup because i have no other running back on my bench. The worst part about having mccoy is that no one in my league is willing to trade for him. not even for a kicker. last season, mccoy led the league in rushing and was the fifth-best player in fantasy football. mccoy, who averaged more than 20 points per game last season, hasn’t broken 20 points once this season. To make things even worse, the eagles run­ning back is currently ranked 97th in ppr fantasy leagues after matthew berry ranked him as the second-best play­er before the season kicked off. maybe he will turn it around in the second half of the season, but it looks un­likely with a poor offensive line and Jeremy maclin hav­ing a career year receiving. 
Most Valuable Fantasy Player: Andrew Luck 
luck, who arguably could be given the league’s actual mvp award, is ranked num­ber one in fantasy with 221 points. in every game but one, luck has thrown for more than 300 yards and is on pace to break peyton manning’s record for pass­ing yards in a season. on top of his absurd passing yards stat, the colts quarter­back leads the league with 26 touchdowns on the year and has turned in two four-touchdown performances. scoring at least 18 points in fantasy every single game this season, luck is keeping his fantasy owners happy with his week-to-week per­formances. if you’re down by 15 points with luck still to play, you shouldn’t worry. There’s no doubt he’ll get you the w. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL | cardinals 31, rams 14 
palmer injured in cards win 
Associated Press 

glendale, ariz. — carson palmer was carted off the field after injuring his left knee in the fourth quarter and the arizona cardinals rallied mi­nus their quarterback, beat­ing the st. louis rams 31-14 sunday to improve the best record in the nFl. 
after palmer went down, backup drew stanton and the arizona defense spurred the cardinals with three touch­downs over a span of 3 min­utes, 48 seconds. 
“we don’t know anything about carson’s injury or the length, whatever it is yet,” arizona coach bruce arians said. “it is obviously a knee. he will be evaluated and get an mri and everything and we will know something by tomorrow and hopefully by Tuesday. “ 
rookie John brown’s div­ing grab of stanton’s 48-yard touchdown pass put the cardinals (8-1) up 17-14 with 
7:40 to play. The pass came on the first series after palmer hurt his knee while trying to avoid the rush. 
palmer was able to walk off the field but a short time later was taken to the locker room on a cart. 
it was the same knee that palmer injured Jan. 8, 2006, in a playoff game against pittsburgh, when he tore his acl and mcl on his first pass of the game. 
patrick peterson got his first two interceptions of the season, returning the second one 30 yards for a touchdown to make it 24-14. moments later, austin davis fumbled and antonio cromartie re­turned it 14 yards for a score as arizona outscored the rams 21-0 in the fourth quarter. 
st. louis (3-6) was shut out in the second half. 
at 8-1, the cardinals have their best record after nine games since going 11-1 as the chicago cardinals in 1948. 
palmer’s injury loomed over everything, though. 
he was playing some of the best football of his career and, on Friday, signed a three-year contract extension worth a re­ported $50 million with $20.5 million guaranteed. 
on third at the rams 28, palmer dropped back to pass, then tried to avoid blitz­ing safety mark barron. The quarterback’s leg gave way and barron touched palmer for a sack. 
it was the same knee that palmer injured in 2005 in a playoff game against pittsburgh, when he tore his acl and mcl on his first pass of the game. 
“we still don’t know,” coach bruce arians said after the game when asked how seri­ous palmer was hurt. “it’s too early to tell.” 
stanton went 2-1 as a start­er earlier this season when palmer was out with a dam­aged nerve in his throwing shoulder. 
“everyone has confidence in drew,” arians said. “nothing drops off.” 
palmer was 25 of 36 for 241 yards, with no touchdowns and just his third interception of the season. 
arizona’s larry Fitzgerald caught nine passes for 112 yards. 
davis completed 17 of 30 for 216 yards and a Td with two interceptions and a lost fumble. 
on peterson’s second inter­ception, the ball bounced off the hands of the rams’ Kenny britt. peterson caught it and raced to the end zone for the score. on st. louis’ next pos­session, Kareem martin hit davis and the ball came free as he tried to pass. cromartie picked it up and ran in for the score to put arizona up 31-14 with 3:58 to play. 
arizona has outscored op­ponents in the fourth quarter 91-34. 
after entering the game, stanton completed an 11-yard pass to rob housler, ran for four yards, then completed a 26-yarder to John carlson on his first three plays. Then stanton let fly for the speedy brown, who beat defenders and laid out to catch the ball as he crossed the goal line. 
Jared cook, who caught sev­en passes for 141 yards and two touchdowns against arizona in last season’s opener, got be­hind rookie deone bucannon for a 59-yard touchdown pass with 1:50 left to give st. louis a 14-10 halftime lead. 
The Td came after arizona had scored 10 straight points to take a 10-7 lead on chandler catanazaro’s 43-yard field goal with 4:52 left in the half. with the kick, catanazaro tied the nFl record for con­secutive field goals to start a career at 17 before missing a 53-yarder on the play after palmer was hurt. 
NBA | neTs 104, magic 96 

Nets pull away from Magic 
Associated Press 

new yorK — bojan bogdanovic led the way for the brooklyn nets with a season-high 22 points. bogdanovic’s three-point field goal with 5:41 remaining in the fourth quar­ter sparked a nets’ 15-7 run to seal a 104-96 victory against the orlando magic. 
“Kg (Kevin garnett) found me,” bogdanovic said. “he found me on like four or five layups. i got involved in the game after i scored the three-pointer and we turned in a great game with all the offense we played.” 
since he arrived from over­seas bogdanovic has im­pressed deron williams. 
“he’s a rookie, but he’s not because he’s played at a high level for so long,” williams said. “he’s 25 years old and he knows how to play the game. he doesn’t have much of a weakness. he can pass, he can shoot, he can dribble and he can post up. he’s very versatile. he means a lot to this team.” 
williams believes bogdanovic can produce at a high level because of coach lionel hollins’ offensive system. 
“our offense is the kind of offense where if you screen, if you cut hard, if you move, you’re going to get open,” williams said. “also, i think teams are keying on myself, Joe (Johnson) and brook (lopez) and he’s going to benefit from that. he finds himself getting wide open shots, but he’s also doing a great job of attacking the defense.” 
mason plumlee added 12 points and 10 rebounds while williams and garnett each had seven assists for brooklyn (4-2). 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Oh, I know, I’ll turn him into a flea, a I’ll mail that box to myself, and when it 
FOR RENT 

harmless little flea. And then I’ll put arrives, ahahahaha, I’ll smash it with a 1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to that flea inside a box, and then I’ll put hammer! It’s brilliant, brilliant, brilliant I campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 that box inside another box, and then tell you, genius I say! 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 





Bouts 
conTinued From page 20 
while o’brien focused on up­percuts to the head. The fight was fast-paced, featuring con­stant movement across the ring. in the third round, choe landed uppercuts to the head. The fight was fast-paced, fea­turing constant movement across the ring. in the third round, choe landed more jab and uppercut combinations and secured the victory by unanimous decision. 
Dionne Sandoval def. Liz “Beast from the East” Zolper 
The first round started with a bang as senior dionne sandoval pounded senior captain liz Zolper with sharp jabs. with sandoval relent­lessly throwing jabs and body shots, Zolper focused on de­fense. in the middle of the first round, sandoval slowed the pace of her punches, giv­ing Zolper a chance to fight back. in the second round, sandoval regained her en­ergy and landed a series of hooks while Zolper used one hand to block sandoval’s ad­vances and the other to re­taliate. at one point in the second round, Zolper forced sandoval against the edge of the ring, but in the third round, sandoval came out strong once again, earning the victory by unanimous decision. 
Katie Martin def. Allison “Knockdown” McKown 
Junior Katie martin came out strong in the first round, landing a series of blows against senior allison mcKown. mcKown responded by drawing back and waiting until martin briefly paused between combinations before retaliating. a similar pattern transpired during the second round with martin continu­ing to throw jabs and upper­cuts and mcKown focusing on defense. midway through the round, martin threw a pow­erful triple-jab-uppercut­jab combination, unsettling mcKown and causing the ref­eree to pause the fight. martin continued to control the fight into the third round when she threw increasingly more direct body shots. martin took the bout by unanimous decision. 


Shannon Hagedorn def. Elizabeth “The Tiny Texan” Vista 
height proved to be a de­ciding factor in this bout be­tween sophomore elizabeth vista and senior shannon hagedorn. in the first round, the smaller vista executed multiple body shots but was no match against the pow­erful hooks to the face by hagedorn. as hagedorn fo­cused on punches to the face and sides of the head, vista’s headgear repeatedly shifted, resulting in multiple tempo­rary stops in the fight during the first and second round. in the middle of the second round, hagedorn threw an aggressive blow to vista’s head, causing her to stumble and the referee to end the bout, giving hagerdorn the 
victory.  
Megan  “Ferocious”  
Fuerst def. Sam “I  Am”  
Davies  

senior megan Fuerst and sophomore sam davies be­gan the matchup with differ­ent fight strategies. The taller Fuerst focused on hooks to the head while the shorter davies went for body shots. in the first round, davies came out strong, but Fuerst’s defen­sive tactics gained her the ad­vantage toward the end of the first round when she managed to get davies on the ropes. Fuerst demonstrated her con­sistency in the second and third rounds, during which she executed many double jab-cross combinations to secure the victory by unani­mous decision. 
Hannah “The Mean Slovene” Skrbis def. Nikki Murgas 
Junior hannah skrbis started energetically against fellow junior nikki murgas, delivering the first punches of the bout while bounding around the ring. at one point, skrbis held murgas’ head with one glove while punch­ing with the other, causing the referee to stop the fight temporarily. murgas retali­ated with five-punch com­binations and body shots that pushed skrbis against the edge of the ring. in the second round, skrbis went for tighter punches aimed at the sides of murgas’ head. in the third round, skrbis man­aged to push murgas to the edge of the ring for the fourth time during the matchup. approaching the end of the final round, skrbis delivered a last body shot and took the bout by unanimous decision. 
Emma “Drop, Lock and” Popovich def. Jessie “Cold as Ice” Frio 
sophomore Jessie Frio started off her bout against junior emma popovich with an explosion of wild punches that popovich dodged. in the first round, popovich was the more active fighter, moving freely around the ring. The second round had a slow start, with Frio forcing popovich against the edge of a ring with a jab-uppercut-jab combina­tion. popovich regained her advantage in the third round where she notably landed six-punch combinations of up­percuts, forcing Frio to draw back to the edge of the ring. as popovich 
see bouTs PAGE 15 ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 



both fighters began the third 
Bouts 
round aggressively and landed 
conTinued From page 14 
quick flurries before cohen 

used her footwork and right continued to throw jab after hook to ensure long could not jab, she secured the victory get close. long landed a late by unanimous decision. flurry of punches just before 
the final bell, but it was not Rachel “The Filly From enough to prevent cohen win-Philly” Nave def. Joy “To ning by unanimous decision. Your Face” Choe 
Freshman Joy choe used Rebecca “Brick House” feet her feet to escape early Hauserman def. Kristin pressure from graduate stu-“Powerhouse” Pieczynski dent rachel nave, but choe sophomore rebecca momentarily found herself hauserman landed strong cornered by nave without a punches and dodged several chance to counter. The sec-of Kristin pieczynski’s ef­ond round started with a flur-forts before landing a flurry ry from choe although nave of her own in the first round. countered with a few shots of pieczynski attempted to keep her own. The fighters became hauserman at bay with her more defensive in the late longer reach, but hauserman stages of the second round, but kept close enough to connect. choe landed several punches. pieczynski fought more effec­in the third round, choe con-tively in the second round, de­tinued to use her footwork to flecting hauserman’s shots and keep her distance from nave landing several punches of her and eventually won by unani-own. The second round ended mous decision. with both fighters defending 
carefully, but the pace changed Kaley “Let’s Get” Cohen in the third as each fighter at-def. Maggi “Magi” Long tempted aggressive flurries. 
The fighters opened defen-among the punches that land-Junior Katie heussman came to an end, mcgovern Caitlin “Champ” Zeiler sively, with both blocking and ed, hauserman connected on a responded by pushing showed off her footwork on def. Kim “Kimbo Slice” dodging their opponents’ at-powerful right hook. as the fight mcgovern onto the ropes be-her way to securing the unani-Smith tacks. Junior maggi long was slowed down again, pieczynski fore mcgovern rallied. The mous victory. senior Kim smith forced on the offense for most of the appeared to gain an advantage, second round started slowly, senior caitlin Zeiler onto the first round, but sophomore but housermann had one last but an attempt at a hook by Shannon “The Glimmer” ropes early in the first round. Kaley cohen’s defense kept counterpunch before the final heussman opened her up to a Bugos def. Ava “Ze Nmero Zeiler tried to escape using her her in the fight. Towards the bell and won by split decision. counter by mcgovern. she put Uno Homie” Stachelski feet, but smith landed several end of the first round, cohen heussmann on the ropes and The first round started punches. both boxers fought launched a counterattack, Maggie “Monogram” delivered a powerful left hook very carefully, as both fight-defensively in the second starting with a left hook. in the McGovern def. Katie at end of the second round. ers landed only occasional round, but Zeiler broke out with second round, cohen started “House” Heussman heussmann found herself cor-punches. Junior shannon a flurry that pushed smith onto more aggressively and landed sophomore maggie nered again in the third round, bugos appeared to be landing ropes. The fight slowed later some punches while continu-mcgovern landed several flur-absorbing multiple hooks from more of her punches, but the in the round as Zeiler turned ing to dodge long’s attempts. ries early in the first round. mcgovern. as the third round fight remained close well into smith away with her long reach. 
the second round. Towards neither fighter gained an ad-the end of the round, bugos vantage in the third round until took a clear advantage, land-Zeiler connected on a combina­ing a flurry of punches at the tion on her way to securing the end of the round. in the begin-victory. ning of the third round, senior ava stachelski dodged most Tori “The Terror” White of burgos’s punches, and af-def. Therese “The Beast” ter some impressive footwork Cushing from each fighter, stachelski sophomore Therese cushing managed to connect on sev-using her long reach to keep se­eral big hits just before bell. nior Tori white at bay, but white This was still not enough for pushed through and connected the win, though, as burgos on an impressive uppercut. took the bout by unanimous cushing dictated the pace of decision. the fight, but white was able 
to keep landing punches and Kathryn “The Kicker” launched a counterattack from Thompson def. Morgan the ropes. cushing kept white McCann from getting inside late in the 
senior morgan mccann second round before white started the fight on the of-again got close enough to land fensive and landed an early right hooks. white continued flurry of punches, but a strong dodging and making moves in-right hook from sophomore side in the third round as she Kathryn Thompson proved won by unanimous decision. to be a turning point for her rally in the first round. each Colby “Hammer Down” fighter started the second Hoyer def. Shannon round aggressively, and de-Hodges spite Thompson’s attempts to dodge, mccann landed sev-Molly Allare def. Maeve eral punches. again, though, Donovan a powerful Thompson right hook altered momentum as Val “Valliswag” Williams she backed mccann toward def. Ali Gibson the ropes. mccann counterat­tacked, but early in the third Rachel Francis def. Jenna round, Thompson connected Ivan with another right hook, and although mccann defended Contact Christine Mayuga effectively for the rest of the at cmayuga@nd.edu and fight, Thompson won by unan-Daniel O’Boyle at imous decision. doboyle@nd.edu 



ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, louisville 2 
ND tops Louisville in five sets 
have 10 or more kills on the final set. after losing the first 
Observer Staff Report 

afternoon. two sets, notre dame claimed 
after three straight losses senior libero Kathleen the next three with scores of in matches that each went severyn and graduate student 25-23, 25-22 and 15-13. to a fifth set, notre dame outside hitter nicole smith The irish won the final set bounced back sunday af-also played critical roles in on the strength of their serv­ternoon against louisville the victory. severyn earned ing. with momentum and a at purcell pavilion, rallying a career-high 18 digs, and her crowd of over 1,000 on their from an early two-set deficit solid passing helped propel side, the irish finished the to win, 3-2. the irish to their come-from-match with eight service aces. 
with the victory, the irish behind victory. smith record-The cardinals recorded just (6-18, 3-10 acc) snapped a ed 18 kills, the most of any two. Freshman libero natalie four-game skid. The confer-notre dame player. Johnson recorded a season­ence contest featured 39 ties The cardinals jumped out high mark of three service and 15 lead changes and was to an early lead over the irish, aces. The defensive specialist decided by a competitive fi-winning the first two sets, also had 12 passes on the day, nal set in which the cardinals 25-16 and 25-17, respectively. second only to severyn’s 18. (14-11, 6-7 acc) countered They were led by junior libero after two consecutive the irish momentum to tie roxanne mcvey who set the weeks at purcell pavilion, the set at nine before notre pace for match with 22 digs, the irish are back on the road dame pulled away for the more than any other player in next weekend for the final set win and match clincher, the match. time in the 2014 campaign. 15-13. Five of notre dame’s last They will face acc opponents 
Freshman setter maddie six matches have been de-wake Forest and no. 25 duke dilfer led the charge. she re-cided by a fifth set. sunday, on Friday night and sunday corded 48 assists and 15 digs though, was the first time the afternoon. The matches are for notre dame. dilfer was irish were able to complete slated to begin at 6:30 p.m. one of four irish players to the comeback and win in the and 1 p.m., respectively. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | nd 230, piTTsburgh 140; virginia Tech 198. nd 172 
irish split two over weekend 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
Trying to rebound from a home loss against purdue last weekend, notre dame came out on top against pittsburgh, 230-140, but fell to virginia Tech, 198-172, in a double dual meet this week­end at rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish (3-5) amassed 10 victories in two days of com­petition, with sophomore catherine mulquin and se­nior emma reaney lead­ing the team. mulquin and reaney combined to claim seven individual victories for the irish. The duo, alongside senior courtney whyte and junior cat galletti, opened up the meet by taking first place in the 200- and 400­yard medley relays. 
interim irish coach Tim welsh said he noticed mulquin’s rapid emergence as a team leader and elite competitor. mulquin took the top prizes in both the 50- and 100-yard freestyles as well as the 100-yard backstroke. 
“[catherine] has steadi­ly become a faster swim­mer and great team leader,” welsh said. “she works so incredibly hard and with fo­cus and intensity daily. she knows how to give herself to a race in the same way emma does. catherine’s suc­cess has been well-earned.” 
reaney added to her col­lection of top prizes with wins in the 100-yard but­terfly, 100- and 200-yard breaststrokes and 200-yard individual medley. The senior earned an ncaa b-cut in the 100 fly and 100 and 200 breast. 
The eighth first-place fin­ish for notre dame came from senior allison casareto, who won the 1-meter dive. 
The irish finished runner-up in several events as well. mulquin, galletti, senior hannah bowen and junior genevieve bradford took second place in both the 200-yard freestyle relay, and reaney, whyte, mulquin and sophomore elizabeth house grabbed the same place in the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
Junior lindsey streepey finished runner-up in the 1­and 3-meter dives. The irish placed second and third in the 200 fly, with senior bridget casey recording a time of 2:02.60 and whyte clocking in at 2:03.40. 
welsh said he saw his team improve over the course of the two-day meet. 
“several major positives emerged from this weekend, starting with swimming faster than we have all sea­son,” welsh said. “we have seen a steady progression of faster times across the board from week to week in event after event. divers continued strong performances on both days, including a 1-2-3 fin­ish on 1-meter board Friday. also, we did a good job competing in back to back, evening-morning sessions, which previews challenges ahead in acc championship meet in February.” 
The irish will close the home portion of their fall schedule on Friday, when they compete against illinois at 5 p.m. in rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalski@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 


Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
his team handled the occasion against a great team. 
“we played an exceptional team, and we did not play very well,” Jackson said. “i thought we played better in the last two periods. we played with a lot more intensity and started doing things with the puck and mak­ing plays, which we didn’t do for four periods. i think we were in­timidated, frankly.” 
minnesota outshot the irish, 44-20, Friday and was dominant again sunday as it tallied 31 shots to notre dame’s 23. Junior adam wilcox spent the weekend in the net for the gophers and racked up 43 saves over the two out­ings. meanwhile, petersen made 39 saves Friday and got six more sunday before being pulled for sophomore chad Katunar after the gophers got out to a 3-0 lead. 


despite the team’s struggles, Jackson acknowledged the prowess of the gophers and tried to glean some positives out of the series for a young irish team that features 11 newcomers. 
“anytime you play in that en­vironment, it certainly helps you for the future,” Jackson said. “it’s an intimidating environment if you’ve never experienced it be­fore, and a lot of our guys haven’t, so it is helpful for them.” 
with the losses, notre dame’s 
paid adverTisemenT 

six-game unbeaten streak came to an end and the irish face a stretch of four consecutive hockey east contests. currently, the irish sit in a tie for seventh in the conference, but no team has played more than six confer­ence games. The irish head to merrimack next weekend before hosting no. 6 umass-lowell on nov. 20 and 21. 
Jackson said the visit to merrimack (6-2-1, 2-1-0) would be a trying experience, particu­larly fresh off tangling with the gophers. 
“The games ahead are going to be extremely challenging,” Jackson said. “next weekend against merrimack, we’ve never played them before, and it’ll probably be the exact opposite of what we had this weekend. it’ll be a small venue, defensive style and we have to re-establish how we’re going to challenge teams. we’re playing well right now and competing hard.” 
merrimack’s lawler rink has a capacity of 2,549, just more than a quarter of mariucci arena’s capacity of 10,000 and half of compton Family ice arena’s 5,000. 
Jackson said the irish were eager for a different kind of chal­lenge against merrimack and were also eager to play the con­ference leading riverhawks (6­1-2, 4-0-1) at home in two weeks time. 
The irish play merrimack on Friday and saturday night. The puck drops at 7 p.m. each night. 
Contact Josh Dulany at       jdulany@nd.edu 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 20 
mind.” 
brey said he told grant to shoot more at monday’s practice, and notre dame called some early plays to jump-start grant, even from the first possession when he curled through the lane for the first shot of the day. 
“he was more aggressive,” irish junior forward Zach auguste said. “i talked to him personally, tried to hype him up.” 
The irish buried 10 of their first 16 3-point tries, includ­ing the five from grant. notre dame finished 13-of-28 from behind the arc, with grant accounting for seven. 
“[The aggressiveness is] something i need to deter­mine on my own, but it helps when your coach and start­ing center [auguste] are tell­ing you to attack early and make plays for the team but also make plays for yourself,” grant said. 
irish sophomore guard demetrius Jackson added 19 points on six-of-10 shooting, and auguste chipped in with 12 points and eight rebounds. notre dame limited the Flyers to 34.9-percent shoot­ing from the floor. The irish lead never dropped below 16 after the opening minute of the second half. 
notre dame steamrolled its way through the first half with a lead that swelled to as much as 22, thanks in large part to a 17-1 run. The irish connected on 10-of-18 3-pointers in the opening stanza. grant finished the first half with 20 points. 
“now i have the confidence to take the shots,” grant said. “if i have a slight look, i know i can knock it down. That will be something i use for the rest of the year.” 
before the game, notre dame announced irish se­nior guard/forward pat connaughton will serve as the team’s lone captain this season. connaughton, who was a captain last season as well, is notre dame’s first solo captain since former irish forward rob Kurz guid­ed the team for the 2007-08 season. 
brey said connaughton has been notre dame’s “strongest voice,” but brey said he thinks the irish also have a “leader­ship council” with grant and junior forward austin burgett as strong forces. 
irish sophomore forward austin Torres suffered a mus­cle strain in his right shoulder with 8.1 seconds remaining in the second half after snatch­ing a defensive rebound. brey said the shoulder did not “pop out,” and the timeline should be “a couple days.” 
notre dame opens its reg­ular season Friday when it hosts binghamton at 9 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at      jmonaco@nd.edu 


SARAH OLSON | The Observer 

Freshman forward Bonzie Colson leaps for a layup during Notre Dame’s exhibition victory against Lewis on Friday at Purcell Pavilion. 


that win.” 
The win keeps notre dame’s dreams of claiming the “tre­ble” — the acc regular-season championship, acc tourna­ment championship and na­tional championship — alive. 
“Final four next weekend, an­other championship to seize,” clark said. “we’re going for the treble. we’ve got one in our back pocket, and we’ll see if we can get the next stage.” 
The irish will face fourth-seeded, no. 20 clemson, which defeated wake Forest on penalty kicks sunday in the semifinals. 
“[The acc is] a great confer­ence,” clark said. “you’re look­ing at all of these teams, very, very strong teams. all eight teams in the quarterfinals of the acc tournament, i think, could win a national champi­onship this season.” 
notre dame aims to take an­other step towards the treble Friday at wakemed soccer park in cary, north carolina. First kick is scheduled for 8 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
from 14 yards out. 
“leon makes it easy for all of us,” panken said. “he makes smart runs, and he’s a deadly finisher, so we know when he gets a chance that he’s going to put it away.” 
The goal came just 12 hours after brown returned from Jamaica, where he traveled to attend his grandmother’s fu­neral, and he said he wanted to get refocused for the team. 
“i wanted to change my mindset away from the funeral mindset and everything and get refocused on the game, and i thought i was able to do that well,” brown said. “i kind of had to sacrifice that for the team because i know that we’ve been working hard all year, and we don’t want to let it slip, espe­cially now.” 
clark praised panken’s work rate, saying he runs a signifi­cantly longer distance than his teammates during each match. 
“evan’s a worker; he just doesn’t stop,” clark said. “They put these gps things on them to track them, and he just blows everybody else away. The mile­age that he covers of the period of a game is phenomenal.” 
The irish increased their lead to 2-0 with just over than 10 minutes to play in the half when sophomore defender brandon aubrey poked it home from close range. hodan played in a cross that was not properly cleared by the cavaliers de­fense, and after a couple touch­es, aubrey put it past virginia redshirt senior goalkeeper calle brown. 
The cavaliers started to gain the upper hand early in the second half, but hodan, notre dame’s leading goalscorer, put the game out of reach. hodan beat brown from the edge of the penalty area in the 59th minute. 
“when patrick hit the third goal, that made it a little bit easier coming down the final straight,” clark said. 
The cavaliers pressed to get back in the game. They hit the post in addition to putting three shots on target in the seven minutes following hodan’s goal but could not beat wall. The game marked wall’s second-highest saves total of the season and his highest when recording a shutout; however, clark said he was just as impressed with how his goalkeeper controlled the box. 
“i thought wall handled the ball superbly throughout the whole game,” clark said. “Just taking crosses and taking through balls, he was terrific.” 
wall’s defenders prevented virginia from attacking close to the goal. 
“sometimes they keep you busy at the back, so you always have to be on your toes, and it was nice [to get eight saves] but it was more important to get the shutout,” wall said. “The guys in front of me made sure that all of the shots came from dis­tance, and that makes my job a lot easier. The stats don’t always show everything, but when the guys in front of you play well, everyone plays good.” 
a strong south-to-north wind influenced play throughout the game. The irish attacked with the wind during the first half but against it during the second half. 
“The wind dictated how the game was going to be played,” clark said. “The nice thing was that we got the two goals when we had the wind in the first half.” 
The win was notre dame’s first victory in four tries as an acc member against virginia, including a 1-1 draw this season on sept. 21 in charlottesville, virginia. 
“we finally got to beat virginia,” clark said. “it’s tak­en a long while. They had our number for a while, and they’re a really good team. i think the boys will be very pleased with 
that, so it was definitely new for us. we continued the battle and fought back the whole second half. There were some important lessons learned, that we have to make sure we always play hard every time we step on the field and keep our focus even when the game isn’t going very well.” 
although notre dame was un­able to keep up with Florida state, romagnolo said the match gave the team valuable preparation against an elite opponent in ad­vance of the ncaa tournament, beginning this weekend. 
“it was awesome that we were able to have this game before heading into the ncaa tourna­ment,” romagnolo said. “we got to see what that top competition looks like. at this point, every game is going be a battle, and we’ve got to put our best foot for­ward every time. Fsu is a very good team, and they can hurt you in a lot of ways.” 
romagnolo also said she saw a few positive takeaways during the lopsided defeat. 
“in the second half, we came out and improved on what we did in first, so i liked that mental­ity,” romagnolo said. “[Freshman midfielder] Taylor Klawunder played well for us off the bench and had a big impact in that game. [Junior defender] Katie naughton did very well in the back. she found herself in a lot of one-v-one situations and really did a good job of shutting them down.” 
The next postseason chal­lenge for notre dame will be the ncaa tournament, which begins Friday, with brackets announced monday at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
dagny brynjarsdottir shot the ball past irish sophomore goal­keeper Kaela little, who made seven saves in the contest. 
The seminoles scored again less than five minutes later off a penalty kick, leaving notre dame in a 2-0 hole. 
in the second half, the irish held off the seminoles attack un­til the 84th minute when senior midfielder Jamia Fields launched the ball into the back of the net to widen Florida state’s lead to 3-0. 
an irish goal by senior forward Karin simonian in the final five seconds of the game prevented a shutout. 
“coming out of the halftime, we were very disappointed to be down 2-0, but at the end of the day, finding a way to score even in the last 10 seconds re­ally showed how we weren’t giv­ing up,” romagnolo said. “we’ve never found ourselves down like 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 26 References in a 61 Told a whopper 1 With 69-Across, footnote 64 Olympic sword childish taunt 27 “I give!” 
65 France’s Val 
… and a 

29 One who goes d’___
homophonic 

a-courting 66 “In that case
hint to the 

32 *Believing in …” 
answers to the 

nothing 67 Joins in holy 
asterisked clues 

35 With 40-Across, matrimony
5 Monastery head 

tip off 68 “lol, u r so
10 Angry, resentful 

39 Major Fla.-to-funny” and 
state 

Calif. route others 
14 First James 

40 See 35-Across 69 See 1-Across 
Bond movie 
41 Spanish years 
15 Italian scientist 

42 Relinquish DOWN 
after whom an 
1 Pharmaceutical-
electrical unit is 43 *Inflammation 

named of gum tissue approving grp. 16 Carbon 45 Spying aircraft 
2 Grp. 3 Separated, as acompound 47 Journalist ___ 
horse from its 
17 Turkish honorific Rogers St. 
carriage
Johns 
18 Kind of 
4 Horse with
personality, in 48 Houston 
more than one
broadcasting baseballer 
color
19 Hairstyle that’s 51 Item of sports 
5 Steer clear of 
rarely seen equipment 

on blonds and sometimes seen 6 Water pipes redheads on top of a car 7 Unexciting 20 *Elated 53 Yea’s opposite 8 “Miss ___ 23 Egyptian boy 54 *Eensy-weensy Regrets” king beach garments 9 Covering pulled 25 Masthead 59 Chicken ___ out during a 
rain delay 
figures, for (dish) short 60 Man of steel? 
10 Stick it in your ear 11 Not suitable
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Talent 

GODELESCHERBACH 
13 Dental thread 

PR I VATEAUD I ENCE 
21 Part of a shoe 
with a tap

SUMANDSUBSTANCE 
22 Here, to Henri 
DES 
GREAT 
23 Old Greek garment 
PANES 
PHI L 

I NDS 
OROS 
BETS 

AFOOT 
24 Join 
TAK 
ZORA 

CR I NGE 
28 Low, hard hits 

SPOKEOFFTHECUFF 

29 Children’s 
DAMASK 
EROS 

SOA 
author R. L. ___ 
AH INT 
ZWE I 

LEON 
30 Pegasus 
MOSS 
DEWY 

PARDO 
appendage 
ATAR I 
AIM 
31 Play’s opening 

ONESECONDPLEASE 
33 “O, beware, 
my lord, of jealousy” 

PUTSTHEK I BOSHON 
STATEASS ISTANCE 
speaker 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Keep an open mind and be willing to make adjustments as you move forward. don’t be confused by what others do. choose what suits your needs and follow through with your plans. it’s not about competing or being first, it’s about satisfying your needs and being happy with the results you get. let your intuition lead the way. your numbers are 1, 4, 11, 16, 28, 34, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): network, socialize and interact with people you can learn from. your interest in what other people are doing will lead to a proposal that is too good to overlook. bide your time and you will be likely to find a better offer. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a day trip will lead to an interesting and unexpected option. put more time and effort into the relationships that mean the most to you. nurturing what you have with someone will ensure that you get the same in return. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take pride in what you do and offer your help and services to those in need. your kindness and generosity will end up bringing you great satisfaction and lead to friendships that are unique. a nonjudgmental attitude will be required. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): explore new interests and meet new people. The connections you make will lead to opportunities that will improve your life. communication will be the key to new beginnings. love is in the stars. enjoy your good fortune. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you need a change. Take a day trip that will keep you away from any melodrama going on at home. Focus on personal changes that will help you feel good about who you are and what you have to offer. volunteer your time. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get involved in a creative endeavor initiated by a friend or colleague, or travel to a place that offers something unique. romance is on the rise and spending time getting to know someone better will lead to a brighter future. have fun. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): avoid controversy or a petty argument that will leave you feeling anxious and unsettled. Focus more on the people, places and things that bring you the most enjoyment. distance yourself from a personal problem and you will see your situation clearly. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take action and follow through with the plans you make. idle time will lead to waste and indulgence. personal alterations that improve your living arrangements or that update your looks should be your focus. be creative. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick close to home and invite friends over who have something to offer. discussions will open your eyes to a host of things you can do to improve your surroundings or add to your knowledge and expertise. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): reevaluate your position and consider ways to move up the ladder and raise your profile. attending a work-related function will allow you the chance to discuss your innovative ideas and make suggestions. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen, but don’t get into an argument you cannot win. back away and do your research. once you have all the facts in place, you will be in a better position to make a valid point. refrain from overreacting, overindulging and overspending. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): invest in yourself and you will convince others to help you get ahead. legal, financial and emotional gains are likely if you express your ideas with a foolproof plan. love is highlighted, and romance will improve your personal life. 


birthday baby: you are adventurous and exciting. you are versatile and curious. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
EUCIJ  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
KLANP  

SEYPLE ZFLEIZ  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 



TO
Ans: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BUILD ONION SAVAGE COWARD Saturday’s 
Answer: Before deciding on a new stereo system, he wanted to get this — SOUND ADVICE 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

PUZZLE BY DANIEL RAYMON 
34 Lower part of 48 Off-kilter the leg 
49 Michael of 36 Make stronger R.E.M. 
57 Alpine goat 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 


DOME NUTS| alexandria wellman 

9/17/12 
and deeper 
50 Cornered, as a 

58 Tennis’s Nastase 37 “And there you raccoon 
have it!” 

51 Women’s hybrid 38 Alternative to tennis garment 
true-false or 62 WNW’s opposite
52 Toys with tails 

multiple-choice 
55 Bits of sand 44 Self-absorbed 
56 Audio 46 Politico Paul equipment giant 63 Mexican couple 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY | minnesoTa 5, nd 0; minnesoTa 4, nd 2 
minnesota takes sweep over irish 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
no. 14 notre dame had a dis­appointing weekend against no. 1 minnesota as the irish were dominated in both contests at mariucci arena in minneapolis. The golden gophers won 5-0 Friday before returning sunday to hand notre dame a 4-2 defeat. 
Freshman cal petersen start­ed in net in both games for the irish (5-4-1, 1-0-1, hockey east) but had little chance against a balanced onslaught from the gophers (7-1). Five different players found the back of the net for the home team Friday. sophomore forward Justin Kloos opened the weekend’s scoring with a first period power play goal, and freshman forward leon bristedt netted his first goal of the season in the second peri­od. The gophers got three pucks by petersen in the final period on their way to the commanding victory. 
sunday, the gophers again had a balanced offense, as four separate players lit the lamp. senior forward sam warning opened the game with his third goal of the season and sopho­more forward hudson Fasching and junior defenseman mike reilly made it 3-0 by the end of the first period. notre dame’s two goals both came in sunday’s second period as senior defense-man robbie russo cut the lead to 3-1 and senior right wing austin wuthrich followed a minnesota goal with one of his own to make the score 4-2. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said he liked the play of the offense in the second and third periods, but they did not find a rhythm until too late. overall, he said he was unimpressed with the way 
see hocKey PAGE 17 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, virginia 0 
ND throttles Cavs, moves to semis 

By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall made eight saves and junior midfielder patrick hodan scored his eighth goal in nine games as no. 4 notre dame defeated no. 15 virginia, 3-0, in an acc tournament quarterfinal at alumni stadium on sunday. 
“it was a good performance,” irish coach bobby clark said. “The whole team just worked phenomenally hard, and the ef­fort to keep the game alive for us was terrific.” 
after a largely uneventful opening to the game, the irish (11-4-3, 6-1-1 acc) went ahead in the 28th minute when graduate student forward leon brown tal­lied his sixth goal of the season 
— and third in two games — off an assist from junior midfielder evan panken. 
“we’ve been kind of joking that one of the reasons [for scor­ing three goals in two games] was my cleat change,” brown said. “i’m definitely just trying to come out and score as much as i can.” 
senior defender max lachowecki played a ball for panken to start the move, and panken played in the ground cross for brown to fire home 
see m soccer PAGE 18 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | noTre dame 82, lewis 59 
Irish top Lewis in tune-up 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 

six days after Jerian grant let the game come to him in his first outing back in a notre dame uniform, the senior guard grabbed control from the early moments and hardly let up. 
after tallying a modest 12 points saturday in his first game after missing the spring semester due to an academic is­sue, grant poured in an easy 30 as the irish trounced division-ii lewis, 82-59, on Friday night at purcell pavilion in notre dame’s final exhibition tune-up. 
“i think last game i tried to fit in, tried to get my rhythm, but being aggressive early i think helps me and my team,” grant said. “The guys tell me from the jump, ‘Jerian, attack early.’ That’s something i did today.” 
From the pre-game introduc­tions, grant’s 6-foot-5 frame ex­uded his standard business-like demeanor. There was no pomp and no flash for grant, just high-fives in introductions, a quick fist-pump after forcing a lewis shot-clock violation and a slight head shake after connecting on his fifth 3-pointer of the first half — this one a four-point play for good measure. 

“he’s one of the best basket­ball players in the country,” irish head coach mike brey said. “he’s a heck of a college basket­ball player. i think he’s come back in a really great frame of 
see m bball PAGE 17 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Baraka Bouts wrap up 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA and DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writers 

Amanda “Boxing Panda” Leung def. Casey “C My Fists” Gelchoin 
senior amanda leung and sophomore casey gelchoin pushed it to the limit in a nail-biting final bout. gelchoin landed blows mainly to the sides of leung’s head. leung was conservative in the fre­quency of her punches, fo­cusing primarily on defense. at the end of the first round, the fight was at a standstill. by the second round, leung dominated the ring, push­ing gelchoin to the edge of the ring with a series of jab and uppercut combinations. although gelchoin delivered an impressive final blow in the third round, it wasn’t enough to outshine leung’s performances in the second and third rounds. leung se­cured the victory by split 
decision.  
Victoria JaElizabeth Strehlow  nssen “Str def. iker”  

Junior victoria Janssen demonstrated her speed as she started the first round with a flurry of jabs against sophomore elizabeth strehlow, who retaliated with defensive body shots. by the second round, Janssen add­ed to her advantage by land­ing successive combinations while moving swiftly across the ring. strehlow kept the fight close at the end of the second round with a pow­erful right jab, but Janssen stayed consistent through the third round, and her agil­ity contributed to her victory by unanimous decision. 
Grace “In Your Face” Choe def. Erin “The Fighting Meerkat” O’Brien 
in one of the most aggres­sive first rounds of the bouts, Junior grace choe broke out with uppercut and jab com­binations against senior captain erin o’brien, who matched choe’s combina­tions with equally power­ful blows. as the first round ended, choe pushed o’brien to the edge of the ring. during the second round, 
choe  aimed  her  punch­ 
es at  o’brien’s abdominal  
while  o’brien  focused  on  

see bouTs PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | Florida sTaTe 3, nd 1 
noles force notre dame exit 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 10 notre dame fell to no. 2 Florida state on Friday in an acc semifinal by a score of 3-1 at uncg soccer stadium in greensboro, north carolina. 
The seminoles (18-1-1, 9-0-1 acc) were the top-ranked team in the acc, while the irish (12­5-2, 7-2-1) were ranked fourth. Florida state went on to defeat no. 4 virginia, ranked second in the acc, 1-0 in the final match sunday, giving the seminoles the conference tournament championship for the second year in a row. 
The high-powered seminoles outpaced notre dame in shots, 18-5. 
“Fsu is a very good team that took us out of our game, so i have to give a lot of credit to them,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “we were a little bit undisciplined in our defensive organization. we also weren’t able to get the ball and hold onto it and weren’t quick enough getting after the ball. we just weren’t able to establish possession, and that hurt us.” 
Florida state put the first point on the board with a goal in the 22nd minute as the seminoles passed the ball down to the left corner of the field where senior midfielder 
see w soccer PAGE 18 






