The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 52 | thursday, november 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Food services opens new catering facility 
Center for Culinary Excellence will prepare food for campus cafés, dining halls and catered events 
grab-n-go program. The re-of separating the student catering, and north dining Food services also takes 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer location of catering at north dining experience from the hall did most of student din-pride in its efforts for sus­
dining hall to the cce opens catering experience. ing due to location," he said. tainability, and with the es­
notre dame Food services up the opportunity for pos-“chris abayasinghe, direc-glon said the rapid growth tablishment of the cce, food introduced a new facil-sible renovations in north tor of Food services, has put in catering production at supplies will be delivered ity, the center for culinary dining hall. a big emphasis on separat-notre dame has called for ef-directly to campus units in-excellence (cce), with a “our goal is to improve ing our student dining staff forts to balance both the stu-stead of being delivered to grand opening on nov. 11. student dining as well as our from our catering staff to use dent dining experience with a central storage area first, This facility was formerly culinary experience on cam-those two as separate enti-catering. glon said. known as the Food services pus,” John glon, manager ties,” glon said. “really, the biggest driv-Throughout all these chang­support Facility, and it now of the cce, said. “we have glon said in the past, ing reason [for the cce] was es, glon said his favorite part of prepares food for notre our own kitchen here, which dorms were built closer to to take care of our customers the job and the overall experi­dame’s cafés, dining halls we’ve built so that the staff at north dining hall but even-better and take both catering ence has been the challenges. and catered events. north dining hall can fully tually started to shift south. and student dining with bet-“The most rewarding part is 
The cce houses a new ca-concentrate on the students.” “back in the 90s, south ter respect to culinary excel­tering kitchen, bake shop and The cce achieves the goal dining hall did mostly lence,” glon said. see Food PaGe 4 



Saint Mary’s library exhibits past mysteries 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
"Just when you thought we were a sleepy little college, think again," says Jill hobgood, mar­keting and outreach librarian at saint mary's college. 
hobgood, along with circula­tion librarian lisa karle, refer­ence librarian ula gaha and college archivist John kovach, spearheaded the latest exhibi­tion at the cushwa-leighton library, "saint mary's case Files: strange but True people and events," which will run through dec. 10. 
see library PaGe 5 



Badin Hall hosts art show 
By ABIGAIL PIPER 
news writer 
badin hall’s signature event, the badin hall art show, pro­vides an opportunity to see the wide variety of talent notre dame students have to offer by showcasing the original artwork of students across campus. 
The showcase begins Thursday evening and is badin hall's yearly fall event. 
“it’s an annual event that we do, and the artwork is on display for a week, but opening night we have a nice event with food and music,” sophomore kelly berger, one of the academic commis­sioners coordinating the show, said. 
sophomore and academic commissioner meghan grojean said the show is a way for the dorm to feature the creative abil­ities of notre dame students. 
“it is a chance to view and ap­preciate other notre dame stu­dents' artwork, and there’s a lot of talented people,” grojean said. 
berger said the show often dis­plays talent that might otherwise have been unknown. 
“The focus is often on academ­ics, so this is a good chance see a different side of people’s talents that you might not know about,” berger said. “i know people in 
see badin PaGe 4 

alumnae relate post-graduate experiences 
By ERIN FLANAGAN 
news writer 
saint mary’s career crossings office (cco) hosted a discus­sion wednesday evening titled, “making a difference in the world: pursuing post-grad service and Fellowships," which featured two alumnae who grad­uated in 2011. 
rachael chesley, '11, was ac­cepted as a fellow and scholar in the prestigious Fulbright program with the u.s. department of state shortly after graduating. chesley is currently the employee communications manager with arthur J. gallagher & co. in chicago. The second alumna on the panel, caroline arness, '11, was accepted to Teach for america (TFa). after serving as a fellow for three years, arness is now working in a position with TFa as a recruitment associate based in chicago. 
each alumna discussed their respective programs and how 
see panel PaGe 5 



news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 6 scene PaGe 8 men’s baskeTball PaGe 16 women’s baskeTball PaGe 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite thing about fall? 

Aaron Collier 
freshman 
Fisher hall 
“The leaves changing color.” 
Carlie Sloam 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“Fall clothing.” 
Emily Change 
freshman 
badin hall 
“The ombre leaves.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Gregory Corning 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“Trees.” 
Karina Chamorro 
freshman 
badin hall 
“The colors. it’s my first fall ever.” 
Krista Madrid 
freshman 
pasquerilla east 
“leaves changing color and getting to rake the leaves.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: haleigh ehmsen Zach klonsinski emilie kefalas henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
sam coughlin erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Faculty and Staff Pep Rally Notre Dame Football Sunday Mass Alumni Art Exhibit 
karla moreno bianca almada 
Mass Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art Log Chapel Arena 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart All Day 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. The Irish take on 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. “ND Alumni: Sculptors 
Corrections 

RSVP to Pep rally for ND vs. Northwestern. Music by the Notre and Professors.” 
The observer regards itself as Bracke.4@nd.edu. Northwestern. Dame Liturgical Choir. a professional publication and 
Artist Talk Men’s Basketball Saturday Vigil Mass Anishnabe Work Off Your 
strives for the highest standards 
Snite Museum of Art Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Hesburgh Library Weekend 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Rolfs Sports 
however, recognize that we will make 
Sculptor Deborah The Irish take on 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Performances by Recreation Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Butterfield will speak. Binghamton. Music by the Women’s the Pokagon Band of All Day 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Liturgical Choir. Potawatomi. Register online via 
we can correct our error. 
RecRegister. 



Nanovic awards European studies prize 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
The nanovic institute for european studies pre­sented Jerrold seigel with the laura shannon prize in contemporary european studies on wednesday for his book entitled “modernity and bourgeois life: society, politics and culture in england, France and germany since 1750." 
“[This award] captures what’s so special about the Nanovic Institute and Notre Dame as a whole.” 
James McAdams 
director 
Nanovic Institute for European 
Studies 
seigel is professor of his­tory emeritus at new york university. 
peter holland, the mcmeel Family chair in shakespeare studies, sits on the jury that reads the books nominated for the laura shannon prize. holland said seigel has a spe­cial talent for highlighting illuminating details while maintaining a broad view of a topic that facilitates enriching connections to other topics and disciplines. 
“The lot of a jury member for a book prize is not always, and might i say not usually, a pleas­ant one,” holland said. “many of the books one is required to read are hard work, some are downright disappointing. Few are gripping and enjoyable. 'modernity and bourgeois life' is an extraordinary exception. it was quite simply a pleasure to read.” 
James mcadams, director of the nanovic institute for european studies, said the jury looks for specific criteria, and any book that wins the award demonstrates potential to en­hance our understanding of the complex body of europe. 
“[This award] captures what’s so special about the nanovic institute and notre dame as a whole,” mcadams said. “That is to say, a focus on interdisciplin­ary approaches to scholarship and intellectual engagement, a focus that is mainly humanistic and focuses on the questions that matter for humanity. we also look for a focus on current-day europe as a product of cen­turies of development.” 
seigel was able to give the au­dience insights into his current work concerning individuals who have attempted to blur the lines of culture and live “be­tween cultures” in rich and dis­tinct ways. 
“The subjects of my work are individuals who, without 
paid adverTisemenT 


seeking to depart from their cultures of origin, tried to live in a second culture,” he said. "These are people whose as­sociation with their second culture becomes part of their belonging to the first. They sought to carve out an intercul­tural space where they could develop two identities and self-consciously impose them with each other.” 
seigel cited louis massignon, a French catholic scholar who studied islam, as an example of an individual who worked to combat cultural divides. 
seigel said massignon's work illustrates of the importance of reaching a higher level of un­derstanding about culture in relation to one's self. 
“in our own historical mo­ment, when the relations be­tween western culture and islam are questions of great moment, i think massignon’s attempt to draw the two forms of life together in his own per­son has a certain relevance,” seigel said. “massignon’s career and thinking suggest that deep­ening our involvement in the cultures that form and nurture 
senate 
us can be compatible with the ability to acknowledge that the values and practices found in other ways of life may make up for the defects in our own. 
“surely that is a better for­mula for relating ourselves to the demands cultures make on us, to the essential nurture they offer and to the intellectual and moral limits they impose, than the unthinking identification with a single one with which too many of us remain content." 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

Group plans ‘29 by 29’ outreach 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
The student senate met wednesday evening to discuss the new program, "29 for 29," that will begin this holiday season. The new initiative will bring together the 29 residence halls to participate in one service project that will entail each dorm “adopting” a family in need for the holiday season. 
“residence halls could be such a unique place to form this relation­ship,” student body president  and senior lauren vidal said. 
according to vidal, this will be the first time in notre dame his­tory that all of the university's resi­dence halls will be connected by student government for one large service project. in the past, resi­dence halls have held their own programs and signature events for different causes, but "29 for 29" aims to be a unique way to bring together notre dame students and families in need for the holiday season. 
The committee for "29 for 29" has developed a packet for each residence hall outlining possible activities to do with their family, vidal said. each hall will also be allocated a $100 budget to use to­ward the activities. 
however, the program is de­signed to be flexible so each hall can make their individual projects completely tailored to their vision of the challenge, vidal said. 
“we don’t want to burden the residence halls with it being such a busy time of year,” vidal said. 
rather, vidal said the goal of the program is to spend time with families in the spirit of christmas. 
sophomore helen hathaway, representative for badin hall, agreed with the planned flexible structure of "29 for 29." 
“Too much regulation and standardization would make the relationship falsified," hathaway said. "The independent structure makes it much more genuine.” 
The senate also passed resolu­tions to amend its constitution, changing the words “office of residential life” to “office of community standards,” and opened discussion about new study spaces around campus. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 




Hesburgh’s Heroes club raises funds for hospital 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
hesburgh’s heroes, a new campus club working in conjunction with non­profit andean health and development (ahd), has raised nearly $15,000 to ben­efit hesburgh hospital in santo domingo, ecuador, according to club president and senior Jack mckeon. 
“we’ve been raising a lot of money by selling t-shirts and koozies at family foot­ball tailgates,” mckeon said. 
“last year, we got the rights to Fr. hesburgh’s name and face, which we were able to display prominently on the merchandise,” sophomore nate mckeon, Jack mckeon's brother and club vice presi­dent, added. “it’s definitely helped with sales. everybody loves Fr. hesburgh.” 
Jack mckeon said the club also raised a significant amount of money by con­tacting and obtaining do­
“Last year, we got the rights to Fr. Hesburgh’s name and face, which we were able to display prominently on the merchandise.” 
Nate McKeon 
sophomore 
nations from notre dame alumni. 
"we are currently in the process of consolidating the funds,” he said. “we plan to write a check, as a club, to donate to ahd.” 
ahd was founded in 1996 by dr. david gaus, ’84, and Fr. hesburgh with the goal of “providing sustainable, quality medical care to­day and training the rural health care leaders of to­morrow,” according to the ahd website. The organiza­tion opened its first hospi­tal in 2000 in pedro vicente maldonado, ecuador and recently opened hesburgh hospital in santo domingo. The organization also trains local doctors in order to cre­ate self-sustainable health care systems. 
The mckeon brothers trav­elled to ecuador with the or­ganization in the summer of 2013. 
“after touring the hospi­tals and seeing all the good ahd was doing there, we were really moved to start hesburgh’s heroes and bring ahd to notre dame,” nate mckeon said. 
“because the organization was founded by an nd alum with the guidance of Father hesburgh, we felt it really needed a presence on cam­pus,” Jack mckeon added. 
The club hosted its first educational event last week, at which dr. gaus presented a lecture discussing the his­tory of ahd and its goals. 
“we have about 35 active club members right now, but we also just want to get the word out and spread the club’s mission across cam­pus,” nate mckeon said. 
next semester, Jack said the club plans to start a webi­nar series with ahd employ­ees and host a bubble soccer fundraising tournament. 
“ahd is currently rais­ing money to build a rep­lica grotto on hesburgh hospital’s campus, which the locals are very excited about,” Jack mckeon said. “we want to direct our next donations to help with that project.” 
“hopefully, in the long term, we will be able to send club members to ecuador,” nate mckeon said. 
hesburgh’s heroes club meetings are held once per month with the next metting scheduled for nov. 18 at 5:15 
p.m. in b034 geddes hall. 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 

Theology on Tap lecturer discusses poverty 
injustice, especially with re-of the roads aren't paved," and consistent water and betz discussed ways crs 
By OWEN LANE 

news writer gard to poverty. betz said. "There are build-electricity." helps the poor, such as betz began her lecture by ings that have questionable betz said one of her haitian campaigning for fair trade Jennifer betz, an employee quoting pope Francis' "The construction standards. ... co-workers described the regardless of market condi­
of catholic relief services Joy of the gospel" to estab­(crs), presented a lecture lish the problem of inequal­titled, "poverty — From ity that crs seeks to combat: stigma to solidarity" at the "The mere fact that some Theology on Tap discussion people are born in places hosted by campus ministry with fewer resources or less on wednesday evening. betz, development does not jus­an alumna of notre dame, tify the fact that they are liv­spoke on the importance in ing with less dignity," betz catholic theology of caring quoted. for the poor. betz provided an example 
crs was formed in 1943 to of her personal experience provide relief during world with poverty. when she was war ii, according to the or-near the haiti-dominican ganization's website. it has republic border after the gradually shifted its empha-2010 earthquake, she noted 
border phenomenon with the tions. crs advocates for safe phrase, "poverty is political." working conditions and giv­betz quoted pope Francis, ing impoverished access to “Consumption is restating his idea that mod-credit, she said. betz also ern economies not only ex-encouraged the audience to 
not apolitical. 

ploit the marginalized, but be personally accountable in 
I think that 

also exclude them. The exis-combating poverty. consumption is tence of systems that "shut "consumption is not apo­actually incredibly out" the poor from living litical," betz said. "i think 
with dignity in society is that consumption is actually 
political.” 

ubiquitous, she said. incredibly political. every 
Jennifer Betz 

betz compared the situa-dollar that we spend means 
Catholic Relief Services 

tion of a poor textile worker something. and when we in cambodia with that of a spend it in an unjust way, homeless alcoholic in south that means something to the bend and said both of these people who aren't treated 
sis towards development and the difference in poverty lev-[if you go to the other side of people do not receive wages well." peacemaking over the past els between villages separat-the border] you see a town, high enough to allow them 50 years. a large part of the ed by the border. you see paved streets, and the resources they deserve as Contact Owen Lane at mission of crs is combating "it is dusty because a lot there are trees and flowers human beings. olane@nd.edu 
badin 
conTinued From page 1 
our dorm submitted art last year who are not necessarily art ma­jors, but they’re really talented, and it’s really cool to see that.” 
sophomore and academic com­missioner elisa herrman, said the signature event has a different fo­cus than other dorm events. 
“i don’t think anyone else has something like an art show,” herrman said. 
grojean said the show is a way 
Food 
conTinued From page 1 
when we exceed the expecta­tions of the students and the customers, and we achieve what we are trying to do," glon said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
for badin hall to incorporate the art department into a campus event involving all students. 
“it brings artwork out of reilly and into the dorm setting,” grojean said. “we have judges from the art department that come and choose three winners and then we have prizes.” 
herrman said there are usu­ally 15 to 30 submissions, and any kind of art can be submitted. 
“There are always a few spec­tacular paintings where you’re like ‘wow’,” hermann said. 
grojean said not only do students get to appreciate the art, but also the artists gain a lot form the showcase. 
“i love seeing all the art pieces come in and see the artists pres­ent their work,” grojean said. “They’re so proud of it, and a lot of it is amazing, and all of it is cool.” 
The art show begins Thursday evening at 7 p.m. in the badin hall social space. attendance is free, and the showcase will continue through nov. 20. 
Contact Abigail Piper at apiper2@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
they learned to cope with their re­sponsibilities and expectations. 
chesley said she was looking for an unconventional path to take after graduating from saint mary’s. 
“coming out of college is the perfect time for thinking outside of the box," chesley said. "you only acquire more responsibili­ties as time goes on." 
chesley said her experience in the Fulbright program brought her to malaysia where she worked as an english teaching assistant. 
“i was always interested in an international experience," she said." "... it provided interesting challenges and opportunities." 
in malaysia, she put in 25 hours per week working with students in her local community. chesley said she had to learn to quickly adapt to the culture. 
“i was placed in a rural muslim community, which as a woman, i had to adapt and sacrifice parts of my own culture,” she said. 
Teaching posed challenges, as the students did not know how to say phrases as simple as 'good morning' in english, chesley said. in response, she invested her time in the responsibility. 
“people want to think that the experience you’re having is very romanticized, and it’s not," she said. "it is a very selfless action de­pending on the program, and it is important to have people to sup­port you and to remind you why you are doing the experience." 
chesley said she needed to de­velop her capacity for patience in order to see the results in her students that she desired. it took several months to grow relation­ships with the students. 
“it was not until i was able to get them genuinely interested in who i was that we made ground in their active roles in the class­es,” she said. 
during her time in malaysia, chesley also began a project of creating an english magazine with her students, she said. 
“i was really proud of my stu­dents for [producing the maga­zine] ... which promoted school activities as well as what was going on in the community," chelsey said. "we would send it to the u.s embassy, [and it] really helped me to connect with them and get them interested. 
“with any post-grad service ex­perience, you have to be open to adapt and accept and be tough-minded in your resolve with whatever can be thrown at you." 
arness had a similarly reward­ing experience. she said TFa appealed to her because of the benefits it provided as well as the opportunity for service. initially, arness was placed in charlotte, north carolina, as a high school english teacher, she said. 
“i thought i was going to be hilary swank in 'Freedom writers,'” arness said. 
but arness was switched to teach science in a middle school shortly thereafter, she said. 
“i had to collaborate with other teachers, which created a huge resource exchange," arness said. "... There was a lot of learning and relearning. i was able to become a stronger teacher because, as my students were learning, i was as well.” 
arness said her experience was most gratifying when she got to know her students. 
“i was involved in many af­ter-school activities, such as an outdoors club," she said. “it was beneficial to see them as genuine people and be involved with them outside of class.” 
arness said it was important for her to define her own suc­cess, to make sure she was com­mitted every day and to forgive herself for any mistakes she may have made, “realizing the bigger picture and remembering the mission of your program that is beyond you." 
in committing to a post-grad­uate service program, it is es­sential to gather support groups and do the necessary research to know what is expected of partici­pants, arness said. by realizing the responsibilities of each pro­gram, one can get the most of the experience. 
"who i am is very small in comparison to the impact i can make," she said. 
Contact Erin Flanagan at eflana01@saintmarys.edu 

Library 
conTinued From page 1 
The exhibition displays origi­nal research by the investiga­tive team with featured stories from the saint mary's newspa­per archives, hobgood said. The exhibit follows an exhibition on sr. madeleva wolff, the college's third president, who was hon­ored with a four-part lecture se­ries, "madeleva mondays," at the library during the months of september and october in cel­ebration of the 50th anniversary of sr. madeleva's death. 
in conjunction with the current coming home from the school that she was attending, this so-called convent school in south bend, indiana," hobgood said. "i thought, i'm going to go out on a limb here and say that this school must be saint mary's. 
"so this turned out to be quite an infamous story. lillie was coming home from college only after playing a major part in as­sisting a murderer, even though she wasn't the murderer of the victim. she drove the getaway buggy." 
The second featured part of the exhibit displays the case of aline ellis, who was a graduate in 1899 and attended saint mary's along with her younger sister. 
"after graduating, in 1902, she married a notre dame professor, who was head of the english de­partment for over fifteen years," hobgood said. "within a month, he was poisoned after eating a bad can of ham, and aline was rather spectacularly arrested in philadelphia for being the perpetrator. 
"There were headlines for weeks and weeks, wondering if she poisoned him, if he was dy­ing, if she was running off with this other guy, if she pawned the family jewels. it was really sensational." 
because ellis' story is so com­plex and yet to be solved, hobgood said the library staff chose her as a subject of the "library mystery night." 
"we've done serial killers, thefts and more," hobgood said. "This one on aline ellis is really cool, since her story has so many twists and turns. supposedly, when aline went to the store and purchased this can of ham, she specifically said to the clerk, 'i don't suppose it's poisoned, is it?' There's a lot to this story, and we're excited to explore it with the students." 
kovach said another interesting part of doing this sort of archival research and display is decipher­ing the truth of the content. 
"in a lot of these eras, what you'll find is that the newspaper articles are not exactly bylined," kovach said. "so you don't know where any of these people are getting any of their information. it's more about what is going to sell the newspaper back then." 
"one day, a newspaper will be saying something absolutely hap­pened, and then another news­paper a few days later will say this report is completely untrue," hobgood said. "so you have to go and read a lot of it to get an idea of what really went on." 
another feature of the exhibit is the mystery of the disappear­ance of two famous sculptures on campus of stone dogs, hobgood said. 
"The dog statues turn up in al­bum after album of past students, and there are poems and stories in the college's literary magazine 'chimes' about them, and then one day, after a certain year in the 1900s, there is nothing," hobgood said. 
kovach said the disappearance of the statues is shocking, as the figures were features of many student scrapbooks that he has studied, including that of mary mccandless, an alumna and namesake of one of the college's dorms. 
"so ... these two dogs are here until the 1920s, and i can't imag­ine if after that year, that the students who know of the dogs wouldn't mention them being gone," kovach said. "They are a large size and are stone. a cou­ple of students actually called the dogs the 'end of the road' or the 'end of the line,' as they were boundary dogs for the campus, in a way." 
Though halloween may be over, hobgood said the exhibit keeps up the spirit of mystery and hair-raising eeriness. 
"some of these things we found were just little bits and pieces, and we got to flesh them out into these big mystery stories," hobgood said. "This was the most fun ex­hibit ever." 
The exhibit is at saint mary's cushwa-leighton library in the front lobby now through dec. 
10. students can sign up for the "library mystery night" near the exhibit. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
exhibition, the library will also host "library mystery night" on dec. 5 with prizes and refresh­ments for student teams. 
"some people just associate mystery nights with someone dressing up and pretending to be murdered, but ours aren't re­ally like that," hobgood said. "it's more putting together a story and solving  an overall question by finding clues all over the library. The library is closed, so we're the only ones in here. if you've ever wanted to run and yell in the li­brary, this is a good opportunity. 
The current exhibition began as an idea by the librarians and kovach after they discovered odd 
paid adverTisemenT 
headlines in the newspaper ar­chives, kovach said. 
"when you are hunting around and go to the sources where you think something will show up and you find out it doesn't, the next thing you want to do is ask yourself, 'whats the real story here?" kovach said. 
The first story featured in the exhibit was found when hobgood and kovach were hunting for something completely different, but stumbled across an enticing headline in an 1892 newspaper, hobgood said. 
"in the newspaper, i found this article that this woman named lillie Johnson was recently 


Ask for more to reduce crime 

InsIde CoLumn 

changing my passion Zachary Llorens 
photographer 

From a young age, i have really enjoyed playing baseball. not only is it my favorite sport, but it is also the avenue through which i have connected with my favorite people.  i began playing at the age of six and still play casually today. 
Through elementary and high school, i enjoyed a pastime with close friends, friendly competition and the fresh santa monica, california air. without these ex­periences, i would not be the person i am today, and for that i am grateful. 
i’ve also had the pleasure of watching my younger brother play baseball just as i did. he is currently in his freshman year of high school, but he has been playing since he was a toddler. i am proud not only of his progress, but also of his potential to become a successful ball player. currently, i am in a position where i would almost rather watch him play than go out and play myself. he’s reached the skill level at which baseball becomes quite fun to watch. substantial feats of athleticism and exciting plays are no longer so few and far between. 
while watching him play, i decided to take up photography. i saw a great opportu­nity to document my brother’s developmen­tal experiences while also acquiring a new hobby for myself. a few years ago, i picked up my first camera and began to shoot his games. From plays on the field to appear­ances at home plate, i have had many op­portunities to practice the skill. Through my passion for the sport of baseball, i have acquired a new passion for photography. i really enjoy traveling with my family to my brother’s baseball tournaments across the southwestern u.s. and getting to be the one to document the experiences. it’s been truly rewarding for me not only to take pictures, but also to produce something that he and the rest of my family enjoy. 
when i left home for college, i searched for a way to maintain my passion. Fortunately, through one of my profes­sors and friends of friends i was able to find my way to The observer, which was in need of photographers. i happily joined the team and photographed my first event: softball. The first long walk with 15 pounds of camera from south dining hall to the field was just the beginning of a dedicated sports photography routine i came to de­velop. during my first semester on the job, i gradually shifted towards photographing soccer. i covered most of the soccer games and even had the opportunity to travel to pennsylvania to photograph the men’s soc­cer national championship game. 
overall, becoming an amateur sports photographer has been a great experience for me. continuing my passion, nurturing my love of sports and traveling have been the perks of the job for me, and i look for­ward to continuing to work on my craft. 
Contact Zachary Llorens at zllorens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

Just prior to the kickoff of saturday’s devastating loss to arizona state, students received the following email: 
“around 2 a.m. saturday morning a notre dame student was approached by three men in a silver sedan on notre dame avenue between the morris inn and holy cross drive.  one of the men got out of the vehicle and instructed the student to come with them.  They demanded money and took the student to a gas station and a grocery store so he could get cash for them.  They then brought the student back to campus.  no gun was seen, but it was implied that at least one of the three men had a gun.” 
The email concluded with brief physical descriptions of the three men, referrals to notre dame’s “off campus connector” and security police websites for “further in­formation about safety on and off campus” and a reminder that 9-1-1 exists. 
since Tuesday the facts of that case have been called into question, but there is no question that ndsp must change the way it reports crimes against notre dame students and the way it cooperates with the city of south bend to reduce them. 
in late september, three notre dame freshmen were held at gunpoint while walking back from an off-campus party. golden dome in sight, they handed over their iphones and cash to two men pointing guns at their heads. Two week­ends later, a holy cross student was shot in the foot and the head outside of a house in the 600 block of notre dame avenue, exactly one mile from main circle. 
notre dame security police correctly handed both cases over to the south bend police department. what i find un­acceptable is that ndsp then neglected to report either of these incidents to on-campus students, simply because they occurred outside of their jurisdiction. The police reports were emailed only to off-campus students, a puzzling fact given that all three victims of the september armed robbery lived on campus. 
This divide between who receives what police reports reflects a false picture. dozens of cabs line up at main circle every Thursday, Friday and saturday night of the school year, charging a student rate to drive groups of people off campus to student houses and bars hosting student nights. i personally live on campus, and i went off campus two nights last weekend. For all we say about a “notre dame bubble,” the jurisdictional boundary between on and off campus between 10 p.m and 4 a.m. Thursday, Friday and saturday nights is immaterial. Taking a ‘not on campus, not our problem’ approach to informing students is misguided and potentially dangerous to notre dame students. 
notre dame is not shy about reporting other off-campus threats. last Friday night, every single student received a nearly 600-word email from Fr. John Jenkins detailing notre dame’s response to ebola. There have been four ebola cases in the entire united states since september. over roughly the same time period, there have been two gun-at-head incidents within eight blocks of campus. according south bend city councilman and 1968 notre dame graduate dr. Fred Ferlic, quoted in oct. 16 wndu story, there have been at least eight gun-at-head incidents within two blocks of the notre dame campus since october 2013. 
we can’t be content with changing only the way in which crime information is reported to students. an uptick in crime in the areas most regularly travelled by notre dame students means the university has more of a responsibility than ever to work alongside the city to correct the problem. peer institutions have given us good potential models to follow. yale and brown both use cash transfers to their cit­ies to pay for police and security. The university of chicago staffs a 4.2 square-mile area around its campus with police to ensure the safety of students and faculty who live in the area. and the duke university police department has an overlapping jurisdiction with the durham police to help better patrol off-campus areas where students spend their social hours. 
notre dame could pursue any one or a combination of these options for about one percent of what it plans to spend on expanding our football stadium, and simultane­ously do a great service to its students and the surrounding community. but it should act very soon. Fr. Jenkins assured us in his statement on ebola, “we are prepared and com­mitted to the safety of all who live, work, study and teach at notre dame.” i take him at his word and look forward to the university’s swift response to this much nearer threat. 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall. He welcomes commentary at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIaL Cartoon 



college and the preparation for death 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

when students first read about how athens put socrates to death, they either balk at the in­justice of the athenians or at the uncalculating stubbornness of socrates. socrates was charged with corrupting the youth and refused to yield when threatened with death. i myself sided with socrates as my pls great books seminar grappled with the story. but my professor helped me to understand the other side: “if your children were abandoning their jobs and educations to follow an old man around, asking bothersome questions to strangers, what would you do? what would notre dame do if a professor convinced a bunch of stu­dents to stop attending class and, instead, sit out on the quad and talk about existing all day?” 
of course, this is exactly what we were doing in that class, except the course’s department was careful to abide by contemporary academic and university policies. The revolutionary nature of the liberal arts education was masked by regular classroom meetings, hiring according to the stan­dards of other departments, publishing according to common academic expectations and students who partied about as much as any other students (even though these parties often included sophis­ticated jesting and occasional poetry readings). but the philosopher’s secret can’t be kept forever. 
in 1970, three professors at the university of kansas started the integrated humanities program, known as ihs. students in the program were not allowed to take notes in class. instead, they read great literature, learned the state song and went stargazing with their professors. students were asked questions that in polite com­pany and contemporary core curricula are either avoided or made so complex as to be rendered practically meaningless: what is truth? how do we cultivate wonder in our lives? why are we here? 
The professors learned their lesson: disturbing questions lead to disturbing lives. as the profes­sors cultivated wonder, students began to convert to catholicism (some say more than 200 students converted), with dozens entering the priesthood or religious life. no longer content with the tem­poral and changing, students turned to mysticism and contemplation. one should only expect that their parents, having thrown tens of thousands of dollars at the institutional gatekeepers of the middle class, would protest against their children spending the rest of their lives sitting on spiritual quads, contemplating who is. after decades of cultivating the life of the mind with these dis­turbing results, the program underwent, as one founding professor put it, a “discreet and slow euthanasia” by university officials. 
Thus, we have the odd position of the contem­porary university. should the university pursue the life of intellect, or should it train us for mate­rial prosperity, leaving the more transcendent parts of our humanity untouched? what led the great John henry newman to proclaim that a uni­versity which “had no professors or examinations at all, but merely brought a number of young men together for three or four years, and them sent them away” was better than a “so-called univer­sity, which dispensed with residence and tutorial superintendence, and gave its degrees to any per­son who passed an examination in a wide range of subjects”? can we really be fooled into believing, as did the disciples of socrates and the ihs and newman and christ, that one thing is necessary, that to sit and listen at another’s feet is to choose the better part? 
most of us will never know. college leaves little time for stargazing leisure. most of us are anx­ious and worried about many things, burdened with much serving and studying and extra-cur­ricularing. we find no time to examine what so many claim is “the better part.” perhaps we are deterred by the threatening danger of the choice; perhaps it is the dazed madness of those we have seen choose it; perhaps it is the small fortune our parents have spent to keep their children safe and employable. 
but perhaps the greatest deterrent is the re­alization that, for those who have chosen “the better part,” life is lived as though death has al­ready come, and we are not quite ready for death. socrates taught his disciples that “true philoso­phers make dying their profession.” For many, college will be a time to eat, drink and be merry. many hope this will be just a preparation for fu­ture food, drink and merriment. but for those of you so daring as to choose “the better part,” a daily dying to self will prepare you for death, and death will be your profession. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas. wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
uWIre 
Has America lost its idealism? 
Jeremi Suri 
The daily Texan 

newspapers, television and social media were filled this weekend with stories about the berlin wall. in case you were not paying atten­tion, it came down 25 years ago, on nov. 9, 1989. Thousands of young men and women, trapped in the east german police state, decided on that cool evening that they would no longer tolerate their collective imprisonment by a repressive re­gime. They pushed their way into the more pros­perous and freer west berlin, and they demanded rights and opportunities long denied. after de­cades of restriction, this movement was possible because the leader of the soviet union, mikhail gorbachev, made it clear that he would not use force, as moscow had in the past, to prevent popular change. other foreign leaders, including presidents ronald reagan and george h.w. bush, contributed to the atmosphere of peace and co­operation that encouraged people to take history into their own hands. 
and they did, with enormous courage and speed. in a little more than two years af­ter the fall of the berlin wall, east and west germany were reunited, poland, hungary and czechoslovakia held free elections, and the soviet union disintegrated into 15 separate states. The global struggle between communism and capital­ism ended with the collapse of the former. The persistent terror of thermonuclear war eased as the countries with the largest nuclear arsenals no longer threatened to launch these horrible weapons against one another. The cold war era of fear and conflict opened into a period of great hope and newfound cooperation between a new russia, a new european union and a revitalized united states. 
it was a great time to be young. i remember it very well. when i entered high school in 1986 the soviet union was still the “evil empire.” when i graduated in 1990 the world was freer and safer than ever before. as we started college, my fellow students and i felt like we could do anything. The possibilities seemed endless. if citizens in east germany could tear down the berlin wall, then we surely could do something big. after all, we had educational opportunities foreign citizens could only dream about, and we had access to resources they could not even imagine. 
our privilege in a time of great change inspired a deep sense of obligation. as children of the end of the cold war, we felt a mission to make the world a better place, to show that we could make the promises of the moment real. many of my classmates did just that. They created google, they invented life-saving medical procedures, they founded new human rights organizations, they became respected judges and some even wrote books and taught talented students. our career paths included comfortable compensa­tion but also awareness that there was something more. watching the fall of the berlin wall at a formative moment in our lives, we were all ideal­ists and true believers. 
slowly, however, the idealism from 1989 has faded throughout our society and the wider world. maybe our expectations were too high, and we were bound to be disappointed. maybe we overestimated ourselves and underestimated the corruption, sectarianism, violence and greed that remained present in a post-cold war world. maybe — and this one stings — we did not live up to our own moral commitments. yes, i mean all of us who received a burst of opportunity in 1989. have we been true to our ideals and aspirations? 
i am afraid the answer might be a qualified yes, at best. our generation, now in our early 40s, con­tributes more than any before to philanthropy, but we also spend more of our time working than our predecessors. are we working longer hours to build a better world? is there a correlation between time in the office and contributions to society? my fear is that the relationship might be inversely correlated. 
despite the frequent criticisms we voice about our society today, we have mastered operating within the system rather than changing it. we are professionals, not revolutionaries; innovators, not reformers. instead of tearing down walls, we seem to spend more of our time reinforcing them and building new ones. For evidence of this, look at our southern border, our prisons, our gated communities and our airports. we limit people’s movement for security and we separate popula­tions for control. we are less free and open as a society today than we were 25 years ago, and we have accepted that and learned to live with it. 
The memory of 1989 should encourage us to question our present. The young men and women who brought down the berlin wall were tenacious in their pursuit of freedom and justice. They put their lives on the line for a dream of a better world, and they made it a reality. isn’t it time we all did the same? There are plenty of good causes in need of attention. what our current world real­ly needs is more citizens willing to tear down the walls rather than live comfortably within them. 
The Daily Texan is the official news organization of the University of Texas at Austin. Suri is a professor in the Department of History and the LBJ School of Public Affairs. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

on opening night, i voyaged into south bend to catch christopher nolan’s new adventure, “interstellar.” 
in the film, earth has reverted to a time of scarce population and food shortages that makes farming the most practical occupation. but there’s a difference in this earth of the future: atmospheric changes will eventually suffocate its inhabitants. cooper (matthew mcconaughey) is an engineer-turned-farmer who must choose between raising his kids on earth or making an interstellar attempt to save mankind. 
however, it doesn’t turn into a hackneyed saving­the-world mission. The twist is revealed in the words of nasa’s dr. brand (michael caine): “we’re not meant to save the world. we’re meant to leave it.” 
at first watch, the trailer aroused some suspicion in me. space travel movies have an annoying tendency to rely on fancy verbiage to make the dialogue seem scientific even though it’s nonsense. reestablishing human life in a distant galaxy is quite ambitious, and “interstellar” delves head-on into complex topics like black holes and relativity. The plot relies heavily on the most bizarre phenomena of time and space, but to a lowly engineer­ing undergrad, all the science of “interstellar” seemed sound. 
interstellar passed my test, but i was sure that many 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

Father John misty, the moniker of former Fleet Foxes member Josh Tillman, is a musical project based on a façade. The name alone suggests a gatsby-esque act of self-reinvention. as Father John misty, Tillman has cre­ated the charismatic persona of a bearded, drug-addled shaman. it is an identity clearly rooted in satire, but one that appeals to the romanticized fauxhemia of the coachella audience as well. 
“bored in the usa,” the lead single off his forthcom­ing second album “i love you, honeybear,” walks that same delicate line between irony and sincerity. “my brain’s so awfully glad to be here for yet another mind­less day … by this afternoon i’ll live in debt,” Tillman bemoans over seemingly earnest piano chords on the first verse. For a generation that grew up under the specter of 9/11, the iraq war and the great recession, this disillusionment is a familiar sentiment. 
yet, it is a disillusionment that hinges on an entitled sense of the american dream. “is this the part where i get all i ever wanted?” Tillman asks, as if that was ever the promise to begin with. as pitchfork’s ian cohen noted, the song “casually drops a nuclear bomb on the entire franchise of privileged white men making their spiritual void the dark center of the universe.” SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer inconsistencies must have gone over my head. many movie critics have attacked the science of “interstellar,” so i was thrilled when neil degrasse Tyson, acclaimed astrophysicist and host of the Fox series “cosmos: a space Time odyssey” (which i highly recommend), ex­pressed an approval of the science of “interstellar” on his Twitter and later in an interview. if neil degrasse Tyson buys it, i have no complaints. i’m challenging notre dame’s scientists to find an hole in the physics. 
where you are more likely to find is a hole is the plot. 
if i made this movie sound like a cold sci-fi adventure, there’s yet another dimension that interstellar explores. it imparts intense, yet relatable, emotions of regret, be­trayal, abandonment, anxiety and fear in a setting that is quite literally far beyond anything we have experienced. 
do you ever feel like you’re so busy that the days of your life just fly by? when relativity comes into play, the years of cooper’s life escape him in a way that is actually sci­entifically plausible. but there are a few occasions where sub-par story writing taints the truly incredible concept. 
one instance of exaggerated drama that mars the story, however, is an attempted murder by one explorer whose motives are not quite believable. The reason for the fight is explained in a way that’s more confusing than astrophysics. The conflict is not constructed well enough to compliment an otherwise meticulous story. 
another cringe-worthy moment breaks the intensi­ty: brand (anne hathaway) gives a cheesy monologue, 
Tillman speaks to his intentions in his brilliant press release for “i love you, honeybear.” according to him, the album features “an indulgent, soulful, and epic sound worthy of the subject matter” that addresses “the destruction of emotional and intellectual prisons in my own voice. blammo.” This description teeters on the brink of pretentiousness before pulling back with a self-aware interjection of “blammo.” 
The satire of “bored in the usa” is successful because it is contained within an artificially earnest façade. “They gave me useless education / and a sub-prime loan on a craftsman home ” Tillman sings, as the sound of a studio audience’s canned laughter echoes. “keep my prescriptions filled / and now i can’t get off / but i can kind of deal.” his complaints have all the familiar­ity of a chuck lorre-produced sitcom: set-up, punch­line, laughter, repeat. 
in his amazing performance on letterman, Tillman initially appears to be seated playing a grand piano. as the second verse begins, the camera angle changes and it becomes apparent it is really a player piano. it further underlines the artifice of the song and of the privilege he is critiquing. 
“bored in the usa” mines the same territory as lana del rey, for whom he opened on tour earlier this year. del rey’s image is rooted in an “all-american” image of femininity that draws upon images of old hollywood arguing to go to the planet where they might find her lov­er because love transcends the limits of space and time, and it raises more of a chuckle than a tear. she presents this idea as if it’s the first time anyone has said it. i can accept this as an idea that would go through the mind of someone who is having her experience of space and time entirely defied, but a more subtle suggestion would have done better for the character. 
in his praise of “interstellar,” neil degrasse Tyson points out that in its power list of leading characters — all scientists and engineers — half are women. The most important of which, brand (anne hathaway) is por­trayed as an unsexualized, brave and incredibly smart woman. in her love-transcends-all monologue, the gen­der equality is shattered — hathaway becomes a silly girl in love, whose hypotheses are now ignored by her out­numbering male counterparts. 
yet, the overall theme of the movie is heart-wrenching in an entirely genuine way. as cooper watched his life pass before his eyes, there was no dry eye in the theater. The movie will make you question the nature of the universe, while also putting you acutely in touch with human nature. interstellar will make you question the limits of space and time. it will make you wonder about humanity’s future on earth, or if it’s headed somewhere else. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
starlets and 1950s housewives. on “brooklyn baby,” she assumes the identity of a williamsburg hipster with “feathers in (her) hair” who pines for the “freedom land of the 70s.” The images on “old money”— “blue hydrangea, cold cash divine / cashmere, cologne and white sunshine” — are del rey’s broadly drawn wasp stereotypes. 
del rey employs such obvious signifiers to point out how empty and shallow these archetypes are. as ayesha siddiqi argues in her essay “ms. america,” “lana lets us negotiate american identity with less cognitive dissonance by serving patriotic cliché as kitsch.”an mTv study from earlier this year titled “millenials & #merica” found that “80 percent of millennials say america remains the land of opportunity: however, 56 percent also feel the american system has let them down.” Twenty-first century patriotism has moved away from blatant nationalism; instead, it is a patrio­tism that is rooted in contradiction. 
like del rey, “bored in the usa” deftly blurs the line between the literal and the satirical. it embodies the dissonance of millennial patriotism by being com­pletely artificial at first glance. we can see behind the façade of the american dream, but we’re not willing to tear it down either. bored in the usa, indeed. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 


By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
scene writer 
punk rock moves fast. 

in the last five months, parquet courts have released the excellent “sunbathing animal,” gone on tour, switched their name to parkay Quarts for certain tour dates, formed a supergroup with members of pc worship, switched their name back, released a song under the name parkay Quartz, went on tour again as parquet courts and re­leased a new album, “content nausea,” as parkay Quarts. 
in a genre of sub-two-minute songs and sub-30-minute albums, bands have always been known to do a whole lot in a short space of time so as to avoid boredom — but parquet courts/parkay Quarts take it to a new extreme. it makes sense for a band who first broke through with a song titled “borrowed Time.” 
parquet courts know that riding the wave that comes with being the new, young and energetic indie punk band on the scene isn’t something that can last long. soon they’ll either be forgotten or lose the punk rock spirit that made everyone so excited about them. either way, anoth­er band will soon take their place. 
with that in mind, why not let that new band be parquet 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

actress anna lynne mccord, who starred as naomi clark in “90201” and has appeared in a slew of shows ranging from “nip/Tuck” to “The o.c.,” is presenting a talk titled “it starts with me: healing and Forgiveness” in laFortune ballroom at 8 p.m. today. mccord will share her experiences as an actress, a woman and a victim of sexual assault. 
Though sexual assault is often discussed via shocking numbers and generalized bystander advice, anna lynne mccord clearly aims to bring a more powerful, visionary point of view to the table. given the series of sexual as­sault cases reported at the university last year, such a per­spective comes at a vital time in this school’s history. This Tuesday, i was privileged to talk to ms. mccord about her presentation. 
so your talk is titled “It starts With me” – could you explain a bit of what you’re talking about? 
The title definitely sums it up. i will be speaking about kind of an overall of my life, but specifically about an event that happened when i was eighteen — i was sexu­ally assaulted by a friend. i’ll discuss the stereotyped be­liefs around rape and sexual assault, how my dress does not mean yes and all these things that we have basically perpetuated with societal beliefs system and condition­ing about rape and the victim, and i’ll try to debunk some of that. Then i’ll go into detail about where i am now and court’s new “alter ego,” parkay Quarts? with “content nausea,” parkay Quarts try to capture the energy of a younger, less experienced band, but you can hear the signs that this band is not a bunch of punk rock newcomers. 
parkay Quarts consciously choose to sound younger. The album is recorded entirely on four-track, the classic staple of “the next big thing” in indie rock, and contains a couple of covers to really give you the feeling that parkay Quarts are just a group of kids excited to make punk mu­sic with zeal. The second of those covers is a reimagining of nancy sinatra’s “These boots are made for walking,” which is a fairly obvious choice in the genre of unusual punk cover versions. parquet courts are surely aware the idea isn’t wildly original, but they handle it well, and it’s one of the best songs on the album. 
The cover works so well because parkay Quarts ap­proach the song with the punk-rock wisdom of parquet courts. The cover carefully treads the balance between punk and the original before a horn section playing over heavy feedback shows that the band can do something that’s unlike all of the other young punk bands out there. its sounds like a deliberate reminder that the band has something more to give than their youthful energy. 
“pretty machines,” a highlight of the album, is where 
how the healing process really requires one thing and one thing only, and that’s forgiveness. because once you have that, you can achieve all of the healing and repair you need to overcome and move forward. This is not so much about vindication and justice as it is about the sur­vivor, the healing process and what they feel is best for them. 
What kind of impact do you hope to have on stu­dents who attend your talk, and what kind of impact do you hope those students will then go out and have on the rest of campus? 
what i want to do is engage the next generation in a conversation that keeps going. i don’t want this to end when i stop speaking. i want it to start a conversation amongst yourselves. because you know what? we need to talk about sex, and we need to stop pushing it under the carpet. we need to understand what it is. why are we making it a shameful, guilty, dirty thing, and there­fore making the person who was victimized take on that shame? i’m going to talk loudly about what happened to me, and candidly. part of this process about removing guilt and shame is about getting real. i’d love for the men and women coming to come away with a sense that just because a society believes it, just because a religion be­lieves it, just because my parents believe it, doesn’t mean it’s right for me. 
to move into more scene-specific questions. do you think there are any recent developments, 
the self-awareness is most apparent. They address their fear of being just another band to be forgotten about, with lines like “punk songs / i thought that they were different.” 
behind the “alter-ego” is the fact that the album still feels a little incomplete on the surface. it may be more of a product of indie rock in the internet age, in which a band can be discovered, discarded and forgotten faster than ever before, but it appears the band might have just felt they needed a new album, rather than having been en­tirely ready to make one. although the clever irony makes a statement about the album’s flaws, it’s not enough to make you forget them entirely. 
“borrowed Time,” the song that created the parquet courts buzz, was talked-about mainly because of a mem­orable few seconds of silence, where the band did abso­lutely nothing. There’s no time for a break on “content nausea.” instead, opening track “everyday it starts” ends with the line “and i never sleep but i go to bed”, which roughly describes what parquet courts have tried to do. in 21st century punk, sleeping is risky: “content nausea” feels fresh for the most part, but sometimes seems like a band just reminding you they’re awake. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
whether cultural or technological, that com­plicate our views of relationships or a realistic view of sex? 
i think all of the above do. i’m reading this book called “sex at dawn.” it’s not as sexy as sex at dawn; it’s about our ancestors who were hunter-gatherers and sex in those communities. They shared all responsibility, all food, all sex. it wasn’t seen as a dirty thing or an amazing thing, it was just a part of their lives. we’ve seen a decline in what was a completely equal man-woman relation­ship since these hunter-gatherer communities. when we decided to have private property, that women — and this is a decision — that women want to be cared for and that men wanted to have a woman that was just theirs, that would only have their children — what began was a pushing-down of female rights. women stopped be­ing able to own property. it’s not indicative of female li­bido; women didn’t want to be with just one man. it was a societal transformation. it wasn’t necessarily indicative of the truth. in 2014, we see all of these movies and T.v. shows — and i’m guilty of being an actress in them, you know — the girls who are praised and lauded are the ones who are “virtuous,” and they’re labeled a slut if they’re not that way. i think it is the labeling that is a problem. i think if you decide to save sex for marriage, that’s a beautiful thing. but when society tells you that “you’re a slut if you do it this way” or “you’re good if you do it this way,” that’s when we start changing people from who they really are.” 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 



sPorts authorIty 

Time to buzz the shot clock 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 
during their exhibition games this year, acc men’s basketball teams experi­mented with a 30-second shot clock. 
i was not a fan. 
so now that i already sound like a curmudgeonly 75-year­old man who was around to see oscar robertson at cincinnati, i might as well get this out of the way too: 
i don’t like the shot clock. 
For me, one of the greatest beauties in the sport of bas­ketball is its nature as a great equalizer — both teams have roughly the same number of possessions and often, the same number of chances to score. 
another beautiful thing? Take a walk into high school gyms all across the country (well, in states without a shot clock) and you’ll find such a wide range of playing styles. some teams will play a 2-3 zone, others a 3-2 or 1-2-2. other teams will play man defense. some teams pres­sure the ball in the backcourt. others wait for the pressure to come to them. and oth­ers just give opponents “32 minutes of hell” — full-court pressing the entire game. 
That doesn’t even touch on the offensive styles. 
you’ll see some teams that just try and get out on the break — or the full-court press teams that quickly take turnovers and turn them into baskets. other times, you’ll find teams run what appears to be the standard type of of­fense we see in college and in the pros — they don’t neces­sarily move quickly but they typically take the first “good” shot opportunity. Teams without size might focus on perimeter shooting while teams with it will probably focus on feeding the ball to those guys. 
and then there are the de­liberate teams — the ones i’m really getting at when i men­tion my hate of the shot clock. if a team wants — often if it doesn’t have the talent — it can pick and prod at a defense until the perfect shot oppor­tunity comes up. whether that’s getting a sharpshooter a 3-point attempt or a guard a clear path to the basket, these teams are able to get high-percentage shots every single possession. 
The tactical back and forth that ensues when one team is deliberate is beautiful. should the defense apply more pres­sure to its opponent’s ball handlers, knowing that in doing so, they can surrender a good look? or should they sit back, hold tight, but know that its opponent might run two or three minutes of the clock before finally putting up a shot? 
That cat-and-mouse game? it can’t happen with a shot clock. in college, after 35 seconds, you have to shoot. period. it’s barely enough time to properly run an of­fense and artificially speeds the game up. 
or does it? when the ncaa first introduced a shot clock in 1985, it was 45 seconds. in the grand scheme of things, not much changed. but when the ncaa shortened that to 35 seconds in 1993, the pace of play slowed down, rather than speeding up — the op­posite of what they intended 
— because coaches became more conscious of making the most out of each possession. 
now, i know it sounds like i’m complaining about teams being more deliberate just a couple of paragraphs after calling that deliberate back­and-forth beautiful. and it is beautiful. Just not when every team is artificially influenced to be deliberate. 
you see, when the idea of a shot clock was first intro­duced to the nba in 1954, its purpose was to stop teams from holding the ball and make them actually, well, play. it came, in part, thanks to games like one in 1950, when the pistons and lakers — then in Fort wayne, indiana, and minneapolis, mind you — played a 19-18 game after Fort wayne stalled to keep the ball from lakers star george mikam. 
but basketball didn’t have the five-second violation at the time — it wasn’t intro­duced until the 1980s and has never been introduced in the nba. The rule keeps teams from being able to stand there and stall. all the defense has to do is come out and guard the player. That’s it. it is the game’s paramount stall deterrent. 
we don’t need the shot clock, let alone a 30-second one. period. 
now, if you’ll excuse me, i’m going to see if that Texas western team can knock off adolph rupp’s big, bad kentucky in the national championship game. 
Contact  Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nFL 

vinatieri, nFl’s oldest player, will not slow down 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — adam vinatieri’s graying temples and grayer beard reveal one part of his remarkable career. at age 41, he is the nFl’s oldest player. 
he’s not slowing down. 

nine years after the league’s best clutch kicker made the surprising move to leave new england and sign with rival indianapolis, vinatieri is still finding ways to kick it in a young man’s world. 
“at his age, he could prob­ably just leave practice and say ‘see you on sunday.’ but vinnie works just as much now as he did when he was 25 years old,” teammate pat mcafee said. “The reason he is so good and can be so good for how­ever long he wants to be is his work ethic.” 
mcafee was 9 years old when vinatieri was a rookie in 1996. 
over five seasons as vinatieri’s understudy, the colts punter and kickoff spe­cialist says vinatieri has ad­vised him on everything from how to eat right to finding the proper balance between football and life. mcafee be­lieves those life lessons have helped him thrive, and remain the primary reason vinatieri seems to be on the cusp of milestones every week. 
The next chapter could come sunday night when vinatieri will try to become the first player in league history with 17 seasons of 100 points. he needs eight points to break a tie with Jason elam, and it would be a fitting moment as the patriots (7-2) and colts (6­
3) renew their rivalry. 
“he’s as good of a kicker, good of a clutch kicker, and con­sistent kicker that’s probably ever been in the game,” new england coach bill belichick said wednesday. “mentally, he’s as tough as they come in terms of concentration, focus, discipline, blocking out all the things that he can’t control and just doing his job.” 
vinatieri, after all, made de­cisive last-minute field goals in each of new england’s three super bowl wins. he earned his fourth super bowl ring in his first season with indy. he made two equally memo­rable field goals during a new england blizzard, to tie and then beat oakland, as the pats’ made their first title run. 
last month, he became first nFl player to score 900 points with two franchises and he’s just 60 points away from making it an even 1,000 with both teams. with two points sunday, he’ll also join morten andersen, gary anderson and Jason hanson as the only players to reach 2,100 career points. 
Things haven’t changed much this year. vinatieri is 32 of 32 on extra points and 20 of 20 on field goals. his current streak of 26 consecutive field goals made is the third longest in franchise history. 
but vinatieri’s legacy can­not be measured purely by numbers. 
he’s played for hall of Fame coach bill parcells, hall of Fame finalist Tony dungy and, of course, belichick. he’s played with three no. 1 overall draft picks -- drew bledsoe, peyton manning and andrew luck -- in addition to certain hall of Famer Tom brady. he also played for the defunct world league of american Football long ago. 
not all of his moments have been memorable. his super bowl kickoff against green bay in 1997, returned for a touch­down by desmond howard, has appeared in the nFl’s hall of Fame. it made howard the only special teams player to ever win the mvp award. 
vinatieri put that behind him long ago. an avid hunter, he also learned at a young age about the necessity of main­taining a steady heart rate be­fore taking a shot. 
backup quarterback matt hasselbeck saw how good he truly is when vinatieri popped in a video of a lion hunt in africa. as vinatieri tracked the animal, the guide started ex­plaining it was no longer safe. 
“i feel like i’m pretty un­flinchable and my heart was racing,” hasselbeck said. “i re­member thinking, ‘There’s no way a field goal is going to get his heart racing.’” 
Teammates don’t just re­spect vinatieri for his experi­ences. They’ve given him one of the rarest titles a kicker can attain, locker room leader. 
not surprisingly, vinatieri doesn’t let the milestones, the nickname, the honors or the buzz get in the way of what he does best. That’s how he got a foothold in the nFl. and that’s how he intends to keep it until he leaves, on his terms. 
nba 

Griffin faces arraignment for Vegas misdemeanor 
Associated Press 

las vegas — los angeles clippers star blake griffin is facing a misdemeanor battery charge stemming from a scuffle with a man in a las vegas strip nightclub in october. 
court records obtained wednesday show the 25-year-old griffin is due for arraignment dec. 8 be­fore a las vegas justice of the peace on a charge that could get him up to a year in jail. 
it wasn’t immediately clear if griffin had a lawyer in the case. 
Team spokesman seth burton says the clippers are aware of the complaint, but have no immediate comment. 
las vegas police had said they were investigating a man’s claim that griffin grabbed him, took his cell­phone and slapped him af­ter the man took a photo early oct. 19 at Tao night­club at the venetian resort. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“My Way” -- Frank Sinatra I’ve lived a life that’s full And now, the end is here I traveled each and ev’ry highway 1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to And so I face the final curtain And more, much more campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 My friend, I’ll say it clear than this, I did it my way 
FOR RENT 



mLb 

Japan defeats MLB          All-Stars in series opener 
Associated Press 
osaka, Japan — kenta maeda allowed two hits over five innings, combining on a three-hitter that led Japan over the major league baseball all-stars 2-0 wednesday in the opener of a five-game postsea­son tour. 
maeda, a 26-year-old right-hander from the central league’s hiroshima Toyo carp, struck out two and walked two before a crowd of 33,003 at the kyocera dome. he has expressed an interest in pitching in the major leagues and could be made available during the offseason. 
“i am happy to finish my outing with a good result, es­pecially in the first game of the series,” said maeda, who threw 71 pitches and got the win. “They made me throw a few more pitches than i wanted in the first inning, but i got my rhythm after that.” 
robinson cano singled in the first and dexter Fowler doubled in the fifth. 

Japan went ahead in the second when seiichi uchikawa singled off los­er matt shoemaker lead­ing off, advanced on hayato sakamoto’s double and scored on nobuhiro matsuda’s sacri­fice fly. 
sakamoto singled starting off the fourth, and matsuda grounded into a forceout and stole second. Tetsuto yamada followed with an rbi single. 
shoemaker, the los angeles angels pitcher who finished second to chicago first base­man Jose abreu in al rookie of the year voting, allowed both runs and six hits in five innings, struck out five and walked one. 
“it was very good pitching on their part tonight,” said boston’s John Farrell, the mlb manager. “we got an opportu­nity in the first with a couple of men on, but maeda really set­tled in and pitched effectively with an assortment of pitches for strikes.” 
shohei otani retired the side in order in the eighth. The 20-year-old right-hander is scheduled to pitch game 5 be­fore his home fans at sapporo dome. 
“To see a guy at his age throw nearly 100 mph is impressive,” Farrell said. “in one inning of work it seemed like he had a lot of poise. he has a long, loose body with tremendous arm speed.” 
yuji nishino pitched the ninth for the save, giv­ing up a one-out single to evan longoria before Justin morneau lined out to yamada, who stepped on first for a game-ending double play. 
The series, which includes games at Tokyo dome and cellular stadium in okinawa, marks the first mlb all-star tour of Japan since 2006. The all-stars beat a Japan split-squad team 8-7 in a warmup game Tuesday. 


nFL 

patriots prepare indoors for colts 
Associated Press 
FoXborough,massachusetts 
— no matter what the weath­er conditions are, the new england patriots rarely lose at home. 
practicing in the rain, wind and cold prepares them for games in often frosty Foxborough. 
“we’ve used our weather as a great home field advantage,” quarterback Tom brady said wednesday. “so it’s nice to play in the elements because i think we deal with them probably better than most teams.” 
he can leave the gloves and long underwear at home this week when the patriots (7-2) travel to indianapolis in their second straight game between division leaders on sunday night. 
The colts (6-3) play in lucas oil stadium with its retractable roof. 
brady has lost both games he played there — during the 2009 regular season and in the super bowl against the new york giants in the 2011 season. 
he’s 4-4 in his career in in­
door  games,  including  the  
postseason.  
on  wednesday, coach  bill  

belichick held a rare practice 
The road can be rough. 
“Traveling, the crowd noise, getting your body adjusted to the time zone or the flight, whatever it is,” tight end rob gronkowski said. “(i’ve) done it many times now, so (i) know how to do it and just have to overcome it.” 
The patriots were 1-2 this season in their first three road games before winning at buffalo 37-22 to improve to 4-2 overall. Then they played three straight at home, winning them all and extending their streak to seven victories. 
The last one came nov. 2 with the temperature 35 degrees at kickoff with winds gusting to 26 mph. They won 43-21 over denver, which entered the game as the nFl’s highest scor­ing team. 
now the colts lead the league in points. 
“you’re not going to be able to score 13 points and win the game” on sunday night, brady said. 
The patriots have scored more than that in each game this season and are averaging 
40.2 points during their five-game winning streak. 
after last week’s bye, they play three of their next four games on the road at indianapolis, 


paid adverTisemenT 
inside the patriots bubble to prepare for the calm conditions in indianapolis. 
“it seems like all season coach has had meetings about what the weather is going to be and how the wind is going to affect the game and if it rains how the rain is going to affect the game,” brady said. “it is a little bit of a breather where you’re playing in a dome where everything is controlled.” 
it would be a much greater re­lief if the patriots were at home. 
They’re 42-3 in their last 45 regular-season games at gillette stadium since brady re­turned for the 2009 opener from a knee injury that ended his 2008 season in the first game. 
in that same period, they’re 26-18 on the road in the regular season. 
The home-road disparity continued in last season’s play­offs. new england won at home in the divisional round, beat­ing indianapolis 43-22. but in the aFc championship game in denver, the patriots lost to the broncos 26-16. 
green bay and san diego. 
and the colts can control the heat in their stadium. 
“They crank it up a little bit,” wide receiver Julian edelman said, “but it’s definitely fun not to play in 35 mile-an-hour, gusty winds and snow and rain.” 
The patriots will have to deal with a loud crowd that makes it tougher for brady to communi­cate smoothly with his offense. 
“if you’re just a little bit late anticipating things then the defense has such a significant advantage,” he said. “you’ve got to work harder and concentrate more on exactly what we’re doing.” 
First, though, the patriots must board a plane, check into a hotel, get up in the morning and travel by bus to the oppo­nent’s stadium. 
“They don’t have to travel and have all this and that,” edelman said. “it’s usually just comfort­ability. is that a word? it is now. There you go. it’s being com­fortable and it’s always a little different going on the road.” 




Women’s sWImmInG 

Irish and Illini set to make a splash Friday at Rolfs 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
The times just keep getting bet­ter for notre dame as it powers through its fall schedule, and the irish host illinois this weekend at rolfs aquatic center in their final home action this fall. 
notre dame (3-5) split dual meets against pittsburgh and virginia Tech last weekend, but irish interim coach Tim welsh said he was pleased with what he saw in his team. 
“i liked the resiliency we showed last week,” welsh said. “i thought that we raced not only well, but better than we had the week be­fore, which was better than the week before that. … The big chal­lenge we faced last week was to go from night to morning, and that’s a preview of what [happens at] championship weeks where you have finals at night and then go and have preliminaries the next morning. 
“you win championship meets at night, but you lose them in the mornings.” 
of the 20 total events, 18 swim­ming and two diving, the irish posted victories in 10, with senior allison casareto claiming the top spot in the 1-meter dive. despite the high number of wins, notre dame split the weekend, some­thing welsh said the team must work on as the season progresses. 
“in simple terms, [virginia Tech was] faster than we were across the spectrum of the meet,” welsh said. “one of the things we are looking for is increased team depth. … our short relays were very good. our long relays were not very good.” 
welsh said the problem for the irish was their inability to chal­lenge virginia Tech (6-2) from sec­ond through fourth places, which earn teams more points. 
“That happened in both re­lays,” welsh said. “it happened in the first relay and in the last relay. That’s a depth consider­ation. we have a couple big holes and [virginia Tech] walked right through them.” 
The two standout perform­ers for the irish last weekend, as they have been all season, were senior emma reaney and sopho­more catherine mulquin. The pair combined for seven individ­ual event wins while also being a part of both relay wins for the irish. although welsh said he was thrilled with their performances, he was quick to point out they are not simply solo acts. 
“[reaney and mulquin] did well because we had people like [junior] catherine galletti be­hind them,” welsh said. “we have breaststrokers like [junior] genevieve bradford behind them. we have backstrokers in the [indi­vidual medley] like [sophomore] katie miller, and we have [se­niors] bridget casey and courtney whyte [in the butterfly]. i mean, we’ve got people, and they’re do­ing a good job.” 
when asked what he wanted to see out of the team against illinois (3-2), welsh said it would be a “toughness test” for the team. 
“we previously raced three times in eight days,” welsh said. “if you looked at this team in practice yesterday morning, it was a quiet, tired group. and yet, everybody knows that this has to be a full training week, and it is. and on the other side of the street, classes continue, and tests continue, and projects continue, so they have a lot on their plate, but i think what we are looking for Friday is to say, ‘be tough. Just come in here, be tough.’ be men­tally tough, be physically strong and race competitively.” 
with such a tired group, the meet’s early events will be key to determining which way the match will go, especially the first relays, welsh said. 
“i would say if you wanted an indication of how the meet was going to go, i’d watch the first event,” welsh said. “The 200[­yard] medley relay is, on paper, very close. it’s a relay we are very proud of, and we are right here in our own pool. but as an indica­tion of how the meet is going to go, take a look at that one.” 
notre dame and illinois will get their feet wet at rolfs aquatic center starting Friday at 5 p.m. p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
men’s sWImmInG 

notre dame to face spartans on Friday 
Observer Staff Report 
after falling to virginia Tech and topping pittsburgh in back-to-back dual meets last weekend, the irish return to the pool Friday when they take on michigan state in a one-day, non-conference dual meet. 
The spartans (4-1) are off to a strong start this season, posting their best record to begin a season since the 2011-2012 campaign. in their previous two meets, they knocked off buffalo, 185-130, and army, 188.5-164.5. 
a week later, the irish came up short against reigning acc champion virginia Tech, 201­169, but coasted to a victory over pittsburgh, 286-84. 
experienced team members have led the irish at the last few meets. 
senior diver nick nemetz took first place in the 1-meter spring­board sunday with a score of 
322.15. senior Zachary stephens also has built up momentum. against the panthers and the hokies, stephens claimed three event victories. in the 200-yard in­dividual medley, he eked out a win with a time of 1:49.75. he was also part of the first-place team in the 400-yard freestlye relay and came in first in the 200-yard breast­stroke with a time of 2:00.59. 
several freshmen also submitted strong showings over the weekend. Freshman benjamin Jany placed third in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 4:35.69, and rob whitacre returned from injury to swim in the 400-yard medley relay and finish seventh in the 100-yard backstroke. 
michigan state had several strong showings over the last weekend as well. The spartans’ 400-yard medley relay came in first place against buffalo and army, with the team of freshman alex Trompke, junior nate weeks, freshman lachie mcleish and sophomore alec kandt finishing with a combined time of 3:22.85. The spartans took first place in the 400-yard freestyle relay with a team composed of senior kyle workman, freshman nick leshok, mcleish and Trompke. 
Trompke led the spartans all meet long. in addition to his wins in the relays, he claimed the top spot in the 100-yard butterfly and in the 100-yard backstroke with a time of 50.54. 
The irish will also face a challenge in freshman Joe szczupakiewicz, who finished first in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 4:37.69 and first in the 1,000-yard freestyle. 
The irish travel to east lansing to take on the spartans at mccaffree pool on Friday. The meet is sched­uled to begin at 5 p.m. 




paid adverTisemenT 


romagnolo 
conTinued From page 16 
after replacing long-time coach randy waldrum last spring, romagnolo was faced with following a regime that had advanced to six ncaa college cups and won two national titles over 15 years. in her first year, she has guided the irish to a 12­5-2 record overall and a perfect 6-0-2 mark on the road, and will now take her team to the ncaa tournament for the first time in her head coaching career. 
“i mean, it’s exciting,” romagnolo said. “i think we have a great team and i’m excited to see us continue to improve as we move through each stage of the tournament.” 
romagnolo’s first year at notre dame has been significantly dif­ferent from her first year at her previous post, dartmouth. as the new coach of the big green in 2011, she posted a record of 4-12 and 2-5 in the ivy league. in her time with the irish, romagnolo has seen her squad improve sig­nificantly as the season wore on, posting a 7-1-2 mark over its final 10 games. 
“we’ve got a great group of women to work with,” romagnolo said. “They show up, they train hard every day. They’re eager to get better. They’re recep­tive to information. so, i’ve been very impressed with their drive and motivation to become one of the best teams in the country.” 
The irish were rewarded with a no. 4 seed in the ncaa tourna­ment and a first-round matchup with valparaiso on Friday night. Five other acc squads will join notre dame in the tournament, including all three squads that qualified for the acc confer­ence championship along with the irish — no. 2 Florida state no. 4 virginia and no. 6 north carolina. all three teams earned higher seeds than the irish, but romagnolo said she was satisfied with her team’s placement in the bracket. 
“it was fair,” she said. “we like our part of the bracket. at the end of the day, it doesn’t matter. it’s about going out there and giving your best performance, whoever is on the opposite side of the field.” 
despite the program’s streak of ncaa appearances, it has been four years since the irish last advanced to the college cup, when they won the ncaa title in 2010. with a completely new roster and coach, the squad is eager to return to the spotlight but is tempering its expectations, romagnolo said. 
“They’re excited about the potential [of going to the college cup],” she said of her team. “but the most impor­tant part of the ncaa tour­nament is not getting ahead of yourself and maintaining our focus on [valparaiso]. … That’s the most important game because that’s the only game [we’re guaranteed]. so obviously, they’re excited for the tournament and they have their sights set on what’s beyond, but at the end of the day, they’re focused on Friday night.” 
romagnolo makes her ncaa tournament coach­ing debut Friday night when notre dame hosts valparaiso at 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


regionals 
conTinued From page 16 
given the program a jolt of confidence, sparks said. 
“The women especially stepped up and performed well. The confidence has been building week by week, and we’ve had a couple great weeks of practice.” he said. “[being ranked] gives a lot of confidence to the seven girls competing at the meet but also gives our program a level of respect.” 
The team’s performance at the acc meet helped make up for a disappoint­ing final regular season race at the wisconsin adidas invitational on  oct. 17. now, as the irish return to madison, they have put most memories of that race out of their mind, sparks said. 
“it’s just a much different field [this weekend],” sparks said. “The invitational was 22 of the top 30 teams in the country, and now we’re go­ing into a field that has five or six of the top 20 teams in the country, so it’s a little less competitive. 
“but … we will have a more comfortable feeling, having competed there before. we didn’t run our best that day, but hopefully we learned from our mistakes.” 
on the men’s side, the irish will need to surprise several ranked teams for a shot at an at-large bid. The great lakes region contains four of the top 30 teams in the country — wisconsin, indiana, michigan and michigan state —  and all four have handily defeated notre dame this year. 
although sparks said he is not hopeful for a team bid for the men, he said the goal for the team is to qual­ify individuals for the na­tional championship. The top four individuals in each region whose teams do not qualify advance to the ncaa championship. 
“[Junior] michael clevenger was all-acc a few weeks ago and has had an even better two weeks of training,” sparks said. “i hope he can step up and claim an individual spot. … he and [junior] Tim ball have a chance.” 
The irish will face an add­ed wrinkle saturday — the weather. The forecast calls for below-freezing tempera­tures with a chance of snow flurries, the coldest condi­tions notre dame has had to deal with all season. 
“it’ll be a factor for every­one,” sparks said. “everyone is running in the same con­ditions. so it’s something we’re preparing for … but when the race starts, every­one’s running in the same conditions. at least we’re go­ing to have grass to run on. That was a concern a few weeks ago, that we would be running on two or three inches of snow.” 
notre dame heads to the ncaa great lakes regional in madison, wisconsin, this saturday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 


The observer | thursday, november 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


m recruits 
conTinued From page 16 
marksman matt ryan, the no. 156 overall player in the country, according to 247sports’ composite rank­ings. ryan was limited to just eight games last sea­son at the iona preparatory school in new rochelle, new york, after undergoing hip surgery. 
“i don’t think there’s a better shooter in the class,” brey said. “no one got to see him much in the last year, so people have forgotten about him a little bit.” 
brey said he thinks ryan is 95 percent of the way back from the injury and expects a full recovery. 
ryan pledged to the irish in July, eight days before burns offered his commit­ment. brey said it was im­
portant  to  land  the  two  
commitments  during  the  
July period.  

“it gave us direction on who to look at the rest of the summer,” brey said. 
exactly two months after ryan announced his com­mitment, pflueger joined the class in september. The four-star wing is slotted as the no. 111 overall player in the nation, per 247sports’ com­posite rankings. brey called the dana point, california, native an “amazing athlete.” 
“he’s that kind of wing/ guard that has a great feel for the game, has the ability to slash and finish around the basket because of his athletic ability, solid shoot­er who will only get better,” brey said. “he’s an excellent defender — can really move his feet and defend — and an amazingly competitive kid.” 
although brey said the acc was certainly a draw for pflueger, the head coach said notre dame has not altered its recruiting approach too much since joining the con­ference before last season. 
“we’re not really changing our recruiting philosophy,” brey said. “we’re gonna need really good players in this league. and we’re not nec­essarily making wholesale changes to our style of play.” 
The constants among the three signees, brey said, are their basketball iQs, feels for the game and passing abilities. 
notre dame has one more scholarship it “can play with,” brey said, and the irish will continue to explore the transfer wire. brey said the staff has an open mind to adding a transfer around christmas or in the spring. The irish are still looking at high-school senior big men too, brey added. 
“The nice thing is we had [ryan and burns] commit­ted in July and rex shortly thereafter, the michigan [football] weekend [in september],” brey said. “i’ve been really able to work on juniors and turn our atten­tion to juniors.” 
notre dame opens up the regular season Friday 
at  9  p.m.  when  it  hosts  
binghamton  at  purcell  
pavilion.  

Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 


Photo courtesey of Blue & Gold Illustrated, 247Sports 
Irish signee forward Matt Ryan, the no. 156 overall player in the coun­try according to 247Sports, committed to Notre Dame in July. 
W recruits 
conTinued From page 16 

about her program’s consistent recruiting year in and year out. “we’re really happy with where we are. i think we’ve gotten things rolling over the past four years with the success that we’ve had in the ncaa tournament, and i think kids see us on Tv, and it looks like a fun place to play. 
Joining the team next year will be ali patberg from columbus north high school in columbus, indiana. 
The 5-foot-10 guard is prospect nation’s no. 16 re­cruit and last year’s gatorade player of the year for the state of indiana. patberg has helped her team to a 71-8 record during her first three seasons, averaging 
16.3 points and 6.3 rebounds. 

“we’re thrilled to get ali patberg,” mcgraw said. “she is just a true point guard. she is in­credibly smart; she’s got a really high basketball iQ. she knows how to run the team. she’s a phenomenal passer. i think our posts are going to love playing with her. she really can direct the offense, and we’re expecting big things from her.” 
patberg participated in the 2014 usa basketball under-18 national Team Trials, as did marina mabrey, another wednesday signees. 
mabrey comes to south bend from manasquan high school in manasquan, new Jersey, and is ranked the no. 7 overall play­er by prospects nation. 
mabrey’s teams have won three new Jersey state champi­onships. in those three seasons, she has averaged 21.1 points, 6.7 rebounds and 3.5 steals. 
“she is a tremendous talent as well,” mcgraw said. “she can play many positions. she can play one through four, she can play on the perimeter, she can go inside a bit, she can post up, a really great passer.” 
The 5-foot-11 guard is also the younger sister of current irish junior guard michaela mabrey. The similarities between marina — who has averaged more than two 3-pointers per game in her high school career 
— and michaela — who made 
42.1 percent of her 3s last season for notre dame — drew a com­parison for mcgraw. 
“The thing about michaela — she set the tone for her, and now we hope marina can come in and break all the 3-point records that she is setting,” mcgraw said. “but marina is so much more than a 3-point shooter.” 
mcgraw said her staff treated marina as an individual player during the recruiting process. 
“it was no different at all for us in the way we approached it,” mcgraw said. “we didn’t talk to michaela about marina very of­ten. … i think it was very com­fortable going into the home and knowing the parents al­ready, so i think that part made it easier.” 
rounding out the three-play­er class is arike ogunbowale from divine savior holy angels high school in milwaukee. 
ogunbowale, a 5-foot­9 guard, has averaged 20.2 
paid adverTisemenT 
points and 10.1 rebounds per game throughout her career. she earned the gatorade high school player of the year award for wisconsin in her sophomore and junior years and has won four medals while competing for usa basketball. 
“arike ogumbowale is just a tremendous talent,” mcgraw said. “she can get to the rim. she is somebody that we would post up as a guard. she can defend. she can score in a lot of different ways. 
“she’s had tremendous suc­cess with usa basketball. … [i’m] just thrilled with what she can do for us.” 
mcgraw said she had lofty goals for this class. 
“This may be the best group of passers we’ve ever had, so i expect next year that our assist­to-turnover ratio is really going to be good,” she said. 
mcgraw spread the credit for such a strong recruiting class to her entire staff. 
“They’re doing such a great job recruiting-wise over the years — obviously another top-10 class,” mcgraw said. “[assistant coach] niele ivey, the recruiting coordinator, de­serves much of the credit, but all of them work so hard, going out and seeing games and trying to attract the best kids for our program.” 
with next year’s class official­ly signed, the irish turn their fo­cus to this year’s season-opener against umass lowell on Friday. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 




CrossWord | will shorTZ 

ACROSS Bush the elder 45 See 23-Across 1 Droplet on “S.N.L.” 46 Turn blue, 5 They’re seen on 32 Salmon variety maybe 
the neck 33 Spoil 47 Mini-terrors 10 Small step 34 Teacher’s note 49 Handle online on a failing
14 Turning point 56 Common test restaurant
15 Caravan 

35 “… and she fish
parking spot? 

bare ___”: Ruth 
57 Force out 
16 Club of song 

4:13 58 Old-timey oath 
17 It comes out of 
36 Rat-___ 
59 Calendar
a trunk 

37 Line at an heading: Abbr.18 Up airport 60 Like a mouse 19 Part of FEMA: 38 Mad Libs 61 Tear apartAbbr. specification 62 Flat sound 20 “There’s no 39 Be blue 
63 Fearful sort hope!” 40 “The First Time 64 Turning heads, 22 Objet ___ ___ Saw Your perhapsFace” (Roberta 
23 With 24- and DOWN
Flack #1 hit)

45-Across,   1 Island with a 
41 River of York 

game Hindu majorityrepresented by 42 Chemical 
2 Way out 
this completed suffixes 
3 Form of relief 
puzzle’s grid 
43 Common 
4 Society add-ons 
24 See 23-Across restaurant 

5 Rain man? 25 Imitator of fish 
6 Skateboard park feature

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 In ___ (actually) 8 Relationships 9 Employee data: 
Abbr. 10 Whizzed through 11 Classic Andy Warhol subject 12 Place to take binoculars 13 1984 U.S. Olympic gold
medalist in gymnastics 21 Dog command 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

Puzzle by Joe Krozel  
25 Playmakers? 26 Independent 27 “Fame” actress 28 Tear apart, old-style 29 In distress 30 Gulf moguls  32 Aids for camp chefs 44 Objectivist Rand 48 School period: Abbr. 49 They usually end at six 50 Roman 112  holders 52 New Haven alumni 53 Writer James 54 Languageknown to native speakers asGaelg 55 It’s a small whirl  
31 “You betcha!”  51 Eyeglass  after all  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

hIGhLy PunLIkeLy | chrisTopher brucker 
sudoku | The mepham group 



dome nuts | aleXandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: expressing the way you feel will be the turning point in all your negotiations. stand very tall and state your case with passionate conviction, and you will not be denied the opportunity to receive what you deserve and gain respect for your honesty. This is the year to make the necessary adjustments to live life your way. don’t back down. your numbers are 2, 14, 22, 24, 31, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): home improvement will help your productivity and your state of mind. making a move or just rearranging your place to suit upcoming projects will help. altering your living arrangements can help you cut costs. don’t let your current professional position get you down. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help colleagues, and you will build a strong alliance that will help you advance in your chosen field. being a participant will lead to opportunities and greater expertise. sign up for courses that will help hone your skills. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The larger activities going on at your home or workplace will help you see the pros and cons of your personal situation. look at your alternatives and consider past experiences and financial costs in order to make a practical domestic decision. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): strive for perfection and stay within your budget. set limitations that will ensure you head down a practical path. a long-term partnership will add to your stability. love is highlighted, and simple pleasures will be your ticket to a solid future. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen carefully, but don’t share your thoughts or feelings. do your own thing and make a point to learn something that will help you advance. Taking a course or practicing and honing a skill you want to develop will bring the highest rewards. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions may flare up if you haven’t discussed your plans with someone affected by what you do. your practical outlook will win out in the end if you are honest. a partnership with a friend, lover or relative will lead to a prosperous future. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): sign up for a short trip or a course that will explore concepts or information that can help you advance. don’t let someone at home dictate what you can and cannot do. Jealousy is apparent and must not be allowed to disrupt your plans. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): evaluate your financial, emotional and domestic situations and you will come up with a solution that is innovative, cost effective and stabilizing. make a commitment to follow through with your plans, and don’t look back. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): help others, but make sure you get what you want in return. if you spell out your agenda, a partnership will develop that will bring continuous benefits to everyone concerned. honesty will be a must to make this coalition work. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t mix business with pleasure. Focus on what’s at stake, and take a route that ensures your success. it’s ok to be different and to pave the path for those less innovative. don’t let last-minute changes get in your way. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put discipline into play and you will be able to make the changes necessary to ensure your safety and your progress. not everyone will be happy with your plans, so be discreet and diplomatic regarding your every move. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): open the door to friends, relatives and peers. share your thoughts, and you will discover you are not alone. plans that can lead to a prosperous venture should be discussed. home improvements can be put into play. 


Birthday Baby: you are intense, passionate and expressive. you are original, creative and interesting. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
TAHIF  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
FRASC  

RECCAS FLAWEF  
 


“ 



” 
Your answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: YUCKY PRIZE UNFAIR CATTLE Yesterday’s 
Answer: Some people thought the Wright brothers were just — “PLANE” CRAZY 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 
-

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

nd basketbaLL 

Irish programs ink recruits on signing day 
Men’s side adds guard, two forwards to squad 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
Two days before notre dame begins its regular sea­son, irish coach mike brey announced its three-man recruiting class of 2014 — power forward elijah burns, guard rex pflueger and for­ward matt ryan — on sign­ing day wednesday. 
at 6-foot-8, 225-pounds, burns adds to the frontcourt depth hauled in during last year’s recruiting cycle in current freshmen forwards martinas geben and bonzie colson. before last season, burns transferred to blair academy in blairstown, new Jersey, where he averaged 
13.0 points and six rebounds per game. 
brey compared burns to former irish forward Ty nash (2007-11), touting burns’ feel for the game, passing ability and athleticism. 
The irish also welcome 
see m recruiTs PaGe 14 


Women’s team welcomes three guards to school 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
Four straight Final Four appear­ances are always good recruiting pitches, and notre dame proved that wednesday, when it officially signed three guards to the nation’s third-best recruiting class. 
irish head coach muffet mcgraw announced marina mabrey, arike ogunbowale and ali patberg had signed national letters of intent to attend and play for notre dame starting next season. 
“i think for the fourth year in a row we’ve been able to get a top-10 class,” mcgraw said. “[i’m] very ex­cited — this is a top-five class. we really addressed our needs.” 
Final class rankings will be listed once the early signing period ends nov. 19, but with a group ranked third overall by prospects nation and all-star girls report, the irish look to have their 19th straight top-25 class, all of those coming in mcgraw’s 28-year tenure. 
“i was hoping it wouldn’t take this long actually,” mcgraw said 
see w recruiTs PaGe 14 
nd Women’s soCCer 

First-year coach focuses on continuing Irish tradition 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
earlier this week, no. 12 notre dame earned its 22nd straight berth in the ncaa champion­ship tournament. That number marks the second-longest active streak and the third longest in the 33 years of the ncaa wom­en’s soccer tournament. 
For first-year irish coach Theresa romagnolo, that streak represents a long tradition of success that she has been tasked with continuing. it is a job she takes seriously. 
“it’s a testament to how great this program is, and also of how many great players and teams that the program has been able to produce,” romagnolo said of the consecutive tournament ap­pearances. “it’s something that’s expected here, that we’re going to get to the tournament, that we’re going to show up and per­form well in each game that we have the opportunity to be a part of.” 
see romagnolo PaGe 13 

nd Cross Country 

runners prepare forncaaregionals 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
From the first day of sum­mer practice, notre dame’s goal was set — send both the men’s and women’s squad back to the national champi­onship meet. 
The irish have the chance to attain that goal saturday when they travel to madison, wisconsin, for the ncaa great lakes regional meet. 
on the women’s side, notre dame has a good chance of landing in one of the spots needed to qualify for consid­eration for an at-large berth, irish coach matt sparks said. The first two teams in each of the nine regionals qualify for the championship, and every third and fourth place team is considered for one of the 13 remaining qualifying bids. 
“neither team will prob­ably get an automatic spot,” sparks said. “They’ll look at the third- and fourth-place teams and see how many wins they have over the 18 teams that have al­ready made it. wisconsin will probably be third on the women’s side, but they’ll get in because they have a lot of wins. 
“so if they get in and we get fifth, they’ll move the fourth-place team to third and the fifth-place team in fourth, which would be us. … as long as we run some­what as we did at the notre dame invitational or the acc championship, the women will be in a good spot to get one of those at-large bids.” 
at the acc championships on oct. 31, the women’s squad cracked the top five, led by junior molly seidel, who earned all-acc honors. The irish topped two ranked squads and moved into the top 30 nationally at no. 29. The move in the coaches poll, combined with a strong two weeks of practice, has 
see regionals PaGe 13 






