The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 51 | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND political science ranks No. 10 
College Factual compares graduates’ income with those of other universities 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
This august, notre dame’s department of political science earned national recognition as the 10th-best political science program in the country from college factual, a data-collect­ing college analysis website, ac­cording to a usa Today report. 
political science professor michael c. desch, who also serves as department chair, said he believes the rankings corroborate a long-held belief among faculty in the caliber of notre dame’s political science program. 
“it’s a reflection of what we’ve 
see ranKing PAGE 5 




Panel commemorates fall of Berlin Wall 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
in celebration of the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, the Kroc institute for international peace studies and the nanovic institute for european studies spon­sored a faculty panel Tuesday in the hesburgh center for international studies to discuss the significance of the events in 1989 in eastern europe and their importance to interna­tional affairs today. 
The panel featured a. James mcadams, professor of interna­tional affairs and director of the nanovic institute for european studies; david cortright, as­sociate director of programs and policy studies of the Kroc institute for international peace studies; sebastian rosato, as­sociate professor of political sci­ence and director of the notre dame international security program and alicja Kusiak­brownstein, adjunct professor of history. 

mcadams began the panel, chronicling the history of the fall of the wall and the suddenness with which it occurred. 
“we can say that it [the wall] fell but in a way, what it did was open,” he said. “The border that had meant certain death if you tried to run across it in the past, that had meant certain impris­onment if you tried to smuggle your way through it in the past … that border ceased to exist.” 
The fall of the wall was met with joy but also confusion, mcadams said. 
“what is so important to un­derstand at this time is the way in which everyone was sur­prised, everyone was shocked,” he said. “no one had any idea what this meant.” 
The political implications of the fall of the wall also opened up a lot of questions as to what the next step was, mcadams said. 
“The big question was what happens when the division be­tween east and west, that was defined by the berlin wall, more than any other entity, what happens when that division is gone?” he said. “what happens when you suddenly have to deal 
see wall PAGE 5 


ndsp finds no abduction evidence 
Observer Staff Report 
after interviewing the student who reported a robbery and ab­duction last saturday and the three men initially considered suspects, notre dame security police (ndsp) said in a state­ment Tuesday evening there “was no evidence of an abduc­tion” and insufficient evidence for an arrest on robbery charges. 
according to the statement, “notre dame police interviewed the complainant and three oth­er males involved in a reported robbery and abduction last weekend. The complainant did not enter their vehicle on cam­pus, as he originally reported, but several miles away.” 
The original report from ndsp said the male notre dame student reported a rob­bery that allegedly occurred around 2 a.m. saturday morn­ing. according to a crime alert ndsp sent saturday afternoon, the student was approached by three men on notre dame avenue between the morris inn and holy cross drive. 
The statement released Tuesday evening reported, “There was no evidence of an 
see robbery PAGE 4 


Theology professor examines racial justice 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
dr. christopher pramuk, associate professor of the­ology at Xavier university, presented a lecture titled “crossing the color line: a catholic perspective on racial Justice and responsibility” on Thursday evening. 
The lecture was sponsored the center for spirituality and held in stapleton lounge in le mans hall. 
pramuk addressed sr. madeleva wolff, former president of saint mary’s, and her decision to integrate saint mary’s in 1941. Though the decision received a firestorm of controversy, pramuk quoted wolff as say­ing, “if it emptied the school, we would enroll negro girls in residence.” 
pramuk said there are doorways to address the top­ic of race relations in 
see lecTure PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your dream job? 

Benoit LeRoy 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“diplomat.” 
Billy Kennedy 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“nasa or spaceX.” 
Sean Fitzgerald 
senior 
Keough hall 
“astronaut.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Jackie Brousseau 
graduate student 
mcglinn hall 
“chef.” 
Elizabeth Horwath 
freshman 
lewis hall 
“creative writer.” 
Dominique Nguyen 
junior 
welsh family hall 
“Traveling around the world doing medical service.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: emily mcconville renee griffin alex winegar marek mazurek 
Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Keri o’mara maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 
SSLP Info Session Faculty and Staff Pep Rally Notre Dame Football Basilica Sunday 
Jodi lo rex shannon 
Geddes Hall Mass Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium Mass 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Log Chapel Arena 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Learn about the 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. The Irish take on Heart 
Corrections 
Summer Service RSVP to Pep rally for Notre Dame Northwestern. 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. 

The observer regards itself as Learning Program. Bracke.4@nd.edu. vs. Northwestern Music by the Notre a professional publication and 
football game. Dame Liturgical Choir. 

strives for the highest standards 
Sarah Fox Reading Artist Talk Men’s Basketball Saturday Vigil Mass Anishnabe 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hammes Notre Dame Snite Museum of Art Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Hesburgh Library 

however, recognize that we will make 
Bookstore 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. Heart 1 p.m.- 3 p.m. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Sculptor Deborah The Irish take on 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Performances by 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Poet Sarah Fox shares Butterfield will speak. Binghamton. Music by the Women’s the Pokagon Band of  
we can correct our error. 
her latest work. Liturgical Choir. Potawatomi. 



Notre Dame Running Club expands to include men 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The women’s running club recently expanded to include men under the new name of the notre dame running club. The women placed third and the men finished fifth at re­gionals, which took place at the university of Kentucky two weekends ago. 
senior claire brady and ju­nior liam o’connor, co-presi­dents of the running club, said they received approval from recsports to merge the two groups right before fall break. 
“it worked out really nicely since we were changing our constitution a little bit, chang­ing our club-tier status to in­clude both competitive and non-competitive components,” brady said. “it’s been a very good collaboration in the few weeks that it’s been going on.” 
o’connor said the men’s run­ning group went through a long process of getting approval. since there was a moratorium on new clubs by recsports due to limited resources, brady said expanding the club to include men seemed sensible. 
“The men’s running club was denied officially three semes­ters in a row, and at that point we reached out to the women’s club and started working on the possibility of one co-ed club,” o’connor said. 

merging with the women’s running club meant the men could officially race in com­petitions since runners are required to be a part of a recog­nized club in order to compete in the league, brady said. 
“i think there are over a hun­dred members of the nirca (national intercollegiate running club association), which is the league, so pretty much every major institution [participates],” o’connor said. 
sophomore John riordan said races include the majority of the division-i running schools. 
“we’re in the most com­petitive region, so indiana, michigan, michigan state and ohio state are all really good,” o’connor said. 
while the fall season con­sists mainly of cross-country races, o’connor said the run­ning club trains year-round and combines three sports into one: cross country, track and road races. 
“we do want to stress that [the club is] open to runners of all levels and experience … ” brady said. “grad students can join as well, and they’re allowed to compete in the league too, so that’s pretty cool.” 
women interested in join­ing the running club can either 
paid adverTisemenT 
email brady at cbrady5@nd.edu or show up to practice, which brady said is held mondays and wednesdays at 5 p.m. at and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30 
p.m. on god Quad. 
Junior bridget bruns, run­ning club treasurer, said the club is a great way to get active and be outside. 
“it’s a great community, and i love all the girls,” she said. “if you like running, you should join.” 
The men’s team meets at 4 
p.m. at the steps of lafortune student center, and brady said men interested in joining the club can either show up to prac­tice or email o’connor at lo­conno4@nd.edu. 
“The guys have daily practice, and most active members show up at least three times a week,” o’connor said. 
running with the club is a great outlet for people to re­lieve stress, get outside and run, riordan said. 
“you can come to as many practices as you want,” brady said. “we also have fun runs on the weekends. we went to a park nearby to run some trails last saturday, and i think we’ll try to do some more things like that.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
smc sells coffee to support charity 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
saint mary’s is selling coffee in spes unica and cyber cafe this week in support of and to raise awareness for the emiliani project. all proceeds go towards the children of the emiliani project and the construction of an orphanage. 
The coffee is fair-trade and grown on small two- to three-acre family farms in colombia, and it will be sold at a discounted rate, $1 for a small cup and $1.50 for a large. 
Junior deirdre o’leary has been working with barry bowles, director of dining services, for weeks in order to encourage the college to sell and support the emiliani project. 
“conveniently, food week is this week, and barry bowles and i thought it would be a perfect op­portunity to sell emiliani coffee because it supports an amazing cause,” she said. 
The emiliani project is a non­profit organization dedicated to helping orphaned and abandoned children in colombia, o’leary said. 
“by selling fair trade coffee, the non-profit gets its name out there,” o’leary said. “Then, 100 percent of these profits and 100 percent of all donations to the charity, go right to the children.” 
The organization is named af­ter st. Jerome emiliani, the patron saint of orphaned and abandoned children who built a hospital and two orphanages and cared for in­numerable children throughout his life, o’leary said. 
o’leary said the charity’s first major project, following in the spirit of saint Jerome emiliani, is to build an orphanage for chil­dren on the outskirts of medellín, colombia, the second largest city in the country. 
“according to the world bank, one third of colombia’s popula­tion lives on or below their poverty line, and there are hundreds of thousands of orphaned and aban­doned children in the country,” o’leary said. 
she said the orphanage will pro­vide a space for 160 children. 
“it will provide shelter, food, edu­cation, love, faith community and anything else a child could need to grow up and living a healthy, fruit­ful, joyous life,” o’leary said. “... a colombian priest has already do­nated a 17-acre plot of land to the emiliani project, and others have generously given labor and some supplies, now all that is left to do is raise the funds for the orphanage.” 
“when the charity runs mission trips now, participants work with at the orphanage with the priest who donated their land, and they work to improve the lives of chil­dren in the parish,” she said. 
bowles said all the leftover cof­fee from this week will be sold in the spes unica and cyber cafe and has the possibility of being for sale in bulk throughout the rest of the year and further on. 
o’leary said encouraged stu­dents to contact her if they enjoy the coffee. 
“i would love for emiliani coffee to be sold in these cafes at saint mary’s permanently, and it could be possible if a good response is elicited,” she said. 
for more information about the emiliani project, visit emiliani­project.org. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT WEEKLY UPDATE 





Fellowships fund exchange program 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
each year, notre dame hosts a number of science, technol­ogy, engineering and mathemat­ics (sTem) undergraduate and graduate students from one of four universities in ireland and con­versely sends several of its own stu­dents abroad to ireland through an exchange program funded for six years by the naughton fellowships. 
The naughton family donated $8 million for the fellowships so that notre dame, as well as Trinity college of dublin, dublin city university, university college dublin and university college cork, could participate in the in­ternational exchange, according to the office of the vice president for research’s (ovpr) website. 
according to Joanne fahey, research communications program director for ovpr, the college of science currently hosts four students in masters degree programs and five in ph.d. pro­grams. another four notre dame students pursuing their masters and four notre dame ph.d. stu­dents are studying and researching in ireland through the fellowship. 
undergraduate students in the naughton program partici­pate in a research experience for undergraduates (reu), a 10-week long summer program, fahey said in an email. 
notre dame undergraduates seeking to apply for an reu in dublin or cork are required to sub­mit an application before february 22nd, according to the program’s website. undergraduates apply directly to work on a specific proj­ect that has been put forth by the hosting institution. summer 2015 projects for american students will be listed in december, the website stated. 
dublin native amy flanagan is currently pursuing her masters degree at notre dame through the engineering, science & Technology entrepreneurship excellence masters (esTeem) program. she has been working with the center for research computing (crc) — particularly dr. Timothy wright, assistant director of the crc — to develop her thesis. 
“since hurricane Katrina in 2005, the crc have developed a web-based application that trains personnel in an emergency operations center,” flanagan said in an email. “whenever there is an emergency, manage­ment from each of the agencies involved — mayor’s office, police or fire department, red cross and ngos etc. — all gather together to make strategic decisions in one room known as an emergency operations center. 
“These people are under severe pressure to make quick decisions that have lasting impacts on the entire community. The application that has been developed in col­laboration with emory university, florida international university and miami-dade [emergency operations center] can be used to simulate a disaster and train personnel. my thesis project is de­veloping the business plan for the commercialization of this.” 
flanagan said the program has kept her busy but has provided a substantial amount of unique opportunities. 
“i really feel that the esTeem program is an incredible chance to launch yourself into a variety of careers — be it the startup scene, large technology, medical or en­gineering firms, consultancy or even non-profits,” she said. “The amount of opportunities that we have is simply vast and i’m trying to really seize as many as i can in a short period of time. 
“as part of it i am hoping to look for a internship with a local startup, continue working on my capstone thesis and esTeem classes, as well as analyze more business startup ventures through the mccloskey business plan competition here on campus.” 
The naughton fellowship has been in existence for six years, ac­cording to its website. alumni from every year gathered together in october of this year, flanagan said. 
“The naughton foundation has 

professor reviews growth, failures of mexican economy 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
news writer 
fausto hernandez Trillo, pro­fessor of economics at centro de investigación y docencia económicas (cide), addressed the causes of anemic eco­nomic growth in mexico in a lecture Tuesday sponsored by the Kellogg institute. The talk, entitled “The sluggish mexican economy: a Tale of Two countries?”, focused on the his­tory of the mexican economy over the last half century and the causes of its struggles today. 
from roughly 1950 to the 1970s, mexico enjoyed a period of excellent growth with over 6 percent annual gross domestic product increases, Trillo said. after that, the 1980s became the “lost decade” and, according to Trillo, mexico’s economy has never truly recovered or rekin­dled its dynamic growth since then. 
“The three most important factors i look at are low econom­ic growth, persistent poverty lev­els and high income inequality,” Trillo said. 
he noted 20 percent or more of mexico’s population is classi­fied as extremely poor and that mexico’s gini index, a measure of income inequality, is around 0.5 in contrast to the usa’s 0.38. The closer the gini index is to 1, the greater the inequality. 
Trillo then broke down the components of gdp into three different categories: capital ac­cumulation, human capital accumulation and total factor productivity (Tfp), a variable that measures whether produc­tivity is increasing or decreasing. 
“Tfp explains everything,” Trillo said as he pointed to a graph that shows Tfp weak­ening as a percentage of gdp beginning in the 1970s and be­coming worse over time. 
citing projections from 1995 that mexico should have cre­ated roughly 20 million jobs by 2014, Trillo estimated a cur­rent “job deficit” of 12.6 million jobs, which has been aggra­vated by potential workers leav­ing mexico to immigrate to the united states. Trillo concluded that mexico suffers tremendous­ly from a largely informal econo­my characterized by tax evasion and off-the-books work. 
“The informal economy ac­counts for only 10 percent of gdp, but 70 percent of the eco­nomically active population works in it,” he said. 
Trillo contrasted the strag­gling informal economy with mexico’s modern formal economy that employs advanced technology, relies strongly on exporting, possesses significant credit access and composes the bulk of gdp. he attributes this divide to bad policy. 
“dual social policy contrib­utes greatly to economic in­formality and the slow rate of growth,” Trillo said. 
Trillo said he believes current policy encourages workers to opt out of the formal economy due to mandatory contributions to life, disability and work risk insur­ance in jobs in the formal sector. 
“This generates resources misallocation, incentivizes in­formality and erodes the tax base,” Trillo said. 
Trillo suggested social se­curity policies should be more universal and no longer depend on jobs in order to curb the exo­dus of workers from the formal economy. in order to pay for this, Trillo said the government should consider the value-added tax (vaT). 
“it is easier to collect, distorts labor and investment decisions less, is harder to legally avoid and is subject to less interna­tional competition than alterna­tives,” he said. 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 
been an incredible support from the outset,” she said. “i can’t ex­press how grateful we are to them for this. we were able to throw a reunion tailgate for the naughton alumni at the stanford game and it was brilliant to be able to have ev­eryone together again after about five years of the program. The peo­ple that are now a part of the alum­ni are an incredible testament to the foundation, and of course the naughton family themselves. 
“The whole experience with esTeem that the naughton foundation has given us has been second to none and has simply opened a whole array of doors to us all that will allow us to launch our careers in an unbelievable way,” flanagan said. “we can only hope to take the skills and experience that we learn in the coming years and pay it forward later on when we are in a position to do so.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
Robbery 
conTinued from page 1 
abduction and insuf­ficient evidence to war­rant an arrest on robbery or other charges. This 
case  remains  under  
investigation.”  
ndsp  released  photos  

of the car and the men believed to be suspects monday night while they were still considered “at large.” 
The initial report stated: “one of the men got out of the vehicle and instructed the student to come with them. They demanded money and took the stu­dent to a gas station and a grocery store so he could get cash for them. They then brought the student back to campus. no gun was seen, but it was im­plied that at least one of the three men had a gun. The suspects were described as three black males wear­ing dark clothing.” 






taught to fear?” 
full-time within six months af-they’re making a difference in a 
Lecture 
Ranking 
pramuk said blindness ter graduation, while only one lot of different ways,” he said. 
conTinued from page 1 
conTinued from page 1 
is a pervasive theme in the 
percent were looking for work. Kaplan said he believes the gospels, which provide fit-

The other 58 percent were in major’s success stems from its america, from the pat-ting metaphors of current 
known along, which is that graduate or professional school, ability to echo the core values of terns of racial profiling and race relations in america. 
we have a terrific major that’s a the military, a service program the university and the college police brutality to the ebola he said it is important to 
function of a number of things, or other plan, and the average of arts and letters. crisis currently provoking give people space to talk 
most importantly interesting salary for employed students “we believe that ultimately xenophobic reactions. about race. 
subject material,” desch said. was more than $47,500. the best thing a college educa­“often people say that “each of us comes in the 
“we have terrific faculty, who desch highlighted the de-tion can do to prepare students problem of racial justice conversation about race or 
are great scholars and teachers, partment’s ability to prepare for the future is help them un­becomes more urgent when refuses it,” he said. “but it’s 
as well as a wide array of career graduates for careers other than derstand how they can put their you have your own skin in important to give each other 
options.” law. faith and values to work, to help the game,” pramuk said. space to grow.” 
Joshua Kaplan, the de-“There was a time when pre-them use their intellectual abili­“whites have the luxury of pramuk said his book, 
partment’s director of law was our biggest pre-pro-ties with purpose,” Kaplan said. not seeing because they have ‘hope sings, so beautiful: 
undergraduate studies, said fessional major,” desch said. desch said he hopes the de­no skin in the game.” graced encounters across 
the rankings, which are new “That’s less of a big part these partment prepares its students but as people of faith, the color line’ is a start-
this year, weighed objective days, in part due to the de-for a lifelong career rather than catholics often don’t see the ing point and a way to make 
factors rather than assessment cline in the legal employment a first job. problem as racism, he said. the conversation about rac­
tools such as surveys. market.” “if you want to have an ex-instead, catholics see fight-ism accessible. racial ha­
“Their outcome-based met-desch said notre dame grad-citing career and also one that ing racism as an invitation tred is harsh and often looks 
rics include information about uates have pursued ph.d.s in pays the bills, political sci-from Jesus to stand in soli-like the eclipse of blacks of 
early-career and mid-career political science as well as ca-ence is one of the best ones out darity and see the dignity in blocking out their light, he 
salaries,” he said. reers in the business and politi-there,” desch said. our neighbor. said, which calls for inti-
according to the depart-cal fields. “racism is a human prob-mate conversations. 
ment’s website, 41 percent “while there is a lot of vari-Contact Peter Durbin at lem, crippling something far pramuk said there is hope 
of students were employed ety in what students are doing, pdurbin@nd.edu deeper inside us,” pramuk in the leadership of pope said. “[often] we act from francis and in the univer­self-justification and the sality of the catholic church. 
Thatcher who won the cold followed the first semi-free 
Wall 

message of Jesus becomes “universality is not the as war. election in poland, which re­
conTinued from page 1 

unsettling. same uniformity,” pramuk 
“even some east german sulted in overwhelming sup­“Jesus seems to be saying said. “universality is 
communists thought it was port for the opposition,” she if you cannot find me in your welcoming.” 
with a reunified germany?” their idea. pope John paul said. “in spite of it, among neighbor, you will not find pramuk said young people 
The fall of the wall, ii played a big role, and young people, the spirit of eu­me in church. god has skin desire to give their gifts and 
cortwright said, cannot be gorbachev definitely.” phoria was often mixed with in the game.” their lives meaningfully. 
traced to one single individu-however, the most im-anxiety.” it’s important to look at “The church has the op­
al, institution or state. portant force in this kind The consequences of the race through the “doorway portunity to turn their gazes 
“whenever there’s a great of success is civil society, fall of the wall were felt far of faith,” pramuk said. to the poor and the margin-
success, it is said, success cortwright said. beyond just eastern europe “from a catholic per-alized,” pramuk said. “our 
has many parents, while fail-“it’s inconceivable to think and still continue to reverber­spective, the root of justice physical presence is the 
ure is orphaned,” cortwright of the fall of the wall or the ate today, rosato said. lies in the story of road to best gift we can provide to 
said. “in this case, there are dramatic transformations “The fall of the wall led to emmaus,” he said. “how do society.” 
many claims to success. that took place in the late ‘80s a u.s. strategy of what can we learn to recognize the 
margaret Thatcher says it was without understanding the be called liberal primacy,” he christ that lives in others? Contact Haleign Ehmsen at 
ronald reagan who won the role of civil society and the said. “primacy, because the even in the one we have been hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
cold war; reagan says it was tremendous push that was united states was determined 
created by the people in the to remain the most powerful paid adverTisemenT 
street, protesting against the state in the world for as long as communist regime,” he said. possible, which meant, at the 
cortwright said disarma-time, basically preventing the ment played a large role in return of russia and western ending the cold war but not europe, especially germany, in the way that many would becoming powerful. think. rather, disarmament “liberal, because the talks led to a more benign re-united states wanted to lationship between the soviet spread liberal values all union and the united states. across the globe: democracy, 
“it was the transforma-free markets, etc. The rea­tion of the politic climate son for that is because one, it and the opening of the new would make america safe and political leadership in the two, it was the right thing to soviet union, represented by do.” gorbachev, that really led to The results of this strategy, the end,” he said. “… it was however, have been a huge not about the weapons, but disappointment, rosato said. the development of a political “This strategy of the us understanding between the has three failures,” he said. united states and the soviet “it guaranteed that the union.” [european union] would be 
Kusiak-brownstein, who a geopolitical nonentity; it hails from poland, shared threatened russia by encir­personal accounts from both cling it and seeking to desta­herself and her friends on the bilize it. fall of the wall. “Third, we not only threat­
“one friend said she was ened russia, but antagonized preparing for her finals in russia by extending naTo all high school when her mother the way up to its border and came in her room and said, making it pretty clear that ‘you’ll never believe it. The russia is next.” berlin wall has fallen.’ my This strategy and its fail-friend answered, ‘it’s about ures, stemming from the fall time, isn’t it?’” she said. of the wall, play a huge part 
many of the people in in international politics to­poland reacted in this way day, demonstrating the far-because poland had already reaching consequences and gone through a political importance of the fall of the transformation in the spring wall, rosato said. of 1989, Kusiak-brownstein said. Contact Kayla Mullen at 
“The fall of the wall kmullen2@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The media and me 

Jack Rooney 
associate news editor 

This has been a very anti-media semester for me. all of my classes at some point or another have critiqued the news media for its racism, sex­ism, liberal bias, conservative bias, dishonesty, irresponsibility and many other flaws and failures. 
but here i am working for a newspa­per. it’s a small, completely student-run newspaper, but a newspaper nonetheless. so, in some small way, i am a part of the media — the same racist, sexist, biased, dishonest, ir­responsible media i’ve heard about in class. 
and i want to be a journalist after graduation. i want to go from working for this newspaper to a larger, profes­sional newspaper that, for all i know, is racist, sexist, biased … i think you know the drill by now. so i guess things don’t look too good for the me­dia and me. 
being the good critical thinker notre dame has trained me to be, though, i know not to blindly accept everything i read (or hear in class). The news media is certainly flawed, but it is a human institution, bound to be imperfect by its very nature. 
it’s easy to sit in a classroom or on a cable television set and demon­ize “the media” as this big nameless, faceless, foundationally corrupt ab­straction. but it’s not that. The word “media” is plural, and the news media as an industry is plural, too — made up of real people reporting on real events. 
The news media is flawed, but so many of the flaws stem from the structure of news organizations and its inherent constraints including deadlines, reliance on sources and the need to appeal to a wide audience. 
and for anyone who actually thinks the media is part of some massive, or­chestrated conspiracy — i have some bad news for you. we don’t have our act nearly enough together to orches­trate much of anything at all. 
most of the time, we’re just trying to make it through the day, and if we only screw up five times, then it was a good day. 
i’m not asking anyone to demand less of the news media or forgive its decidedly many flaws, but please understand who and what the media really is. we’ll screw up and we’ll run corrections. we’re humans undertak­ing a human endeavor. none of our mistakes are ever intentional. we’re just trying to make it through the day and put out a product we take pride in, and, more than anything else, a product that serves our audience well. 
Contact Jack Rooney at      jrooney@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
On being legit 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 
having just celebrated my 21st birthday, i’ve been disheart­ened in realizing that turning a year over 20 has not graced me with any more wisdom, beauty or poise. in fact, the morning after my birthday celebration, i felt i possessed these qualities less than ever. i’ll admit i’m disappointed, for i have always associated a certain sense of legitimacy (which goes beyond being of the legal drinking age) with the big two-one. i’ve internalized the age as the quintessential emergence into so­phisticated adulthood. in my mind, this milestone birthday solidifies the transition from kid to grown-up table — from youthfulness to maturity. at 21, the “can’t” of adolescences shakes itself of its apostrophe t, becoming an adult c-a-n. 
as i reminisce on how my childhood self viewed her 21-year­old future, i recall an image of someone who is definitely not the person i am today. i vaguely remember envisioning myself on my 21st birthday as a woman elegantly sipping a martini in an evening gown similar to that of millennium barbie. flash-forward to reality: the evening of my birthday was spent in a dingy chicago bar, singing “party in the u.s.a” with a hefty, hairy acoustic guitarist. i was wearing american eagle jeans just tight enough to expose the outline of my granny panties. so it goes. 
unfortunately, the age of 21 has brought little else new but the lawful ability to consume an alcoholic beverage. but, i will say, i’ve developed a new appreciation for my driver’s license, which serves as plastic proof of my legality. i’m sure it will fade with time, but since becoming legal, i’ve gotten a rush from using my id. regardless of whether i’m showing it to a bouncer or simply using it as a form of photo identification i get a surge of validity whenever i hand it over. 
The recipient’s silent approval upon scanning for my age provides a feeling of unrequited confidence and capability. in this fifteen-ish second exchange i am unable to keep this thought from running through my head: “wowzers, i am totally legit!”  This feeling of legitimacy goes so much more beyond rightful claims to vodka cranberries and front-door access to feve. in this moment, i feel probably the closest to millennium barbie as i’ll ever be — sophisticated, ready to take on anything and absolutely on top of the world. 
it’s occurred to me just how much i could use a similar rush of validity in other areas of my life. wouldn’t it be awesome if a three-by-four rectangle could bring about similar feelings of sureness when it comes to, say, an exam? if only our greatest anxieties and doubts could be eradicated with a simple glance at our licenses. imagine if an identification card could provide an automatic boost of confidence in situations of self-doubt and hesitation. 
picture this: in the wee hours of the morning as the thought “i can’t possibly cram for this midterm any longer” crosses your mind, you whip out a card that instantly reminds you of how capable you are of succeeding. suddenly, you feel worthy of tackling the material and self-assuredly acing your exam. what if, before an interview, a quick glance at an id could calm your nerves and allow you to proceed confidently? 
at the bottom of this column, i’ve provided you with your very own “legit card,” a reminder of your validity in every sense of being. my hope is that it will bring about a rush of confidence similar to that which i’ve experienced with my newly legal license. 
after reading through today’s newspaper, write your name on the card, paste your picture and cut it out. Keep this id in your backpack or wallet. it is not so much meant to be shared with others as it is a personal reminder of your unique apti­tude and abilities. you, reader, are totally legit. you have so much potential and are built for success. it’s just nice to have a reminder from time to time. you got this. 

Paige Affinito is a junior majoring in accounting and English. This is her first semester as a columnist and has found humor is actually much easier to capture in 140 characters than 700 words. She can be reached at paffinit@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The ballad of Carl, the homeless mechanic 
Charlie Ducey 
english channeled 

we’ve all seen homeless people before. chances are, we don’t know much more about them aside from what’s written on their flimsy cardboard signs streaked with black marker. 
i come from portland, oregon, the city of roses. in addition to fragrant horticultural beauty, portland is also home to thousands of homeless. one can hardly drive through a crowded intersection without seeing a poor soul clad in a decades old rain jacket standing outside one of many soup kitchens which actually outnumber starbucks on portland’s nw burnside st. for a pacific northwest metropolis, that’s saying a lot. 
my interactions with the portland homeless have been frequent, though i’m not sure they’ve been particularly friendly. it’s not that the homeless tend to be particularly unkind. i know several standout characters at the holy cross-run st. andre bessette house — one a diehard notre dame fan, another a philosophy enthusiast who designed a critical think­ing puzzle based on hermann hesse’s “The glass bead game.” 
but cut to oxford, a city of some 150,000, close to a fifth of them college students. oxford, a city of limit­ed access, centuries old stone walls, gated entrances, fenced off fields and individual college courtyards insulated by latched wooden doors and crenelated exteriors allowing for only the briefest glimpses into their interior holdings. among the mystical harry potter and J.r.r. Tolkien overtones, oxford is a city of austere physical division and locked doors. 
yet the homeless here are some of the most bois­terous and open people whom i’ve ever met — jug­glers warning passersby of the coming cold spell, a guitarist feeding Kfc (notoriously popular in the u.K.) to his blotched border collie and the man who asked if i could spare a pound, saw my empty pock­ets, promptly introduced himself, shook my hand and wished me “a good life” before rushing off. These are people of true grit and character. enter carl. 
i first met carl outside of blackfriars college on st. giles on a friday evening. at the time, he was known to me only as an anonymous homeless man, cold-looking in the twilit air. he asked me if i had any change. i told him that i had none, only credit cards and a 20 euro note. i went back to blackfriars, but i kept thinking about the gray-bearded man. he couldn’t be younger than fifty. he was shaking in the cold, grasping a paperback which pages had long since yellowed in one hand, with a coin cup in the other. i wondered when the last time was when he had a real conversation aside from “thank you” or “spare any change?” or “god bless.” i thought about the last time i had had a conversation at all. 
i returned to the bench where he sat with red hands on yellowed book, his face hidden aside from his eyes, faint points of structure in the night. “so,” i asked, “what do you need this money for?” 
carl has been selling bicycles to oxford students for at least three years. he has been a bike mechanic, surely, for far longer than that. he buys frames and parts second hand, matches designs and wheel sizes and chains and fixes it all together into some­thing that rides. at the time, he told me he was just trying to get his head above water. earn back the money he’d lost from two bikes that had just been stolen from him. he needed forty dollars. i remained dubious. 
but there was something about this man — his candor, his determination. call it a leap of faith. call it intuition. i trusted him. he hadn’t even told me his name yet, but i trusted him. 
one aTm trip later and i had made a down pay­ment on a bike. we wrote up a contract on torn paper and bleeding black pen ink. he introduced himself at last. he wanted specifics — handle bar size, frame height, tire type. i know nothing of bikes. i told him to make whatever he thought would work. 
days passed. i didn’t hear back. one of the cell phone numbers he provided on the contract was switched off. i began to doubt. yet, in my haughti­ness, i made a bet with a fellow notre dame student that carl would pull through. he would build the bike. i knew, somehow. several days later i was walk­ing back to st. giles. i had to borrow another phone to finally reach him. There he was, standing alongside a black bike with golden handles and rims. i kid you not — this bike was gorgeous. 
he walked with me to grab a set of lights he had promised me. he told me about the other bike build­ers. one stole frames and parts to build bikes that he bussed over to cambridge to sell for twice as much. “i’m not about that,” carl said. 
i saw carl again the other day. he told me his ven­dor’s license had been revoked since he had been working past the legally-allowed hours fixing the chain on one his customer’s bicycles. They took his tools. They said he needed to stay on the bench or leave. 
i doubt they even knew his name. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Oscar Wild (English) and Friedrich Hölderlin (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, UK. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

a dog: the greatest trade you can make 
for anyone who has never had a dog — you wouldn’t understand this. i have grown up with dogs my entire life. my parents even say i learned how to walk by holding on to one of our dogs. Thanksgiving break will be different for me. This will be the first time in my 20 years that there won’t be a dog at home. my childhood dog, wilson, was put down this week. sitting here now suffer­ing from this pain makes me wonder why people go through it. why get a dog when you know that they will eventually die? why submit yourself to such pain when it is completely avoidable? i think back on the memories of wilson. i remember driv­ing all the way to Kansas to pick him out. i some­how convinced the rest of the family to name him wilson, even though nobody else liked the name. wilson’s puppy days were something special. he would entertain himself for hours with a plastic water bottle and cock his head sideways when you made a weird noise. wilson grew as i grew. he transitioned from puppyhood to adulthood while i transitioned from 8th grade to high school. fall days were spent playing fetch or playing in a pile of leaves. i remember sledding on the hill by my house with wilson chasing me up and down the hill. my favorite memory is the time he nearly drowned because he tried to walk on top of the pool cover and my dad had to jump into the pool to save him. on saturday mornings, mom would send him into my room and he would climb up onto my bed to try and wake me. when i went off to school i missed wilson almost as much as i missed my par­ents. when i came home i always looked forward to the warm greeting i got from him when i walked through the door. 
wilson was the best dog any kid could ask for and that’s why it hurts so badly now. when asking why we go through this pain, i think peter King sums it up best when he wrote about the loss of his dog bailey. “by my calculations, we had bailey in our lives for 159 months. i will endure a few weeks of the occasional dark thought, and i will think: ‘pretty good trade, 159 months of companionship and friendship and unconditional love for one or three months when sadness creeps in.’ in fact, that’s a fantastic trade. i feel the same as i did when woody died. The easiest way to not feel this grief is to never have a dog. and what an empty life that would be.” i agree with mr. King on this one. having a dog is one of the greatest trades that you can make. i may forget the pain pretty soon but i will never forget the memories. 
Kevin Bond 
junior Knott hall nov. 11 





The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By LAUREN KUTA 
scene writer 

here is the stereotypical superhero we all know: a tall, buff and handsome man, with a flamboyant name refer­ring to his tragic past, inspiring young children across the world to “help save the world” and reap the rewards. in light of recent movies about superheroes, however, this stereotype of a macho savior is shattered by disney’s newest collaboration with marvel, “big hero 6.” with lovable characters brought to life with stunning anima­tion, this film inspired those who have always dreamed of being a hero to pursue their wildest dreams. 
“big hero 6” tells the story of the young prodigy hiro hamada (voiced by ryan potter), a 14-year-old robot fighter living in the heart of futuristic san fransokyo. frustrated with his younger brother’s lack of maturity, hiro’s older brother Tadashi (voiced by daniel henney) brings hiro to “nerd school,” or the san fransokyo institute of Technology, where hiro explores the robot­ics lab and is inspired by the life-changing creations invented by Tadashi’s classmates. after viewing others’ works, Tadashi introduces hiro to baymax (voiced by scott adsit), Tadashi’s creation who is a peaceful robot that operates as a health care provider. hiro and baymax quickly form an uncanny relationship as hiro attempts to save the world with the help of his high-tech pals, and baymax attempts to please the young genius. 
as the film begins, the first notable aspect of “big hero 6” is its remarkable animation style. characters’ facial expressions are extremely dynamic and realistic, and the attention to minuscule details is astounding as 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

stop. do not break out your parka yet. 
november is like that nearly empty tube of toothpaste sitting in your medicine cabinet — you can squeeze a bit more out of your fall wardrobe before conceding to the gripes of quilted black north faces. There are so many types of coats to indulge in during this time that don’t look like sleeping bags when they’re lying on your floor. 
This season has seen the return of 60s-inspired car coats. channel your inner Twiggy with a pastel or satu­rated version to add some color to the soon-to-be gray-scale landscape. i suggest investing in a wool version for the most warmth. go cutesy with a peter pan collar or chic with a collarless version. 
fur is also big this fashion — not hunting — season. miley cyrus has embraced it; she sported pink fur earlier this year on the grammy’s pre-party red carpet, and who could forget her regal cruella de vil-esque floor-length white coat she wore while parading around taxidermy animals in the “we can’t stop” video. you could even take this trend further by strapping a giant fur teddy bear to KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
each knick-knack on hiro’s desk is beautifully rendered. The crowd and background shots were equally impres­sive due to the shear amount of detail packed into each frame, and the overall animation quality brought the in­terwoven town to life, giving the characters an appropri­ate setting in which to grow and mature. 
“big hero 6’s” ingenuity glows through its portrayal of the characters involved with hiro’s desires. The protago­nist’s fellow “science nerds” are all infused with natural quirks, such as perfectionism, ocd, over-enthusiasm and others, which allow static characters to transform into believable college students. such character depth causes the relationship between hiro and baymax to flourish and allows for the exploration of human and kindly robot interactions. emotional hardships also dis­played the personalities imbued within each character; the movie points out the different methods that char­acters use to deal with emotional strain. all seriousness aside, the intricacies of the characters allowed for hints of humor throughout the movie, and at the height of this humor, as in all marvel movies, is stan lee’s cameo which tied directly to a character’s backstory. 
The film, however, is an age-old tale of a superhero. “big hero 6” fell into all of the pitfalls of a stereotypical plot: an orphaned, teenage boy who, with the help of his not-so generic friends, battles against a seemingly-mys­terious superhero. while the movie attempted to spin this storyline on several occasions, the twists were easily predictable and were nothing worth noting in the terms of a plot. The movie, while intended more for a younger audience than college students, lost a portion of power because of the unoriginal storyline. The musical score 
your back. Just kidding, then how would you wear your backpack around campus? unless, like me, you own a fur teddy bear backpack from your miley cyrus halloween costume last year. 
but, fur-real, fur can provide an excellent layer to trap (pun-intended) in the heat. i even stole my mom’s purple-tinted fur coat while at home on fall break. if you have a less cool mom — one who doesn’t own purple fur coats — you can still hop in on the trend, but do so without killing those animals that hop. 
visit forever 21 or asos fur some faux-fur stylings that won't require you to pop expensive tags. you'll end up with a coat even the campus squirrels will be jealous of. colorful faux-fur is on trend — i know, you’re thinking “That’s so raven,” but c’mon raven was a fashion design­er, she knew what she was doing. 
so maybe you heeded my advice and now own a super chic coat that doesn’t have last year’s ski tags attached to it, but then something like the “bomb cyclone” hits the midwest. no worries, just add a few extra layers. 
layering is a necessity, but the key to layering is pick­ing warm, effective pieces to layer. for example, the fact that i layered seven pairs of underwear to go to preschool also did not work to strengthen the plot; the soundtrack is rather forgettable, unlike the movie’s underlying message. 
even with its flaws, “big hero 6’s” nod to the nerds was, in my opinion, the aspect of the show which truly set the film apart from other recent animated works. “big hero 6” teaches the audience that it is acceptable to be passionate about math, science and engineering and that even “nerds” or “geeks” can become superheroes in their own right. Those who study and research upcom­ing technology are saviors as they work to improve lives, and the students of the “nerd school” in the movie, while quirky, are toiling toward the title of hero though all of their studies. with motivation and dedication, any as­piring youth can invent, build and create original prod­ucts to mold the future. These inventors, like hiro and his sidekicks, come from all walks of life, but it is their passion in their chosen fields that ushers in a new wave of world-shapers that can become heroes in a world that needs saving. as hiro works to save his world, these themes are brought subtly to the forefront, hoping to im­plant the idea that heroism is possible for all who decide to watch the film. 
“big hero 6” was not a blockbuster, show-stopping hit worthy of dozens of sequels and prequels for its contri­butions to the greater cinematic world. instead, it is a simple tale of a young boy and his robot, who, despite their issues, will rise above hardship and inspire similar-ly-minded children to work and invent until mankind is “satisfied with their care.” 
Contact Lauren Kuta at lkuta@nd.edu 
because i “liked all the princesses” is a not a great example of effective layering — wearing a turtleneck under cardi­gans, coats or dresses is. 
Turtlenecks are no longer just for my elderly preschool teacher who didn’t appreciate the fact that i was wearing seven pairs of underwear to school when i had an acci­dent. They’re on celebrities and runway models — nicole richie just wore a $40 white h&m turtleneck dress on a red carpet this past weekend. believe me, you’re just tur­tle-ly enough for the turtleneck club. 
another key layering piece this season is the blanket scarf. blanket scarves are perhaps the most conducive things to the college lifestyle ever to exist. you get out of bed to put on a blanket, then when you get to class you can unwrap it from your neck and drape it over your shoulders. how much easier is it to get out of bed when you never have to shed your blanket? in doing this you may feel like the evil Queen from “snow white” (when she gets all old and hunchy) — but hey, you’re on trend and warm, all at the same time. now i’m just waiting for the comforter scarf to become a thing before december and final exams hit. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 





The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

if you haven’t heard of the best web series on the internet yet, now is the perfect opportunity to get ac­quainted with “high maintenance.” 
created and co-written by wife-and-husband duo Katja blichfeld, an emmy award-winning casting di­rector, and ben sinclair, an actor, the series’ first “cycle” (which i suppose is a season in the world of web series) premiered last year, with episodes available to watch for free on the video hosting website vimeo. 
four cycles later, the show has received plenty of criti­cal success and garnered quite the fan base, myself in­cluded, who have eagerly awaited new episodes. finally, on november 10, its creators released three new epi­sodes, available on vimeo for $1.99 each and kicking off the newest cycle. 
The fictional show centers on benevolent, unnamed marijuana dealer (played by sinclair) known only as “The guy.” Through his work, we get a peek into the interesting and often hilarious lives of his clients. each episode is a unique and commendably original profile of a different client, and they range from a run time of just a few min­utes to nearly a half hour. 
Emilie Kefalas 
scene writer 

exactly five minutes before i hopped into the family van to make my first expedition up to the kingdom of south bend, indiana, my younger sister presented me with one of the most treasured items in my dorm room: a woody doll. she told me, “andy gave away his woody before he went off to college, so i’m giving you one.” it was an awe-worthy, full-circle moment, similar to the closing scene in “Toy story 3” during which i cried and cursed college-bound andy for not taking his beloved piggy bank and mr. and mrs. potato head to campus. 
i, like so many other millennials who had grown up with andy, thought that that moment was the end, the sheer, definite, no-way-could-there-ever-be-another end. andy goes off to college sans his toys symbolizing his transition into adulthood, theoretically. woody, buzz lightyear and the gang are all newly adopted second-generation playthings to adorable youngster, bonnie. lotso, the evil bear who smells of strawber­ries, is strapped to a dump truck and forced to ride through piles of disposed garbage for all eternity ... theoretically. 
when news confirmed the inconceivable last week that there would be a “Toy story 4” released the sum­mer of 2017, my initial reaction sounded something like the following: “don’t you dare take my childhood and crumble it up and throw it in a corner to die in the grisly graveyard of unspeakable sequels and prequels.” 
while there are plenty of amusing crossovers of char­acters between shows to keep you on your toes, the se­ries’ episodic format with a client per episode lends itself perfectly to a web series style. viewers are free to jump around in the episodes, and each one stands as a fasci­nating and wonderfully produced short film in itself. while some of the existing episodes are better than oth­ers (check out “Jamie,” “matilda” and “rachel,” three standouts), the series as a whole is remarkably strong. 
while The guy’s profession isn’t exactly one you can put on a résumé, and the show may not exactly be one you can watch with your mom, “high maintenance” is well-crafted, well-written and irresistibly entertaining. balancing serious episodes (like one about a sick clients who uses to gain back an appetite) with more lightheart­ed fare (including a brilliant episode featuring comedi­an hannibal buress), the series as a whole may be tied together by cannabis, but it is a far cry from “pineapple express.” 
instead, its format gets to explore the lives, homes and stories of a commendably diverse group of people. while The guy is the constant that ties the show together, most of the episodes focus very little on him. however, when we do get a look at the anonymous dealer, he proves to be a charming and comforting presence. sinclair acts the 
if you want to get in touch with any millennials’ soft side, simply utter the phrase, “to infinity and beyond,” and the feels of nostalgia begin to flow. last Thursday’s news instantly divided the masses between those who were thrilled to get yet another chance to see the toys together onscreen, and those who saw no need for a fourth film other than another opportunity to target a younger generation of customers, uh, fans. 
yay! more toys! maybe barbie and Ken will get a Kelly. what if buzz gets a pet companion for bullseye, like a cow (because cows jump over the moon). will Jessie’s backstory be brought full circle with the “andy’s mom theory?” can we please have sid team up with al and seek revenge? or Zurg? can Zurg pull a "return of the Jedi" and show up in bonnie's backyard waiting for buzz? fire up your engines, santa claus. 
however, the latest reports from the pixar gods men­tion in the slightest of contexts that the next installment will focus on a love story. The l.a. Times also reported that the film will pick up right where “Toy story 3” left off. i’m somewhat bummed about this, because if the creators followed the biological timeline of their target audiences, maybe andy would be graduating college and be engaged to bonnie’s cousin, so then bonnie could take woody and the gang to the wedding, but the toys would have major relationship relapse issues. i would pay to see that. The more important question, though, is who the heck is going to fall in love or even what kind of love (maternal? brotherly?). 
The film’s director, John lasseter, put to ease my skep­ticism by reassuring what pixar storytelling is about part of The guy excellently, painting him as a fairly neu­tral but still undeniably warmhearted character who gets to stand back each episode, watching his quirky clients with just as much intrigue as the audience. 
it’s both great and a little disappointing to see “high maintenance” become popular enough to begin charg­ing for episodes. however, the quality with which even the earliest episodes were made doesn’t make the move to pricing episodes at all surprising. with its already high production value, it’ll be interesting to see how the series will grow and change in upcoming cycles. 
for now, we’re stuck paying vimeo which partnered with blichfeld and sinclair to make “high maintenance” the site’s first shot at original content. as reluctant as i am to fork over $1.99 per episode, or $7.99 to rent the whole cycle, my satisfaction with the series so far has me reach­ing for my credit card to buy the season pass. it’s just that good. 
The three new episodes, titled “geiger,” “ghengis” and “ruth” are available on vimeo now, and if you haven’t had the pleasure of seeing “high maintenance,” all of its earlier episodes are available for free and just waiting for a mid-semester binge-watch. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
when it comes to beloved characters. he explained to the l.a. Times that a fourth film would not ruin the series, saying, "a lot of people in the industry view us doing sequels as being for the business of it, but for us it's pure passion. we only make sequels when we have a story that's as good as or better than the original." 
lasseter also decided to lasso in rashida Jones and will mccormack as the film’s screenwriters, saying, "They have such a great sense of character and original­ity. and i wanted to get a strong female voice in the writ­ing of this." 
when the world first met woody and buzz nearly 20, yes, 20 years ago, the adult world finally accepted what kids had known all along: toys are alive and want nothing more than to be loved. in reality, this was and continues to be an unmatched marketing campaign for the “Toy story” franchise. what kid is not going to want to see if his or her cowboy doll will start conversing with the teddy bear as soon as the coast is clear? 
i’ll trust the pixar gods for now. They know and love these characters more than any critic, and they know how much we love them. They will take care of woody and buzz. They will play nice. 
“oh the sentimentality, it consumes me,” i thought to myself melodramatically during that first four-hour car ride, holding woody in my hand as though he were poor yorek. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Every position matters 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
There’s a reason quarter­backs have won 12 of the last 13 heisman Trophies. it’s a flashy position with easily identified stats. 
but in every sport, there are players doing their often physi­cally and mentally taxing work for a fraction of the recogni­tion. sometimes we know their names only if they’ve screwed up. The value of what they do can’t run in a stat line. 
They play the most thankless positions in sports. 
Football: center 
centers are reliable and durable, playing nearly every offensive down and expected to execute every snap. They’re expected to vocally lead the offense and read the opposing defense before the play and quickly transition from snap­ping to physically demanding blocking. 
statistics don’t measure what centers do, so you know if your team has a good one only if you watch closely or read and be­lieve a lot of commentary. 
centers often don’t receive the credit they deserve, usually receiving little attention at all. 
Their moments of fame or, rather, infamy, tend to come if they muff a snap or miss a block, rather than when they play consistently all season, the definition of doing their jobs well. it’s tough to imagine the headline, “center continues solid work.” even if he’s the best blocker in the nfl, his contributions tend to fade to the background in a game wrap storyline. 
Baseball: catcher 
like centers in football, base­ball catchers do a physically demanding job. They’re squat­ting behind the plate for nearly every pitch, every season. 
Their greatest contributions don’t appear directly as sta­tistics. some of them don’t hit well, and that can obscure how well they manage a pitching staff by scouting the opposing hitters and guiding the pitcher’s strategy. This position requires intangible mental engagement on top of the physical toll, nei­ther of which are easily mea­sured or recognized. 
The proportion of thanks to effort at this position is there­fore pretty low. 
Basketball: center 
There are few true centers, and many don’t achieve the fame of star guards and for­wards in the nba. 
They don’t drive down the court much or exhibit fancy ball-handling. sometimes, the overwhelming advantages of their size size simply overshad­ows the nuances of the skills and athleticism they also have developed. 
They often don’t have as flashy of a role in the offense as a guard or forward (until it comes to dunking), but they are required to play a physical game, posting up against and defending opponents’ largest players. They can be an asset in their ability to distribute the ball back out from the lane and set picks, but the bulk of these contributions don’t always translate to glory. 
Soccer/hockey: defender 
They play offense, too, of course, but more often than not, they’re performing subtle tasks like clearing the ball from near their own goal/net or starting an offensive attack with accu­rate passing. 
dedicated fans know who the good ones are, but the rest of the population — those whose knowledge of both sports amounts to sidney crosby and lionel messi — probably don’t. 
The winning goal-scorer or a persistent goalie will steal the spotlight in a game story, but it’s rarer for defenders that hold the backline to do so. 
in the case of the u.s. men’s national Team in soccer, the defenders became the story in this year’s world cup when they forced Tim howard to make 16 saves against belgium. 
in hockey, defenders give and take some of the most punish­ing hits and receive some of the most punishing blame when the team goes down. 
from the average fan, at least, it’s more common to hear, “we lost because the defenders were sloppy,” than, “we won because the defense was awesome!”
   Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL | eagles 45, panThers 21 
Eagles take down 
Panthers 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — mark sanchez shook off the rust and had one of the best games of his career in his first start in two years. 
sanchez threw for 332 yards and two touchdowns, the defense dominated and the philadelphia eagles beat the carolina panthers 45-21 monday night. 
sanchez started his first game since dec. 30, 2012 for nick foles, who broke his col­larbone last week. he looked better than he did when he was the franchise quarter­back for the new york Jets. 
“after playing for a while, you learn a lot,” sanchez said. “i’ve made plenty of mistakes and hurt the team. The most important thing was taking care of the foot­ball, communicating well and executing. if we do that, generally we’ll be success­ful. There are still plenty of things to clean up though. by no means was this perfect.” 
sanchez had never thrown for more than 265 yards without an interception and had more yards passing in a game just three times in four seasons with the Jets. 
darren sproles had two touchdowns — a 65-yard punt return and 8-yard run. bradley fletcher re­turned an interception 34 yards for a Td and Jordan matthews had 138 yards receiving and two Tds.
   The eagles (7-2) stayed on top in the nfc east. They’re trying to repeat as division champions without foles 
The panthers (3-6-1) hardly look like the team that won the nfc south last year. They’ve lost four in a row and already have allowed more points in 10 games than they did in 2013. making things worse, panthers defensive tackle star lotulelei was carted off the field late in the third quarter. 
“we’ve got to do things better,” panthers coach ron rivera said. “i have to coach better, coaches have to coach better, we have to practice better and then go out and play better. and we’re going to do it together as a team.” some things we learned in the eagles’ rout over the panthers: 
CAM’S KRYPTONITE: 
newton had never been sacked more than seven times in his career before the eagles got him nine times. conor barwin had 3 1/2 sacks and brandon graham had 1 1/2. The panthers had two of their three injured starters back in the lineup, but couldn’t protect their quarterback.
  “i’m great, that’s not go­ing to be a distraction for me,” newton said. “yeah, i got hit a lot today, but it’s all in the game. we’re not playing ballet, we’re not running track or anything.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Big Ten has uneven scheduling 
Associated Press 
if minnesota wins the big Ten’s west division, the golden gophers will have done it the hard way. 
This weekend, coach Jerry Kill’s team hosts ohio state, which just took control of the east by hammering michigan state on the road. although the golden gophers are tied atop their division with wisconsin and nebraska, they’re at a bit of a disadvantage thanks to this weekend’s game. minnesota has to play ohio state, while the badgers and cornhuskers don’t have to face the buckeyes at all during the regular season. 
“we’ve just got to do our job. i’ve said that all along,” Kill said. “we’ve had a tough schedule, and it’s not getting any easier, but that’s the chal­lenge that our football team has, and we’re looking forward to that challenge.” 
with the addition of 

FOR RENT 
1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 
maryland and rutgers this season, the big Ten now has two seven-team divisions, and there’s no way for everyone in the league to play everyone else. instead, each team plays only two opponents from the other division, meaning some of the league’s top teams won’t necessarily face each other. 
right now, no. 11 nebraska (8-1, 4-1), no. 22 wisconsin (7-2, 4-1) and minnesota (7­2, 4-1) are tied atop the west. nebraska’s crossover games this year are against michigan state and rutgers, and the cornhuskers already lost to the spartans. wisconsin beat rutgers and maryland hand­ily. minnesota beat michigan and now here come the eighth-ranked buckeyes. 
advantage, wisconsin. 
“with new teams coming in from maryland and rutgers and realignment and those type of things, those games, it’ll circle back around,” Kill said. “it’s part of it, and we understand it from adding teams.” 
The schedule may hurt ohio state as well. The buckeyes made a major statement last weekend with their 49-37 victory at michigan state — the first big Ten loss for the spartans since 2012. but even if ohio state beats everyone it plays from the big Ten, it’s hard to say how much that will im­press college football’s playoff committee. 
before beating michigan state, the buckeyes’ best vic­tory this season was prob­ably against maryland or penn state, and neither of those wins was much of a head turner for a team climbing back in the polls from a two-touchdown loss at home to unranked virginia Tech. if ohio state had a chance to play both nebraska and wisconsin, the buckeyes might be able to bolster their resume a bit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Nice to meet you, where you been? Love’s a game, wanna play? I could show you incredible things New money, suit and tie Magic, madness, heaven, sin I can read you like a magazine Saw you there and I thought Ain’t it funny, rumors fly Oh my God, look at that face And I know you heard about me You look like my next mistake So hey, let’s be friends. 



NBA | rapTors 104, magic 100 NHL | rangers 5, penguins 0 
Toronto comes from behind to beat Magic 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — Kyle lowry scored 19 points, Terrence ross had 17 and the Toronto raptors erased an 11-point deficit in the fourth quarter to beat orlando 104-100 on Tuesday night, their ninth consecutive victory over the magic. 
demar derozan had 16 points and lou williams scored eight of his 14 in the fourth as the eastern conference leaders won their fifth straight game overall and improved to 7-1. 
ross grabbed the rebound on a potential tying jump shot by Tobias harris with 2 seconds left. Toronto has won its first five home games for the first time since 2003-04. 
evan fournier scored 24 and harris had 23 points and 13 rebounds for orlando, which lost its second straight. The magic haven’t beaten Toronto since march 26, 2012, and have lost 10 of the past 14 meetings. 
channing frye scored 19 points and nikola vucevic had 18 for the magic. 
amir Johnson and patrick patterson each had 12 points for Toronto. James Johnson led the raptors with 10 rebounds. 

with all five starters on the bench, Toronto opened the fourth on an 11-0 run, capped by back-to-back 3-pointers from williams and patterson, to tie it at 83 with 
9:49remaining. 
another 3 by patterson at the 6:36 mark gave the raptors their first lead since the opening quarter at 90-88, but vucevic promptly tied it with a hook shot. 
frye put orlando in front, 95-92, with his fifth 3 of the game at 4:27, but ross an­swered with a tying 3 a min­ute later, his fourth of the night. 
The magic led 98-97 when frye missed a 3 at 1:43. derozan was fouled at the other end and made both to put the raptors in front. after a missed 3 by fournier, lowry added two more free throws to put Toronto up 101­98 with 1:05 left. 
harris brought the magic within one with a layup, but patterson made one of two at the line and ross finished it with two more free throws after he was fouled grabbing the rebound on harris’ late miss. 
frye made his first four shots, three of them 3-point­ers, then added another 3 on orlando’s final possession of the first quarter as the magic led 32-24 after one. 
harris and luke ridnour each scored six points in the second, giving the magic a 60-51 lead at halftime. 
harris had nine points in the third and vucevic added eight as orlando took an 83­72 lead into the fourth. 
TIP-INS 
magic: rookie g devyn marble (right shoulder) missed his second straight game, while g victor oladipo (facial fracture) and c Kyle o’Quinn (left ankle) re­mained sidelined. .... orlando is 35-34 against Toronto. 
raptors: f landry fields (flu-like symptoms) was inactive. rookie bruno caboclo was active for the first time this sea­son. ... Toronto marked remembrance day by wear­ing camouflage jerseys, and honored four canadian vet­erans at center court in a pregame ceremony. 
paid adverTisemenT 


new york shuts out pittsburgh 
Associated Press 
new yorK — mats Zuccarello scored the first of new york’s three first-pe­riod goals, henrik lundqvist made 33 saves for his third shutout of the season, and the rangers snapped pittsburgh’s seven-game winning streak with a 5-0 victory on Tuesday night. 
martin st. louis and Kevin Klein added goals in the first, derick brassard had a power-play tally in the sec­ond, and rick nash — who had two assists — scored a short-handed goal in the third for the rangers, who broke a two-game losing streak. 
lundqvist earned his 53rd nhl shutout — extending his rangers record. 
The penguins (10-3-1), who will complete a five-game trip friday at Toronto, hadn’t allowed a power-play goal in 10 games, and their streak reached 39 kills be­fore brassard’s goal. 
marc-andre fleury stopped 30 shots for pittsburgh, 5-1-1 on the road. 
The rangers shook off their lackluster performance in a 3-1 home loss to edmonton on sunday and jumped all over the penguins. 
new york drew an interfer­ence penalty against sidney crosby just 57 seconds in. it didn’t produce a goal, but generated four shots and set the tone. fleury was sharp early and kept the penguins in it for as long as he could. 
pittsburgh was being out-shot 9-3 but nearly grabbed a 1-0 lead when a drive got be­hind lundqvist and slid to­ward the empty net. rangers forward Tanner glass alertly swept the puck away from the goal line just in time with 12:18 remaining. 
no one bailed out fleury. 
derek stepan won a faceoff in the right circle back to Zuccarello, who snapped a drive that beat fleury at 8:23 for his third goal of the sea­son — all scored in his past six games. it was also his 100th nhl point. 
Just 2:36 later, st. louis doubled the lead with his fifth goal. marc staal’s shot from the left point struck defenseman robert bortuzzo in front, and the rebound came to rick nash, who quickly slid the puck to his right to st. louis, who slammed it past fleury. 
Klein pushed the advan­tage to three with 5:13 left in the first, scoring with a drive from the blue line. 
The penguins received their first power play in the final minute of the first, but couldn’t take advantage, even with the benefit of clean ice at the start of the second. 
fleury returned to the sharp play he displayed ear­ly and held off the rangers for a while. he even got the benefit of a waved-off goal 
because  of  traffic  in  the  
crease.  
but  the  rangers  broke  

through the penguins’ for­midable penalty-killers and made it 4-0 while steve downie served a roughing penalty. brassard calmly skated into the right circle and deftly snapped a shot that appeared to glance off fleury and sail under the crossbar with 9:11 left in the second. 
lundqvist remained steady at the other end, and made his best save of the night when he turned aside a quick one-timer from in front by chris Kunitz with 
2:51 left in the second. 
nash made it 5-0 with his 12th goal of the season at 
7:45 of the third. 
noTes: crosby, the nhl’s leading scorer with 24 points, went pointless for the second time in three games. ... rangers d John moore re­turned from a five-game sus­pension. ... penguins d Kris letang was briefly injured, but returned in the second period. ... pittsburgh is 10-5 in its last 15 regular-season visits to new york and 10-3­1 in its last 14 meetings with the rangers. 




ND Vball 
conTinued from page 16 
without defense.” 
a key contributor in this defensive effort was senior libero Kathleen severyn, who totaled 18 digs. severyn has seen significant time as a starter lately, and brown said her leadership has been crucial. 
“on the court, Kathleen is calm and confident and helps keep the composure of the team,” brown said. “regardless of how many touches she’s getting or how many digs she has, her de­meanor and leadership is re­ally important for us.” 
The team has also had to deal with recent inju­ries to junior setter hannah muzzonigro and sopho­more middle blocker Katie higgins, who left the game against louisville with an ankle injury. 
“it’s a real sign of character that, in all these situations with losses and injuries and falling behind 2-0 in match­es, we haven’t given up,” brown said. 
she said she thought the win against louisville could be a turning point for the team. 
“after a win, when you know you’ve accomplished something, you feel a lit­tle more upbeat,” she said. “we’ve kept a great attitude, but the win just maintains the outlook of continuing to get better.” 
notre dame will play its next match at wake forest at 
6:30 p.m. on friday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 

NHL | devils 3, wild 1 
Second-period goals give Devils 
win over Wild 
Associated Press 
newarK, n.J. — Tuomo ruutu and mike cammalleri scored second-period goals that helped the new Jersey devils end a four-game losing streak with a 3-1 win over the minnesota wild on Tuesday night. 
Travis Zajac sealed the victory with a power-play score into an empty net in the closing seconds. Jaromir Jagr had two assists. 
cory schneider made 23 saves in his 16th straight start. he is the only nhl goalie to start ev­ery game this season. 
There was speculation before the game that rookie backup Keith Kinkaid might get his first start. devils coach pete deboer stuck with schneider and was rewarded when he preserved the lead late in the third period with a sprawling save to deny erik haula. 
ryan carter scored against his former team and darcy Kuemper stopped 20 shots for the wild, who lost their fourth straight. 
ruutu broke a scoreless tie at 
5:42 of the second period, de­flecting home a shot from the left point by seth helgeson, who was making his nhl debut. 
The tempo, tentative at best to that point, quickened following the first goal. 
minnesota came very close to countering as mikael granlund fired a hard shot off the post that landed in the slot. schneider deftly reached behind him with his stick to swat the puck out of danger. 
The near miss proved costly when new Jersey added a sec­ond goal about a minute later. cammalleri knocked in the re­bound of Jagr’s shot at 9:53, giv­ing the devils a 2-0 lead. 
schneider preserved the shut­out late in the period with a brilliant stop on nate prosser. already down on the ice, schneider shifted left to glove prosser’s drive from the right circle. 
a miscue by schneider put minnesota on the board with a short-handed goal at 5:24 of the third. 
carter picked off schneider’s weak clearing pass and fired a soft shot from the left boards that slipped into the net to trim new Jersey’s lead to 2-1. 
There were few scoring chances for either team at even strength in the first period. minnesota did have an excel­lent opportunity on each of its two power plays. 
Jason pominville hit schneider in the chest at the right post on the first one. schneider again came up big on the second penalty kill, denying mikko Koivu in close. 
paid adverTisemenT 




CLUB SPORTS 

Ultimate team travels to Missouri, Illinois 
Special to The Observer 
The notre dame women’s ultimate team attended two different tournaments this past weekend, with the a team at the missouri loves company tournament in columbia, missouri, and the b team heading to the charleston chili tournament in charleston, illinois. 
in missouri, the a team started out seeded ninth overall in the tournament and ranked fifth in its pool. it opened up the week­end against no. 1-seeded colorado, but the irish came out strong with an early 5-0 lead that resulted in a 7-4 vic­tory, despite the day’s windy conditions. sophomores Julia butterfield and mary Kate andersen contributed with consistent cuts throughout. 
notre dame a then moved forward to play against washington university and came through with an 8-5 victory. it followed this up with a 10-4 win against iowa state. 
The final game of the day was against rival illinois. The a team struggled against the fighting illini in the past, falling to them in regionals last spring. but the irish started strong with defensive stops from sophomore mary hermann and freshman sarah lipscomb. notre dame a brought that day’s record to a perfect 4-0 with a decisive victory over illinois to move from fifth place to first place. 
sunday morning start­ed late due to frost, but that didn’t stop notre dame a from coming out strong against wisconsin­milwaukee with a 11-2 win, including an interception by graduate student captain Kelsey fink in the end zone for a point. 
The a team coasted off this easy victory into a tough quarterfinals game against Truman state afterwards. fink notched another in­terception in the end zone to help start the team off to a 3-0 lead. Truman state fought back to knot the score at seven, the deciding point. hermann made a crucial stop in the end zone line to set up the easy, game-win­ning score. 
notre  dame  moved  on  
to  the  semifinals  against  
Kansas,  the  no.  2-ranked  

team overall in the tourna­ment, and the irish collected 
their first loss of the tourna­ment, 9-6. however, the game was highlighted by senior handler nicole vujosevich’s connections with fifth-year cutters molly carmona and elaine rose. 
notre dame a faced iowa in the third-place game and coasted to an easy, 10-4 vic­tory, putting the irish at 7-1 on the weekend. 
The b team had an equally strong showing in illinois, going 4-2 overall to earn sec­ond place. 
on saturday, notre dame b beat usi women’s anomaly and lewis but fell in a close game to marquette. however, the irish came back strong the next day to beat marquette in a rematch and also took down eastern illinois. notre dame b fell to northwestern’s a team in the finals to seal a second-place finish. 
The b team had strong showings from junior ellie norby on defense and fresh­man elizabeth lewis and junior giuliana carozza on offense. sophomore beth cichon also came in with consistent cuts and catches to help carry the b team to its victories. 
MLB 

all-stars defeat Japan in exhibition game 
fifth inning at Koshien stadium. 
Associated Press 
“i was able to get a good pitch 

nishinomiya, Japan — evan and drive it,” longoria said. “we longoria hit a grand slam and the don’t know a lot about these guys major league baseball all-stars so you’ve got to try to come into survived a late rally to beat a split the game and put the bat on the Japan squad 8-7 in an exhibition ball.” game on Tuesday ahead of their salvador perez hit a solo homer five-game postseason tour. in the sixth, and hiroki uemoto 
The mlb all-stars scored two drove in a run in the bottom of runs in the fourth inning and the sixth, but the all-stars re­longoria made it 6-0 with a blast sponded when dexter fowler hit over the centerfield wall in the a solo shot in the seventh to make 
paid adverTisemenT 

it 8-1. 
but the hosts rallied, scoring five runs in the seventh, and an­other in the eighth to make it a one-run game. 
all-stars manager John farrell said he was pleased with the result. 
“Tonight was more than we could have asked for,” farrell said. “we were able to get ev­ery position player on the field, we were able to go to our bull­pen, but their competitiveness forced us to make some plays.” 
chris capuano picked up the win after striking out three and holding Japan to one hit over four scoreless innings. 
The five-game series against Japan will start on wednesday at Kyocera dome in osaka. There are also games at Tokyo dome, sapporo dome and cellular stadium in okinawa. 
The series marks the first time since 2006 that a mlb all-star team has visited Japan. The Japan team was made up of members of the country’s two most popular professional teams, the yomiuri giants and hanshin Tigers. 
FENCING | world cup 
Kiefer brings home silver 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
The list of things lee Kiefer has not accom­plished in her time at notre dame got one item smaller over the weekend. The 2012 olympian brought home her first career senior world cup medal after earning silver at the foil in st. maur, france, this weekend. 
Kiefer, a junior who won the 2013 ncaa foil champi­onship, had previously won silver medals in both the cadet and junior divisions of the world cup in 2011, as well as claiming gold in the north american cup in 2012. she was also the first athlete ever to earn med­al finishes at the senior, Junior and cadet world championships back in the 2011 calendar year. 
The versailles, Kentucky, native cruised into the quarterfinals, where elisa di francisca, the 2012 olympic gold med­alist from italy, awaited her. The irish junior was not fazed, though, as she handily pulled off the up­set, 15-6. Kiefer met 2013 senior world medalist inna deriglazova of russia in the semifinals, com­ing back from a 13-10 defi­cit to record the winning touch in a 15-14 victory. italian arianna errigo, the two-time defending senior world champion, finally felled Kiefer in the champi­onship match, 15-8. 
Kiefer was joined in france by junior class­mate madison Zeiss, who advanced into the table of 32 with a 15-12 victory over mina Kim of south Korea before falling to hiromi Kusano of Japan, 15-6. Team usa wound up fin­ishing sixth in the event. 
elsewhere around the globe, irish athletes were able to find success. in the senior men’s foil world cup event in Tokyo, irish graduate student and vol­unteer assistant coach garek meinhardt finished ninth while Team usa fin­ished fourth. freshman amanda siroco earned a silver medal in the Junior women’s epee world cup in helsinski as well. 
a plethora of notre dame fencers also saw action in louisville, Kentucky, at the north american cup ju­nior tournament. The meet was highlighted by fresh­man francesca russo’s vic­tory in the women’s sabre division, while classmate madeline gallagher fin­ished 29th. russo defeated the second-seeded malia hee, 15-10, in the semifi­nals before toppling the first-overall seed sarah merza, 15-13, in the cham­pionship bout. The victory was russo’s second in as many north american cup tournaments. 
The irish managed strong finishes in other events as well. freshman Zoe loh placed 29th in the wom­en’s foil division, while the men’s side saw six finishers inside the top 20. freshman Jonathan fitzgerald fin­ished in a tie for third in men’s sabre to lead a trio of notre dame sabres. fitzgerald earned the 18th seed out of pool play and fell to fourth-ranked benjamin natanzon, 15­7, in the semifinals. also joining fitzgerald was freshman Jonah shainberg, who finished in 10th place. 
freshman nicholas hanahan, like fitzgerald, earned a tie for the bronze medal in men’s epee. The indianapolis native was the 69th seed coming out of pool play and pulled off a string of upsets before finally falling to the first-overall seed and eventual champion marc-antoine blais-belanger in a close, 12-11, decision. Junior John poremski joined hanahan in the top 15, finishing in 12th place. sophomore hazem Khazbak and fresh­man spicer emge took 12th and 20th places, respective­ly, in the men’s foil division. 
The notre dame wom­en will be back in action friday when they host an exhibition match against northwestern at 7:30 p.m. in the castellan family fencing center. The whole squad will then travel to the ohio state elite cup in columbus, ohio, and com­pete all day sunday. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued from page 16 
three snaps — two against stanford in poor weather conditions and one in the warm sunshine against arizona state — this sea­son. The mishap saturday occurred with notre dame trailing 34-17 at the start of the fourth quarter. 
“we’ve had three drops. Three is too many. can’t take a fourth,” Kelly said. 
Zaire has served as the backup holder all season, per Kelly. 
What Lies Ahead 
after notre dame suffered its second loss of the season and dropped to 7-2 — effec­tively eliminating itself from college football playoff contention — Kelly said his message to the team doesn’t change much. 
“we haven’t talked about playoffs since day one,” Kelly said. “all we really talked about was how we compete and what we need to do this weekend to win because we’re all in it to win it. so our focus is really about what do we need to do to win this weekend because they want to sing the fight song at the end of the day.” 
The irish sat at no. 10 in last week’s college football playoff rankings. The lat­est batch of rankings will be released Tuesday evening at 7:30 p.m. notre dame 

Monaco 
conTinued from page 16 
bend, and it’s easy to see why many around the program tout his impressive upside. auguste makes plays above the rim and spews an on-court fire more often than even-keeled veterans like grant andconnaughton. 
irish coach mike brey has dis­cussed the need for auguste to slow things down to pick up his production. There have certainly been flashes of that in the pre­season. auguste chipped in 12 points and eight rebounds in 19 minutes friday against lewis and went for 19 points and eight boards in just 21 minutes two weekends ago against minnesota duluth. 
consistency, though, will be essential forauguste, especially as the competition stiffens and the games actually count. growth and steadiness at the free-throw stripe will go a long way for the primary-post presence, too. after burying a mere 48.3 percent of his free throws last season, auguste has hit nine of his 19 attempts in two exhibitions, and lewis, in particular, attempted to tie up auguste on the low block and send him to the line. 
The path is a tad clearer for Jackson, the mishawaka, indiana, native and former mcdonald’s all­american. brey has said arguably the best thing that’s happened to Jackson since the end of last dropped to no. 15 in this week’s ap poll and no. 16 in the coaches’ poll. 
“we weren’t going to be able to control even if we won out whether we were gonna go to the playoffs,” Kelly said. “so we focus on things we can control. and what we know we can 
season is the graduation of former starting point guard eric atkins. 
as a freshman, Jackson did make 15 starts and averaged more than 22 minutes per game, but the uber-athletic guard only notched 6.0 points and 1.8 assists per contest while slowed beside — or even behind — atkins. 
now, the ball and the team belong to Jackson. he’s looked in command through two nights, netting 20 and 19 points, respec­tively, in the preseason tune-ups. brey continues to rave about Jackson’s defensive ability and willingness to guard the length of the court for much of the game. That, in addition to Jackson’s enticing offensive skill set, could spur notre dame back toward acc relevancy. 
The irish ranked 204th (of 351 teams) in the country last sea­son in defensive efficiency, per kenpom.com. defensive develop­ment is necessary for a team that lost seven games by five points or fewer and whose 12 conference defeats were by an average of 7.9 points per game. 
grant will certainly help tighten those gaps. but he won’t bring notre dame back to respectability on his own. 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
control is what we do during the week. and that’s really been the message.” 
The irish host northwestern on saturday at 3:30 p.m. at notre dame stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
team together. however, o’malley is not one to take credit. 
“it really is a team effort with us though, not just the back four,” o’malley said. “i think we can attribute our defensive prowess to ev­eryone on the team know­ing their role and staying focused without the ball. i think the success of a pro­gram really depends on a consistent defense, and i think we are bringing that this year.” 
considering that the irish defense contains a majority of seniors and upperclass­men, including o’malley, that have played together for a long time, one would think they would just rely on and react instinctively to one another’s ability. but o’malley said their posi­tion doesn’t allow such a luxury. 
“i don’t think there is ever a time where you don’t need to communicate on defense 
— that kind of thing is left to the attackers,” o’malley said. “That being said, i do think since we are so ex­perienced, we know each other tendencies. That can lead to making the correct decision in those split-second moments in soccer where there isn’t time to communicate. otherwise, we are always talking in 
The  irish  resume  play  
in the  acc  semi-finals on  
friday  against  clemson  

paid adverTisemenT 
the back and keeping each other accountable.” 
That group of upper­classmen won’t be a part of the program forever, and o’malley said he and the other veterans have taken it upon themselves to pre­pare the next wave of play­ers to take on greater roles within the team. 
“i think we just really try to keep the young guys part of the team and make sure anything that we are working on, they are work­ing on, too,” o’malley said. “it’s not just about the guys playing at this very mo­ment; it’s about everyone on the team.” 
with the ncaa tourna­ment beginning in just over a week and wrapping up in mid-december, the irish season is starting to wind down, and for o’malley, this will be the last time he suits up for notre dame. even though he already has won a national title, the graduate student said he still has a job to finish with notre dame and isn’t ready to look back on his accomplishments. 
“i will get back to you on that one in about a months time,” he said. 
in cary, north carolina at 
5:30p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: separate your private life from your professional life to avoid misunderstandings. your home will be your safe haven. it’s time to regroup and mastermind innovative ideas that will help you rise above anyone trying to make you look bad or tempt you into making wasteful decisions and alterations. don’t let uncertainty take over. Trust in your judgment through useful observation. your numbers are 6, 11, 21, 27, 36, 46, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a flexible attitude will help you navigate your way to success. someone you have worked with in the past will make a proposal. unfortunately, the glowing description you are offered initially isn’t likely to live up to your expectations. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): pick up information, attend a conference or do some searching online for new career resources. partnerships can help you reach your goals quickly and with confidence. address an emotional matter practically. don’t fold under pressure. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do what you can to assist your peers. if you work as a team player, you will gain respect and open up a window of opportunity to work on a specialized project that piques your interest. don’t donate to make an impression. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): choose a destination that allows you to grow spiritually, philosophically and educationally. it’s not how far you travel, it’s what you learn in the process that will lead you in a more positive direction. romance is favored. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you can bring about change without going over budget. if you stick to your game plan, you will avoid criticism. Keep your life simple and free of drama. once you make a complaint, it will escalate out of control. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The possibility of romance is in the stars. make your feelings and your intentions clear. planning a small vacation that allows you to mix business with pleasure will bring interesting and unexpected results. your intuition won’t let you down. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional problems will crop up, leaving you feeling uncertain about the future. anger and discord are best avoided until you have a better understanding of what’s transpired and how best to deal with the changes taking place. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): concentrate on what you can do, not on what others want. make the most of your talents by using your insight. altering the way you live or the standards you set will help you reach your life goals. put yourself first. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): altering the way you live will lift your spirits and bring a little excitement and adventure back into your life. broaden your horizons by taking on new endeavors and meeting interesting people. you cannot buy love, so don’t spend to impress. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put in as much time as it takes to get a job finished. your willpower and determination will make others take note and reward you for your accomplishments. love is in the stars, so celebrate your achievements with a little romance. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): work on the changes required to improve your financial, legal or medical situations. you will face obstacles if you include others in your decisions. do what’s best for you, but try to stay within your budget. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you are on a roll and can make significant changes to your current situations regarding money, emotions or physical improvements. love is on the rise, and an emotional matter will lead to a happy and prosperous ending. self-improvements will turn out well. 

Birthday Baby: you are caring and captivating. you are strong, courageous and underestimated. Keep doing what you are doing and good things will come to you no matter what. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Mistakes prompt changes 
Kelly discusses Golson turnovers against Arizona State, changes at holder position, playoff possibilities 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
five everett golson turnovers spiraled into 28 arizona state points saturday, but irish head coach brian Kelly said the senior quarterback isn’t en­tirely to blame for the mis­cues and the resulting 55-31 loss to the sun devils. 
“he’s responsible for the football. every one of those turnovers, he’s responsible for because he’s the leader,” Kelly said Tuesday. “and he took full responsibility and that’s why i’m proud of him. but he’s got 10 other players that have to do their job. and they’ve got to do their job better.” 
golson tossed four inter­ceptions and fumbled twice, losing the ball once. The sun devils returned two in­terceptions for touchdowns and had two scoring drives 
— that followed golson turnovers — that lasted a combined four plays and 36 yards. and although golson was under constant pressure from the blitz-happy sun devils, which notched seven sacks, Kelly said the offen­sive line wasn’t “central to the issues of turnovers.” The line wasn’t to blame for any of the first three turnovers, Kelly said, and the coach­ing staff isn’t “pressing the alarm button” on the offen­sive line. 
“Those had nothing to do with the offensive line,” Kelly said. “when we look at it, it’s easy to say, ‘alright, it’s the offensive line that’s breaking down.’ we don’t see that. … it’s not pointing to one specific group.” 
irish senior running back cam mcdaniel will continue to get more playing time in pass-protection situations as he continues to stay a cut above sophomore run­ning backs Tarean folston and greg bryant as a block­er, Kelly said. folston and bryant can improve their “want-to” and technique as blockers, Kelly added. 
A New Holder 
irish sophomore quarter­back malik Zaire will take over duties as the starting holder, Kelly said. Zaire re­places junior walk-on hunter smith, who has mishandled 
see fooTball PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
nd needs more than just grant 

Mike Monaco 
senior sports writer 
Jerian grant is back, but that doesn’t mean notre dame is. 
The preseason all-acc guard can step right back onto the hardwood at purcell pavilion and pour in 30 points or dish out nine assists in exhibition play and look just like the same playmaker who left campus in december. but it’s not that sim­ple for notre dame to regain the same status it had before grant missed the second semester due to an “academic matter [he] did not handle properly.” 
The irish spiraled into acc oblivion, only once winning back-to-back conference games and suffering their first losing season since 1998-99. sure, grant’s presence is worth a few wins off the bat, as it probably would have been in league play last season. still, there’s much work to be done and major strides to be made. 
no one’s strides will lead to more overall improvement for the team than those of 6’10” junior big-man Zach auguste and sophomore point guard demetrius Jackson. grant and senior guard/forward pat connaughton will assuredly be the reliable veterans who power the squad, but auguste and Jackson will be the key cogs in determining if notre dame can bounce back after last year’s mess. 
auguste is the bigger wildcard here, and not just literally. his combination of size and athleti­cism is fairly unique in south 
see monaco PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL 

resilience fuels struggling irish 
By ANDREW ROBINSON  By MIKE GINOCCHIO  
sports writer fiveco  sets, including two, 3-2 meback wins.  sports writer  
The season has presented T he team’s resiliency was  There is an old saying in  
many challenges and learn­cer tainly apparent in its  sports that, while offensive  
ing curves for the irish, most  recent match against  firepower is good to have to  
but as coach debbie brown lou isville on sunday. notre  start the year off strong, de­ 
would tell you, one major da me lost the first two sets,  fense wins championships  
positive theme underlies it and  the match seemed to be  in the end.  
all: resilience. a r epeat of the sound, 3-0  That mantra can be found  
The irish (6-18, 3-10 acc) los s to the cardinals on oct.  in sports of all types, and  
started the season with six 12 ( 25-14, 25-19, 25-13).  it was definitely prevalent  
losses, and more recently, h owever, the irish climbed  for the irish last season, as  
they endured a difficult back,  winning the hard- they rode a strong defensive  
2-11 stretch, both among fou ght third and fourth sets,  team for the first national  
the worst stretches in re­25­ 23 and 25-22, to force the  championship in program  
cent team history. despite dec isive final frame.  history.  
the troubles, which came a fter having lost the fifth  and now, midway through  
partially as a consequence set s in each of its three  the acc championships,  
of early-season injuries and pre vious games against  the no. 4 irish look to con- 
a young team, brown said vir ginia, georgia Tech and  tinue that strong run. They  
she continues to marvel at bos ton college, brown said  knocked off no. 15 virginia  
the team’s continued energy the  team was determined to  on sunday, 3-0, in the tour- 
and spirit. foc us and not let the match  nament quarterfinals for  
“This team is remarkably slip  away. The irish came  their first victory against  
resilient,” she said. “when out  strong and established  the cavaliers in seven tries  
you’ve lost like we have, it’s a 5 -2 lead, eventually win- as a program.  
hard to come in the gym and nin g, 15-12, to claim the  as graduate student de­ 
stay upbeat, but the girls vic tory and snap their four- fender andrew o’malley  
have been working really ga me losing streak.  noted, the defense has  
hard to get wins. nobody “ i thought we served well  played a crucial role in this  
likes the record or where we and  we received serve well,  season as well.  
are, so we just stay focused which  allowed us to be in  “i thought the defense  
on getting better.”  system more,” brown said.  played really well this week- 
in their first 18 games, the “de fensively, we had a lot  end against the cavaliers,”  
irish suffered 10 losses in of  scramble plays where we  o’malley said. “They are a  
which they were swept, 3-0. wer e working hard to keep  really dangerous team in  
however, they have been the  ball up. you can’t win  transition, and the defense  
significantly more competi­ really locked it down in  
tive over their last six games,  see nd vball PAGE 12  that regard.  i also think we  

five of which have gone to 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Defense proves vital to postseason success 

irish. Their defense has re­corded seven shutouts on the season, and o’malley has been one of the linch­pins that have held the 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
defended their crosses well and had a really organized defense. [i] really need to commend the whole back line for that performance.” 
it has been a consistent source of strength for the 





