the iNdepeNdeNt to uNcover Newspaper serviNg the truth Notre dame aNd aNd report saiNt mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 62 | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Life without preconceived expectations’ 
Professor reflects on connections between philosophy, cognitive disabilities in annual lecture at SMC 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
News writer 
eva Feder kittay, distin­guished professor of philoso­phy at stony brook university in New york, addressed the saint mary’s community in the student center’s rice commons wednesday evening with a lec­ture titled, “Normalcy and a good life: problems, prospects, and possibilities in the life of people with severe cognitive disabilities.” 
the presentation was part of the college's annual mcmahon aquinas lecture and speaker series, which values the quali­ties of sincere questioning and truth wherever it can be found, assistant professor of philosophy michael waddell said. 
waddell is also the endowed edna and george mcmahon aquinas chair in philosophy, which selects the annual lectur­er related to the thoughts of st. thomas aquinas. 
kittay is the first lecturer in the series who is an alumnae of a women’s college, sarah lawrence college, waddell said. 
“i do think there is an enor­mous value in a women’s col­lege,” kittay said. “by the end of a couple years, we are able to think without all the craziness that goes on in co-ed situations.” 
her work has encompassed the ideas of feminist philosophy and history, and she has authored numerous books in her field, waddell said. her contributions have earned her nationwide rec­ognition as a distinguished phi­losopher and professor. 
kittay’s lecture stemmed from her most recent work study in the area of disability, normalcy and the idea of the good life. 
“an op-ed in the washington post wrote, ‘having a child with a severe disability makes every parent a philosopher,’” kittay said. “what if you are already a philosopher and are raising a child with multiple and severe disabilities, including severe cog­nitive disabilities? you become a humbler philosopher.” 
see lecture PAGE 5 



Former vice president of business affairs dies 
Observer Staff Report 
thomas J. mason, former Notre dame vice president for business affairs, passed away Nov. 24 in Naples, Fla. at the age of 82, according to a university press release. 
"during his 20-year ten­ure, mason exercised over­all control of Notre dame’s fiscal affairs and oversaw a nearly tenfold expansion of the university’s endowment, more than 30 major con­struction projects, the reno­vation of the main building and the expansion of Notre dame stadium," the press re­lease stated. 

mason, who took the po­sition in 1976, came to the Notre dame after working at the university of michigan for 10 years. in 1993, the Notre dame alumni association named him an honorary alumnus, and the facilities services building on campus bears his name. 
“much of higher education in recent years has been char­acterized by fiscal crisis and retrenchment," university 
see report PAGE 4 




Hunger Banquet raises awareness of poverty 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
News writer 
with the upcoming holi­days, many families will gath­er around a table and enjoy a feast together, but some fami­lies will have little to no food on their tables. 
the 10th annual hunger banquet was held at saint mary’s on tuesday evening to raise awareness about hunger and poverty. 
see baNQuet PAGE 5 



Conference to address gender and childhood 

By SELENA PONIO 
News writer 
“Fun with dick and Jane: gender and childhood,” an in­ternational conference spon­sored primarily by the gender studies program, will bring together undergraduate stu­dents, graduate students and professors thursday through saturday to address society’s interest in gender and child­hood using interdisciplinary approaches. 
“this conference in particular is important be­cause it is a conference about childhood and gender ex­perience,” senior marcilena shaeffer, a presenter in one of two undergraduate panels, said. “i think it is important to stop and reflect on what forces were at play during those key years in our development and how other people's assump­tions on how we should be ended up having an effect on us.” 
see geNder PAGE 5 


News PAGE 3 viewpoiNt PAGE 7 sceNe PAGE 9 meN’s basketball PAGE 16 womeN’s basketball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the last picture you took with your phone? 

Ellen Coticchia 
sophomore 
Farley hall 
“a picture of my roommate sleeping in class.” 


Michelle Bohrt 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“i took a picture of the dorm on my way to class this morning.” 
Jeffrey Wang 
junior 
off-campus 
“a picture of my family at thanksgiving.” 


Rachel Broghammer 
junior 
ryan hall 
“Family picture from thanksgiving.” 
Katie Flynn 
senior 
off-campus 

“a picture of my younger cousin and i at thanksgiving.” 


Victor Roh 
junior off-campus 
“beef.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: haleigh ehmsen Zach klonsinski emilie kefalas manny dejesus 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
sam coughlin erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

South Bend Youth Christmas Cookie Women’s Basketball Classic Film: “It’s a Feast of the 
Zach llorens rex shannon 

Symphony Orchestra Decorating Purcell Pavilion Wonderful Life” Immaculate Morris Inn LaFortune Student 3:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Conception 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Center ND vs. Connecticut. Arts Center Basilica of the Sacred 
Corrections 

Holiday entertainment. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Heart 
the observer regards itself as Free for students. Free for students. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. a professional publication and 
Open to the public. 

strives for the highest standards 
Interdenominational ND Chorale Men’s Basketball Advent Lessons and Campus Ministry 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship (ISI) DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion Carols Christmas Party 
however, recognize that we will make 
Coleman - Morse Arts Center 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Coleman - Morse 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Center 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. ND vs. Fairleigh Heart Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Featuring Handel’s Dickinson. 7:15 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Student worship. “Messiah.” Features all choirs. Freshmen invited. 


Student documentary honored at film festival 
By ALYSSA LYON 
News writer 
katie mattie, vincent moore and william Neal — 2014 Notre dame graduates — won "best short documentary" at the 2014 sunset international Film Festival in may in los angeles for their film "the suicide disease." 
"the suicide disease" tells the story of Frances shavers, former Notre dame chief-of-staff, who suffers from trigeminal Neuralgia (tN), a neurological disease that causes extreme facial pain, ac­cording to a Notre dame press release. 
"our film is about Frances shavers' struggle with the dis­ease and her extraordinary story of hope and courage," mattie said, describing shavers as "remarkable" and "larger than life" despite her disease. 
in the spring of 2013, professor ted mandell, associ­ate professional specialist for the Ftt department, inspired the three filmmakers to tell shavers' story after showing them footage of shavers suffer­ing from a pain attack as a re­sult of her condition. 
upon seeing the footage, the trio of students teamed up to tell shavers' important story, mattie said. 
"Frances suffers from 100­150 pain attacks daily, which can last anywhere from 20 sec­onds to 2 minutes," she said. "my heart breaks when i think of Frances’ battle ... and the amount of pain she endures because of it." 
the three filmmakers spent three months gathering footage for the documentary, even trav­eling to the cleveland clinic to meet with shavers' doctors. 
"it was during that film­ing session [in the cleveland clinic] that we learned how se­vere her condition is, and [saw] what the emotional toll that tN has taken on Frances," mattie said. 
despite the severity of the disease, shavers was a joy to work with, mattie said. 
"she really embraced the process of making the film and was fearless in sharing her vul­nerability to the world," mattie said. 
but it was shavers' sense of humor amongst the seriousness of the filming process that was most memorable for mattie. 
"one part of the film that i wish we could show more is Frances’ sense of humor and all of the moments when she would crack a joke, or just be adorable." 
mattie said showing "the suicide disease" at the sunset Film Festival and the trio's ex­perience was "incredible" and "a whirlwind." 
"we were in awe of the diver­sity of the films we saw at the festival, and the level of support from the directors of the event," mattie said. 
the overall production of "the suicide disease" had a profound impact on the three filmmakers, mattie said. 
"what i took away ... is the incredible capacity Frances has to love, hold onto faith, be vulnerable and courageous," she said. "[Frances and her hus­band, george] have shown me a new level of love and support that i’ve never seen before." 
mattie said that she hopes the film will provide hope to those with tN, as well as inspire oth­ers to help. 
"our goals [with this film] were to raise awareness [for] the disease, share Frances’ in­credible faith and strength, connect with others living with chronic pain and if at all pos­sible, be a call for someone to help Frances," mattie said. 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at alyon@nd.edu 

sociologist analyzes kkk impact on modern politics 
felt in the world today. and asking, ‘do they make a that people who hold con-about — something we have 
By ALEX CAO 

News writer “there are really two dif-difference?’” servative attitudes towards in common like music or 
ferent core puzzles,” mcveigh mcveigh, cunningham and integration ... are more likely sports. 
professor rory mcveigh, said. “one is kind of a sub-Farrell worked with nearly to vote republican. but here’s “then sometimes there’s chair of sociology at Notre stantive puzzle ... how has half a century of voting data the important part: that was such an issue that could be dame, co-authored an up-the south, which used to be since one of the peaks in klan only true in counties where a ‘hot topic’ of discussion ... coming article to be pub-solidly democratic and sup-activity during the 1960s. the the klan were active." and we argue in our paper the lished in the american portive of white supremacy ... trio observed changes in vot-mcveigh said the longest klan was like that. they were sociological review with pro-how has it transformed into ing habits in counties across lasting influences of the kkk so controversial ... it became fessors david cunningham a republican stronghold? ... 10 states in the south that were sustained through sub-such a hot topic of discussion from brandeis university historians have looked at have and haven’t experienced tler, more mundane means, that you couldn’t just avoid it. and Justin Farrell from yale that but not really paid atten-klan influence, mcveigh said. rather than emphasizing in the process people started university. tion to the role of extremist "we have a measure of disparity between races. the to choose side and the klan 
the article, titled, movements like the ku klux republican voting in 1960 kkk’s actions brought to played a role in bringing the “political polarization as a klan. before the emergence of the light the unwillingness of the race issue out into the open social movement outcome: “it kind of fits in with a klan, and we look at mea-general public to discuss and and aligning racial attitudes 1960s klan activism and its general academic question sures of republican voting resolve race-related issues, with party platforms. … in enduring impact on political about whether or not social through various elections af-he said. other words, this kind of radi­realignment in southern movements make a differ-ter the emergence of the klan "our personal networks cal action can disrupt social counties, 1960 to 2000,” dis-ence," mcveigh said. "For going all the way to 2000 and are more diverse in attitudes networks and place people in cusses the activities of the ku many, many years, sociolo-we look at klan activism as than we think they are.” different networks that are klux klan (kkk) in its hey-gists were studying how [the something that intervenes mcveigh said. “let’s say ... we sustained for so long through day, its influence in modern kkk] emerged in the first within that time period,” don’t agree on some issue. i social interaction," he said. politics and the motivations place. it’s only been in recent mcveigh said. “here we are in could drop you as a friend but behind actions from a near years that people have been the 1990s after the klan has more commonly we change Contact Alex Cao at half-century ago that are still turning that question around dissolved ... and we found the topic that we’re talking acao@nd.edu 
paid advertisemeNt 







SENATE 

Senate discusses DART changes 
By JESSICA MERDES 
News writer 
student senate met on wednesday evening to dis­cuss two resolutions present­ed by the Judicial council and hall president’s council (hpc). 
kathryn peruski, presi­dent of the Judicial council, presented a resolution that defines social media rules for campaigning for student government. according to peruski, candidates are al­lowed to make social me­dia accounts and pages as part of their campaign, but the amendment will require that everything, every post, tweet and video, has to be specifically approved by the Judicial council. 
this amendment tightens the procedure for campaigns from what used to be a “blan­ket approval” that lacked “specific rules and regula­tions," peruski said. 
“this change is very neces­sary as there was no clear cut way to deal with questions of ethics in social media previ­ously,” she said. 
michael wajda, chairper­son for the hall president’s council, presented a reso­lution that will change the name of the “treasurer” on hpc to “finance chair.” the resolution also changes the election process for the fi­nance chair, who will now be nominated by the co-chairs at the beginning of the term. 
“we dropped the voting requirement and the term ‘treasurer’ for consistency across the board in regards to the election of chair per­sons,” wajda said. “beyond that, we are an information disseminating body and these changes reflect on the different nature of hpc.” 
both of the resolutions were passed by the senate. 
phil gilroy, a student sen­ator, presented findings 
Report 
coNtiNued From page 1 
president emeritus Fr. edward 
a. "monk" malloy said upon mason's retirement in 1996, according to the press release. "the fact that this has never been the case at Notre dame is due in large measure to the financial and managerial acu­men of tom mason. his legacy to the university is a fiscal planning and budget making model that should ensure our financial strength for years to come.” 
mason earned a bache­lor's degree and a master's of from a recent study regard­ing darting procedures. gilroy’s committee looked at prevalent issues with the darting system and tried to find some solutions. 
“we realized that we’ve been simply tolerating the current darting system and class search options for a while now,” gilroy said. “it 
“We realized that we’ve been simply tolerating the current DARTing system and class search options for a while now. ” 
Phil Gilroy 
student senator 
quickly became clear to us that a change was necessary.” 
according to gilroy, com­mon problems that students face include difficulties comparing classes side by side, difficulty finding spe­cific college and univer­sity requirements and time constraints. 
“to modernize the darting system as well as increase ease of use, the committee came up with the idea to enable the program to have a mock schedule plan­ner such as schedulizer,” gilroy said. 
other ideas include a wait-list system to notify students when a class has an open spot, as well as more time be­tween darting sections. 
these preliminary ideas will work to help students in the process of registering for classes, and the senate plans to discuss the ideas further. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 


business administration from the university of detroit in 1959 and 1963, respectively, and served in the u.s. air Force during the korean war, according to the press release. 
a visitation will take place at 8:30 a.m., saturday in the basilica of the sacred heart. a funeral mass will follow at 
9:30 a.m. 
in lieu of flowers, the fam­ily requested that donations be made in mason’s memory to the university of detroit mercy at 4001 w. mcNichols road, detroit, mi 48221-3038; or to st. agnes parish, 7775 vanderbilt beach road, Naples, Fl 34120. 

alumnae visit rwanda, present art gallery 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
News writer 

two saint mary’s alumnae, malea schulte and elizabeth palmer, will share the transfor­mational experiences they had during a research trip in rwanda at the moreau gallery opening, "project rwanda," on december 8. 
while in rwanda this past year, 2013 graduate palmer and 2014 graduate schulte, as part of their project, approached differ­ent rwandans and asked them how they wanted to be remem­bered, palmer said. 
“Face of christ, change-maker and servant were some of the answers that flowed from their souls,” palmer said. “we had them write their answer on a white board and took a picture for our exhibit.” 
"project rwanda" will also fea­ture the photography of Jonathan bell, a passionate photographer from asia, who will be joining palmer and schulte opening night, palmer said. prayer flags will be displayed and the artists’ reflections will be depicted. 
the idea to create the art ex­hibit came after schulte’s recent completion of her senior compu­tation titled "storybank," which included individual paintings of different members of the saint mary's community. 
one of schulte's interviewees was a woman from rwanda, whose story inspired palmer and schulte to travel to rwanda in recognition of the 20-year an­niversary of the rwandan geno­cide. the duo hoped to build connections with people and promote peace through relation­ships, palmer said. 
“malea interned at a faith based Ngo called pico (people improving communities through organizing), whose focus is on the different needs of communities, such as clinics and housing, through the world with a base in rwanda,” palmer said. “our connection with pico paved the way to meeting people and making connections while in rwanda. the confidence we developed and relationships we formed at saint mary's were our motivating factors.” 
shulte's and palmer's goal was to depict the intrinsic beauty of the people of rwanda 20 years after a horrific genocide, palmer said. 
“the photographs are win­dows to their souls depicting a genuine nature of love, courage, strength, and humility in the midst of suffering, strength and forgiveness 20 years post geno­cide,” palmer said. “it parallels the core values of saint mary's college, including faith and spir­ituality, justice, community and 
paid advertisemeNt 
learning. my emotions revolve around gratitude towards the rwandan's to open their hearts and share their stories. it is a humbling feeling to get to share their powerful stories with the community here." 
“the people of rwanda are au­thentic,” palmer said. “a beauty exists there that allowed us to feel welcomed as their sisters in christ. there is a simplic­ity in rwanda that allowed us to reflect on the meaning of life where relationships are intensely valued. the people in rwanda have overcome hardship and yet they do not dwell in negativity. instead, they understand that each day is a gift that should be lived to the fullest.” 
the rwandan people opened palmer's eyes to what it means to be alive, she said. 
“we were able to create rela­tionships and have maintained contact,” palmer said. “we were able to highlight our similarities and acknowledge our differenc­es. this allowed us to gain per­spective into humanity. 
“it was an empowering experi­ence, and malea and i will most definitely utilize our teamwork to continue sharing in person­al stories of people across the world.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



Lecture 
coNtiNued From page 1 
kittay referred to her lecture as a story and an argument from the perspective of a parent who has experienced first-hand, life as a parent raising a disabled child. 
many who watch from the side­lines see a disabled child, and they see a family condemned to struggle, kittay said.  her goal was to convey how these families and these children can experience a good life without the element of supposed “normalcy.” 
“severely cognitively disabled individuals process their world and experiences atypically,” kittay said. “[they] experience a range of human possibilities only partially available to or not salient for oth­ers. [they] have a greater degree of dependence on the care of others.” 
kittay posed the question to her audience as to if these people with disabilities could live a good life. she quoted aristotle in saying, “the activity of the divinity which surpasses all others in bliss must be a contemplative activity ... hap­piness is coextensive with study.” 
“the philosophers, of course, have much to say about the good life,” kittay said. “a more contem­porary view is held by martha Nussbaum. what’s normal for ‘a truly human life’ include play, closeness to the animal world, must include the ability to be autonomous and to act ratio­nally and reasonably. these are presumed to be at the core of con­ception of moral personhood.” 
kittay quoted socrates’s famous statement, “the unexamined life is not worth living,” before ad­dressing how she applied this philosophy during the birth of her daughter. 
“by the time i had given birth to my daughter, and yet once i became her parent, there was no question in my mind that her life was worth living,” kittay said. “i would love her as the child of mine she is. this was foundational, the love of reason. the capacity to act rationally [was] not at the center of a life of meaning and value. 
“how can one argue that moral worth [is] predicated on the abil­ity to reason,” she said. “one can argue life itself is of estimable value.” 
in speaking about her daugh­ter, kittay emphasized she did not want her daughter to merely live but to have a life worth living. 
“this conception of a good life may mean they do not have a life worth living,” kittay said. “we need not engage in disputes if the aim is to see a good life, nor do i want to speak of a minimally ac­ceptable life. a good life should be much more than minimally acceptable.” 
severe cognitive behavioral problems can often cause high levels of pain, which may make life harder to endure. in the case of autistic children, this may make ordinary sensory experi­ences intolerable, such as physical affection, kittay said. 
“as i read and hear from par­ents with children with severe cognitive disabilities, it’s like be­ing part of a special club,” kittay said. “even in the midst of pain, there’s a terror we will lose this child. many of us has come to appreciate a life without precon­ceived expectations.” 
love, joy and the gift of just be­ing able to 'be' encompass the idea of the good life for these chil­dren and families, kittay said. 
“it’s not easy being not normal,” kittay said. “Normal is such a be­nign word. the term is deceptive­ly descriptive. when used against an individual, it can feel like a blunder. 
“why does the news that your child is not normal send such a shock,” kittay said. “the worst fear is that the impairment will af­fect the child’s thinking. we want health for our children. how will this child grow into an adult who will be valued, not merely as a piti­ful charity case?” 
kittay said she experienced a great amount of anxiety for her daughter in that she knew she would not live a normal life and always be very vulnerable to the world around her. though her daughter, sesha, is now grown, some concerns remain strong for her wellbeing and safety, kittay said. 
“she will not be able to have an intellectual life,” kittay said. “[there’s] her extreme vulner­ability to harming herself [and] her vulnerability as someone’s victim.” 
kittay also has concerns about what important and “normal” de­sires of her daughter’s will remain unfulfilled, including roman­tic love and the desire for young children. 
“does this mean that a good life is impossible in the absence of the normal,” kittay said. “in our own development as parents, the two concepts seemed inseparable in the early years, prying apart ‘a good life’ from the ‘normal life.’” 
according to kittay, acceptance in our society is directly linked to self-worth, and therefore affects the desire for normalcy. 
“we require the affirmation of community that what we are is valuable. we are in danger when we are held in contempt," she said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
department's goals were to 
Banquet 
emphasize the challenges of 
coNtiNued From page 1 
poverty in local and interna­tional communities. 

saint mary's student “the purpose of the hunger diversity board (sdb) presi-banquet is to raise awareness dent callie brown said her about poverty and hunger 
paid advertisemeNt 


around the world and to pro­vide resources for the com­munity to get involved and give back," brown said. 
sdb sponsored this not so ordinary dinner, which was a part of the board's goals in highlighting diversity on campus. 
students, faculty and staff drew slips of paper and played different roles at the banquet, according to a press release. one person could be a millionaire, and another could be a single parent working three jobs, barely able to make rent. once in a role, each partici­pant is categorized into one of three social classes: low­er, middle and upper class. 
the designated class on each slip of paper determines how much food is on his or hers plate, the press release stated. 
senior madison maidment said the banquet was an eye­opening experience. 
“the banquet is an oppor­tunity for students to get a feel for the life of those less fortunate, especially when it comes to issues of poverty and justice,” maidment said. “the hands-on experience helps people better under­stand those who may not have the same opportuni­ties. Not everyone has a meal plan.” 
the event was small yet in­formative, sophomore erin hart said. 
“it was really cool to talk about hunger and pov­erty not only in our local community but also world­wide,” hart said. “i also liked hearing about the dif­ferent ways the community can give back to those less fortunate.” 
brown said the hunger banquet was a powerful event and she hopes that saint mary's students will contact the office of civil and social concerns if they would like to get involved in this annual event. 
“this event, to me, is a sign of solidarity with those who live in poverty and do not have the same access as re­sources as many in the saint mary's community do,” brown said. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
Gender 
coNtiNued From page 1 
professor pamela wojcik, director of the gender studies program at Notre dame, played a crucial role in plan­ning this conference and brought together speakers from the Notre dame com­munity as well as speakers from all over and outside the country. 
“it takes a long time to plan a conference. it’s been in progress since last winter,” wojcik said. 
wojcik said this conference is relevant in every student’s life and stressed that one does not have to be affiliated with or study gender studies to attend. 
“i think this conference works both on an academic and real world level,” wojcik said. “i think it’s also the mo­ment when the issues that will be talked about in terms of gender and childhood are very real in culture.” 
the three-day conference will consist of panels covering topics including transgender identity, fairytales, toys and disney princesses, as well as two undergraduate pan­els with students from Notre dame and other universities. 
“i've never presented at a conference, and this is my first really intense academ­ic engagement with gender studies issues,” shaeffer said. “i'm an outsider to all of this, but gender studies, i think, is inherently interdisciplinary.” 
Junior colton williamson, who will present a paper on sexuality in the film "the 400 blows," said he has a particu­lar interest in gender studies because it ties in with his oth­er interest, film. 
“beyond giving a few pre­sentations in my classes, i've never actually spoken at a conference,” williamson said. “i don't have much of a concrete background in gen­der studies, but i have always been interested in cinema, and a big part of film analysis now involves looking at films through a gendered lens.” 
senior rae moors, who will discuss illustrations in children’s books, said the conference will provide an opportunity for her to con­nect two disciplines. 
“i've always been interested in gender studies and in vi­sual art,” moors said. “this conference just happened to be an excellent intersection of the two disciplines, so i couldn't pass up the chance to participate as well as attend.” 
shaeffer said the confer­ence will benefit anyone who attends regardless of their field of study. 
“it is important for stu­dents to attend this confer­ence not only in an attempt to supplement or improve their academic pursuits, but also [to pursue] that intense self-awareness and self-consciousness we should all strive for,” she said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



the observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

host more discussions 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

this year, an anthology of essays called “should i go to grad school?” came out through bloomsbury publishing, featuring takes on the question from authors, artists and other creative-types. while the book’s title question has become increasingly representative of my own post-graduate anxieties, the reason i bring it up is because its author, sheila heti, not only shares her insightful opinions on graduate school education but also stories about meeting and learning from other people as an adult. 
part way through, heti mentions the importance of having regular, planned gatherings and events as a young adult. she emphasizes that bringing people together to learn and collaborate was foundational to her education as a young adult. in a world where “partying” means blasting music in dimly-lit houses or dorm rooms while “education” conjures up images late-night study sessions in the library, i was envious as i read the article. but as she and her interviewer, Jessica loudis, chatted about parties in which young people could converse and connect, the idea that im­portant conversations could consistently be had in a venue outside of the classroom started feeling like a real possibility — someone just had to host them. 
Fortunately, i had a good friend with a similar vision, so he and i collaborated to schedule regular talks, salons and gath­erings for students and friends in south bend. with a mailing list, a ban on cell­phones (a rule heavily-contested and reluc­tantly obeyed by guests) and a new topic each week, we kicked off the project this semester. starting small, we’ve been able to have conversations on topics ranging from best-selling novels to neighborhood development in our own homes, and we’re only getting started — we have a long list of brainstormed topics and anticipated guest speakers ahead of us. 
though we’re often able to engage in debate or talk seriously to each other in classes, i’ve really come to believe that having a time for students to discuss topics relevant to their lives and environment — in their own spaces and on their own terms 
— is invaluable to the college experience. to speak candidly with our peers creates opportunities, forms friendships and al­lows us to build communities within the larger Notre dame and south bend com­munities. already, the project has been eye-opening. 
host gatherings. invite interesting peo­ple you meet in class or out in south bend to them. brainstorm ideas. collaborate. take full advantage of the lectures, fo­rums and salons on campus. of course your classes are important, but so is this four-year opportunity to debate and collaborate. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaksen@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Gondor calls for foreign aid 
Stephen Raab 
let’s talk smart 

one of the highlights of my break, apart from a black Friday mall-crawl and an initiation into the world of “go,” was the afternoon i spent with my brother watching the di­rector’s cut of “the lord of the rings: the two towers.” it’s a wonderful film, and while much of J. r. r. tolkien’s great prose has made the transition to silver screen, i reserve a special fondness for a scene original to the peter Jackson film. (spoilers ahoy!) 
after careful consideration, the ents of Fangorn Forest have decided to remain neutral in the war between the evil saruman and the men of rohan. the hobbit pippin opines that perhaps he and his friend merry should do likewise, as “it’s too big for us. what can we do in the end? we’ve got the shire. maybe we should go home.” merry angrily prophesies if they do so and saruman is not stopped, “all that was once green and good in this world will be gone. there won’t be a shire, pippin.” Jolted from his complacency, pippin cun­ningly convinces the ents to march on isengard and van­quish saruman. 
much like pippin, many these days don’t want america to get involved in the affairs of other nations. rather than proudly wear slogans like “america’s Navy—a global Force for good,” these isolationists cynically turn a blind eye to suffering abroad. after all, they insist, we don’t have a dog in this fight or that one. what has such intervention brought us in the past but dead men, lost money and retributory ter­rorism? Far better that we should hunker down and let the third world blow itself to bits. 
in the past, such logic made sense. our crises had to be triaged, and the looming threat of nuclear annihilation at the hands of the soviets left little room for other consider­ations. Further, a little dustup on the far side of the globe was unlikely to affect our daily lives. but that time has passed — the berlin wall has been down for a quarter cen­tury, and our advanced networks of communication and transport mean that the effects of suffering and violence in one part of the world affect every other part. 
other critics of american interventionism point to failed interventions of the past (usually while glossing over success stories like south korea or postwar europe). i’m certainly not going to claim that our aid to saddam hussein or our coup to install the shah were the finest hour of american foreign policy. however, the irresponsible actions of our former allies give us all the more reason to inter­vene now. committing resources to mopping them up will show to the world our willingness to correct our mistakes. indeed, the money spent and blood spilt to restore justice and prosperity will be fitting payment for any advantage america has gained through corrupt bargains. 
and while we’re on the subject of money, i’ve always found the financial arguments against interventionism to rest on shaky logic. surely we can all dig a little deeper at tax time if it means preventing another rwandan genocide. in fact, cash spent on intervention can be seen as an invest­ment. if a targeted killing of a cell leader or local warlord prevents a full-scale war a year down the line, the “med­dling” that penny-pinching isolationists decry will have saved money in the long run. 
Finally, it’s naturally inevitable that our interventions worldwide will meet with less than universal acclaim. dictators and war criminals the world over will character­ize our efforts as “nosy”— as though the architects of geno­cide don’t deserve to have noses stuck into their business. when defeated, these tyrants may even lash out with ter­rorism, as seen with the Nazi werwolf program after the fall of berlin. in these times, we must take heart and remember the words of les miserables author victor hugo, who wrote “you have enemies? why, it is the story of every man who has done a great deed or created a new idea. it is the cloud that thunders around everything that shines.” 
as the most prosperous and well-equipped nation on the face of this planet, it is our responsibility to prevent the abuse of its most marginalized citizens. this must include resistance — economic, political, and finally military — to evildoers all over the world. after all: “there’s some good in this world, mr. Frodo, and it’s worth fighting for.” 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying Chemical Engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


A beautiful, receptive joy in education 
Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 

“it is the mark of an educated mind to be able to en­tertain a thought without accepting it.” aristotle wrote these words many centuries ago, and to this day i be­lieve they hold great wisdom. my educative experience in the united states, however, has raised questions about our commitment to an intellectual, social and moral self-cultivation of our philosophy of education. 
education in the united states today is a confusing bundle of paradoxes. at first glance, there is a tremen­dous priority on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem), a set of fields in many ways syn­onymous with progress in the national conversation. legislators, media outlets, counselors and parents are calling for more stem courses in high schools and strongly encouraging students to enter stem majors in college. the message is strong and clear: your best chance at success is studying stem. 
unfortunately, american high schools are falling behind in stem performance. a number of preva­lent methodological failures are cited as the cause for this problem, but my question is more fundamental. why are we treating education as such a utilitarian mechanism? 
the end of education should not be the accumulation of facts or cookie-cutter problem-solving techniques. Neither should it be economic output, prestigious em­ployment or high rankings on some report. education should be much more personal and much more rela­tional. some of the most important benefits of educa­tion are the development of critical thinking that opens the door to knowledge and the communication skills to convey that knowledge. in these ways, students both grow as individuals and in their capacity to relate to their community. 
to combat poor academic performance, we need un­derstand how to educate. we need engaged parents and communities, and we need teachers empowered with resources and curricular freedom. we need a balanced approach between technical ability in stem and criti­cal analysis of classic literature that has stood and will stand the test of time. while building a strong capacity to reason from evidence and apply knowledge to a wide array of situations, it is paramount to hone the ability to communicate, both in speech and in writing — in a way that is nuanced, clear and comprehensive. 
with this said, we must seek a much deeper and more profound understanding of education. knowledge is intrinsically a body of work that grows with time, as our minds grasps the many interconnected relationships between people, places, ideas, events, worldviews and ways of life. but knowledge is more than having suf­ficient development to comprehend concepts studied and observed and the relationships between them. it is something we must seek and be ready to receive. 
in “teachers as cultural workers,” education philos­opher paolo Freire points out that “studying is a prepa­ration for knowledge.” i believe aristotle would agree, because studying clearly involve pondering thoughts without necessarily immediately determining their veracity or their relationship to the rest of the world. knowledge, in this sense, is a realization of personal growth, expanding the horizons of the student, dis­cerning truth among competing claims and, ultimate­ly, fulfilling their potential as an independent thinker. 
i find that the most profound understanding of knowledge, however, is in the ethic of caring, as devel­oped by another education philosopher, Nel Noddings. as knowledge is a relational phenomenon — with an object and subject — and even other interconnected objects and subjects, it requires the ability for it to be received. in her book, “caring: a relational approach to ethics and moral education,” Noddings wrote: “the relational mode is at the heart of human existence.” applying this notion to education, we should consider if our conception of education is rooted in its relational nature. this holds true for both the student, receiving from the teacher, and the teacher, who receives from the student in order to better orient himself or herself toward giving well to the student. 
beyond empirical evidence and logical frameworks is the truth in understanding, a true immersion and embrace of knowledge. Noddings describes a concept of receptive joy, “which occurs when we are engaged as though possessed — when we are caught up in a rela­tion… whereas explanation is controlled, contrived and constructed, understanding — like joy — comes unpredictably.” she compares this feeling to a light dawning, drawing a parallel to when c.s. lewis fa­mously wrote of being “surprised by joy.” in this case, though, we are surprised by understanding. 
an educator, through ethical caring, plants the seeds of knowledge and waters the ground for this moment. Not only is the educator facilitating a growth in knowl­edge, but also imbuing her students with a message about the nature of society. a teacher plays a crucial role in developing a student’s understanding of his or her relationship with humanity, transcending the use of education as a utilitarian tool and fashioning a rela­tional existence rooted in fully and genuinely orienting oneself toward others through a beautiful receptive joy. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and po­litical science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

dear Farley, i’m fine 
when i look at myself in the mirror in the morning, makeup don’t necessarily have high self-esteem. i wear makeup, you don’t need to listen to them. do it because i’m not disgusted. i’ve come to terms with the features makeup because i enjoy having the ability to empha-it feels right, or makes you feel more confident. i defi­of my face that society might find less than optimal. my size the features on my face i want to, and i can down-nitely don’t wear blue and gold lipstick because i think acne scars and i are all right; my nose is just fine as it is. play other features. i can make my makeup match my it’s more attractive than my natural face — i wear it 
i find nothing wrong with embracing the natural mood, and have my face reflect how i feel on the inside because it’s game day. it’s how i want to look, and i’m beauty of every single person on this campus. i think — be it dramatic eyeliner or an understated “natural” fine with that. it should be encouraged! urging people to not “wear look. i’ll be wearing makeup on dec. 4, not because i feel aNy makeup” and to “have confidence in your natural i recognize that using makeup because you are try-that i need to hide, but because i want to be wearing beauty!” tells me that if i wear makeup, it’s the result ing to meet societal expectations could present a prob-it. that is the only reason anyone should be wearing of a lack of confidence. the “be Fine: 1 day without lem. but shaming makeup users isn’t the answer. think makeup at all. makeup” event that Farley hall is putting on this week of makeup as a sort of less permanent tattoo; an art has everyone’s best interests at heart, i have no doubt, form through which i can express myself every single Natalie Wozniak but it sends the wrong message to this campus. day if i so choose.           senior 
people who choose to wear makeup don’t necessarily the only person you should wear makeup for is your-lewis hall have low self-esteem. people who choose not to wear self. if someone says you’re prettier with or without dec. 3 
Why we march for life 
with the annual march for life registration closing this Friday, our team wanted to remind the student body why we march for life. take a moment to think about this fact 
— there have been 56,993,299 abortions in the united states since the roe vs. wade decision in 1973. that is roughly 57 million lives that, through no choice of their own, will never have the chance to enter this world. in or­der to put this number into perspective, 1,110,563 soldiers have sacrificed their lives out of honor, duty and patriotism for our country in the revolutionary war, civil war, wwi, wwii, korean war and vietnam war — combined. the number of abortions that have occurred in the us is ap­proximately 51 times this value. in the words of mother teresa, “the greatest destroyer of peace is abortion be­cause if a mother can kill her own child, what is left for me to kill you and you to kill me? there is nothing between.” 
our nation has been founded on the premise that each 
individual has the unalienable right of liFe, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. life is the most basic right. all are entitled to it. this is what we strive to protect. ultimately, abortion is by far the greatest injustice of our time. that is where it becomes our duty to shine light on this situation. do not underestimate the impact that your voice can have. the media may turn a blind eye to it, but that does not mean millions of americans are standing idly by. 
here at Nd we thrive upon a culture of life and stand­ing up for others. we believe that every human person has dignity and immeasurable value regardless of age, race or economic status. this upcoming Jan. 22, each student will have an opportunity to peacefully march in honor of the innocent who have fallen victim to abortion and those in the future who will be given no choice. For only $35, you will join over 600 fellow Notre dame peers and faculty on a trip to washington, d.c. in order to march at the annual march for life. the university will extend ex­cused absences for missed classes. please sign up on stu­dentshop.nd.edu or visit the right to life website for more information. 
so gather a group of friends and join us in defending life this January. be inspired by the hundreds of thousands of americans who will be marching for life beside you. take advantage of this opportunity to celebrate life, meet new friends and enjoy our nation’s capital. although life may have no guarantees, abortion offers no chances. don’t you think it is time for everyone to be given a chance? 
Noreen Fischer
                 junior      head commissioner                                                              Notre dame march for life dec. 3 

the observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 

calling all country music fans: upcoming artist cole swindell is coming to legends this Friday, dec. 5, for an intimate performance.  although he is still a little-known country artist, legends has a way of host­ing artists right before their major breakthrough (ex: macklemore circa 2011).  For the real country fans, how­ever, this name might sound familiar. 
he currently has two top hits on the radio, his break­out song “chillin’ it” and the more recent “hope you get lonely tonight,” which is featured on his first self-titled album.  “chillin’ it” was named the number one single on billboard’s hot country songs list, and along with “hope you get lonely tonight,” both have been playing on country radio stations nonstop.  cole swindell is breaking in to the country music industry, and this is your chance to catch him before he becomes untouchable. 
although he only has two songs that are well known, swindell has been underhandedly involved in the 
ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

Finals are coming (don’t shoot the messenger) and so are holiday parties (again, don’t shoot the messenger), which means you are going to have to get dressed for things you don’t want to go to some­time soon. 
if you are one of those people who lives in a booth at club hes for finals week, and leaves oreo crumbs, a blanket and your dignity heaped in a pile as you go to an exam or hopefully to clean yourself up — but more likely to get more oreos — read on. 
if you show up to an exam with greasy hair, a groutfit and an overall grimy aura everyone around you can sense — you’ve already failed. 
don’t give me any of that “but i’m comfortable” or “i used dry shampoo and deodorant” nonsense. 
yeah, i’m talking to you girl in the lululemon outfit in the library that tricked me into thinking you had just come from a run. upon closer look, your hair was just so greasy it looked sweaty and your outfit was merely for comfort not sports. 
as it takes you no longer to put on jeans than it does sweatpants, you will not lose any time memo­rizing organic molecules with. 
yeah, i get that sweatpants are comfortable which makes them great for bed and dorm room studying, but at least put on some normcore Samantha Coughlin | THE OBSERVER country music industry for quite a while. he has been a faceless songwriter for some seriously popular country musicians; oftentimes the artist gets much more credit than the songwriters, even though the writing is the hardest part of making music, in my opinion.  swindell has a long list of songs he has written for famous artists: craig campbell’s “outta my head,” thomas rhett’s “get me some of that,” and ten of luke bryan’s hits, includ­ing “Just a sip” and “beer in the headlights.”  he also co-wrote Florida georgia line’s “this is how we roll.” clearly swindell has earned quite a few connections in the country music industry; it will come as no surprise when his own album becomes as famous as the albums he has written for. 
currently, swindell is on tour around the country, and we are lucky to be one of his stops. he is sched­uled to perform several nights at the famous Joe’s bar in chicago — one where many country singers had their start (so many that it has been named “Nashville North”). he’s also visiting other midwestern states while in the area and, starting next year, he will be perform­ing with the band perry and touring with Jason aldean 
approved heathered joggers to get to class. 
so, you’re final-ly done and all you want to do is sit on your couch at home with a brand new box of oreos and that blanket from the library. 
but alas, your aunt shelly calls and after bidding you “season’s greetings,” invites your family to a christmas party. your m0m takes one look at your now stained normcore joggers and passive aggres­sively hassles you to feign togetherness for the fam­ily: it’s time to step your game up. 
you run up to your suitcase and sort through your dress options, which unfortunately are all more Feve than festive. your mom yells up the steps that the party is “an ugly christmas sweater thing” at which you rejoice and cringe. 
sure, now you won’t be forced to wear anything bodycon to see uncle don, but you do have to get to goodwill where unfortunately all the ugliest/ best christmas sweaters will already have been snatched up. 
if this happens, do Not go to Forever21 or target or wherever else they sell new “ugly” sweat­ers. your ugly sweater must have already been worn by another human to have any relevance at all. you are a poser if your snowman embel­lished cardigan had a price tag over four dollars. macklemore will steal all your christmas presents for playing thrift shops — also, if your family plays “thrift shop” at this gathering you have permis­sion to feel ill and leave. 
so, you leave goodwill having felt no goodwill, in his nationwide “burn it down” tour.  swindell is on his way to becoming a major country star, doing all the right things to make it big. 
his first album was released in Feb. 2014, with warner bros. Nashville label.  the self-titled album has 12 tracks, all written or co-written by swindell.  luke bryan also co-wrote one of the songs, “i Just want you,” paying swindell back for the all the songs he wrote for him. 
swindell’s album received positive reviews and de­buted at No. 3 on the billboard 200 chart.  it was No. 1 on the top digital albums chart with 42,000 of its total sales being digital. 
this is a rare opportunity to see a breakthrough coun­try artist performing just a few feet away in a small, per­sonal venue.  come out to legends this Friday at 10 p.m. to catch a great country performance by one of cma’s New country artist of the year nominees.  we are lucky enough to have this free show come to Notre dame along swindell’s tour, so take advantage and see an up­coming star in his element. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
as the only sweater left was snagged by a giggling tween before you could get to it. 
you now have three options 1) go for the next best thing — the denim embroidered velvet-collared christmas button-up 2) whip up that tree sweater diy you saw on pinterest — it will be so easy and only require a trip to the craft store, the fabric store and insanity or 3) call up your grandma to bring an extra festive sweater to the party for you. 
so grandma dee came to the rescue in your time of need, but now you have another party to attend that grandma dee’s duds won’t be able to cover — New year’s eve. 
New year’s eve is all about the bling. it’s like ev­eryone is trying to show up the swavorski crystal New year’s ball — which is not that hard to do con­sidering it is the most over-hyped event of the year and watching some friend inevitably fall down will be a more entertaining drop. 
anyway, channel your inner kelis at the party: “diamonds on your neck, d-diamonds on your grill.” to stick to your college student budget grab some tinsel off the tree or get some paste (fake bling) to add sparkle to your ensemble. 
get ready to make a New year’s resolutions to delete the groutfit from your wardrobe when you get back to school. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

the observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 

ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

i am a huge proponent of the holiday song classics 
— the first few notes of mariah carey’s “all i want for christmas” and i instantly channel my inner buddy the elf. holiday music is an integral part of any merry sea­son, yet there is no denying that come New year’s, bing crosby begins to lose his appeal — fast. Now, don’t take this the wrong way, but one can only take so many dif­ferent versions of the same songs before their ready to pull their hair out, just like eggnog and ginger bread. 
lucky for us though, there is hope. after probing the inner confines of my holiday psyche, i have compiled a short list of five original holiday songs sure to bring anyone a refreshing respite from the humdrum of the holiday monotony. 
“Christmas Wrapping”- The Waitresses 
most of my life i thought of “christmas wrapping” as a classic, which is why it’s relative obscurity surprises me. possibly the most fun and catchy holiday song around, “christmas wrapping” is dripping in 80’s new wave pop, with a saxophone solo to boot. Not only is the song completely original, but the christmas message is too. the waitresses hit calls to mind the chaotic rush of the season, a message that can never be understated. in a world filled with music convincing you of the pleasant wonders of christmas, it’s a refreshing take. 
“Christmas in Hollis” - Run DMC 
“christmas in hollis” is just about as funky as christmas gets. produced in 1987 in the midst of the “golden age of hip hop,” “christmas in hollis” tells the compelling tale of young man’s dealings with santa claus. the fable is set in hollis, Queens and is told through fresh rhymes, layered over christmas tunes and flow as cold as the North pole itself. rap music is certainly underrepresented in the holiday genre, so “christmas in hollis” is sure to freshen up any holiday playlist. 
“My Christmas List”- Simple Plan 
“i want a car, and i want a life and i want a first class trip to ... hawaii!” Nobody can deny the allure of gift getting so embedded in the holiday season — especially broke college students.  “my christmas list” found me when i was tasked to complete my family’s annual christmas party holiday playlist back in the days of the ipod Nano. “my christmas list” is now a refreshing reminder of the early 2000s pop punk, we all have to admit we loved. 
“The Chanukah Song” - Adam Sandler 
No holiday playlist is complete without covering the season’s other biggest holiday, chanukah, yet “spin the dreidel” and “light the menorah” only go so far. adam sandler’s “the chanukah song” will always get a sing-a-long going with classic lines like, “chanukah is the festival of lights/ instead of one day of presents, we have eight crazy nights.” adam sandler produces one of the funniest holiday songs with “the chanukah song,” and it is always a smart idea to cycle it into the sea of holiday music. 
“Merry Christmas (I Don’t Wanna Fight Tonight)” -The Ramones 
leave it to the forebears of punk rock to bring a christmas song with the word “fight” in the title. yet, by mixing the chaos of the season, big families, cramped quarters and the rest of the jolly mess that is the season 
— fights are bound to occur. maybe the ramones’ mes­sage of peace is just what every playlist needs, not only for it’s originality, but its reminder of tranquility. 
contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: Humor Artists and Ugly Christmas Sweater Party 
When: 11:00 p.m. 
Where: Legends 
How Much: Free 

the theme for the last humor artists’ show for the semester is “haccidentaly in lhave,” a “tribute to the music in shrek.” stick around for the ugly christmas sweater par­ty after — if you enter the raffle you could win tickets to meet drake bell when he comes to campus this spring. 
FRIDAY 

What: Carroll Christmas When: 6-10 p.m. Where: Carroll How Much: A long cold walk 
head over to carroll (yeah, i know —but hey there are carriage rides from lyons!) for cookie decorat­ing, carnival games, a tree lighting ceremony, karaoke and a visit from santa, mrs. claus and the elves. 
SATURDAY 

What: Justine Marino (comedian) When: 10:00 p.m. Where: Legends How Much:  Free 
marino has opened for  Joel mchale, Jon lovitz and bo burnham. she is a regular at the comedy store, and improv and ice house in los angeles and “often wears a tiara and is probably currently covered in donut glaze as a result of being a single formerly fat child.” 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a scene writer picks a movie or show available on instant streaming ser­vice, then writes a review. 
“white christmas” is a holiday classic. starring bing crosby and danny kaye, watch to score some new tap dance moves and get in the christmas spirit. 
“white christmas” is available for instant streaming on Netflix. check it out then check in for caelin miltko’s review in monday’s paper. 
Samantha Coughlin | THE OBSERVER 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

UAB “Bear-ied” from get-go 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 
the university of alabama at birmingham (uab) football program was killed tuesday. it was 23. 
perhaps saying the program died would be incorrect — the blazers went 6-6 this season to become bowl eligible for the first time in 10 years. the play­ers will have the final say — if the team is invited to a bowl game — whether or not they go. so technically, the program is not dead yet; rather, it has been placed in a coma it will never recover from, simply being kept alive so that all its family can gather for one final time before the plug is pulled. 
uab football is a victim of a new age, one in which col­legiate sports care more about dollars and cents, rather than players and coaches; an age where a university’s bottom line is paramount and one where the power-Five conference’s autonomy continues to grow. 
when did collegiate sports come to this? was it when the Ncaa v. board of regents of the university of oklahoma ruled in the 1980s that schools could control their own televi­sion contracts? was it when the bowl championship series was formed in the late 1990s? was it when conference realignment uprooted teams like Nebraska and maryland or missouri and texas a&m from their traditional homes and placed them into new leagues, simply in search of more television money? 
regardless of when it hap­pened, at some point in time it did. 
but from the financial side of things, uab’s program was nev­er given a chance to succeed. 
For every year of their ex­istence, the blazers played at birmingham’s legion Field. in the early 1990s when the pro­gram began, the stadium was more than adequate. alabama played at least three home games a season in birmingham for most of the 20th century, rather than on-campus in tuscaloosa — including iron bowls — and the stadium was the site of the first two sec championship games in 1992 and 1993. 
but after the tide started moving all of their games back to campus, legion Field fell into disrepair. a stadium that was always far too big for the blazers was now crumbling 
— the “Football capital of the south” disintegrated in front of their very eyes. 
and then there was the fact that the university of alabama board of trustees never allowed the blazers to play the team from its tuscaloosa campus. the tide’s history of playing in birmingham did not matter. the trustees wanted to ensure that the blazers could never rival the crimson tide — a proposition that is as absurd as it is unlikely. an annual series between the two? it would have provided alabama with an op­portunity to play at legion Field every other year and might have given the blazers a fight­ing chance at the ticket gate. 
of course, like any good tale, this one has a villain; a man by the name of paul bryant, Jr. 
Now, you might have heard of his dad, though most called him “bear,” the man that built crimson tide football into the behemoth that it is. but his son 
—
 “little bear” — more than anybody, continually sucked the life out of uab’s program. 

take a trip back to 2006. the blazers were on the cusp of hiring Jimbo Fisher — now a national-championship-win­ning head coach at Florida state 

—
 to take over the reins of the program. a salary that would be partially funded by outside donors was agreed upon be­tween the two parties, and all that remained was approval from the board of trustees. 


except the trustees, led by “little bear,” blocked the move. instead, the blazers hired Neil callaway, the then-georgia offensive coordinator that was sought after by nobody. he went 18-42 in birmingham. 
and now, “little bear” has successfully killed off the blazers program. many think that the younger bryant has been in a quest to end the pro­gram thanks to gene bartow 
— 
uab’s first athletic director 

—
 getting on his father’s bad side. others speculate that he wanted to ensure the team in tuscaloosa remained at the top of the food chain for eter­nity. but most agree that it’s no coincidence this decision came down right before bryant will retire from the board of trustees. 


saturday, the crimson tide will play for a spot in the inau­gural college Football playoff, the richest prize ever in colle­giate sports. at the same time, the blazers will decide whether to play one more game as a family or if they would rather just simply pull the plug move on. 
it is unfortunate they were never given a chance to truly determine their own fate. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Pettine sticks with Hoyer over Manziel 
Associated Press 

berea, ohio  — brian hoyer came dangerously close to los­ing his dream job for good. 
but after getting them into playoff contention, the browns decided that despite his imper­fections and recent mistakes, hoyer is still their start­ing quarterback over rookie Johnny manziel, who may be their future but isn’t ready to handle the present. 
the browns are hoyer’s team for at least one more sunday. 
“i want to see this thing through,” hoyer said. “i want to finish this strong.” 
cleveland’s struggling vet­eran will start again this week against indianapolis after first-year coach mike pettine and his staff decided hoyer would be the better option down the stretch than manziel, who flashed some Johnny Football magic last week in a loss at buffalo. 
hoyer’s poor performance against the bills — he was pulled for manziel with 12 minutes left in a 26-10 loss 
— raised the possibility that cleveland (7-5) would make another switch at the position. the browns have had 20 start­ing quarterbacks since 1999. 
hoyer spent an anxious 48 hours waiting to learn his fate. 
“they weren’t the easiest days of my life, that’s for sure,” he said. “i’ve been through a lot, and this is one more thing to handle some adversity and it makes you stronger. it’s back to business as usual.” 
pettine described the de­cision as difficult because of hoyer’s performance, but said coaches put more value on his experience and success. 
“it wasn’t perfect and he’s made his share of mistakes, but he’s gotten the lion’s share of reps in practice and virtu­ally all of them in games and has us in the thick of a playoff hunt,” pettine said. “that, to me, was probably the biggest determining factor.” 
pettine said he told both quarterbacks his decision on wednesday. 
manziel, who led the browns on an 80-yard touchdown drive he capped with a 10­yard run last week, was un­derstandably disappointed. but the first-round draft pick was encouraged by his time on the field and knows his chance may not be far off. 
“obviously, that’s a decision that’s made by coach pettine,” he said. “and this week his answer was, ‘No’ so moving forward whatever transpires, maybe next time the answer will be, ‘yes.’” 
pettine said there was some “lively” discussion before the coaching staff agreed to stay with hoyer, who has thrown just one touchdowns pass and six interceptions in his last three games. hoyer will not be on a “short leash” and pettine is confident the five-year vet­eran and the rest of cleveland’s offense can bounce back after a rough stretch. 
before finalizing his deci­sion, pettine spoke with sev­eral players, who offered their support of hoyer. 
“he’s a resilient competitor,” pro bowl tackle Joe thomas said, “and that says every­thing you need to know about him because he’s not the type of guy that will feel sorry for himself. he’s not going to lay down. he’s going to prepare even harder.” 

NBA | raptors 117, kiNgs 109 
Raptors continue to win without DeRozan 
Associated Press 

sacrameNto, calif. — kyle lowry scored 27 points and made a pivotal jumper with 57 seconds left to lift the toronto raptors over the sacramento kings 117-109 on tuesday night. 
terrence ross matched his season high with 20 points and reserve James Johnson added 19 points and seven rebounds. the east-leading raptors had lost two in a row. 
the raptors, playing their second consecutive game without guard demar derozan, led by as much as 15 but were clinging to a 

FOR RENT 

SPRING SEMESTER -rental avail­able. Fully Furnished. 2BR 2BA. $700 per bedroom. Call 925-640-4707 or email jatkins3@nd.edu 
Attn: graduate students! Tri-level 
111-107 advantage late in the fourth quarter when lowry made a 20-foot jumper. 
rudy gay had 20 points and a career-high 10 assists for sacramento. the kings have lost four straight. 
six players scored in dou­ble figures for toronto, which had not won in sacramento since dec. 26, 2008. 
it helped that the kings were also short-handed. leading scorer demarcus cousins missed his third straight game because of a virus. 
the raptors took full advantage and benefited from sacramento’s defense, which continues to struggle without the 6-foot-11, 270-pound cousins in the middle. toronto scored 31 points in the first quarter, 35 in the third and shot an even 50 percent from the floor. 
lowry, who added 13 as­sists, went 10 of 21 while Johnson shot 9 of 13. 
ross made six of his first eight shots and had 15 points in the first quarter to help toronto go up 31-22. 
sacramento chipped away at the lead and took a 45-44 lead on omri casspi’s free throw after amir Johnson was whistled for a dead ball technical foul. the raptors scored the next six points and didn’t trail again. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
home for rent almost immediately! “Diva” — Beyonce: “A diva is a fe-Everything nice and new. 3 bed-male version of a hustla, of a hustla, room or could be 4, 2 full bathrooms, of a, of a hustla. open concept main floor! 2 1/2 car Stop the track, lemme state facts: garage. Call Laura for more details I told you, gimme a minute and I’ll 574-532-9167 be right back. Fifty million round the 
world and they say that I couldn’t get 1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to it; I done got so sick and filthy with campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 Benjis, I can’t spend it.” 


NBA | suNs 116, pacers 99 NFL 
dragic, bledsoe lead suns to win over indiana 
Associated Press 
phoeNiX — the phoenix double-point guard combi­nation of goran dragic and eric bledsoe reminded every­one just how good they can be together. 
dragic scored 34 points, bledsoe had 27 and the suns beat indiana 116-99 on tuesday night for their fourth straight victory over the pacers. 
“two electrifying guards playing together. that’s a tough matchup,” indiana coach Frank vogel said. “they have incredible speed. if you don’t take care of the basket­ball they will expose you for 38 fast-break points, which is what happened tonight.” 
the suns’ guards, who are getting more time together on the court with isaiah thomas out with an injury, combined for 22-for-35 shooting. dragic matched his season high for a game with 22 first-half points, and bledsoe scored 21 in the second half. 
dragic made five of six 3-pointers, bledsoe had sev­en assists. 
“Finally, you know, we’ve been struggling a little bit,” bledsoe said. “this game really was easy for us.” 

gerald green and markieff morris added 15 points apiece for the suns, who broke open the game in the final seven minutes. 
the suns, after two lethar­gic losses, wore down the pacers with their high-energy game. 
“it was a big talk for us all the last two days of having that enthusiasm,” phoenix coach Jeff hornacek said, “having that energy. ... and i think these guys took it to heart.” 
miles scored 17 for indiana, and roy hibbert had 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
phoenix put together a 17-3 run spanning halftime that erased a nine-point indiana lead and lifted the suns to a 64-59 advantage on dragic’s 13-footer with 8:01 left in the third quarter. 
miles went hard to the floor with 30.7 seconds left in the third, and after an official review, green was called for a flagrant-one foul, giv­ing indiana two free throws, plus possession, much to the displeasure of the crowd. hibbert hit two foul shots with eight seconds left to cut phoenix’s lead to 83-79 entering the fourth. 
phoenix stretched it to 10 before indiana closed to 94­88 on donald sloan’s layup with 7:24 left. but the pacers’ solomon hill missed two free throws, dragic hit a 3 and bledsoe stole the ball for a breakaway dunk and phoenix was off on a 12-0 run. 
vogel liked the play of his bench, who outscored the suns’ reserves 57-30. but phoenix outscored the indiana starters by a star­tling 86-42. 
“that’s something we’ve got to look at,” he said. 
TIP-INS 
pacers: set a season high for points in first quarter 
(28) and in first half (56). after three days off, indiana is playing five games in eight days. indiana took a 42-33 lead on a 9-0 run. indiana shot 59 percent from the field in the first half, 37 percent in the second. 
suns: hornacek said an mri of thomas’ injured ankle was negative and the guard might play Friday night at dallas. thomas has missed four games. phoenix has won eight of the last 10 against indiana and 15 of the last 19. 
paid advertisemeNt 


Former Browns  return as Colts 
Associated Press 
iNdiaNapolis — trent richardson remembers the day he walked through the front doors of cleveland’s training facility for the first time. he was wearing the suit he had on when the browns called his name with the third pick in the 2012 draft. 
pat shurmur, the head coach of the browns at the time, met him at the door with a big smile on his face, richardson recalled. 
“it was one of those feelings that i didn’t think i would ever be playing with another team,” he said. “i thought i would al­ways be there and it would be the last team i ever played for. but it happened like it happened.” 
the colts acquired the run­ning back from the browns on sept. 18, 2013, for a first-round draft pick — a move that richardson said he was “shocked” by. Now he and three other colts players are headed to cleveland this sunday for a game against a team, and fran­chise, they know well. 
return specialist Josh cribbs, who joined the colts last month as a free agent, signed with the browns as an undrafted free agent in 2005. safety mike adams played for the browns for five seasons and d’Qwell Jackson was drafted by the team in 2006 before he 
suffered  two  season-ending  
injuries.  
heck,  colts  coach  chuck  

pagano’s first four years in the league as an assistant were in cleveland. 
cribbs left cleveland after the 2012 season with a hand­ful of records, including the all-time franchise leader in kickoff returns, kickoff return yards, and return touchdowns. Jackson is looking forward to the opportunity to face his for­mer team, but says there won’t be any time to spend with friends and former teammates. 
“i’m not going to change what i do,” Jackson said. “in the offseason, if i go back, i’ll have dinner with some guys, but right now it’s a business trip and that’s the only thing that’s on my mind.” 
For richardson, it’s different. 
what he thought would be a long and successful career in cleveland has been every­thing but what he expected. things haven’t been the same since the colts acquired him last year and now richardson is looking for a breakout game this week against the team that drafted him — and traded him. 
“they gave up on me,” richardson said in a confer­ence call with browns media on wednesday. “i’m going to go into this game like it’s my last.” 
richardson has struggled to move the ball in indy, and the colts have been criticized for the move and questioned for sticking with the former alabama star. 
pagano made it clear the colts plan to rely on richardson as their starter. 
“there’s going to be good days and there’s going to be bad days,” pagano said. “he’s had some days that have been very, very productive and some tough days.” 
richardson totaled 12 yards on eight carries against washington last week. he had 42 yards against Jacksonville the week before, and finished with zero yards on six carries against New england on Nov. 16. 
lack of productivity? richardson sees it more as de­fenses focused on him so much that he can’t get into a grove. 
“you know what? people have just been stacking the box,” he said. “i haven’t been getting the looks that i was getting earlier in the season. Now that ahmad (bradshaw) is down, people are counting on me running the ball. i haven’t been getting all of the same looks as everybody else.” 
richardson says that some­times defenses are thrown off when they think he’s going to run the ball, but andrew luck decides to pass instead. 
“when it comes down to it, i want to say that i’ve been do­ing my job,” richardson said. “anytime i go in with play-ac­tion, somebody’s wide open. if they’re trying to stop by and andrew luck’s having a good day or (daniel herron) is hav­ing a good day, i’m doing good because they’re distracted by me.” 



the observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish travel to Texas without Reaney 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after a three-week hiatus from competition, Notre dame heads southwest to austin, texas, today through saturday to participate in the texas invitational. 
the irish previously swam four events in the first two weeks of November before breaking for practice and the thanksgiving holiday, irish in­terim coach tim welsh said. 
“we had two and a half really good weeks of practice,” welsh said. “we trained as well as we have the entire fall. we got some sleep over thanksgiving, so it was a good period of prep­aration for us.” 
welsh said this invitational would give him his first look at how his team has improved with all that preparation, es­pecially as the end of the se­mester approaches and their academic workload increases. 
“obviously we’re about to find out,” welsh said. “the challenge of being both a stu­dent and an athlete is pretty intense, and the fact that people are able to do it all just continues to baffle me. but our team has done a great job of handling both halves.” 
Notre dame will be without the services of its best swim­mer, senior emma reaney, who is overseas competing in the FiNa short course world championships in doha, Qatar. reaney is competing for team usa in the 50-, 100-, and 200-yard breaststroke events. the championships began yesterday, where reaney was the second-youngest qualifier for the 50-yard breaststroke fi­nals, which will be held today. 
reaney has been one of the four mainstays in Notre dame’s 200-yard medley relay team along with sophomore catherine mulquin, junior catherine galletti and senior courtney whyte. the absence of reaney will certainly be felt, welsh said, but the irish plan on filling her spot by committee. 
“[we’ll plug in] the next fast­est breaststroker,” welsh said. “we don’t know who that is yet. the way the meet is set up, we’ll have a chance to see everybody swim before we have to declare our relay for the night, and we’ll just try to go with the four people who look like they’re swimming the fastest. 
“we’re all behind emma and hope she does a great job over there.” 
welsh said he is keeping the team’s goals for this meet ex­tremely simple. 
“be faster than we’ve been all year,” welsh said. “the name of the game is to keep improving, so that’s our em­phasis going down there. if we had a couple of giant steps forward that would be great, but we just want to keep im­proving. … catherine mulquin has been swimming real well. [catherine] galletti has been swimming real well. [Freshman] katie miller has as well of late. [senior] bridget casey has been doing real well. 
“we aren’t real focused on one event, but we hope there are a lot that turn out real well.” 
the meet will feature pre­liminaries and finals of a third of the events today and will be similarly broken down over the next two days. the action at the lee & Joe Jamall texas swimming center in austin, texas, is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD 

ND begins indoor season with home invitational 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 

Notre dame will kick off its indoor season tomor­row as it hosts marquette, depaul, bethel, detroit­mercy, loyola-chicago and 
Northern  illinois  in  the  
10th annual  blue and gold  
invitational.  

irish coach matt sparks said that the blue and gold invitational is primarily a time for the newer irish com­petitors to get a feel for what it is like to participate in col­legiate meets. 
“the track and field team has been practicing since ear­ly september,” sparks said. “the blue and gold meet is an opportunity for those ath­letes to see the progress they have made since the track season ended last spring. it will also be an opportunity for the freshmen to see where they stand for the first time against collegiate competi­tion. also, with a new coach­ing staff, it will give several of the coaches a first look at how individuals compete.” 
in particular, irish coach pristina Jones joined the staff to assist in the development of sprinters, hurdlers and jumpers. For the past three years, Jones was the head coach for Jackson state’s women’s track and field and cross country squad. last season, Jones led the Jackson state cross country team to third place in the swac, which was the program’s best spot since 2009. sparks said he believes that her experi­ence will make an immedi­ate impact on Notre dame’s program. 
“pristina Jones has head coaching experience [at] Jackson state university, and that leadership will benefit the entire program,” sparks said. “she will especially contribute to our sprinters, hurdlers and jumpers. with our head coach, alan turner, working with the sprinters and jumpers but also over­seeing the entire program, she will be another set of eyes on that group as coach turner has a watchful eye on the entire track and field program.” 
while Notre dame is wel­coming several new athletes to the program, it is also re­turning a few key contribu­tors. Junior distance runner molly seidel just finished up her cross country season with all-american honors. sparks said that seidel will be relied on to push the team to a successful season. 
“molly’s confidence is high right now,” sparks said. “we have need to keep her fitness progressing and most impor­tantly with her is to keep her healthy and injury-free. if we can do those things, she will have a productive track season.” 
last season, the men’s team finished 17th in the Ncaa indoor national cham­pionships and the women’s squad finished in 29th place. Four irish individuals earned all-american status, includ­ing returning senior hurdler Jade barber for the women, and senior sprinter chris giesting for men. both men’s and women’s distance med­ley relay squads grabbed top-five finishes, but each team will return only one relay member. 
Notre dame will begin the blue and gold invitational to­morrow, with the field events beginning at 5 p.m., and the running events following at 6 p.m., in loftus sports center. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
paid advertisemeNt 




M Bball 
coNtiNued From page 16 
high-end basketball. 
Notre dame (7-1) hit threes. the crowd bopped on its toes. the “Noise meter” rose, and “louder” vibrated on the courtside screens. and the spartans (5-3) responded — again and again. Junior guard bryn Forbes did most of the honors with crowd-quiet­ing 3-pointers and nimble floaters, but senior forward branden dawson and junior guard denzel valentine did their parts too in warding off Notre dame. 
still, Notre dame stayed alive. the irish forced over­time with some key defen­sive stops, then won it in the extra stanza with more of the same — and a healthy dose of senior guard Jerian grant and sophomore guard demetrius Jackson. grant (27 points) and Jackson (22) each notched career-highs. 
“i think i’ve got the best backcourt in the country,” brey said. 
that backcourt, plus 12 points from both se­nior guard/forward pat connaughton and sopho­more guard steve vasturia and constant energy from sophomore forward austin torres, drove the irish to their first marquee win. 
“For the most part we ex­ecuted at key times, which we didn’t see much of last year,” connaughton said. 
valentine held the ball in the final five seconds of regulation with the score tied 67-67. he drove right, but grant stood him up. valentine dribbled off his foot, and it went back to the irish. 
“it was definitely some­thing i needed — mano y mano — i knew it was going to be one-on-one,” grant said. 

at the other end with two seconds left, grant got a look at the basket but fum­bled it on the way up after a nudge from valentine. 
“it’s a play i should have made,” grant said. 
brey trotted out the same five for overtime, as torres took — and won 
— the opening tap. the sophomore from granger, indiana, whose previous career-high in minutes was 11, played the final 13:08, including overtime, as ju­nior forward Zach auguste rode the bench after tal­lying four points and four rebounds in 19 minutes. torres was tasked with de­fending dawson and limit­ed the athletic specimen to two points over those last 13 minutes. 
“[torres was] fabulous,” brey said. “and that’s the way he’s been practicing. he gives us that athletic frontline guy.” 
torres’ only basket — an overtime tip-in — slid the irish ahead 71-69. then Jackson delivered a filthy crossover and finished an and-one at the basket to stretch the lead to 74-69. 
“it used to be just Jerian, because that wasn’t real­ly eric atkins,” brey said. “Now we’ve got two guys.” 
Notre dame’s defense fin­ished the job. 
“i think it gives us con­fidence,” brey said. “it’s a nice step for this group.” 
the lead changed hands 11 times and the score was tied on nine occasions. despite michigan state’s commanding 43-26 advan­tage on the glass, Notre dame’s offensive efficiency (just four turnovers) and overall defense, especial­ly shoeing the spartans away from the 3-point line, proved enough for the irish. 
“i knew they’d be able to play volleyball with us,” brey said of the rebounding disparity. “i didn’t know it was going to be that bad. at least it didn’t beat us.” 
after a high-octane and energized first half that featured three ties and nine lead changes, Notre dame trotted into the locker room with a 37-35 edge. the spartans broke open a sev­en-point lead with 11:16 to go in the first half, a surge highlighted by a one-hand­ed slam by dawson, but the irish kept battling. 
“it became like a play­ground, man, and you want­ed to win the game and stay next instead of lose and you don’t play the rest of the af­ternoon,” brey said. “there was not much semblance of defensive balance. Just go and get the ball.” 
before the game, Notre dame announced sopho­more forward v.J. beachem is out for a month with a right foot injury (plantar fasciitis) suffered in prac­tice tuesday. brey said torres solidified his role in Notre dame’s rotation and added they hope to get beachem back practicing after christmas. 
Following an off day thursday, Notre dame re­turns to practice Friday before hosting Fairleigh dickinson on saturday at 8 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
“it’s a matter of staying hungry,” connaughton said. “this is a great win and it’s a great win to keep un­der our belt for the next 24 hours, but after that we’ve got a game on saturday and we’ve got to use the matu­rity that we showed tonight and move on.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 
Hartnett 
coNtiNued From page 16 
acc, mixed with the lingering doubt that last season’s strug­gles — and six home losses 
— might not totally be behind the team. 
and wednesday still provid­ed plenty of reasons for doubt for irish supporters. 
Notre dame was manhan­dled on the boards, particu­larly the defensive glass, for most of the game — there were stretches where michigan state’s branden dawson was out-rebounding the irish, and the spartans senior finished with only seven fewer re­bounds than the irish had as a team. 
Notre dame’s lone big man in its starting rotation, junior forward Zach auguste, had only four points and four rebounds in 19 minutes of action. 
after hitting 50 percent of their 3-pointers in the first half, the irish went 1-for-11 from behind the arc in the final 25 minutes of action. 
and Notre dame’s depth, something head coach mike brey has praised this sea­son, took a hit shortly before wednesday’s game, when it was announced that sixth man sophomore forward v.J. beachem would likely miss the next month with plantar fasciitis. 
these struggles, particularly the frontcourt issues, certain­ly need to be addressed before an acc schedule that includes five teams currently ranked in the top 15 of both major polls. 
but in spite of these ob­stacles, Notre dame managed to hold serve down the stretch and control overtime to earn a win over a team that looks to once again finish toward the top of the big ten, if recent history is any indication. 
and Notre dame’s backcourt 


paid advertisemeNt 
provided enough reasons to believe that the irish will be a tough out for any of the top-ti­er opponents it has remaining on the schedule. 
brey referred to his one-two guard duo of sophomore demetrius Jackson and senior Jerian grant as the best backcourt in the Ncaa after the victory, and his as­sertion didn’t sound too far-fetched, at least strictly based off wednesday night’s performances. 
grant, who michigan state head coach tom izzo referred to “as complete of a player” as he’s seen thus far — and the spartans have already played duke and kansas — posted a career-high 27 points as well as six assists, four rebounds and three steals wednesday night. 
Jackson added a career-high of his own with 22 points. more importantly for Notre dame, the sophomore made plays when it counted, tallying half of the team’s 12 overtime points. 
while grant and Jackson combined for 49 of Notre dame’s 79 points, there was more to the team’s effort than just the two guards. despite struggles from the field, senior guard/forward pat connaughton finished with 12 points and eight rebounds, while sophomore guard steve vasturia added a dozen points of his own, marking the eighth straight game Notre dame has had four starters reach double-figures in points. 
this continued offensive balance will be a key for Notre dame moving forward. but equally important will be the efforts the irish receive down low and off the bench. with auguste benched for more than half the game, austin torres filled both of those needs, slowing down dawson in the paint and adding a tip-in when the irish needed it most. torres still only averages 
8.2 minutes per game, but his presence, along with that of junior forward austin burgett and freshman forwards martinas geben and bonzie colson, will be needed to continually provide the depth about which brey has raved. 
these three “b’s” — back-court, balance and bench play — all combined to create a lively atmosphere and step-ping-stone victory for Notre dame on wednesday night. and given the half-dozen defeats that occurred on the irish home court last season, it was fun to see. 
but the real test will be whether the irish can give those packed into the 9,149­seat arena reason to maintain that atmosphere for the vari­ous challenges that lie ahead. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


the observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
coNtiNued From page 16 
the week awards this season and has been Notre dame’s second-leading scorer after loyd, averaging 13.4 points per game. turner has also averaged 6.1 rebounds per game entering wednesday night and has started all eight of Notre dame’s games. 
even without turner, once the irish took a 6-4 lead over the terrapins less than three minutes into the first half, they had the lead for good. Notre dame held the lead for 38:42 of the game’s 40 minutes. 
up 9-6, the irish went on a 12-0 tear that swelled its lead to 21-6, and they continued making runs throughout the first half. 
Notre dame secured a 34-28 total rebounding ad­vantage and also outscored maryland in the paint, 34-26. 
For maryland, sopho­more guard lexie brown and redshirt senior guard laurin mincy led the scoring push with 20 points each. Freshman guard kristen confroy added 14 points to round out the maryland’s top-three scorers. 
the terrapins shot just 41 percent from the field as a whole: 53.8 percent from the floor in the second half but a 29.4-percent performance in the first half held the team back. 
solid defense by the irish limited the terrapins in the first half, but the second half showed room for improve­ment, mcgraw said. 
“i thought the defense in the first half was very good,” mcgraw said. “it was not as good in the second half. i thought we could have played a little better defen­sively in the second half.” 
Four irish players scored in double figures: loyd and reimer, as well as junior guard michaela mabrey, who scored 11, including a trio of 3-pointers, and sophomore guard lindsay allen, who tallied 10. as a team, Notre dame shot 58 percent from the field. 
the irish bench made con­tributions as well, as nine players scored for Notre dame. Freshman forward kathryn westbeld and senior forward markisha wright scored nine points each off the bench, and wright snagged eight rebounds, landing her in a tie with loyd for the team high. 
although the bench com­mitted several turnovers, mcgraw said she was pleased overall with their play. wright and westbeld joined starters reimer, allen, mabrey and loyd in record­ing over 20 minutes of play. 
“they played well,” mcgraw said of the bench. “i was really happy with the post play.” 
Notre dame now sets its sights on another rematch on saturday when they take on No. 3 connecticut. the game will renew the exten­sive rivalry after a regu­lar-season hiatus last year, although the teams met in the Ncaa championship, a game connecticut (5-1) won, 79-58. 
the irish take on the huskies on saturday at 3:15 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish junior guard Jewell Loyd dribbles during Notre Dame’s win over Holy Cross on Nov 23. Loyd scored 27 points against Maryland. 


paid advertisemeNt 



CROSSWORD | will shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christopher brucker 
SUDOKU | the mepham group 

Level: 1 
DOMENUTS | aleXaNdria wellmaN 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

10/3/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugeNia last 
Happy Birthday: you’ve got plenty of choices, so think big while remaining realistic. the combination will help you reach your goals successfully. adaptability is your saving grace, and chance will keep you from boredom. listen carefully, do your research and stick to the facts, and you will bypass any unfortunate mishap caused by vague conversations. love is highlighted. your numbers are 6, 10, 13, 20, 27, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get together with people you find mentally stimulating. enjoy sharing information and you will find a way to make positive changes to the way you live. don’t let someone you work with bully you. use your intelligence to outsmart an aggressor. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): tie up loose ends. Financial gains can be made if you invest in yourself. add to your skills or knowledge and you will be able to apply for a better position. talking with someone you respect will lead to a new opportunity. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): strive to reach personal goals. self-improvement will result in compliments. stand up to anyone who gets in your way. your knowledge and expressive way of dealing with others will buy you time. romance looks promising. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): refuse to let your emotions take over. listen carefully and take care of your responsibilities. someone will take advantage of you if you don’t clearly state what you will and won’t do. put yourself on the line and be consistent. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): add a little excitement to your life. plan a trip or indulge in something you’ve never done before. open your mind to learning new skills that can be incorporated into your resume. stop dreaming and start doing. love is beckoning you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): hold on to what you’ve got. don’t give in to someone pressuring you to spend your money. you can make an investment, but stay within your means. do what feels right and works for you. personal problems will be based on false information. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out and meet new people. a partnership will lead to new possibilities. sharing ideas and space with someone looks favorable, as long as you iron out any kinks at the very beginning. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): change can be good if it’s built on solid ground. don’t be a follower or you will have regrets. take your own unique path and develop what works best for you. recognition is heading your way, along with new opportunities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): improve your surroundings and start getting ready for the holiday season. you can make financial gains if you take care of unfinished business. concentrate on new beginnings. love and romance are on the rise. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): mull over any suggestions without feeling the need to make hasty decisions. don’t fall for the tactics used by someone who wants to manipulate you emotionally. it’s ok to waffle if the cost is high and uncertainty prevails. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): give whatever you do your best shot and head for the finish line. you have more going for you than you realize. a promotion, change of status or recognition will give you the confidence you need to forge ahead. embrace change. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work on creative endeavors that can bring in extra cash or help you save during the upcoming months. striving for greater stability or financial security will pay off. good fortune can be yours if you make the right choices. 


Birthday Baby: you are aggressive and challenging. you are a lover and a crusader. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GAOCN  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
VRAAL  

NRHUCC SIBEED  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

A: 




(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GRILL VENOM FLINCH BETRAY Yesterday’s 
Answer: In a leap year, which months have 29 days? — ALL OF THEM 


make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
Notre dame, iN 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 79, michigaN state 78 (ot) 
Irish upset No. 19 Michigan State in overtime 
Backcourt, defense 


‘Cautious provide boost optimism’ fills 
down stretch Purcell 
By MIKE MONACO 

Brian Hartnett 
senior sports writer managing editor 
mike brey knew it would be a great early-season test wednesday night brought an 
— and potential confidence 

atmosphere to purcell pavilion boost — for his young team 
that was all too familiar for wednesday night against 
Notre dame fans and ranked No. 19 michigan state. it 
opponents, yet it had been was both for a Notre dame 
conspicuously absent for much squad that supplied answers 
of the last year. all night en route to a 79­
it was the atmosphere fos­78 overtime win at a nearly 
tered by a strong performance sold-out purcell pavilion. 
by Notre dame against a “i’ve experienced a lot of 
ranked opponent, one that exciting nights in that build-
has been present several times ing there, and that’s gotta 
since Notre dame’s two se­be one of the top ones,” the 
niors started their careers — irish head coach said after 
see syracuse, marquette and Notre dame’s thrilling vic­
kentucky in 2012, louisville in tory. “what a great college 
2013 and even duke this past game. Just a great game. 
January. and i’m really proud of our 
but wednesday night’s atmo­group.” 
sphere had a slightly different brey went on to praise 
feel than the raucous ones of Notre dame’s physical and 
the past. it was one of cautious mental toughness — those 
optimism, the feeling that which powered the irish 
Notre dame might be on its through 45 minutes of ROSIE RIEHL | The Observer way to contending in the 
Irish senior guard Jerian Grant battles through traffic during Notre Dame’s 79-78 overtime win over No. 19 see m bball PAGE 13 Michigan State on Wednesday night in Purcell Pavilion. Grant led all scorers with 27 points. see hartNett PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 92, marylaNd 72 
Notre Dame runs away with Final Four rematch 
Loyd’s 27 points helps ND to early 24-point lead; squad never trails despite injury to Turner 
By SAMANATHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
despite a second-half push by maryland, No. 2 Notre dame held on to win, 92-72, wednesday at allen county war memorial coliseum in Fort wayne, indiana. 
the matchup was part of the acc/big ten challenge, and marked the second win over a ranked opponent this season for the irish (8-0), who also defeated then-No. 15 michigan state, 71-63, on Nov. 19. 
the irish dominated the first half, outscoring the terrapins (6-2), 47-27. Notre dame and maryland each tallied 45 points in the sec­ond half, however. 
the irish benefited from two 20-plus point perfor­mances from junior guard Jewell loyd (27) and sopho­more forward taya reimer (21). this season, loyd is averaging a team-best 21.1 points per game, and reimer is averaging 10.4 points per game, third on the team. 
loyd contributed in ev­ery facet of the game, add­ing eight rebounds and six assists to her point total. overall, she went 8-for-15 from the field, made three of her six 3-point attempts and sank eight-of-nine free throws for an average of just under one point per minute. 
“i was really pleased with her rebounding,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said of loyd after the game. “she took great shots. she got to the free throw line; she got six assists. everything we could have asked, she did.” 
irish freshman forward brianna turner has had a stellar start to her collegiate career but did not score in just four minutes of play wednesday night, limited by a shoulder injury suffered in the first half. 
turner will undergo an mri today to evaluate the injury, mcgraw said. 
turner has earned consec­utive acc freshman of 
see w bball PAGE 14 





