The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 115 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Keenan wins Hall of the Year 
Ryan takes Women’s Hall of the Year, Duncan claims Men’s Hall of the Year 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
Keenan hall claimed the coveted hall of the year award at the 28th annual student leadership recognition banquet on Tuesday, where ryan hall was named women’s hall of the year and duncan hall men’s hall of the year. 
senior Keenan hall presi­dent Kristian hila said the honor was a tangible confir­mation of the work Keenan puts into all of its campus events, especially the Keenan revue and muddy sunday. 
“it’s one of those things where it’s so nice to be recog­nized for being able to put on events that the whole campus enjoys,” hila said. “we have a difficult task of having suc­cessful events that we need to maintain every year, so it’s nice … being recognized for that. it takes a lot of time and hard work to put together two great events.” 
in addition to these two signature events, hila said he felt his dorm’s attention to and cultivation of communi­ty resulted in the award. 
“we have muddy sunday, we have the Keenan revue, which are two stable events on campus, but i think it’s also just the little things,” he said. “we want to create a welcoming environment for everybody, especially at notre dame where people are generally very friendly and 
see hall PAGE 5 




professor analyzes hobby lobby case 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
notre dame’s third re­quest for relief from the department of health and human services (hhs) mandate requiring the university’s insurance plan to cover contracep­tion was denied feb. 21, but the supreme court heard oral arguments march 25 on other cases against Kathleen sebelius, u.s. secretary of the department of hhs. 
The court will rule on sebelius v. hobby lobby stores, inc. and conestoga wood specialties corp. v. sebelius, two consolidated cases brought by companies owned by christian families. 
like notre dame’s lawsuit, these two cases center on contraceptive coverage and religious liberty. currently, the university must provide contraceptive coverage un­der an “accommodation” that allows it to use its third-par­ty health care administrator 
see hhs PAGE 5 


students attend conference 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 

seven saint mary’s college students traveled to harvard university from feb. 13-16 to compete at the harvard national model united nations conference. on Tuesday, as part of the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) lunchtime series, five participants shared their expe­rience at harvard. 
model united nations is a classroom club that attends conferences where the partici­pants role-play as delegates of the united nations. each school is given a country and then appoints delegates who are then assigned to different com­mittees, junior maddie madvad said. 
“The delegates for each com­mittee are assigned topics,” madvad said. “They have to research the topics and then form political opinions based on whatever country they are assigned so that they can repre­sent them at the conference.” 
in each committee, partici­pants debate topics they have researched and try to create resolutions that address various political issues, madvad said. 
The harvard conference is slightly different from the oth­around the country, sophomore grace morrison said. 
“This conference is the larg­est, oldest and most prestigious conference of its kind,” morrison said. “it is staffed entirely by harvard undergrad students [and] has over 3,000 students and faculty that come togeth­er from all across the globe. every single continent except antarctica is represented. it is the most diverse conference around.” 
smc and the notre dame teams combined because nei­ther school had enough mem­bers to go on their own, 

er united nation conferences see model un PAGE 4 


indecency reported to ndsp 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame security police is investigating a report of indecent expo­sure occurring Tuesday at about 7:45 p.m. between debartolo hall and the snite museum of art, ac­cording to an email sent Tuesday night. 
Two people reported that a man in a red ford pickup truck with an indiana li­cense plate exposed him­self, the email stated. after being noticed by witnesses, he reportedly drove south 
on  eddy  street  and  off  
campus.  
The  suspect  was  de­ 

scribed to police as a white 
male in his late 20s or early 30s, the email stated. he re­portedly was unshaven with short brown hair, wearing blue jeans and a red t-shirt. The email advised stu­
dents to  call  notre  dame  
safewalk  for  an  escort  
when  walking  on  cam­ 

pus after dark by calling 574-631-5555. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 sofTball PAGE 16 achonwa PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s your favorite type of socks? 


Annie Plachta 
junior 
pasquerilla west hall 

“colorful green polka dotted ones because that’s what i am wearing.” 

Erin Tully 
sophomore 
farley hall 
“Thick cabin socks.” 

Jen Gallic 
senior 
walsh hall 
“mismatched socks.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Michael Moss 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“Kittens.” 

Tom Wintering 
senior 
Keenan hall 
“The last supper socks        #cole-luke.” 


Toni Schreier 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“crew socks.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Katie mccarty Katie heit Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen greg hadley margaret hynds Josh dulany 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily hoffman allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

MFA Reading Zen Meditation Islam Week Lecture Men’s Lacrosse Basiica Sunday Mass 
michael Kramm Tabitha ricketts 

The Pool, Central High Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Center Arlotta Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Apartments Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Heart 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Dr. Mahmoud on Jesus The Irish take on the 10a.m.-11a.m. 
Corrections 

MFA students read. Open to all students. and Mary in Islam. Duke Blue Devils. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Perks of Being a Forum on Women in I Was Born for This Parseghian Cup: ND “The Graduate” 
strives for the highest standards 

Wallflower Leadership DeBartolo Performing Rugby vs. Arizona (1967) Screening 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Hesburgh Library Mendoza College of Arts Center Stinson Rugby Field DPAC 
however, recognize that we will make 

7 p.m.-8:15 p.m. Business 5 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 3p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

Lecture by author 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Opening of the titular $25 will be donated to Part of “Classic at the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Stephen Chbosky. Lecture on women in art exhibit. NPC research for every Browning.” Free for 
we can correct our error. 

the life of the Church. attendee. Be there. students. 


SMC receives endowment to fund grants 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
The Katherine Terry dooley ’28 endowment, a fund initi­ated by the family of a saint mary’s college graduate who felt passionately about justice issues, supports social justice-themed projects proposed by the college’s students, phi­losophy professor adrienne lyles-chockley said. 
“The dooley fund was cre­ated to support innovative projects by saint mary’s stu­dents that address issues of peace and justice and involve the broader campus commu­nity,” lyles-chockley said. “[it] aims to encourage and support women in developing their intellectual vigor, pro­moting the essential dignity of each human and cultivating their social responsibility.” 
The grants enable students with a passion for social justice to develop responses to social problems, lyles­chockley said. 
“We are looking for projects that are able to clearly articulate social justice and provide thoughtful, original ideas for combating injustice.” 
Adrienne Lyles-Chockley 
professor of philosophy                     
“we are looking for projects that are able to clearly articu­late social injustice and pro­vide thoughtful, original ideas for combating injustice,” she said. “students are encour­aged to reflect on the systemic causes of injustice and be able to clearly articulate project ideas designed to promote so­cial justice.” 
in the past, the fund has initiated the development of community projects in south bend, including a creative writing workshop with the homeless and the develop­ment of campus programs focused on inequalities in lo­cal education systems, lyles­chockley said. 
“social justice is a norma­tive concept and ideal that includes fairness, equity, re­sponsibility and integrity. … it is also very closely related to human rights, human dignity and social welfare,” she said. “The dooley [grant program] aims to empower students to explore these concepts and to incorporate awareness education program funds the grant and aims to use spiri­tual, moral and intellectual contexts when analyzing so­cial problems, lyles-chockley said. 

and  action  in the wider  
community.”  
The  college’s  Justice  

“The mission of the Justice education program is to em­power saint mary’s students to make the world a more just and peaceful place,” she said. “by teaching students to think in systemic and comprehen­sive ways, the program en­ables students to understand, analyze and reflect on the ex­periences of the marginalized and disenfranchised.” 
empowerment is also a theme of the dooley grant program. it allows students to become more aware of issues in the community while devel­oping means to address the in­justices, lyles-chockley said. 
“The dooley grant program 
“Social justice is a normative concept and ideal that includes fairness, equity, responsibility and integrity.” 
Adrienne Lyles-Chockley 
professor of philosophy 

gives students an opportunity to explore their social justice-related interests and deepen their engagement in the com­munity,” she said. “it also gives students a means for ex­amining the root causes of so­cial problems and developing their own responses to those problems.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Visiting artist presents stick sculptures 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
notre dame’s snite museum of art, in conjunc­tion with the department of art, art history and design, invited artist patrick dougherty to speak about his stickwork sculptures Tuesday evening. 
dougherty said he began a career in business before he realized that was not what he was meant to do. he said he then struggled with the idea of being artist and had many moments of anxiety before he realized his true calling. he now creates large sculp­tures out of sticks. 
according to dougherty’s website, “combining his car­pentry skills with his love of nature, patrick began to learn more about primi­tive techniques of building and to experiment with tree saplings as construction material.” 
dougherty said he decided to work with trees when he realized he could use a mate­rial he already understood. 
“as i’m driving down the road back towards my house [one night], i see all these saplings growing along the roadway… i had an [epiph­any]. i said, ‘maybe i could use those … they’re plentiful, they’re renewable and it’s just like having a giant ware­house always at your finger­tips,’” dougherty said. 
dougherty said he has learned to love his outdoor warehouse because it allows greater interaction with the public. 
“one of the unique aspects of my work is that there’s no studio doors to close and no place to hide. The public has full access to the process,” dougherty said. 
he said the process of sculpting his art only takes a few weeks. 
“i often make a little sketch so i know what i’m doing … then i lay out the piece on the ground,” dougherty said. 

“i’ve got these little white dots where i’ll drill down … 
“One of the unique aspects of my work is that there’s no studio doors to close and no place to hide. The public has full access to the process.” 
Patrick Dougherty 
artist 

and put the structural pieces in. … we set up scaffolding around the outside of the 

paid adverTisemenT 
piece and pull the shape we want by tying it over. once it is all hooked together we can cut all the string loose.” 
dougherty said he gathers sticks from all types of trees, all over the world, including wyoming, ireland and maui. he said his sculptures reside in universities, museums and private commissions across the globe, including new york city, denmark, france, purdue university and cornell university. 
dougherty said he is cur­rently making his next piece at fernwood botanical garden and nature preserve in niles, mich. he said the piece should take about three weeks to complete. 
one of the things dougherty has learned through his years as an art­ist, he said, is the utility and joy of volunteers. several de­sign students at notre dame have signed up to volunteer with the production of the fernwood piece. 
The stickwood pieces are only temporary, dougherty said, and last around two years. Though it is sad to see his work be torn down, dougherty said it does not detract from his experience as an artist. 
“of course it’s a little bit sad. … but i do like the pro­cess and i think a lot of the value for me is the kind of conversations that i have with the public and with the people who help me as we build it,” dougherty said. “we kind of build a fighting force about making some­thing beautiful.” 
Contact Emma Borne at                eborne@nd.edu 


Forum discusses impact of oil pipelines 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
film, Television and Theater professor gary sieber moderated the 2014 reilly center forum “life amongst the ‘Tar sands’ oil pipelines: impacts on rural communities and the environment,” which fea­tured four panelists sharing their experiences with tar sands oil Tuesday in the eck visitor’s center. 
“few people likely realize that tar sands pipelines run through michiana,” sieber said. ”in fact, the largest on-land spill occurred around here just four years ago. 
“pipeline 6b, owned by enbridge inc., spilled over a million gallons of tar sands oil into the Kalamazoo river.” 
michigan state university professor steve hamilton worked on the scene when 
Model UN 
conTinued from page 1 
senior head delegate alex penler said. The team was given two countries, costa rica and madagascar. 
morrison, who served on the social, humanitar­ian and cultural commit­tee, said she learned the importance of international relationships and how im­portant it is to participate in the conference. 
“The harvard conference really helps to make a dif­ference in the world be­cause it brings attention to a lot of issues in relevance,” the spill happened, and said cleaning up such spills from tar sands pipelines like pipeline 6b and the planned Keystone Xl pipeline could bear huge environmental costs. 
“how far do you want to go to try to get [the oil] out, because the act of getting it out is itself environmen­tally damaging? … it turns out that freshwater oil spills haven’t been very well stud­ied, and this particularly type of oil hasn’t really been 
studied  at  all,”  hamilton  
said.  
notre  dame  civil  engi­ 
neering  professor  patricia  
maurice  said  she  has  a  

house along line 6b and felt that the way she and her neighbors were treated was abhorrent. 
we have whole towns with­out water. we’ve had count­less court cases between landowners and enridge,” 
morrison said. “The cultural experience was amazing. it gives you the opportunity to connect with people all over the world that you wouldn’t have the opportunity to meet. 
“even though they are from however many miles away, they care about the same type of issues that we do.” 
penler said in her four years, she spent most of her time traveling around the world through her his­tory and political science classes, which gave her  real world experience to work with at the conference. 
maurice said. “This is one of the most profitable compa­nies in all of canada … and i think they could probably spend a little more money to make sure things are done safely and correctly … but they won’t unless residents raise up and take advantage of the political apparatus.” 
beth wallace, a michigan native who worked for the national wildlife federation, said the numerous defects in pipelines carrying deriva­tives from tar sands, like line 6b, pose a clear and present threat to her home’s environment. 
oakland university pro­fessor Jeffrey insko also lives near line 6b. he said in­creased regulation and more effective leadership will be the first step to solving prob­lems along the pipeline. 
“first, we need a serious overhaul of federal regula­tions,” insko said. “The fact 
”i actually want to work in international development and global health, so con­ferences could be something that influences the rest of my life,” penler said. 
nicole o’Toole, a junior political science major and business minor, said she learned about international law and can apply many of the things she learned at the conference to her studies. 


of the matter is that enbridge hope is a regulatory system and companies like enbridge with some serious teeth.” are suddenly going to start living up to the values they Contact Alex Cao at profess all the time. our only acao@nd.edu 
“[international law is] something i’m interested in going to in to. it relates to my education at saint mary’s because a lot of things that i have studied will help me make a difference in the world, o’Toole said. “we met so many people from so many different countries. it was a once in a lifetime opportunity.” 
senior ariane umutoni said she learned how to put herself in others’ shoes. 
“i think this [conference] helped me see how people see their own self versus oth­er people’s opinions and be­liefs,” umotoni said. “from now i think i will focus more on listening. everything has another story.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




collaborative work-out ses-
Hall 
sions. on top of these success­
conTinued from page 1 
ful programming initiatives, [Keenan] seamlessly planned very outgoing. and executed two of the most 
“we want to make sure we successful and messiest and reach out to any people that funniest signature events on are having any difficulties notre dame’s campus.” and any residents that are duncan hall president ju­having problems. we want to create that environment that allows them to come up and 
“[Keenan] 
talk to any of us. we truly try 
seamlessly 
to embody [Keenan hall’s] 
planned and 
motto of ‘being brothers in christ.’” 
executed two 
hall presidents’ council 
of the most 
co-chairs seniors brendan 
successful 
moran and cristin pacifico, 
and messiest 
who presented Keenan with the award, said events like 
and funniest 
multicultural nights and 
signature events 
a new freshman “knight­
on Notre Dame’s 
ing ceremony” on the main 
campus.” 
building steps contributed to Keenan’s designation as hall 
Brendan Moran 
of the year. 
co-chair 
“[Keenan] set lofty goals 
Hall Presidents’ Council 
for themselves and tried to meet them throughout the course of the year,” moran said. “placing an emphasis nior michael wajda said his on academics, community dorm’s collaborative efforts and faith, this residence hall and variety of programs in-displayed fantastic program-side and outside the hall led ming and created an envi-to a well-deserved award. ronment of inclusion. “i think it’s phenomenal 
“a few examples of that we won, and … it’s well­[Keenan’s] programming in-deserved,” wajda said. “we’ve cluded movie watches, cul-had such incredible commu­tural heritage nights and nity participation this whole 
paid adverTisemenT 

year from our hall councils to our bald and the beautiful initiative, to the duncan classic. The guys in duncan have really stepped it up and made the community great.” 
moran said duncan’s col­laborative efforts, respon­siveness to student needs and events like their “man hour” speaker series and service initiatives set them apart from the rest of the male dorms. 
“[duncan] exhibited excel­lent programming initiatives that were very well-attended,” he said. “They also showed great collaboration with various student groups and organizations and other resi­dence halls that created fun events to meet the needs of their residents 
pacifico said ryan hall sponsored consistent, well-organized events that fos­tered a strong sense of community within the dorm and in collaboration with other dorms and groups. 
“[ryan] showed their con­sistency over the course of the year by hosting a vari­ety of thoughtful, organized and well-attended events,” pacifico said. “They did a tre­mendous job of expanding upon the traditional events their dorm has hosted, as well as introducing new events 
HHS 
conTinued from page 1 
meritain health. 
in its most recent request for relief in the u.s. court of appeals for the seventh circuit, notre dame argued that this agreement with meritain health regarding the university providing birth control is against its catholic beliefs.  
notre dame law professor richard garnett, who special­izes in freedom of religion and constitutional law, said the university and the companies fall under different rules due to their institutional differences. 
“notre dame is obviously a ‘religious’ institution and a non-profit, while hobby lobby is a for-profit business operat­ing in the commercial sector,” he said. “The ‘accommodation’ that notre dame is currently subject to is different in form from the rule that applies to hobby lobby.” 
because hobby lobby is not presently eligible for the ac­commodation notre dame has, garnett said the company is seeking a different exemption under the religious freedom restoration act (rfra). 
“hobby lobby is seeking an exemption, under rfra, from the requirement that they in­clude certain contraceptives — not all, in hobby lobby’s case 
— which hobby lobby believes can operate as abortifacients,” he said. 
garnett said while the constitution, as the court has and ideas that had great success.” 

ryan hall president junior Tatum snyder said the honor 
“[Ryan] showed their consistency over the course of the year by hosting a variety of thoughtful, organized and well-attended events.” 
Cristin Pacifico                              
co-chair 

Hall Presidents’ Council 
came from the friendship of the women in her dorm. 
“for the girls in our com­munity and the work we’ve done, this is just a great honor,” snyder said “our big thing this year is that we are more than just a dorm and more than just a community, we’re actually friends. and i think … we really expressed how good of friends every­one in the dorm is. i think the friendships led to this award.” 
moran said the selection committee for hall of the year bases its judgment on two 
interpreted it, “almost certainly does not entitle hobby lobby to an exception,” rfra was en­acted by congress precisely for the purpose of providing more generous accommodations to 
“In all of these cases, the employers are saying that it would burden their legally protected ‘religious exercise’ rights to apply the relevant preventative-services-coverage to them.” 
Richard Garnett                            
law professor 
religious objectors than the constitution requires. 
accommodating religion by statute is more flexible, he said, but if the court rules in favor of hobby lobby, congress has the chance to respond and change the final outcome. 
“if the court rules for hobby lobby and congress disagrees with that result, it has the au­thority to revise rfra and, say, exclude business corpora­tions from the act’s coverage,” garnett said. 
The parallels between notre dame’s case and hobby lobby’s center on the institutions’ un­derstanding of their “religious components, rockne submis­sions and 10-minute hall of the year final presentations. moran said 30 percent of the final calculation derives from objectively judged rockne submissions, with the re­maining 70 percent coming from the presentations. 
The rockne reports provide a succinct and descriptive ac­count of a dorm’s activities, which the selection commit­tee breaks down into mind, body and spirit components. 
“rockne submissions are a snapshot into a dorm’s pro­gramming during any given month,” he said. “we’ve bro­ken it down into three broad, main groups of program­ming. we have mind, which consists of academic events, multicultural events, body, which consists of athletic events … and then finally we have what we like to think of as spirit, which consists of li­turgical initiatives.” 
moran said the entire pro­cess is “totally optional,” though every female dorm participated in the hall of the year competition, while approximately 75 percent 
of  male  dorms  submitted  
rockne  reports  and  final  
presentations.  

Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
exercise” rights, he said. 
“in all of these cases, the em­ployers are saying that it would burden their legally protected ‘religious exercise’ rights to ap­ply the relevant preventative-services-coverage provision to them,” he said. 
a february statement from paul browne, university vice president for public affairs and communications, maintained that notre dame is “concerned that if government is allowed to entangle a religious institution of higher education like notre dame in one area contrary to conscience, it’s given license to do so in others.” garnett said this concern is “certainly legitimate.” 
“of course, to say that the concern is legitimate is not to say that other burdensome reg­ulations that interfere with or burden notre dame’s catholic character are guaranteed, or to predict what form they will take,” he said. “but, the logic of the government’s argument in the hhs mandate context is one that underemphasizes and underappreciates the extent to which the university of notre dame does ‘exercise religion,’ and does have a religious-liber­ty right to pursue a distinctive vision and mission, animated by a distinctive charism.” 
browne told The observer on Tuesday that notre dame’s attorneys “are engaged in a re­view of options available to us” concerning the case. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Treasure your heroes 
Alaina Anderson 
news writer 
most people have someone they look up to and call a hero. i am lucky to have two heroes, my loving grandparents who i call my nonna and nonno, which means grandma and grandpa in italian. 
my nonno is 86 years old, has survived a stroke, a heart attack and triple by­pass surgery. as a child, riding my blue schwinn bike behind him around lake michigan and going to our favorite park, petrifying springs, were our favorite ac­tivities. after pushing me on the swings, we would gather sticks and stand on the bridge over pike river. we dropped the sticks from the bridge and ran to the other side so we could watch them flow down the river until they were out of sight. 
my nonna will be 84 next month and has survived breast cancer, three knee replacements, a heart attack and triple by­pass surgery and takes care of my nonno. she is the sweetest lady and can put a smile on anyone’s face, not to mention she is the best cook in the whole world, the Queen of the kitchen. words can’t de­scribe the immenseness of her heart. 
my nonna always calls me tesoro, which means treasure in italian. my nonno, an avid reader of the Kenosha news newspaper, is always telling me stories of the news he read that day in the paper. They came to america from montecatini Terme, italy, in 1958 and have taught me so many important life lessons. 
This is for my heroes, to give them and the saint mary’s and notre dame com­munity a little piece of how important it is to make your heroes proud, by giving them a part of the things you treasure most in life: the gifts god has given you. 
my hero taught me to love nature and find my passions in life. he is the wisest man i know, and even though he isn’t strong enough to go on bike rides and to the park anymore, i can feel his love and strength in every big squeeze he gives me. my other hero taught me to be strong and to love with my whole heart. i hope one day to be half the woman she is. 
riding my blue bike around the saint mary’s lake, my memories with my nonno are brought to the present. eating pasta in the dining hall and going to regina hall, home of the queens, i remember how my nonna will always be the Queen of the kitchen. 
for two people who have taught me everything, a few hundred words in black and white will never be enough to show how much they are loved. but it is so much more than that — it is giving them a part of something i love: writing for The observer. 
i want to share this with my heroes. They will always have a piece of The observer, a story to read in the morning and talk about, a piece of something i love and treasure. 
Matthew Greene 
guest columnist 

crimea has recently found itself at the epicenter of one of the largest inter­national crises since the cold war. in fact, the nascent political earthquake in crimea seems to be a result of residual cold war tectonics. many western pow­ers have felt compelled to intercede in the shaky events occurring in crimea, at once trying to mitigate russia’s force­ful geo-political actions in crimea and making sure that the ukrainian gov­ernment remains aligned with naTo nations, certainly justifiable actions for any reasonable nations. 
however, the western nations abandon reason and turn to the cold war principle of containment when it comes to the issue of crimea. The past half-century has shown the west can­not and should not force regions into a western political alignment. in the case of crimea, the western powers have limited themselves to rhetoric and economic sanctions. nonetheless, their distaste for crimean self-determination is disconcerting. The right to self-deter­mine has been one of the fundamental aspects of international law since 1945, and the people of crimea have deter­mined they would like to be a part of russia. 
The crimean situation is absurdly complex, but a timeline of events in crimea following the ukrainian revolution is a good starting point for understanding the political forces at play. russian troops began filtering into crimea around feb. 23, and dur­ing the next week pro-russian military forces began establishing control of key buildings in crimean cities. on feb. 27, the crimean parliament was stormed by 60 russian gunmen. later that day, while still under military occupation, the parliament announced they had replaced the crimean prime minister with pro-russian sergey aksyonov; the parliament also announced it would be holding a referendum on the future of crimea. ukraine and other western nations, spoke out against this move, denouncing it as unconstitutional and as a breach of international law. 
The vote, nonetheless, took place, and 97 percent of the voters voted to join the russian federation. eighty-three percent crimeans voted in the referen­dum monitored by 135 international observers from 23 countries, most of whom acknowledged the legitimacy and democratic nature of the vote. This referendum result was not, as some have claimed, a recent product of the deluge of propaganda from russian Tv stations in the time before the elec­tion; even in 2008 a poll conducted by the razumkov centre determined 63.8 percent of crimeans would like for crimea to “secede from ukraine and join russia.” 
clearly, these polls vastly complicate the situation. while the united states and the european union trade eco­nomic and political blows with russia on an international stage, the people of crimea are having their true will ignored. The situation surrounding the recent vote is questionable, especially the russian military incursion, but the western powers’ main concerns prove invalid when viewed from the lens of history. 
The us and the eu claim the crimean vote is against the constitu­tion of ukraine. from a general point of view, this is a groundless claim. The fundamental component of interna­tional law is the right of self-determi­nation, an aspect the west supported over national constitutionalism when it came to Kosovo, croatia and slovenia. 
crimea was under the direct control of moscow from 1783 to 1991, first as a region of russia, then as a province of the ukrainian soviet in the ussr. 
when the ussr collapsed in 1991, crimea remained a relatively autono­mous part of ukraine, establishing a constitution and the post of president. however, after the crimean president held a referendum where a majority of crimeans voted for loosened ties with ukraine and stronger ties with russia, the ukrainian parliament declared the crimean constitution and the post of the president of crimea invalid. crimea was forced to write a new constitution, which was ratified by the ukrainian parliament in 1998. gary brecher, a military columnist, summarized the situation: “so when the interim ukrainian government today talks about the crimean parliament’s lack of legislative power — when it comes to appointing a prime minister, and when it comes to calling a referendum 
— there is an argument that this power was taken from crimeans by Kiev in an underhand, undemocratic, if not entirely illegitimate manner back in 1995.” 
given the containment mentality of the western nations, even the russian military incursion into crimea begins to appear more justifiable. it is not clear that ukraine, backed by the us and the eu, would have ever allowed a crimean referendum to occur, if that referendum meant the crimea would secede and join russia. Thus, the recent turmoil in Kiev gave russia the perfect opportu­nity to secure the rights of a group of people who had long been ignored, by securing that land militarily. it does not matter if putin viewed this move as a land-grab or nationalistic unification, the fact of the matter is this is 2014, not 1962, and the crimean people deserve the right to decide their future without further international, geo-political tur­moil, caused by russia or the west. 
Matthew Greene is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. He lives in Sorin College. He can be reached at mgreene1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Retrospective contemplation 
Lukas O’Donnell 
morning in america 
it is often said that history has a way of repeating itself. since all people throughout history have pos­sessed an underlying consistency of human nature, it can be expected that we too will make mistakes sim­ilar to our predecessors. for centu­ries, countries have been fighting back and forth over landmasses, from napoleon in france to hitler in germany, but the global map has been largely unchanged since the beginning of the modern era. different peoples have disagreed over the allocation and production of goods, such as the silks of the past and the oil of today. These dis­agreements and shortcomings seem to inevitably repeat themselves. but what if instead of making the same mistakes as our forefathers, we as americans looked back to our his­tory to see what we were warned of? 
one must look back no further than ronald reagan’s 1964 speech “a Time for choosing” to see what a bad version of the american future looks like, how eerily similar to our present situation it is and how the ideas within it can guide america back onto the course of prosperity. 

reagan began the speech by not­ing that the issues at hand tran­scended party lines. This could not hold truer today. often, in today’s world of increasingly partisan and gridlock politics, it appears as if constituents must choose sides in the political battle and the politi­cal leaders tell them only their side can make the right decisions. with these types of attitudes, the country will continue in a state of gridlock and nothing will be accomplished. instead, politicians from both sides of the aisle must come together for a common goal: to make america the greatest country it can be. 
reagan then spoke about several of the specific problems confront­ing america during his time. The federal government spent 17 million dollars per day more than it took in, and had 1.5 times more debt than that of all the other nations of the world combined, at around $300 billion. Today, we spend roughly 3.5 billion more dollars per day than we take in, and the federal debt is about 17 trillion dollars. if reagan was worried about the numbers back then, just imagine what he would say if he saw them now. 
we can see that the problems reagan mentioned are becoming even more exaggerated. we, the american people, have the most to lose, but we are not doing enough to change our course. reagan said, “we are at war with the most dangerous enemy that mankind has ever faced.” during his time in the midst of the cold war, the enemy was the geopolitical foe of the soviet union. now, in modern america, we face the greatest threat from within; withering into a land of mediocrity. if we were to lose sight of our freedom, both america and the world would be worse off — as reagan said, “if we lose freedom here, there is nowhere else to escape to; this is the last stand of freedom on earth.” 
Then and now, the question is this: do we want the representative government the founding fathers entrusted us with, or do we want to abandon the ideas of the american revolution and allow an intellectual elite to run our lives? The choices before us have never been clearer. with government encroaching on our lives more and more every day, whether it be through obamacare, national security agency spying or higher taxes, we are not faced with the choice between left or right, but rather up or down. 
if we go up, we follow the path to prosperity for ourselves and our posterity. it would be a government of the people, by the people, for the people, with ultimate levels of indi­vidual freedom consistent with law and order. it is an america based on what we were founded on, what made us great and what will contin­ue to make us great. if we go down, we head down the road to a totali­tarian society, based on collective action under the direction of big brother. Those who would trade our freedom for security have already embarked on this downward course, under the guise of equality of out­comes and utilitarian principles. 
i believe the choice is clear both then and now; we as a people must go upwards to the best possible ver­sion of ourselves. while we have made some of the mistakes reagan warned us of, it is never too late to get back on the right track to a pros­perous future. The future of both our country and the world depend on our generation making the right choices. 
Lukas O’Donnell is a freshman finance and political science major in Duncan Hall. He can be contacted at lodonnel@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
making learning serve justice 
Robert Alvarez 
man on a nag 
i was hanging out one friday night with a friend of mine when the conversation took one of those serious turns in conversation when things cease being flippant and light-hearted and you begin to share things that matter. This particular conversation turned into a conver­sation about wealth, business and society. i have a very skeptical view of wealth and the business world, something i usually try to guard in these conversations, lest i say something that would offend my friends on this predominately busi­ness-minded campus. my friend, however, an econ major, opened the conversation with, “you know, it’s pretty screwed up that we even have a business school here at notre dame.” 
finally, someone who agrees with me. 
let me begin with a few disclaim­ers. There is nothing wrong with finance, accountancy, information technology, entrepreneurship, mar­keting or management consulting. all are worthy disciplines in which one can find fulfilling work. The problem is notre dame claims in its mission statement that the aim of its undergraduate education is, “to create a sense of human solidar­ity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learn­ing becomes service to justice.” The mendoza college of business does not accomplish this goal, and nei­ther does the core curriculum, nor the engineering curriculum, nor the science curriculum, nor the arts and letters curriculum nor even the cur­riculum of my own beloved program of liberal studies. in none of these is engagement with issues of social justice a prerequisite. 

notre dame does deserve credit for even having this as its mis­sion statement in the first place. a cursory look at the mission state­ments of other top universities yields no singular statement that is as rooted in concern for neighbor. it is something that makes notre dame unique. it is something that makes notre dame catholic. if one would trace the origin of this mis­sion, one would readily find it in the social teaching of the catholic church, something that has a long tradition in the church and direct roots in the gospel. To both the days of Jesus and our modern world, the gospel preaches a radical ethic of love of neighbor that stands in di­rect opposition to the self-interest at the heart of modern economic and political systems. notre dame’s mission statement pays lip service to this legacy, but its undergraduate curriculum is hardly reflective of it. 
by way of example, mendoza frequently extols that it seeks to produce leaders who, “serve soci­ety through business,” but if one digs beyond the website headlines and looks at the actual curriculum, the only required courses that os­tensibly address this mission are the paltry one-credit business eth­ics courses along with scattered in-class case studies, all of which are hardly life-changing. This isn’t unique to mendoza, however: there is no curriculum at notre dame that explicitly demands students to engage with societal issues as a constitutive part of their curricu­lum. The fact of the matter is the majority notre dame’s curriculums are deliberately designed to help people make money. That is the rea­son why students come to mendoza over other business schools, not for heightened ethics. 
The one place at notre dame i’ve seen “learning become service to justice” is at the center for social concerns. The csc is an amaz­ing resource for education in this regard, but the current curricular structure at notre dame unfortu­nately forces the individual student to approach the csc. This makes social justice education at notre dame ad hoc, where the student pursues their primary course of study and picks up some interesting trinkets along the way. hopefully, one of these trinkets is from the csc, but this is never required of the student and many graduate from notre dame never having heard of nor engaging with the csc. 
can you imagine a university that directly engages its students with issues of social justice in a way that makes solidarity, the common good, service and love of neighbor a central part of their intellectual formation? such a university would truly fulfill fr. sorin’s vision of a school that would be “one of the most powerful means of doing good in this country.” what is prevent­ing us from making these changes? nothing, besides our own comfort. The type of catholicism practiced by the majority of americans today is a docile catholicism. it doesn’t shake us. it doesn’t move us. it is compartmentalized to our private “spiritual” lives and ordered to stay there. it isn’t allowed to seep out of its box and actually affect how we live our lives. a level of com­fort is achieved by this, as it allows us to have both god and cesar, us switching masks as is appropriate. This is the comfort that must be abandoned. 
notre dame likes to brag about its catholic identity, portraying itself as a city on a hill, a place that has the daring and courage to be differ­ent because to be different is to be in the right. This is a radical vision. The only question is whether or not we have the courage to realize it. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior studying in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 
selling-out to sellout? lollapalooza’s 2014 lineup was announced last wednesday, featuring 130 bands that will play august 1-3 during the festival’s 10th year in chicago’s grant park. The lineup was met with both teen girls buying flower crowns online while simultaneously tweeting their “This lineup is so great, i can’t even” ap­proval and the cynics wishing the festival would go back to its “glory days” as the grungy rock festival it was in the 90s. 
The fact is that music festivals are expanding — both in genres and popularity. The lineup features alterna­tive, indie, rap and electronic groups. with this wide range of music comes a wide range of those interested in attending. 
lollapalooza will feature edm favorites skrillex, calvin harris and Zedd, making the sighting of neon-clad, furry leg warmer-wearing ultra-esque folk inevi­table. The festival is also featuring bands near and dear to coachella fans’ hearts, including portugal the man, head & the heart and bombay bicycle club, therefore enticing those in maxi skirts, crochet and fringe to come along for the ride in their airstreams. rappers are also 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
no, i’m not talking about the infamous nightclub where your roommates spend their Thursday nights. i’m talking about the new single released by the black Keys on march 
24. “fever” is the first new release by the band since it won three grammy awards for 2011’s “el camino” and with it comes the announcement of a new album, “Turn blue,” set to release this may. 
“fever” has come as a shock to a number of fans be­cause of how drastically different it is from previous works by the black Keys. The days of the raw, grimy blues of “Thickfreakness” and “The big come up” are long gone, replaced with funky synthesizer melodies and bouncing bass beats. hipsters everywhere are lamenting the switch to such a modern sound, and some with good reason. 
i’ll be the first to admit that when i originally heard “fever,” i was shocked and not too happy. The best word i could find to describe it was “pleasant.” it was just a very EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 

inherent to this year’s lineup, featuring artists such as childish gambino, eminem, chance the rapper and outkast, and diversify the festival’s draw while solidify­ing the aforementioned goers who like these artists in a somewhat “ironic” fashion. 
although we may be seeing a decrease in the rock music scene at festivals, there has been a prevalent shift towards electronic and rap influences. it would not be unheard of to wander from The avett brothers over to see iggy azaela, stopping to listen to Krewella’s set on the way. 
The infusion of alternative and electronic music into the mainstream over the past years has spiked interest in music festivals to an all-time high. The lines between pop, indie and electronic music are becoming more blurred (although “blurred lines” does not fit this trend as it is definitively a pop song and an awful one at that). 
lorde is an example of an artist who has recently col­lided indie and pop music with success, despite her lyri­cally expressed doubts, and has subsequently become music scene royalty. she will be taking her dark, bewitch­ing performance style to the main stage at lollapalooza. 
with the spike in popularity music festivals have seen in the past few years, they are able to book obscene amounts of acts people want to see. There has been an 
middle-of-the-road piece. 
but i was frustrated. how could a band that has pumped out successful record after record for over a decade pro­duce something so … mediocre? 
after a few more listens, it hit me. within the overall context of the black Keys and the direction they have been heading in since 2010’s “brothers,” “fever” makes sense. for the past few years, the black Keys have gradually shift­ed from the grungy garage blues that built them up to a cleaner, smoother sound with big riffs and an arena rock sound. while i acknowledge this was not what i would have originally hoped for, i think that the black Keys have successfully moved forward as a band with “fever.” it isn’t the type of song that will make someone fall in love with the black Keys, but it’s still a decent quality piece to add to their repertoire. 
however, i am not using “fever” as a barometer though for the rest of the band’s upcoming album, “Turn blue.” The black Keys are diligent with their records and have al­ways put their best foot forward. if “Turn blue” is half as expanse in the amount, diversity and popularity of bands featured at festivals. 
festivals were a place to wander around during the day to hear some unknown bands that may make it big in the next few years and grant you a claim to “being hip.” at night you could head over to the main stage to catch a few headliners that were staples on your ipod nano. however, with lineups like the one lollapalooza just released, your mainstream tastes can be satisfied all day, and you may find it difficult to pull away from these well-known bands to scope out the yet-to-be-discovered talents. 
The headliner’s at this year’s festival includes Kings of leon, calvin harris, eminem, skrillex, Kings of leon, arctic monkeys and outKast. five of the six have already played the festival, with Kings of leon headlining in 2009 and eminem in 2011. outKast has never played the fes­tival before, and this summer marks the decade-long awaited reunion of big boi and andre 3000. 
although the headliners don’t stand out from other fes­tivals, or even previous lollapalooza festivals, the packed lineup is diverse enough to appeal to many different tastes — proven true by the fact that it has sold already sold out all 100,000 tickets. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
fun as previous album “el camino” was, then i’m going to be jamming to this countless times over the next year or two. 
Those who have voiced complaints about the lack of gui­tar on “fever” need not worry: in a very recent interview with Zane low, guitarist and singer dan auerbach said he’s “never done such a long guitar solo” as the one he’s done for a track on “Turn blue.” 
The essential elements of the black Keys, the funky bass, the rocking guitars and the coolest lyrics to come out of akron, ohio, are all still there; they have just been mod­ernized. as awesome as it would seem to have every album these guys push out sounds like “attack and release,” a band needs to update and evolve, and the black Keys are no exception. 
The black Keys definitely know what they are doing, and i have full confidence that “Turn blue” is going to be a solid jam. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper@nd.edu 



Miko Malabute 
associate scene editor 
back in 2007, the show “south park” aired an episode titled “with apologies to Jesse Jackson,” where an ill-fat­ed and painfully awkward mistake by character randy marsh forces him to be subjected to a ironic spell of “re­verse racism,” in which people have come down harshly upon him and alienated him following his non-mali­cious use of a racial slur. as marsh traverses through the course of the episode, he is met with hateful opposition from atypical rednecks, whom have taken offense to marsh’s gross — and again, inadvertent — slandering of an entire race. 
as they menacingly put it to the socially star-crossed marsh, “we don’t take kindly to social ignorance.” meanwhile, eric cartman shows his own ignorance throughout the episode’s story arc by proclaiming all of the recent hostilities and happenings as a “race war,” the show’s interpretation of reverend Jesse Jackson de­mands an utterly outrageous apology from marsh and meanwhile the entire town of south park simply cannot seem to grasp the true matters and implications at hand, as usual. 
The episode was edgy, to say the least, going over-the­top — and then some — with a lot of the writing. and yet, despite the countless “wrong,” politically incorrect strikes against the episode — just par for the course for a show like “south park” — there was notable praise and approval of the episode. cnn programs such as “showbiz Tonight” and “paula Zahn now” commended 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 
in music criticism, one common complaint is “it all sounds the same.” a band’s new record may boast a pleth­ora of great songs, but if the songs don’t present a new style or direction for the band, the album may get trashed anyway. The “sophomore slump” is often a product of this. when a band crafts an exciting, innovative first record and follows it up with one of similar sound and quality, the latter lacks the key freshness and impact of the first. recent examples of such include cults’ “static” and sleigh bells’ “born to die.” 
some artists are spared this criticism due to the strength of their existing sound. records like “bloom” by beach house, “Trouble will find me” by The national and “atlas” by real estate didn’t bring anything new to the table, but the unexaggerated beauty of the bands’ discographies have earned them a lasting respect from critics. 
This dichotomy of good-same vs. bad-same is especial­ly interesting when it comes to analyzing singles. most singles are generally high quality, chosen by the label to the episode for ironically highlighting in an almost roundabout manner the atrocities of hate speech and racial slurs. 

however, sometimes these mechanisms for social commentary are not always as clearly seen. This was the case when on march 28, stephen colbert of the “The colbert report” came under fire when the show’s Twitter account — not controlled by colbert directly 
— posted a tweet reading, “i am willing to show #asian community i care by introducing the ching-chong ding-dong foundation for sensitivity to orientals or whatever.” 
This out-of-context joke was referring to recent news that the washington redskins’ owner daniel snyder had tried to reach out to the native american population in america by forming the “washington redskins original americans foundation,” aimed to provide resources and relief to Tribal communities. however, this establish­ment of the foundation was seen in the eyes of many as a half-hearted attempt on snyder’s and the redskins’ part to save their skin — and names — facing constant pres­sure and scrutiny to change the organization’s name, deemed as offensive to the native american population. 
The out-of-context joke that “The colbert report” Twitter account tweeted faced strong, intense and im­mediate opposition, being viewed as outright racism and ignorance. instantly, the Twitter-sphere was alit with hashtagged-proposals to “#cancelcolbert,” with the leader of the movement a self-proclaimed “angry asian woman” suey park, who has led a substantial Twitter following in her attempts to cancel the show and express their indignation. 
advertise for the record as a whole. while singles may not be indicative of the record as a whole, they often show­case the general sound and even form of a new album. so when a new single is dropped that’s in the same vein as a band’s older material, a number of questions pop up. is the single of an impressive quality? will it be indicative of the album as a whole? and perhaps most importantly, if it is indicative of the whole, is that a good or a bad thing? 
antlers’ latest offering, the single “palace,” presents this very issue. The antlers are an atmospheric alt band whose compositions are part gorgeous soundscape, part indie-rock anthem. Their dark, intensely emotional con­cept album “hospice” garnered them a devoted follow­ing; their following record “burst apart” was nearly as well received as a set of brilliantly constructed vignettes. since then, The antlers have released the “undersea ep,” a set of four lovely, sprawling ambient rock tracks. 
“palace” sounds like it could have been snatched out of either “burst apart” or “undersea.” it is yet another unabashedly beautiful atmospheric rock track, carried by smooth horns, an elegant piano and lead singer peter silberman’s silky falsetto. however, the track is taken from The antlers’ new record “familiars” to be released 
Throughout the past weekend, without really watch­ing “The colbert report” i was familiar with the swirling controversy, being asked how i — as an asian american 
— felt about the entire thing. and though i sympathize with those who are offended and outraged by the ap­parent ignorance, i believe that, ironically enough, the whole point was lost in translation. That is, by the im­mediately informed population of america seeing the absolutely awful word choice in the tweet, they immedi­ately took arms against “The colbert report” and have been fighting since then to eradicate the ignorance of the show. 
as with the case with most of those quick to take sides, however, they never knew the entire story, nor did they realize the true aims of the show’s joke and, con­sequently, the tweet. what seems to not show up in the 140-character memo of this latest controversy was how the show utilized the same mechanism as “south park” that they praised about seven years ago. Just like their animated-network colleagues, a gross over-exaggeration of a misconception and stereotype in america was used to underscore a legitimate questioning of an organiza­tion’s motives and values. understandably, people were bogged down in the word choice of the tweet and, in an age where people are quick to stamp out any forms of ignorance or social injustice, took action against the alleged criminal. Their hearts were in the right places, though their eyes weren’t — on the full story, that is. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
this June. The next question is an obvious: is the single’s lack of a new direction for the band a reason to condemn the new record? 
The answer, in this case, is no. Though the song echoes much of The antlers’ recent work, it is also an expan­sion. “hospice” created atmospheres out of minimalis­tic elements out of a few synthesizers and guitars. “burst apart” found The antlers filling the space by expanding instrumentation to ensemble-like groups (see the jazzy numbers “Tiptoe” and “putting the dog to sleep” for a few good examples). “undersea” expanded the breadth of The antlers’ atmospheric sound even more by deep­ening synth pads and sound effects. “palace” finds The antlers going even farther, pushing the sonic boundar­ies by adding even more to the picture — three or four melodies simultaneous while layer upon layer of atmo­sphere is stretched behind. if “palace” is any indication, “familiars” will be to The antlers as “hurry up, we’re dreaming” was to m83 — the maximalist opus of an al­ready-renowned band. 
“familiars” is out July 17. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

EMILY HOFFMANN  | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Baseball serves up full plate 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
in the pantheon of american sports, baseball certainly can’t lay claim to being the most action packed. games dawdle along over summer days and nights, players stand around for seconds and minutes between pitches and half-innings and it’s the only sport i can think of where walking is applauded. 
however, baseball is, un­doubtedly, the gastronomi­cal king of the american sports (sorry Kobayashi, slurping hot dogs doesn’t quite qualify here). and when the umpire yells “batter up!,” on opening day celebrations across the country this week, plenty of fans will belly up to the nearest concession stand to get some ballpark classics. 
one report estimated that roughly 20 million hot dogs are consumed in major league stadiums in a given year. and while a decline in ticket sales and a linger­ing recession have caused many fans to tighten their belts, there are still plenty of new, gut busting stadium foods this season for the fan who thinks they have just a little too much room in their arteries. 
in arizona, for instance, the diamondbacks intro­duced the d-bat dog on their opening day. an 18­inch corn dog stuffed with cheddar cheese, jalapenos and bacon, the dog costs merely 25 dollars, several weeks off your life and most of your dignity. 
sometimes, and espe­cially for small-market teams, the food can be more of a draw the on-field ac­tion itself. The Tampa bay rays, who traditionally play their games in front of a crowd of empty green seats, have solved that problem through their food itself. enter a full four-pound ba­con cheeseburger, served on a tray roughly the size of The observer you’re hold­ing in your hands. any fan who can finish the colossal burger (and a pound of fries, for good measure) will be rewarded with two regular season tickets and a t-shirt. 
some of these concession monsters are more inspired. after their off-season sign­ing of shin-soo choo, the Texas rangers unveiled the choomongous, a 24­inch long asian beef sand­wich. and at miller park in milwaukee, fans stay true to their wisconsin sensibili­ties: miller is the only mlb park where more sausages are sold than hot dogs. 
The food doesn’t merely stay outside the lines, ei­ther. baseball is a sport that can be played while chew­ing gum, spitting sunflower seeds or stuffing jaws full of tobacco (ingestion not recommended). when one batter steps up to the plate, another one readies him­self to be next at the dish. pitchers may bring the high cheese, but if the batter knocks it out of the park, he might have just a little too much hot dog in his jog around the bases (looking at you, manny). There’s snow cones and sliders, and the occasional can of corn. 
an afternoon at a major league park is the definition of summer to many, and it takes on the relaxed pace of an old-fashioned barbecue. it’s the perfect combination of pastimes for a country we’re told regularly is over­weight; after all, what could be more american than watching someone work out while enjoying an 18­inch corn dog? The pursuit of a derek Jeter-like phy­sique can be left to those making millions – but us amateurs can always chase that prince fielder build. (although, to be fair, fielder switched to a vegetarian diet several years ago and has since dropped some weight off his enormous tummy). 
There’s a reason that “Take me out To The ball game” is all peanuts and cracker Jack, and 20 million fans willing to buy over­priced frankfurters certain­ly speak for themselves. 
baseball may no longer be the king of american sports. but it will always be the Top dog. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PISTORIOUS TRIAL 

Pistorious lawyers prepare defense 
Associated Press 
cape Town, south africa — a pathologist will likely testify first when oscar pistorius’ de­fense team starts calling wit­nesses at his murder trial next week, the double-amputee athlete’s lawyer said Tuesday. 
brian webber told The associated press in an email that “it is likely” that the de­fense will call prof. Jan botha as its first witness on monday, after four weeks of prose-cution-led testimony and a week’s adjournment. 
pistorius is expected to tes­tify to explain why he killed girlfriend reeva steenkamp on valentine’s day last year by shooting her multiple times through a toilet door. 
The olympic runner says he shot steenkamp by mistake thinking she was a dangerous intruder who had broken into his bathroom. prosecutors say the 27-year-old pistorius killed the 29-year-old model intentionally after an argu­ment in the pre-dawn hours and have charged him with premeditated murder. 

in south africa, defendants who indicate they will testify are usually expected to go first but webber said it was his un­derstanding that prosecutors had agreed to the defense’s re­quest that botha give evidence first because of the patholo­gist’s personal circumstances. 
“it is likely that we will call professor Jan botha on monday as he has personal difficulties and i believe that the state has agreed to him giving evidence first,” webber wrote to the ap. 
pistorius could go to prison for 25 years to life if convicted of premeditated murder for steenkamp’s shooting death. 
pistorius’ testimony will likely be crucial, with the ath­lete under intense scrutiny to explain why he shot four times through a toilet cubicle door without knowing, in his version, who was on the other side and the location of his girlfriend. 
although some legal experts say pistorius taking the stand is a risk for his defense, they say he has little choice be­cause he has admitted killing steenkamp unlawfully and therefore needs to explain his reasons. 
“The only question is wheth­er there was intent and intent is subjective,” former state prosecutor and now defense lawyer marius du Toit said. “That means the accused must come and dispel that.” 
du Toit, who is following the trial but not involved in it, said pistorius’ testimony was “defi­nitely the key.” 
The defense may use the expert forensic testimony of botha, the pathologist, to com­bat the prosecution’s claim that steenkamp screamed during the gunshots that killed her and so pistorius must have known who he was firing at with his 9 mm pistol. 
defense lawyer webber also said that although lawyers for pistorius and steenkamp’s family are still in negotiations over a possible out-of-court settlement for her death, noth­ing would be decided until af­ter the trial. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

huskies send dual squads to final four 
Associated Press 
sTorrs, conn. — shabazz napier and niels giffey were texting stefanie dolson on monday moments after the uconn women beat Texas a&m to earn their way into the final four.The guys were making fun of her postgame television in­terview and teasing her over a reverse layup she had made af­ter putting the ball high off the glass. 
but most of all, they were con­gratulating her for helping to se­cure the school’s bragging rights as the college basketball capital of the nation. 
“That’s the magic about uconn,” giffey said Tuesday as his team prepared to leave cam­pus for dallas and their own final four. “you just have those two big-time programs and ev­eryone gets along really well.” 
The women’s 69-54 win, cou­pled with the men’s 60-54 upset of michigan state on sunday, advanced both uconn teams to the national semifinals in the same year for the fourth time. 


“we were in the hotel room and watching their game, and when we realized they won and made it to the final four, we all ran out to the hallway scream­ing and excited,” dolson said. “it’s just a camaraderie between the two teams, and it’s pretty special and something not a lot of schools have.” 
There have been just seven other schools that have sent both its men’s and women’s team to final fours in the same year. 
louisville did it last season. georgia was the first to do it in 1983. 
The feat has also been accom­plished by duke, oklahoma, Texas, michigan state and lsu. 
but uconn is the only school to do it more than once. 
in 2004 they went a step fur­ther, becoming the only school to win both the men’s and wom­en’s national titles. 
The teams have appeared in a combined 20 final fours since 1991. 
“what’s happened and what’s happening is just nothing short of remarkable, and the only people who probably don’t cel­ebrate it enough are the people in connecticut — us,” women’s coach geno auriemma said monday. 
“we at times take this stuff for granted that, yeah, we’re uconn and we’re supposed to be there. i like that, but i think every once in a while we should sit back and go, ‘what we’ve done is abso­lutely remarkable.’” 
The teams open each season bonding in a joint practice they call “first night.” This year, for the first time, that included a scrimmage, with each coach leading a mixed roster of men and women against each other. 
They share the same weight room in gampel pavilion, and split the court for practice time. That will change this spring when a new $40 million practice facility next door opens, with separate courts for each team. 
“but we share so much, classes, what we do,” deandre daniels said. “we’ve always been close, and we always will be close.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC LACROSSE 

smc still searching for win 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s is focused on improvement as it tries to overcome early-season struggles and get its first win saturday against conference opponent Kalamazoo. 
Their scheduled sunday game against illinois Tech was postponed due to unplayable field conditions, and the belles (0-6, 0-0 miaa) have now had a week and a half since their last game, a lopsided 20-3 loss to concordia on march 22. belles coach amy long said improving weather and field conditions have allowed them to begin practicing outside during this stretch, which has had a positive impact on the players. 
“This week we were finally able to get out on our field for practice,” she said. “everyone is excited to be outside, and everyone brings a greater en­ergy to practice when we’re outside.” 
long also said these favor­able conditions have helped them work on certain tech­nical areas where they have been struggling. 
“we are much more effective practicing ground balls and our midfield transition [when we practice] outside,” she said. 
like the belles, the hornets (2-4, 0-0) are in their inaugu­ral season as a varsity lacrosse program. after beginning the season with two prom­ising wins over benedictine and aurora, the hornets have since lost their momentum and dropped four consecutive games, outscored 69-18 in that stretch. They most recently lost their home opener 17-2 against Keuka on saturday. The game wednesday will be the first conference matchup for both teams. 
freshman midfielder anika sproull has been a dominant force for Kalamazoo so far with a team-high 18 of the team’s 38 goals. she notched six goals in the win over aurora and six more in a 13­12 loss to Thiel, also adding 25 draw controls. 
for saint mary’s, fresh­man midfielder aubrey golembieski has led the of­fensive charge, netting 11 of the team’s 25 goals. she has also contributed 20 ground balls and 25 draw controls, each team-highs by a large margin. The next highest scorer is freshman defender Jackie loesch, with five goals. 

in the upcoming game against the hornets, long said she hopes to see con­tinued growth from the of­fensive unit with a more balanced attack and better shot opportunities. 
“i am looking forward to seeing our offense compete on wednesday,” she said. “we continue to gain confidence in that end of the field, and we’re hoping to see a couple players score their first goals of the season.” 
long also said the team needs to focus on achiev­ing simple goals if they want to win, such as minimizing turnovers, successfully tran­sitioning through the midfield and securing more ground balls than Kalamazoo. This season, the belles have had 124 turnovers compared to their opponents’ 87, and they have a 100 to 74 disadvantage in ground balls. 
saint mary’s will travel to Kalamazoo to play the hornets on sunday at 7 p.m. at macKenzie field. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL | carThage 6, smc 1; carThage 10, smc 4 
Belles drop doubleheader 
Observer Staff Report 
after nearly a week with­out play, the belles took the field against carthage and dropped both contests against the lady reds, los­ing the first matchup 6-1 and the second 10-4. 
The belles (8-6) entered the game riding a six-game winning streak, hitting a .350 average and allowing less than five earned runs during the streak. however, in its matchups against no. 22 carthage (8-4), saint mary’s did not play up to its recent success offensively or defensively. 
in their first matchup, the belles were held to just two hits made by sophomores designated hitter Jillian busfield and outfielder sarah callis. busfield re­corded the only score for the belles, reaching the plate on a wild pass. other than that unearned run, the lady reds’ pitching was relent­less, retiring the first eight saint mary’s batters and striking out five overall be­tween freshmen pitchers runs and earned only one strikeout in three innings. sophomore pitcher sarah burke entered in the fourth and was able to stop the lady reds, holding them to one run and two hits in the final three innings. 
while the belles produced more offense in the second game of their doublehead­er, their defense was just as faulty as the first game. saint mary’s took the lead early when busfield hit an rbi single in the first inning, but carthage responded with six unanswered runs in the first three innings. The lady reds finished their six-run streak with a homerun by junior outfielder olivia scott in the third inning. 
The belles turned their luck around in the sixth inning as busfield scored their first of three consecu­tive runs in the inning off of a sacrifice hit by burke. however, carthage put an end to their comeback by scoring four consecutive runs in the bottom of the sixth inning to put the game away. 
burke pitched the entire game for the belles, allowing 13 hits and six earned runs. 
The belles look to bounce back against anderson, which enters the matchup on an eight-game winning streak, Thursday at saint mary’s college softball field at 3:30 p.m. 

paid adverTisemenT 

makenzie walker and Jessica Kirby. 
defensively, the belles al­lowed five runs in the first three innings and allowed the lady reds to hit three doubles and a homerun. senior pitcher and captain callie selner struggled. she allowed five hits, five earned 
MLB | asTros 6, yanKees 2 
Yankees drop home opener 
Associated Press 
Jesus guzman and l.J. hoes homered off cc sabathia to help the houston astros roll to a 6-2 win Tuesday night in the first game of derek Jeter’s fare­well tour with the new york yankees. 
Jeter’s final big league season began by being plunked on the left arm by scott feldman and ended 1 for 3 with a single. The 13-time all-star who helped new york to five world series ti­tles announced in february his 20th season would be his last. 
The astros added dexter fowler and feldman to im­prove a team coming off three straight 100-loss seasons. on the first day, it worked. 
fowler had two doubles as houston jumped on sabathia for six runs in the first two in­nings. feldman allowed two hits in 6 2-3 innings in his houston debut after signing a three-year, $30 million contract 
sabathia led the majors last season with 122 runs allowed and finished with a career-worst 4.78 era. Things went bad for him from the start on monday night in a matchup of the league’s youngest vs. oldest rosters. 
fowler, traded from colorado this offseason, hit a leadoff double and scored on a one-out single by Jose altuve that rolled just out of reach of a diving Jeter and into the outfield. altuve made it 2-0 when he scored on a fielder’s choice by Jason castro later in the inning. 
Things got worse for sabathia when guzman launched the first pitch he saw with the astros into left-center field for a two-run homer to push the lead to 4-0. 


Achonwa 
conTinued from page 16 
chardonae fuqua’ fouled achonwa, who immediately collapsed to the court floor and grabbed her knee in pain. 
after being attended to by the team trainer, achonwa got up without assistance and encouraged her team­mates to finish out the game strong, before heading to the locker room. achonwa had 19 points and 15 rebounds when she left and finished the game as the leading-rebounder for both teams. it was her eighth double double of the season. 
at the time, the irish were leading the lady bears, 75-64, and they finished the game on a 13-5 run to secure the victory. achonwa returned to the bench in warm-ups before the final buzzer and thanked the fans for their support af­ter the win. she was named to the all-region team dur­ing the post-game ceremony, alongside senior guard Kayla mcbride and sophomore guard Jewell loyd. achonwa was also named third team all-american to go with her second team all-acc honors. 
she ranks third in the coun­try in field goal percentage and sixth in program history. achonwa underwent an mri exam Tuesday, which re­vealed the tear in her left knee. she is scheduled to have surgery and there is no time­table for her recovery. 
“natalie has been an ex­tremely valuable contributor to our success, not only this season but throughout her ca­reer, and that won’t change,” mcgraw said in an official press release. “while she may not be in uniform, her voice will be heard loud and clear in the locker room, on the bench and in the huddle. i know that our team is going to continue to feed off her energy, passion and leadership as we head into the final four.” 
in achonwa’s absence, the irish will most likely look to senior forward ariel braker and freshman forward Taya reimer to fill in during the final four. reimer averages 
7.4 points on less than 19 min­utes per game, while braker has started every game for the irish this year and is fourth in rebounds on the team. 
The irish will play no. 9 maryland in the semifinals sunday. The Terrapins (28-6, 12-4) defeated no. 4 louisville on louisville’s home floor Tuesday night to clinch their first final four berth since 2006. 

The Terrapins and the irish have already squared off once this year, on Jan. 27, at the comcast center in college park, md. The irish prevailed, 87-83, in their narrowest vic­tory of the year to date, af­ter leading by as many as 22 points. 
loyd led the irish with a career-high 31 points, while maryland senior guard and all-american alyssa Thomas scored 29 and added 12 rebounds. in the game, achonwa was limited to seven points and three rebounds. 
The irish will take on the Terrapins with a berth to the national championship game on the line at 6:30 p.m. sunday in the bridgestone arena in nashville, Tenn. 


paid adverTisemenT 



Baseball 
conTinued from page 16 
three-hit effort from senior catcher forrest Johnson (3-for-4, three rbi). sophomore shortstop lane richards went 2-for-4 with three rbi. 
sophomore right-hander second baseman cavan biggio. richards also drove in a run with a two-out single. 
senior third baseman michael morman got the crusaders (9-12, 1-2 horizon) on the board in the fourth with a two-out single that brought in se­nior center fielder chris 
“When we got to two strikes, I thought we did a good job of looking to let the fastball get deep. ... Our approach allowed us to take away the kid’s best 
pitch.” 
Mik Aoki Irish coach 
ellis foreman (1-2) took the loss after giving up eight runs on 10 hits in five in­nings. The irish (10-17, 1-11 acc) also beat foreman in last week’s game. 
aoki said the irish adjust­ed to foreman’s change-up after seeing it last week. 
“i thought we had a good approach overall,” aoki said. “when we got to two strikes, i thought we did a good job of looking to let the fastball get deep. … our approach allowed us to take away the kid’s best pitch.” 
seven of nine irish start­ers collected a hit and the bottom of the order had five of notre dame’s 13 hits. 
notre dame put up three runs in the second inning, highlighted by Johnson’s two-run triple that brought in freshman third baseman Kyle fiala and freshman manning. manning was aboard thanks to a tailing triple down the right-field line. 
richards brought in two more with a chopper over morman’s head and into left field that scored sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsulis and Johnson. Junior right fielder robert youngdahl scored on a bases loaded fielder’s choice. The irish took an 8-1 lead after a two-run fifth in­ning that featured two hits and a crusader error and plated a ninth run on a sac­rifice fly in the sixth. notre dame added two insurance runs in the eighth. 
The irish will head to no. 1 florida state this weekend to take on the seminoles in a three-game set. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Softball 
conTinued from page 16 
gumpf to move junior center-fielder emilee Koerner, the team’s leader in home runs and rbi, into the third spot. 
“at the end of the day, emilee Koerner is our best power hit­ter, leads us in extra-base hits, leads us in rbis,” gumpf said. “when Karley is on base, we tend to hit really well, and that has been the trend all year … i felt like, ‘why not?’” wester rewarded the vote of confidence by reaching base five times, going 4-4 with a walk, two steals and two runs scored. it was the first four-hit game of her career and fell just one short of the program record. 
she was hardly alone. Juniors second baseman Jenna simon, third base­man Katey haus and catcher cassidy whidden as well as sophomore first base­man micaela arizmendi and senior shortstop chloe saganowich each recorded a multi-hit game. 

“we had great run support,” gumpf said. 
The no. 23 irish (21-7) jumped on cardinal starter nicole steinbach (7-6) right away. in the first inning, four singles, two walks and an error plated four runs. rbi singles by arizmendi and saganowich tacked on two more in the third. in the sixth, whidden smoked a line-drive home run off the bleachers in left field to score two more and bring the score to 9-1. 
by the time ball state got any traction against winter, it was too late. Junior designat­ed player hanne stuedemann hit a solo home run in the fifth inning, and sophomore shortstop selena reyna and senior leftfielder Jennifer gilbert hit another solo shot and a two-run home run in the sixth, respectively. but the veteran winter grooved back in quickly, shutting the door on six of the last nine hit­ters she faced to dissolve any trace of a cardinal comeback. “i knew the way that [winter’s] pitches were mov­ing today that she was ready to go,” gumpf said. “i’m proud of the way she wanted the ball and attacked hitters.” 
The irish will take on michigan state today at home. “every game means so much right now,” gumpf said. “especially as many as we have had taken from us.” 
first pitch against michigan state is scheduled for 6:00 
p.m. today at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Evan Anderson at         eander11@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS | indiana wesleyan 8, smc 1 

belles fall to indiana wesleyan 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s fell in a tough 8-1 loss to indiana wesleyan on Tuesday. 
The belles (6-4, 2-0 miaa) dropped all three of their dou­bles matches. The unbeaten sophomore pair of margaret faller and andrea fetters suc­cumbed to their first loss in a close match that ended in a 8-6 decision. 
senior mary catherine faller and junior Kayle sexton also lost 8-2 at no. 1 doubles, while the junior pairing of audrey Kiefer and shannon elliot suf­fered an identical loss in the no. 2 slot. 

The belles faced similar challenges in singles, with indiana wesleyan taking five out of the six matches. it was Kiefer who remained resilient for the belles winning 6-4, 6-4 in no. 6 singles. 
elliot also gained some late momentum in her singles match losing out in a close second set tiebreaker 7-5 af­ter dropping the first set 6-1. however, momentum didn’t last as fetters was defeated 7-6, 6-2 at no. 4 singles. both sexton and junior Jackie Kjolhede were defeated in straight sets 6-0, 6-0 at two and three singles. faller also lost her no. 1 singles match 6-1, 6-1. 
saint mary’s hopes to bounce back when it returns to confer­ence competition wednesday against albion at 4 p. m. 

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 





HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 
2  3  4 

1 
CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 


3/27/13 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let impulse ruin your chance to get ahead this year. Take your time and base your decisions on facts. controlling the outcome of a situation that concerns your health or your wealth will lead to a positive ending. a long-term investment will pay off. a partnership will lead to unforeseen benefits and new beginnings. your numbers are 3, 11, 21, 25, 36, 38, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you’ll be asked for advice, but meddling will lead to bad feelings. listen and show interest, but don’t get involved. you are best to work on your own personal issues for now. a love relationship will be enriched if you are affectionate. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): an emotional situation should be dealt with discreetly. sharing too much personal information will leave you in a vulnerable position. offering to help someone is fine, but don’t go overboard, or you will be taken for granted.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put your charm, creativity and flirtatious personality to work for you and you will find a way to reach your goal. love is on the rise. spend a romantic evening with someone special. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): put your memory to work and you will come up with answers and solutions based on past experience that make you look like a genius. don’t let anyone acting irrational control a situation that requires steady, reasonable and responsible action. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t make too many changes unless you have worked out every little detail. if you make a mistake, you can rest assured it will be costly. physical activities will help you blow off steam and lower your stress. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your focus should be on learning and discovering cultural or spiritual differences. sharing with people from all walks of life will help you make a decision that will point you in a new direction. follow your heart when dealing with relationships. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) a resourceful outlet will be your best friend. get the answers you need before making a decision. someone will try to railroad you into doing something you will regret. love is on the rise and romantic plans should be put into play. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take good care of your health and your home. don’t take a risk based on a sales pitch that has little merit. do something creative and it will occupy your time, keep you out of trouble and lead to an unusual opportunity. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): situations will escalate quickly if you aren’t explicit in your assessment and description of what’s taking place. you may be inclined to make unexpected changes, but before doing so, get the oK from anyone affected by your decision. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your head down and your thoughts to yourself. you’ll be judged by what you say and do. someone you least expect will turn out to be your ally. Keep your business and personal life separate and you’ll avoid interference. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): step up and do your share. being a team player will help you advance. a change in the way you make or handle your money will help you raise your standard of living. consider making a move or fixing up your residence. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): focus on contracts, settlements, investments and any dealings you have with institutions or government agencies. you can make headway if you take a different approach to the way you manage your personal affairs. an emotional situation will turn in your favor. 


Birthday Baby: you are thoughtful, practical and responsible. you have stamina and fortitude. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

city      state Zip ND SOFTBALL | nd 11, ball sTaTe 4 

Winter leads Irish to victory over Ball State 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
backed by a season-high 18 hits from her offense, senior pitcher laura winter earned a program-record 97th win as notre dame knocked off ball state, 11-4 on Tuesday. 
winter (14-3, 3-3 acc) was incorrectly credited with the win in the last irish vic­tory after pitching a score­less fifth inning to close out eastern michigan on march 
26. That gave winter the chance to earn the record by pitching wire to wire, an op­portunity the class award winner said she appreciated. despite a strong wind blow­ing out from home plate that made defense difficult for both teams and brought the long ball into play, winter kept the cardinals (18-12) to just four runs. she also struck out 13 on the day with­out yielding a single walk. “[ball state] is a great hitting team,” winter said. “we were lucky to keep them to four [runs].” 
winter pitched after find­ing out just last night where she would be continuing her playing career profession­ally. she was selected seventh overall by the akron racers at the national fast pitch draft in nashville, Tenn. last night, becoming the first irish selec­tion since stephanie brown was selected 11th in 2007. 
winter said it was excit­ing to be able to share those accomplishments with her teammates. 
“it has really been awe­some, [especially] all of the support from my teammates,” winter said. “They have been encouraging me, helping me all the way.” 
it was winter’s night, but a new-look irish offense stole the show early as irish coach deanna gumpf debuted a new batting order to plenty of success. freshman leftfielder Karley wester, fresh off a ca-reer-high three steals against eastern michigan, batted in the leadoff slot. That allowed 
see sofTball PAGE 13 

BASEBALL | nd 11, valparaiso 1 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

achonwa benched with injury 
Observer Staff Report 
in a significant blow to no. 2 notre dame’s ncaa title hopes, irish coach muffet mcgraw said that senior for­ward natalie achonwa will not play for the remainder of the season after tearing her acl in the second half of notre dame’s 88-69 win over baylor in the elite eight. 
This means that achonwa, a captain for the irish (36-0, 16-0 acc), will miss out on the team’s fourth-straight final four. The irish seniors are one of only six classes in ncaa history to appear in four-straight final fours. achonwa sustained the injury with 4:51 to go in monday’s game while going up for a layup. 
baylor sophomore forward 
see achonwa PAGE 12 



nd grabs win over valparaiso 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
senior sports writer 
notre dame beat valparaiso for the second time in less than a week be­hind six one-run innings from junior right-hander scott Kerrigan in an 11-1 win Tuesday night. 
in his first start since feb. 23, Kerrigan (1-1) went six innings, allowing one run on three hits while striking out three. 
“i felt really good,” Kerrigan said. “i just felt like i had really good con­trol of my stuff tonight and my defense was working re­ally well behind me.” 
since allowing 10 runs in his first 3 1/3 innings of the season, Kerrigan has thrown 13 1/3 innings and given up two runs on seven hits. Kerrigan missed all of last season after surgery on his labrum. 
“i just felt like i kind of lost the feel a little bit,” Kerrigan said. “Just got over it mentally and just put the work in and i got it back i think.” 
irish coach mik aoki said he lifted Kerrigan after six innings and just 60 pitches to keep him available for this weekend and to get other relief pitchers some work. 
The irish offense ex­ploded for 13 hits, led by a 
see baseball PAGE 13 

ND Softball vs. Ball State  W 11-4  Men’s Tennis at Wake Forest  Fri., 3 p.m.  ND Women’s Golf  Fri.-Sun.  
Baseball vs. Valparaiso  W 11-1  ND Women’s Tennis vs. Maryland  Fri., 4 p.m.  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Duke  Sat., 12 p.m.  
ND Softball at DePaul  Fri., 6 p.m.  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Virginia  Sat., 6 p.m.  
ND Softball vs. Michigan State  6 p.m.  Baseball at Florida State  Fri., 6 p.m.  Baseball vs. Florida State  Sat., 6 p.m.  
ND Women’s Soccer vs. Chicago Red Stars  7 p.m.  Track & Field at Stanford Invitational  Fri., All day  Men’s Soccer vs. Western Michigan  Sun., 2 p.m.  






