The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 99 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Power outage shuts down campus 
No injuries reported in hour-and-a-half-long incident Thursday evening, causes remain undetermined 
By LESLEY STEVENSON, JACK ROONEY and CATHERINE OWERS 
news writers 
The entire notre dame campus lost power around 9 p.m. Thursday evening for “undetermined reasons,” ac­cording to university spokes­man dennis brown.
 “power was restored across the campus at 10:33,” brown said. “no injuries were re­ported. power plant person­nel are working to determine the cause.” 
brown confirmed that peo­ple had been trapped in eleva­tors during the outage, which lasted about an hour and a half. 
certain locations on cam­pus, including residence halls, quickly regained power after the outage, reportedly through backup generators. Just before 10:30 p.m., some buildings on the north end of campus regained power, and at 10:33 p.m., the rest of cam­pus recovered it as well.
 Firefighters and police flocked to the power plant on north Quad after the outage began. 
brandon russo, a sopho­more employee at the huddle, 
see ouTage PAGE 5 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Emergency responders gathered at the Notre Dame power plant after the outage. Parts of the Universiy were without power for an hour and a half, and causes of the outage remain undetermined. 

professor discusses social reconstruction 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
professor dinka corkalo biruski, visiting research fel­low of the kroc institute for international peace studies, presented her re­search Thursday on social reconstruction in post-war so­cieties in a lecture titled “when community Falls apart: challenges of recovery and social reconstruction in the 
ANNETTE SAYRE | The Observer 
Professor Dinka Corkalo Biruski discussed her research on social 
see research PAGE 5 

reconstruction in post-war societies Thursday. 





SMC candidates prepare for elections 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
Tickets for student gov­ernment “big board” and class board elections at saint mary’s were in full campaign mode Thursday following wednesday’s student body president and vice president campaign speeches, assistant director of student involvement and  multicultural services graci martsching said. 
“elections are a vital part of the saint mary’s experience,” martsching said. “nearly ev­ery aspect of a student’s saint mary’s experience is impacted by the people who are elected to the big boards, which include class boards, student diversity board, student activities board and residence hall association.” 
The students elected to each position will choose campus events, the students’ education­al experiences and the initia­tives to push in residence halls, 
see elecTions PAGE 5 


Conference to address human development 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The sixth annual human development conference at notre dame’s kellogg institute for international studies will take place this weekend from Feb. 28 to march 1. 
The theme of this year’s student-led conference is “Transforming development: new actors, innovative Technologies & emerging Trends,” according to confer­ence co-chair and senior eddie linczer. 
“no matter if your interest is healthcare or gender issues, failed states, emerging tech­nologies, there is a wide range of panels,” he said. “There’s really something for everybody.” 
a main goal of the conference is to encourage discussion on the theme of forming develop­ment, linczer said. he said he hopes the conference engages all the participants, who will come from notre dame, around the 
see conFerence PAGE 5 







ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is the song of your soul? 


Emily Moser 
junior 
lewis hall 

“‘Timber’ by pitbull ft. ke$ha.” 

Erich Jegier 
freshman 
sorin college 

“‘you’re still the one’ by shania Twain.” 

Logan Lally 
sophomore 
stanford hall 
“‘everything is awesome’ by Tegan and sara.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Matt Ainbinder 
freshman 
sorin college 
“‘hate being sober’ by chief keef.” 

Monika Tilmans 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“‘water on the moon’ by aer.” 

Ryan Markovitz 
freshman 
sorin college 
“‘in the cut’ by wiz kalifa.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers mary green Jack rooney renee griffin 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
keri o’mara allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Cultural Show: Men’s Boxing: Bengal Spring Town Hall Concert: Schola 
wei lin dan sehlhorst 
Hammes Bookstore “Fiestang” Bouts Meeting Musicorum 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Stepan Center Joyce Center Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Walk in or by 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Arts Center 
Corrections 

appointment. Filipino dance show. Final matches. With Fr. Jenkins. 9 p.m. -10 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Lecture: “Beyond 56th Annual Keynote Address: UK Fellowships Lecture: “Democratic 
strives for the highest standards 
Text: The Power of Collegiate Jazz “The Catholic Church Screening Poland: 25 Years 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Student-Created Festival and Immigration” Application After the Fall of 
however, recognize that we will make 
Media” Washington Hall McKenna Hall Workshop Communism” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Hesburgh Library 7 p.m.-11 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall Hesburgh Library 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
1 p.m.-3 p.m. $5 tickets sold at the By Guatemalan Bishop 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5:30 p.m. -6:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

By Curtis Bonk. door for students. Alvaro Ramazzini. In room 242. By Hanna Suchocka. 


University to host immigration conference 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
notre dame’s institute for latino studies (ils) will host “The church and immigration” conference next week in mckenna hall conference center, which will focus on the role of the catholic church in immigra­tion reform. 
rev. daniel g. groody, c.s.c, associate professor of theology and director of the immigration initiative at the ils, said the conference aims to promote the increasing importance of immigration reform, highlight the ethical issues involved and make con­nections to the gospel of Jesus christ. 
“235,000,000 people are mi­grating around the world today, and in the united states alone 10 to 12 million of those are undocumented,” groody said. “if notre dame as a catholic university had nothing to say about this, how would it be credible as a university or a catholic institution?” 
The conference will explore what roles the catholic church can play in redefining immi­gration policies and practices, groody said. 
“part of what has made america the great country that it is are the immigrants who have helped make it what it is today,” groody said. “The focus of this conference is on what the church has done, is doing and can better do in re­sponse to this challenging and 
paid adverTisemenT 

as well as the significance of immigration in latino com­munities, the immigration initiative seeks to highlight the church’s commitment to immigrants and immigration reform in the united states,” she said. 
The conference will run from march 2 through 5. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

important issue.” 
The ils will host vari­ous speakers, including sev­eral bishops and university president Fr. John Jenkins, and will hold workshops such as “human Trafficking” and “immigrant voters and the changing american electorate.” 
groody said the united states can do more to aid im­migration reform. 
“people migrate because of economic need, the violation of human rights, weak juridi­cal structures, environmen­tal disasters and many other reasons,” he said. “while the united states cannot accept every migrant in need, there is much more it can do.” 
groody said the conference is born of out of principles of catholic social Teaching, which are based directly with the dignity of the human person. 
“however one identifies one­self in liberal or conservative terms, the heart of catholic social Teaching deals with jus­tice in the world and building a peaceful society,” groody said. “catholic universities should have a role in that process. notre dame is involved in this issue because this is both a na­tional and global issue of sig­nificant importance.” 
colleen cross, project coor­dinator of the conference, said the initiative critically engages the issue of immigration in the united states. 
“building on notre dame’s long-standing commitment to a faith that does justice, 
panel explores body image 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
students gathered in the student center on wednesday night to hear panelists discuss struggles with body image as part of love your body week at saint mary’s. 
Junior sam moorhead, social concerns committee chair for the student government association, said the idea of having a panel pres­ent at love your body week was inspired by the positive results of a panel at support a belle, love a belle week in the fall. 
‘Throughout the school year we have one week where we focus on body related issues … [and it] is such an important issue that so many people struggle with but not many people talk about,” moorhead said. 
Junior mackenzie woods started the night by sharing her experience with anorexia. she named her eat­ing disorder “ed” and said that ed chose her. 
“ed is the voice that lives inside me, pushing me to embody per­fection in its most extreme form,” woods said. “you could say i was destined to develop an eating dis­order from early on. The eating dis­order was never something that i chose. Quite the contrary, in fact, ed chose me as one of his victims.” 
woods recovered five years ago and has stayed healthy with the help of family, friends and her faith. ed was a gift, woods said.
 “it may seem strange that any­one would want to toy with death and experience such loss and pain,” she said. “however, in my mind ed was a gift. 

“he was much less about food and the desire to be thin and much more about my emotional, spiritu­al, mental and creative hunger. he was a disguised opportunity for me to learn more about myself and the inner strength i never knew i had.” 
woods is in the process of creat­ing a chapter of project heal at saint mary’s. heal stands for help to eat, accept and live. project heal sponsors a scholarship pro­gram for people who cannot afford treatment. 
“i’m hoping to raise awareness of eating disorders on campus,” woods said. “i’m hoping to really get people talking about them be­cause it’s often taboo and under the rug.” 
Junior abby roggemann shared her emotional and ongoing battle with anorexia. roggemann said her best friend — her eating disorder — became her worst enemy. 
“once i realized how good i was at starving myself, it got out of control quickly,” she said. “i never thought an eating disorder could happen to me, but it can happen to anyone.” 
roggemann said the road to recovery is a continuous journey. There is no fast fix or cure-all for an eating disorder. 
“i want to give you an ending with rainbows and unicorns and glitter but it’s my story, its not over yet and it wont be for a really long a time,” roggemann said. “i’m still not really sure what the term recovery means. 
“honestly i’m not recovered, but i hope my constant work will help my disordered thoughts and behaviors grow farther and fewer. There is no fast fix or cure-all for an eating disorder.” 
sophomore bridget dedelow, who has cerebral palsy, discussed her body image issues as well. dedelow said she noticed some­thing was “off” with her when she was six years old. “people everyday compare themselves to models and actresses and in high school i did the same,” dedelow said. “but when i looked in the mirror i didn’t see anything. i didn’t see confidence, i didn’t see a good body image, i basi­cally saw nothing. 
“and i was basically angrier at that time. angry for having some­thing this thing that i couldn’t really control, angry for being awkward around other people, angry for oth­er people that were being constantly reminded that they were normal and i wasn’t and angry at the scars that were on my body. “ 
dedelow said it was not until she came to saint mary’s that she began working on her own body image. 
“i learned to talk about my feel­ings instead of hiding them,” dedelow said. 
a mass in le mans followed the panel. The chosen passages related to god’s image and body image in some way. 
“we decided to have that faith component because a lot of people rely on faith in order to get them through their struggles so we thought this was a great opportu­nity to do that,” moorhead said. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

love your body week promotes empowerment 
By KATE KULWICKI 
news writer 
love your body week contin­ued at saint mary’s college on Thursday with a self-defense class, spa night at hannah’s house and a screening of the documentary “someday melissa”. 
The self-defense class, co-spon­sored by athletics, bavo (belles against violence office), security and women’s health taught par­ticipants five basic physical moves that are part of the self-awareness and Familiarization exchange (s.a.F.e.) national program of­fered by the national self-defense institution. connie adams, direc­tor of the bavo office, said self-defense is an important aspect to what individuals can do to re­duce personal risk of experiencing violence. 
“perhaps the most important reason [self defense] falls within the category of risk reduction is be­cause it empowers participants,” adams said. “if participants take one thing away, i hope it is empow­erment, confidence.” 
during the program, facilitators discussed the importance of trust­ing one’s instincts. recognizing one’s own inner strength empow­ers women to have the ability to trust in themselves, adams said. 

“From what i have witnessed, love your body week focuses on recognizing your inner strength, being grateful for who you are and respecting yourself as well as oth­ers,” said adams. “in my experi­ence, sometimes women have a difficult time trusting [their] in­stincts, trusting themselves. 
“by encouraging women to con­nect with these instincts and follow them, we are supporting the over­arching mission of lybw.” 
a spa night was held at hannah’s house, a maternity home in south bend, which is the community partner of le mans hall. saint mary’s women spent the evening with the mothers of hannah’s house painting nails, doing facials and watching a movie. 
“The event [was] intended to pro­mote the idea of dedicating time to caring for your body and connect with the community. we are hop­ing to make smc students more aware of this wonderful organiza­tion and see how great the moms there are,” le mans hall ministry assistant kelly gutrich said. 
Thursday night’s events also included a screening of “someday melissa,” sponsored by project heal, a national nonprofit organi­zation that promotes healthy body image and raises money for those with eating disorders who can­not afford treatment. “someday melissa” is a documentary inspired by the journal writings of a girl bat­tling an eating disorder and her mother’s effort to understand the disease. 
“while ‘someday melissa’ is a story of loss and does contain some difficult content, ultimately, it comes down to hope,” leader of the saint mary’s chapter of project heal and junior mackenzie woods said. “it is only through this type of education and awareness that we can work to prevent eating disorders in the first place.” 
The film was followed by a question and answer session with gwen dehorn, a local eating dis­order specialist. woods said she hoped dehorn’s knowledge of eat­ing disorders and the film would be sources of education that in­form the community about eating disorders. 
Contact Kate Kulwicki at kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu 



PrismND to sponsor LGBTQ retreat 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
prismnd, campus ministry and the gender relations center (grc) will co-sponsor the first 24-hour retreat for students of the lgbTQ com­munity this april. 
students who do not iden­tify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or questioning (lgbTQ) are also welcome to participate, prismnd’s spirituality committee chair steven Fisher said. 
“it’s notre dame’s mission to nurture an inclusive cam­pus for every individual stu­dent,” Fisher, a sophomore, said. “recognizing that the current campus climate for lgbTQ students presents its strengths and challenges, the retreat opens an opportunity to foster a sustained and active lgbTQ community at notre dame, one where individuals can find support, fellowship and even friends to laugh with while engaging questions of personal growth.” 
ed mack, campus ministry’s assistant director of pasto­ral outreach, said prismnd’s spirituality committee ap­proached him last fall to explore the possibilities of collaborating on a retreat for lgbTQ students. Fisher said the group believed a re­treat would offer a new way for prismnd to serve notre dame’s lgbTQ community. 
“we made a choice to create a retreat where lgbT students could come to reflect and rest, and begin to share their ques­tions and experiences with faith, spirituality and sexual­ity,” Fisher said. “To accom­plish this in the context of community — we hope — will foster a deeper sense of fellow­ship among lgbT students at notre dame.” 
Fisher said members of prismnd’s spirituality com­mittee drew inspiration from previous retreat experiences with campus ministry but planned activities specifically to offer the lgbTQ commu­nity “an intellectual, spiritual and social experience.” 
“we have tailored this re­treat to serve and respect a di­verse lgbT community with a variety of experiences re­garding faith, spirituality and sexuality, including those that are catholic and non-catho­lic,” he said. “retreatants can expect to listen to the person­al stories of four speakers, re­flect on their experiences with their peers, engage unique ex­periences of prayer, relax and simply socialize in a home­like atmosphere.” 
mack said having a retreat would offer an appropriate venue for participants to con­front and reflect on issues they face every day. 
“i think many people search for meaning in life, as well as trying to deepen their rela­tionship with god and others,” he said. “a retreat is a great way to dedicate some special 
“We made a choice to create a retreat where LGBT students could come to reflect and rest, and begin to share their questions and experiences with faith, spirituality and sexuality.” 
Steven Fisher 
spirituality committee chair 
PrismND 
time to thinking about, and discussing, the place of god and others in my life and the meaning of my life.” 
mo doyle, the grc’s assis­tant director for lgbTQ stu­dent concerns, said the grc agreed to support prismnd in planning the retreat because the grc’s mission aligned perfectly with those of both prismnd and the retreat itself. 
“The grc seeks to engage the campus in respectful dialogue and to build a com­munity that fully honors the human dignity of each person as a child of god,” she said. “as such, co-sponsoring an event aimed at providing partici­pants the chance to reflect on the intersectionality of sexual orientation, gender identity and spirituality in an environ­ment that is safe, supportive and welcoming falls directly in line with the mission of our office.” 
doyle said the lgbTQ re­treat could become an annual event if prismnd and student demand support the venture. 
“since the lgbTQ retreat is one originated by students to address a specific student-identified need, the contin­ued support of student leaders around campus would be cru­cial in maintaining this as an annual event,” she said. 
doyle said the 24-hour re­treat would be held april 11-12 at the sacred heart parish center. students in­terested in participating can visit http://campusministry. nd.edu/undergraduate-re­sources/retreats-pilgrimages/ lgbt-retreat/ 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

Play to honor legacy of former SMC president 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 

This spring, saint mary’s center for spirituality (cFs) will sponsor the 2014 spring lecture series “witnesses to the love of god: The leadership of catholic women religious,” which will feature scholars from across the nation throughout march 6 to april 8. 
The lectures will be comple­mented by an original play memorializing the life of sister madeleva wolff, saint mary’s director of media relations gwen o’brien said. 
“sister madeleva was a vi­sionary, an educator, a me­dieval scholar, a poet and a woman of deep spiritual con­viction,” o’brien said. “in her 27 years as president she put those gifts to good use leading saint mary’s to national promi­nence as a premier catholic lib­eral arts college.” 
This season marks the 50th anniversary of wolff’s death. in preparation for the semi-centennial, students in associ­ate professor of english laura haigwood’s writing proficien­cy course last semester wrote essays about the life of the college’s former president. 
The college’s drama depart­ment will also contribute to the lectures’ commemoration of wolff’s life. susan baxter, a senior lecturer in communica­tion studies, asked her students to write dramatic monologues about wolff, which she used to create a 90-minute play, o’brien said. 
“i am so grateful to laura haigwood and susan baxter for their tremendous work on this project,” cFs director elizabeth groppe said. “susan in particular has spent many long hours on the play compo­sition and production.” 
baxter also drew heavily from memories submitted by alumnae, actual quotes from wolff and research by gail porter mandell, a wolff biog­rapher and professor emerita of humanistic studies, o’brien said. 
“gail porter mandell writes in her biography, ‘madeleva: one woman’s life,’ that sister madeleva would never have developed her many gifts with­out the example of the female role models she found in the convent, the literary world and the catholic tradition,” groppe said. 
This year’s lecture series in­tertwines the college’s historic example of women’s leadership with that of contemporary reli­gious female figures. 
“The play, ‘madeleva: a play in several voices,’ will bring 
paid adverTisemenT 
sister madeleva to life for a new generation of young women, for whom she is a model of a wom­an of prayer who surmounted many challenges to become a distinguished scholar, poet, educato, and leader in both catholic higher education and the life of religious communi­ties of women.” groppe said. 
The play will take place march 20, at 7 p.m. in o’laughlin auditorium. Tickets will be free for saint mary’s, notre dame, holy cross, indiana university south bend and bethel college’s students, fac­ulty and staff. otherwise, tick­ets are $10 for adults and $5 for senior citizens. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 





Research 
conTinued From page 1 
aftermath of war.” biruski’s research, which started in 2000 and has re­ceived support from both the kroc institute and institute for scholarship in the liberal arts (isla), focused on the pro­cess of social reconstruction in the community of vukovar, croatia, one of many com­munities affected by the 1991 croatian war for indepen­dence. biruski defined the pro­cess of social reconstruction as the process a society goes through in order to achieve normalcy after a conflict or mass traumatization. 
“we actually talk about two processes,” biruski said. “The process of individual recov­ery, and the process of social recovery, where individuals need to deal with their post-traumatic symptoms and the community needs to find ways to deal with painful collective history in relation to narratives of who they are to who in the past war.” 
according to biruski, the community of vukovar cur­rently faces severe ethnograph­ic division between serbs and croats. while pre-war relations among serbs and croats were relatively peaceful, post war re­lationships between serbs and croats have been characterized as socially divided, a definition that permeates aspects such as schooling, sports and business relations. 
“it’s more than obvious that social metric is not there any­more,” biruski said. “it means that an important source of social support is lacking, which makes services for reconcilia­tion or recovery much slower.” 
according to biruski, there are four levels of social recon­struction: individual, commu­nity, societal and structural. her research presented these levels as key to understanding and implementing changes in communities affected by war. biruski emphasized the impor­tance of social context in under­standing mass traumatization and social reconstruction. 
“The social context where mass traumatization happened has qualities or characteristics that distinguish it from the cir­cumstances where individual violence occurred,” she said. 
biruski said she focused her research in segregated school­ing between serbs and croats in the region of vukovar. while schools in vukovar before the war were integrated and possessed a common serbo­croatian dialect, education is now segregated between the two ethnicities and each eth­nicity teaches in their respec­tive language. according to biruski, history is a delicate and poorly-handled subject in both ethnicities. 

“we do not claim that school division actually created nega­tive attitudes,” biruski said. “however we do argue that separate schooling does not help in social reconstruction. by keeping children apart in education, they lack a possibil­ity to meet others.” 
biruski said her research demonstrated that children in vukovar are less equipped both socially and psychologically to contact or form relationships with people of another ethnic­ity, while adults, because they have pre-war memories of in­tegrated relationships between serbs and croatians, are more equipped to engage in rela­tionships between croats and serbs. 
“The only reality children have is the reality of a divided community,” biruski said. 
biruski said another factor that influences social recon­struction is misconceptions of the definition of reconciliation in a divided society. 
“we would be able to gener­alize more on the typical pro­cesses and obstacles in social reconstruction when we talk about the aftermath of war,” she said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
Conference 
conTinued From page 1 
country and around the world. 
“i think a lot of notre dame students are involved in devel­opment, very interested in social justice and [they] have also been involved in kellogg student pro­grams, in the center for social concern’s programs or in study abroad programs in the develop­ing world,” linczer said. 
delegations will travel from places as far as india and uganda. dennis haraszko, associate program director of the Ford Family program in human development studies and solidarity, said notre dame maintains partnerships fon research initiatives and pro­grams with universities in these countries. 
“one of the ways we think we can support their work and sup­port our interest in building a community of scholars interest­ed in development is to partner with them and bring people from their university to participate in this conference,” haraszko said. 
according to the kellogg web­site, the theme of this year’s conference was inspired by the evolution of development and the constant introduction of new technologies. linczer said he and his fellow co-chair, senior John gibbons, were inspired by their time spent studying abroad in china. 
“in our time in the devel­oped world, we really were fas­cinated by new inventions like sms banking … and how these low-cost technologies are re­ally transforming the way busi­ness can be conducted,” he said. “we’re really interested in new methodologies to measure the effectiveness of aid in develop­ment programs.” 
linczer said the committee chose a broad theme in order to demonstrate inclusion to all forms of research, including sci­ence, engineerin, and policy. 
“eddie and John basically wanted to think about how, what’s the best way to present new trends in development and what are some of the factors that are at play in international eco­nomic development,” haraszko said. 
haraszko said about six to seven sub-themes revolve around the theme of transform­ing development, he said. These themes focus on collaboration, mobile technology, community interactions and projects with ngos. 
“i just think it’s great to hear what the experience students have had, what research ques­tions have sort of peaked their interest, and then what they learned as they investigated those questions,” haraszko said. “i think one of the main reasons to put on this conference is to en­courage passion and interest in international development and in community development. 
“This conference provides a forum for students to become excited about the whole field. and i think to the extent that we can promote that, that’s what’s exciting.” 
The human developmens conference allows students to gain interest in topics and issues of concern that then merit fur­ther investigation and further conversation, haraszko said. if students gain interest and pas­sion as a result, they can then pursue further training to an­swer their questions in greater depth, he said.
 “That’s the great piece of it in my mind,” haraszko said. “i see this as the first step.” 
according to Therese hanlon, events program manager of the kellogg institute, the conference averages around 200 to 300 stu­dents each year, and in the past, the administration has had to cut off registration due to capac­ity concerns. 
“we’re actually exceeding pre­vious years right now in the pace of registrations and building at a fairly steady rate,” she said. 
The conference, which in­cludes panel sessions, docu­mentary screenings, posters and meals, begins at 2:30 p.m Friday. 
To register for the conference, visit kellogg.nd.edu 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Elections 
conTinued From page 1 
martsching said. 

current student body presi­dent kathleen sullivan said voting will officially take place from 12:01 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. wednesday. she said each tick­et must win a majority vote, and the candidates-elect will be no­tified of results next Friday. 
“it is interesting observing these elections because i can tell that all candidates are pas­sionate about the positions they are running for,” sullivan said. “my advice to these candidates is to keep the fire burning. your passion for saint mary’s is electric. if you’re excited about what you’re doing, chances are the student body will be excited as well.” 
sullivan said she has loved working with an organization of almost 50 members while helping contribute to the bet­terment of the college dur­ing her time as student body president. 
“i’m very proud of the work we have done this year, and i look forward to seeing what 
Outage 
conTinued From page 1 

said he noticed unusual amounts of smoke coming from the plant as he evacu­ated the laFortune student center. 
“The power plant looked like it was working overtime 
— there was a lot of steam,” he said. 
russo said he saw the hesburgh library and build­ings on north Quad build­ings lose power. 
“The [huddle] register went off, and then the fire alarm turned on,” he said. “we went outside and north Quad and the library had lights on, then went down.” 
adam hill, manager of operations for the student activities office (sao) fa­cilities, said employees in laFortune followed future administrations accom­plish,” she said. 
lauren osmanski said she and Tori wilbraham, candi­dates for president and vice president of the class of 2015, promise to give back to saint mary’s by serving both their class and the campus commu­nity as a whole. 
“saint mary’s has given us so much,” osmanski said. “we love the class of 2015 and be­lieve that we can make this year our best year yet. 
“we want to unite our senior class in creating memories for year to come. This is something the both of us have wanted to do for a long time, and since it is our last year we want to seize the opportunity.” 
osmanski said a main goal for her platform is to involve and integrate the class of 2015 in every decision made under her and wilbraham’s leadership..  
“as the voice for our senior class, our main goal is to take the traditional events and make them personal for our class,” osmanski said. “we want to embrace all the rela­tionships that have been made 
“standard protocol” during the incident. 
“we always look to ensure the safety of the students first, so we allowed students to be on the first floor hall­way while the fire alarm was going off so they could stay out of the cold,” hill said. “we wanted to make sure we were a safe haven for the students.” 
hill said he maintained communication with other sao and university repre­sentatives in order to priori­tize student needs. 
“i was in contact with my supervisor [director of sao facilities brian Fremeau]. he was in contact with the university spokesman and his boss,” hill said. “we were getting directions very quickly, and that’s how we were able to make the deci­sion to let students back in. 
and create events to celebrate these special bonds.” 
also running for the presi­dent and vice president of the class of 2015 are junior nurs­ing majors and roommates chloe deranek and emily getz. deranek said she and getz saw a need for change in how every student is represented in her class. 
“we wanted to run because we saw a need for a change, and we really want to give every sin­gle person in our class a voice and also keep events down to a minimum cost-wise,” deranek said. “we saw a need for it in our class, a need to make a change and have a good senior year.” 
sullivan acknowledged the importance of addressing a va­riety of issues and initiatives on campus and said she looks for­ward to seeing the candidates’ plans come to fruition. 
“it’s important for students to realize that they have a voice,” she said. “as a student body, we chose who represents saint mary’s.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
… we wanted to make sure we were a safe haven for students.” 
diane orlowski, library security monitor at the hesburgh library, said staff members asked students to evacuate. 
“we cleared the building because the elevators weren’t working,” she said. “once the decision was made [to evacu­ate], it took maybe 10 min­utes to clear it.” 
senior shelley kim said she heard a “buzzing sound like a dog whistle” in the library, followed by a louder noise. 
“out of nowhere, with a snap of your fingers, all the lights went out,” she said. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu, Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu, and Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


make memories 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 

in this space exactly one year ago, i said one year feels like a long ways away. well it’s here, and i’m not sure how i feel about that. seriously, i honestly don’t know what to think. 
i started at The observer during my first week of college — my first assignment was to cover a pasquerilla west interhall football game. and ever since then, well, i’ve been hooked. 
my time spent at notre dame is not com­plete without The observer. my effort exerted at notre dame is not complete without The observer. my life at notre dame is not complete without The observer, which ulti­mately means that my memories from notre dame would not be complete without The observer. 
but great experiences make great memo­ries, and great people make great experi­ences. and here, at The observer, i couldn’t find a greater group. 
i’ve done my job over the past year for these people, because they have done so much for me, individually and collectively. That’s what motivated me, and that’s why the reward was so fulfilling. 
out of an assignment, i found a rush of blood. out of solitude, i found confidence. and out of the basement of south dining hall, i found lifelong friends. 
which is why i’ve been haunted by a ques­tion asked so much of me the last week. every time i saw someone from The observer with­in the last few days, he or she asked me, “are you sad to be done?” yeah, you know what, i am sad to be done. but i’m happy they asked this question, when they could have asked, “are you happy to be done?” 
i’m happy to be asked because this place and these people mean so much to me. That someone would consider me more sad than happy to move on is the ultimate compli­ment to what i have done throughout the past three-and-a-half years. 
i won’t miss the hours or the workload or even the fruit snacks. but in the long run you don’t remember being on-call 24/7, the stress or the easy mac meals. you remember the people. so for that, i will miss deb and meghan and everyone else who i have be­friended and given me so much inspiration. you know i would have listed you all, but i can hear the orchestra playing. 
i still don’t know what to think, other than my time spent here is something i will never get back. For the rest of my life, i will live with these memories and with nostalgia teasing me by asking ,“remember when … ” no mat­ter what, i just hope i’ve made my mark here and with you. 
however big or small, we all make a mark on this community. mine just happened to be made in black and white newsprint. here’s to hoping that mark will never fade away. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

sunday afternoon, The observer editorial board inter­viewed the tickets campaigning to be the next saint mary’s student body president and vice president. The three duos outlined their respective goals for the upcoming term and their previous relevant experience. after debating the plans, goals and qualifications of all the candidates, we unanimous­ly endorse juniors nicole o’Toole and marissa pie’ for student body president and vice president. 
while candidates mckenna schuster and sam moorhead have had extensive experience within the student government association (sga), o’Toole and pie’ (a former news writer for The observer) also have held significant roles this year. Those jobs have given them inside knowledge and experience that will likely ensure their success as leaders in the next year. 
as junior class president this past year, o’Toole brought the navy dance back to saint mary’s, raised money for her class and inspired philanthropy work in the south bend commu­nity. pie’, as sga’s co-chair of market research and media, has worked alongside all the “big boards” on campus to create advertisements and to promote sga activities. 
o’Toole and pie’s backgrounds in sga and their various accomplishments have prepared them to continue current initiatives and to introduce new plans during their admin­istration, as they have already established relevant leader­ship experience and countless contacts in the saint mary’s community. 
The third ticket, anna ulliman and elizabeth kenney, of­fered unique ideas to connect the current community with alumnae but did not have student government experience at saint mary’s or extensive ideas regarding present campus concerns. 
o’Toole and pie’ have developed many objectives for their tenure, including making technology more accessible on campus. They plan to start this development by demystifying orgsync, the portal for all student clubs and activities, which many students have expressed is difficult to understand. o’Toole and pie’ plan to address this issue by hosting a man­dated orgsync training session for club presidents in order to inspire a domino effect that encourages students to better utilize the resource. 
o’Toole and pie’ also plan to tackle the financial problems that the current sga administration is struggling to manage. The initiative is one of the most important for the communi­ty, as without a working budget, sga cannot allocate funding for campus activities and clubs. o’Toole and pie’s pro-active approach to this issue, which the other two tickets left unad­dressed, particularly impressed us. 
another key distinction between the three tickets was their differing views of the sga senate and the number of sga committee chairs. schuster and moorhead said they hope to create new positions in sga to increase student involvement, while ulliman and kenney did not address these topics in their platform. o’Toole and pie’, however, said they believe sga has too many positions, which leads to overlap and idle responsibilities within the administration. They plan to com­bine certain positions and to ensure that the senate produc­tively focuses on students’ needs. 
while the pair may find it difficult to accomplish their broad range of goals during their one-year tenure, we appre­ciate that o’Toole and pie’ had detailed, rather than abstract, lists of objectives. The duo’s balanced energy and comple­mentary backgrounds convinced us their plans are practical. 
of all three tickets, o’Toole and pie’ had the most detailed strategies for accomplishing their goals and energetic, har­monious personalities that made them seem one step ahead of their competitors. we feel confident o’Toole and pie’ would be the best option for student body president and vice presi­dent because of their collaborative team dynamic, their con­cern for crucial campus issues and their ability to make plans and to put them into action. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

day of man total announced 
dear notre dame community, 

on Feb. 12, you once again showed what it means to be a community that stands for so much more than itself. on that cold wednesday, you all came together with the men of siegfried hall and helped to raise $9,377.77 for the south bend center for the homeless! 
This was our most successful year ever because of each and every one of you. whether you donated money or gave us some hot chocolate to warm us up, we cannot thank you enough for your help. 
This leaves only one thing to say: congratulations, notre dame community! when we asked for help, you re­sponded. when the homeless of south bend needed your help, you willingly donated your hard-earned money. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“and god said, ‘let there be light’ and there was light, but the electricity board said he would have to wait until Thursday to be connected.” 
Spike Milligan (1918-2002) Irish comedian, writer, musician, poet, playwright, soldier and actor 

on behalf of the men of siegfried hall, thank you and god bless. 
Thomas Ridella 
junior 
Alex Campbell 
sophomore 
Andrew Vista 
sophomore 
siegfried hall Feb. 28 




The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
An agonizing countdown to Lent 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

yesterday a friend sent me one of her habitual “omg” text messages bemoan­ing how quickly next week’s arrival of ash wednesday has overtaken her psyche. she is the type of person who announces a struggle of the day and then seeks advice or simply an audience to “hear” her never-ending quandaries. she seems so besieged by daily problems that “drama” should be her middle name.
 “stressing to make my mind and heart pure in preparation to endure the heartache of easter,” decried her message. historically, her spiritual spring agony is like an obses­sion in the name of the lord, so that her friends can set a liturgical watch by her ma­nia. how much sacrifice is enough? might my proposed denial of pleasure be too easy a hurdle to overcome? will a difficult goal be impossible to resist, ensuring that i fail another personal lenten effort this year? her fixation for seeking advice overwhelms her friends. 
“enough,” i rudely shot back in all capi­tal letters from my iphone while my mind resurrected flashes of my own past lenten passions. my ghostly remembrances rise from a conflicted time in my life that was long on classroom or schoolbook knowledge, but short on life experiences. Today, while better understanding and appreciating hu­man friendship and a sense of community, i still cannot thwart my intolerance of those who are indecisive and over-dependent. in my mind, your personal defeat is only per­manent when you lose hope. 
i continued texting, “why do you ruin Fat Tuesday each year by dragging everyone into your self-inflicted manufactured dilem­mas? Just do it yourself for a change.” 
last year i had vowed that she would never again haul me into her pre-lenten muddle. give up sex. give up sweets. give up anything — large or small — but give up trying to entice me into deciding what you should or should not eliminate from your life for the next 40 days. For god’s sake, i thought, there should be a law against anyone who procrastinates so much that it irritates others. 
while i satisfied myself for telling her off in my mind, in my heart i knew that i was a haughty, pompous intolerant idiot for lash­ing back at her. i had become one of those narrow-minded persons pope Francis had warned about. The pope asked us to exam­ine what kind of love we brought to others and if we treated others like brothers and sis­ters or if we judged one another. i had failed on all three accounts; i had excluded, mar­ginalized and judged my sister in her time (although one of many annoying times) of need. it is disappointing for me to admit, since i, like many of my generation, consider myself a pope John XXiii catholic — one who is less moralizing and more inclusive and tolerant. 
pope Francis will forever be known as the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Telling our stories 
mr. martin, we acknowledge the difficulties they 
we were happy to read your letter to face. the editor.  it is never easy to attempt to we remember the countless hours, begin a conversation about sexual vio-weeks, months and years survivors lence and other gender issues on this spend healing from the violence they campus. experience on this campus. 
we wanted to let you know that there we remember every student that is a place where people are actively, wanted to speak out about these issues, tirelessly and continuously trying to but felt silenced. have this conversation and keep it we invite you, mr. martin, to come alive: the loyal daughters and sons see our production and help us con-production. This show is a place where tinue this dialogue.  The show is in the dialogue about sexuality, sexual vio-carey auditorium on march 20 at 9:30 lence and gender issues occur on stage, p.m. and on march 21 and 22 at 7:30 as student actors portray the very real p.m. experiences of other notre dame stu-Thank you, dents who have shared their stories with us. Michelle Chatman 
we all know that notre dame is not senior a perfect place. members of our lady’s off-campus university are hurting, feeling the ef­fects of sexual violence, experiencing Monica Daegele discrimination due to sexual identity junior and facing the tense gender relations Farley hall that exist on this campus. we wanted you to know, mr. martin, that while Michael Nolan it may seem like this hurt is not only junior overwhelming to grasp but also hidden abroad beneath the gilded view that many peo-Michelle Tin ple have of this campus, we acknowl-senior edge, remember and empower it year lewis hall after year through the telling of these very personal notre dame stories. Marissa Vos 
we remember the students affected senior by sexual violence, either as survivors welsh Family hall or friends of survivors. 
we remember the students that loyal daughters and sons feel excluded from the “notre dame production staff Family” because of their sexuality and Feb. 28 “who am i to judge” pontiff, leading less by non-negotiable ideology and more by an inclusive vision of service that stimulates innovation within church theology and its organizational structure. his presence answered the yearning us “XXiii-ers” have sought for decades, especially that which affects gender, birth control and sexual orientation issues within the church. our new fundamental papal outlook on life and the world is as transformative to our faith as any dogma from years past. someday, we will proudly look back on the pope Francis catholics who are incubating within our youth today. 
Francis exudes an open perspective that significantly contrasts with the more reactionary approach of earlier papacies. Francis distanced himself from an explicit moralizing and disapproving tone typical of past pontiffs and many sitting bishops. last march, he unilaterally eased into a truce aimed to lessen the culture wars that over decades had decreased the number of catholic churchgoers in developed coun­tries, while isolating the vatican from much of the world. in essence, the reign of Francis is a permanent lenten call for all catholics to live god’s merciful love for all people rather than to condemn sinners for having fallen short. 
what lent is about to call us to do, Francis has already done in less than a year as our leader. 
John paul ii and benedict Xvi used static tradition to safeguard against the triple threat of secularism, relativism and liberal­ism — many times at the expense of hu­mankind. For example, when Francis sees acts defined as “an intrinsic moral evil,” he first endorses the existence of the person with love, not the act. 
Francis writes in his first major apostolic exhortation, “The Joy of the gospel,” that, “we want to enter fully into the fabric of society, sharing the lives of all, listening to their concerns, helping them materially and spiritually in their needs, rejoicing with those who rejoice, weeping with those who weep; arm in arm with others, we are com­mitted to building a new world.” 
lent is a time for gestures of modesty and compassion, for a commitment to help build a new spirit and nourish a renewed soul. i told my friend that i am happy to offer advice that will assist her journey. i will respond not only during lent, but also for as long as Francis is my pope or i am on this earth. suddenly, the countdown to lent seems effortless. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and pub­lic affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column ap­pears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
a divided family 
This week has been difficult one for The more i thought about this state-me when it comes to my personal be-ment the more it became clear; yes, i liefs and feeling part of the notre dame will always love my roommate because community. it all started this sunday he is like family to me. when i read the viewpoint articles this i am all in favor of rational discourse week on intolerance and ann coulter that involves conflicting opinions, and coming to campus, including the com-i believe it is even necessary to foster a ments on them. Then, in class monday great community. however, one of the morning, my professor posed the simple things we pride ourselves on here is question to the class of who was in favor that we are all part of the notre dame of raising the minimum wage, and i Family.  maybe i am naïve enough to was the only one in the class to raise my believe this family actually exists, but hand. i came out of both these events if it does, it appears to me that we are aware of the divide that seemed to exist allowing partisan lines to divide it and between my classmates and me, and i letting ourselves be filled with animos­began to question for the first time my ity towards each other instead of love. place at this university that i have cared This causes us to undermine the com-about so deeply. munity as a whole (and exhibit a would 
however, the issue that truly com-be congress). pounded all of these feelings came as my story shows, i am definitely when my roommate and i argued over part of the problem, but i know it is climate change and whether atheists something on which we could all im­could act morally or not (i feel like only prove. Just today, when i asked my at notre dame such a wide variety of friend in college republicans what he topics are discussed, but i digress). made of the controversy involving ann anyways, when the debate turned quite coulter, he told me that they were en-contentious for both of us, we could not joying the outrage that it was causing even stand to be in the same room with on campus. so, maybe instead of this each other, and i found myself livid in competition to see which side is more another friend’s room, spouting any “tolerant,” we can start working to-curse word of which i could think. wards being a true notre dame Family. 
what came next revealed a lot to me. “remember, ohana means family and our mutual friend expressed worry over family means nobody gets left behind or these issues coming between my room-forgotten.” mate and me. i stated that i was used to these types of arguments, coming from John King a big family, and he replied, “you will sophomore always love family, and he isn’t a part of Fisher hall your family.” Feb. 28 
The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Meg Cahill 
scene writer 

i have never been a big reader of magazines — i’ve al­ways preferred books. books teach life lessons, take you on adventures and stay with you for years; magazines highlight stories of miley cyrus’ most recent escapades or tips for how to “get flatter abs in six days!” 
sure, magazines are fun to flip through every once and a while, but usually i find them somewhat meaningless. as a 21-year-old woman, ironically, women’s magazines are sometimes the most difficult to stomach. The pic­tures of thin and glamorous models and articles helping us each perfect our hair, career, relationships, body, etc., have always left me feeling strangely inadequate. but this all changed when i read verily. 
started just last year, verily is self-proclaimed to be a “new kind of women’s magazine: one that celebrates the best of who you are” — not who you should be. Thus, verily is able to cover the traditional women’s magazine topics of style, relationships, lifestyle and culture with meaningful and relatable articles. 
For example, one of my favorite recent articles was 
Erin Thomassen 
scene writer 

This was not exactly the kind of message i wanted to pop up when i was downloading an app. visions of he­licopter parents danced in my head, but the helicopters were so loud that i couldn’t hear the soccer moms and dance dads warn me against the dangers of authorizing smileback to access my location and Facebook account. 
The assuring messages continued: “we will never post to your wall. ever.” wait. why wouldn’t i want my friends, family and pre-school teacher knowing that i was getting dates by submitting my heavily edited profile picture to guys between the ages of 18 and 35+? oh right — i forgot about my dignity. 
The app continued to be quite forward. it winked at me to convince me to link my profile to my nonexistent instagram account, then notified me that someone had al­ready smiled at me. i was feeling pretty good about myself before i realized my admirer was one of five cartoon guys that did not exist. The app sent me an automatic sample so that i would know what to do when someone actually wanted to talk to me. 
i was cool with all of this. it wasn’t as if i already 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

a piece by Tim carney, senior political columnist at the washington examiner and a visiting fellow at the american enterprise institute. although many women worry about their bodies after pregnancy, carney argued childbirth actually caused him to love his wife’s body even more, viewing it as a miraculous place where life begins. 
of course, not all articles are so serious. There are also pieces on websites for affordable vintage clothes, how to build a budget, tips for how to have more productive mornings, healthy recipes and regular updates on fash­ion. although similar stories might be found in other women’s magazines, all content within verily is appli­cable to real-life women. as we know, budgets do not al­low for a $700 pair of pants and fashion is not restricted to couture pieces straight off the runway. 
yet the content is not the only thing verily has to offer. The photography, design and layout of the magazine are also beautiful. in place of flimsy, glossy pages, verily feels almost like a book, with articles or pictures begging to be hung them on the wall. simple yet sophisticated, the mag­azine’s style reflects its purpose: to cater to real women. 
adding to its authenticity is verily’s strict no photo-shop policy, creating pictures that look semi-vintage but also 
confided in my roommate that someone in my brother dorm must have fallen in love with my picture, decided take me to the dome dance and planned a proposal un­der the lyons arch. 
The app asked me to guess which of the five cartoon guys chose to “smile” at me. in reality, none of them did. These imaginary men would be forced to hit on me if i had a mustache, was eighty years old and weighed 500 pounds. i made a mental note to download the app in a few decades, when i’ll most likely break up with broccoli for brownies. 
i inspected the cartoon characters closely, and as any good girl would, tapped on the one that most resembled kristoff from “Frozen.” Then i realized that my pick was 23, sported an earring and was interested in both guys and girls. “Jonathan y” was not exactly the strapping young lad my mother would have picked for me, but college was a time to experiment and get out of one’s comfort zone, right? 
well, i was wrong. imaginary Jonathan was not the one who “smiled” at me. luckily, though, i picked Jason r next, and he turned out to be my true love. smileback encour­aged me to “send him a message!” i started my seduc­tion by telling him secrets about himself that he never knew. 
realistic. There are no photo shoots in amazingly exotic locations with futuristic themes, but pictures of coffee shops and apartments, places where women actually spend their time. 
Just like books help me to get away for a while, verily allows me to take a step out of the chaos and pressures of college life and remember what is truly important. it is not to be beautiful, rich, thin and successful but rather to be beautiful in my own way, imperfections and all, rich in friends and family, happy and thankful for the body i was given and successful not just in my career but also in character. 
perhaps most importantly, the magazine inspires me to follow my own passions, write my own articles and be the best woman i can be. now, in addition to books, i love to curl up with a hot cup of tea and read verily, turning the last page with the same sense of calm and accomplish­ment when finishing a book. i have learned new things, experienced something beautiful and been reminded to love who i am. 
Contact Meg Cahill at  mcahill3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“you’re a cartoon.” i typed. i deleted the period. i took a deep breath and sent it. i knew he would respond immedi­ately; incorrect grammar is such a turn-on. 
“hey! i’m just a cartoon ;)” James r. sent back. “go to the ‘people’ tab and send a smile to a real person!” i could hear his nonexistent voice dripping in condescending charm. 
a cartoon rejected my smile. i had hit a new low. This cartoon smiled at me when he saw my picture, and sent me to talk to “real people” when he read what i had to say. well, if cartoon boys like their girls smiling and si­lent, i don’t want their smiles anyways. i deleted the app immediately. 
okay, maybe i looked through the guys in the area and then deleted it. or waited a few days to see if anyone else would smile at me before i purged it from my phone. but even if they had “smiled” at me, i would not have been up to talk to them. i was still recovering from the James r. debacle. separation from a guy who “smiled” at you can be hard, especially if you never met him in person. smileback taught me a valuable lesson: be careful whom you smile at. They may reject you because you’re a “real person.” 
Contact Erin Thomassen at  ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

as i said in the first installment of hollywood bookie, there’s no technically “legal” way to gamble on hollywood, but that’s kind of what makes it exciting, isn’t it? 
The 86th academy awards will strut their stuff sunday on abc, capping off a year of film that was supposed to hearken back to the golden ages of mov­ies, when every year was a murderer’s row of lasting classics. 
instead, we got cuckolded by a string of movies, rang­ing from crushingly boring (“out of the Furnace”) to the self-serious (“The secret life of walter mitty”) to the “oh, you thought that was self-serious?” (“august: osage county”). The cream of the crop turned out some great films, but the highest-grossing movie of the year was still an above-average-at-best sequel of a sequel with a muslim scarecrow red herring and a self-immo­lating head scratcher of a villain (“iron man 3”). 
all of which leads us into this year’s oscars, which ar­rive in a flurry of comments in the vein of “well, i don’t love it, but i’d rather vote for that than support the poli­tics of [movie X].” in all my life of sort of caring about the oscars but not caring too much to be able to turn my nose up at them and also not be deemed a nerd and/ or nark, i’ve never seen so much press dedicated to how voting for this movie or that will reflect on voters’ and viewers’ politics and personal moral values. 
i don’t really care one way or the other, but i do know it makes for some interesting odds on oscar bets. since it’s not legal and there’s no real reputable source in america for betting lines on the oscars, i had to jerry rig some together from foreign websites. 
let’s pretend we have 100 monopoly dollars and we’ve got to spend them on oscar bets or liam neeson will come for us (and our families, who knows), and see if we can’t find some solid picks. 
Best Picture 
“12 years a slave” — 1/5 
“gravity” —  4/1 
“american hustle” — 12/1 

“The dallas buyers club” —  20/1 
“The wolf of wall street” —  25/1 
“captain phillips” — 100/1 
“her” — 100/1 
“nebraska” — 200/1 
By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

saturday is a much-anticipated day for many students on campus. all the iphone countdowns that have ticked away for months will culminate at 10 p.m. at legends night club for the Jon pardi and Thomas rhett free con­cert. both big-time performers in the country circuit right now, pardi and rhett have several songs on the Top 100 country charts. Their other tour stops are selling out fast with the cheapest amphitheater seats going for at least $50, and this is a concert most nd students would pay money to go to over the summer.  but a little taste of sum­mer country fun can be had for free, in south bend, in the 
“philomena” — 200/1 

This race essentially comes down to “12 years a slave,” “gravity” and “american hustle,” with “The dallas buyers club” losing points for positioning a straight, homophobic man (against claims he was bi­sexual and not a homophobe) as the savior of the aids crisis and “The wolf of wall street” taking a hit for not explicitly condemning the debauchery of its characters. 
The clear favorite is “12 years a slave,” but even if we bet our whole $100 on it, we’d only win 20 bucks. with some voters reportedly hesitant to vote for steve mcQueen’s slavery epic due to a vague notion that they may be supporting some sort of politics (what exactly that means, who knows, but these kind of people are your answer for, “can congress get any worse?”), it’s worth throwing a few bones down on “gravity,” a beau­tiful and moving film with little to no politics in sight. 
bet: $20 “gravity” at 4/1 to win $80 
Best Supporting Actress 
lupita nyong’o (“12 years a slave”) — 4/7 

Jennifer lawrence (“american hustle”) — 5/4 
June squibb (“nebraska”) — 25/1 

Julia roberts (“august: osage county”) — 40/1 
sally hawkins (“blue Jasmine”) — 50/1 

lupita nyong’o skyrocketed from essential unknown to burgeoning hollywood star with her performance in “12 years a slave,” and awarding her an oscar for her performance is a non-ideological way to support the film for voters, especially since matthew mcconaughey will almost certainly win best actor over chiwetel ejiofor. 
but Jennifer lawrence absolutely dominated every moment she had on screen in “american hustle,” mak­ing otherwise spectacular actors like bradley cooper and christian bale look like off-off-broadway under­studies in comparison. embodying the simultaneous instability and charismatic power of her character at equal turns, she chewed up every scene in an otherwise somewhat boring movie and spat it out. 
and even though she won’t win, June squibb’s perfor­mance in “nebraska” as woody grant’s wife, kate, was spectacular. a nagging and discontented presence on the surface, squibb brought out the inner sadness and sweetness that came with kate’s position as the quiet cornerstone of the family, and as i said in my review of the movie, absolutely nobody can deliver an F-word like 
ice-cold winter at legends?  giddy up! 

Thomas rhett is likely to be the first act. he is fairly new on the country scene, but is nominated for acm new artist of the year.  his debut album, “it goes like This,” came out last march, with top songs from the album in­cluding “it goes like This,” “get me some of That” and “something to do with my hands.”  rhett is actually a successful songwriter as well as a performer, with songs from Jason aldean’s smash hit album “my kinda party” under his belt. 
Jon pardi will be the second act of the evening. you might remember him as the opener for dierks bentley’s 2010 tour. pardi released his first album “write you a song” last month.  The album peaked at no. 3 on country album she does in that movie. i’m going to hedge my bet out of respect. 
bet: $15 on Jennifer lawrence in “american hustle” at 5/4 to win $18.75 
$5 on June squibb in “nebraska” at 25/1 to win $125 
Best Song 
“let it go” from “Frozen” — 1/6 
“happy” from “despicable me 2” — 6/1 
“ordinary love” from “mandela: long walk to Freedom” — 6/1 
“The moon song” from “her” — 33/1 
every girl this side of the mississippi is bullish on “let it go” and “Frozen” in general, which is great for me because it means by the time christmas rolls around, the merchandise should be hitting prime discount pric­ing range and i can finally buy gifts that will make my nieces respect me. 
aside from that, “let it go” is the type of original song that the oscars love. it’s emotional, it drives the plot, it has a soaring, broadway-sounding hook and the performer isn’t likely to a pull a sinead o’connor-type stunt while performing it live at the ceremony. 
all that said, “ordinary love” from “mandela: long walk to Freedom” has a few things going for it as an underdog  — it’s from a movie about one of the most revered figures in history (nelson mandela), it’s from a movie that people really wanted to love but didn’t, and so this is the only real shot it has at winning an oscar, and it’s performed by a band (u2) that bleeds social activism and doing the right thing and whatnot but without being too aggressive about it. and along with all that, it’s not too bad of a song. 
bet: $25 “ordinary love” from “mandela: long walk to Freedom” at 6/1 to win $150 
Will Pharrell Williams wear a Mountain/ Buffalo Hat during his performance? 
yes — 2/5 
no — 17/10 
bet: yes. $30 on absolutely at 2/5 to win $12 and the last $5 we have on i hope so at “worth it?”/”definitely 
Contact Kevin Noonan at  knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
charts, boasting two hit singles: “missin’ you crazy” and the hugely popular “up all night.”  it really is an all around standout album, and it’s worth listening to the whole thing so you don’t miss gems like “Trash a hotel room.” 
if you’re a fan of country music, be sure to check the legend’s concert this saturday.  rhett and padri are sure to be big country stars. The show is free and is without a doubt an opportunity to check out two up-and-coming sensations. you won’t want to miss Jon pardi and Thomas rhett in this close and intimate setting before they hit the big stages this summer, and in the midst of this cold, it’s sure to be a great way to warm up your winter. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Johnny Football not clear no. 1 

Kit Loughran 
sports writer 
The draft may still be nine weeks away, but with the nFl combine all over the media, you can’t help but wonder who will be the no. 1 pick of the 2014 draft. 
There’s one player no one can ignore — whether that be for better or worse. Johnny manziel. everyone knows Johnny Football — either for his performance on the football field or his performance in the party scene. The first-ever fresh­man heisman trophy win­ner in 2012 had quite the college career. but is that all there is to him? will manziel only be remem­bered as a college legend, or will he become a hero in the nFl as well? 
recently, espn nFl ana­lyst ron Jaworski said he would not pick manziel in the first three rounds of the draft. Jaworski is not giving him the credit to be the no. 1 pick — fair enough. but he’s dumping him into the third round, or even later. with all the hype that has surrounded manziel since his first season as Texas a&m’s starting quarterback, this projection adds quite the twist to manziel’s nFl future. 
Those like Jaworski don’t see manziel’s style of play­ing making it at the nFl level. yes, they admit that he had an incredible college career and was a star on the field. no one can deny that. he is a pocket dynamite, and anyone knows from watching him that he can create unbelievable plays out of nothing. however, this doesn’t account for his misjudgment on the field and number of interceptions characteristic of his style of play. 
in his last game of his collegiate career, the 6-1, 207-pound quarterback led his team back to defeat duke in the chick-Fil-a bowl on dec. 31. he had an incredible performance with 382 passing yards, four passing touchdowns, 73 yards rushing and a score on the ground. clearly, he’s got the talent. 
will his improvised ap­proach and unique mechan­ics make it at the next level? That’s what nFl coaches want to know. 
as manziel tries to fight this image of being the improvise player, his bra­vado remains unfaltering through all this combine speculation and attention. his trademark audacity has aided him in maneuver­ing through these combine press conferences — similar to how they assist him in swiftly avoiding pass rush­ers and completing that pass downfield. i can’t think of another college athlete that would dare a profes­sional team to pass on him. manziel actually said the houston Texans, who hold the top draft choice, would be making the “worst deci­sion they’ve ever made” if they fail to draft him with the no. 1 pick. 
clearly, manziel knows who should be the no. 1 nFl draft pick, but i think i speak fairly when i say that the houston Texans and the rest of us are still left a little uncertain. with his height and size, party-scene character and style of play all under scrutiny, it’s really difficult to say with any cer­tainty that manziel will be selected as the no. 1 pick. 
he can play the game, no doubt. but can he excel at the professional level? we will see how manziel’s self­ish demeanor along with his agility and improvised (sometimes misjudged) ex­ecution come into play at the combine. 
only the first round of the draft on may 8 will tell if manziel truly is the no. 1 pick. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NHL | new york islanders 5, ToronTo 4 (oT) 
Lee scores twice in Isles win 
Associated Press 

uniondale, n.y. — The new york islanders have been on the losing end of many roll­er-coaster finishes this season. so lubomir visnovsky’s over­time goal lifting them to a wild 5-4 win over the Toronto maple leafs was especially satisfying. 
The veteran defenseman’s unassisted tally 1:55 into extra time ended a see-saw contest Thursday night in which the teams combined for five goals in an 8 ½-minute span of the third period. 
The winner came after anders lee scored two tying goals for the islanders in his first game of the season. evgeni nabokov made 18 saves for new york, which improved to 5-1-2 in their last eight games against Toronto. 
“our singular focus is the task at hand, one period at a time and one game at a time,” said islanders coach Jack capuano, whose squad will be without top scorer and captain John Tavares for the rest of the season with a knee injury suffered at the olympics. “That team is big and strong. i like the fact we kept moving forward tonight.” 
Joffrey lupul put Toronto ahead 4-3 with just over six min­utes left in the third before lee knotted the score at 17:20 with his second of the game. lupul’s 18th of the season at 13:54 came just over a minute after lee tied it at 3 with his first goal. 
lee’s power-play goal came after dion phaneuf had put Toronto ahead 3-2 at 11:26. 
phaneuf’s sixth goal of the season came less than three minutes after paul ranger tied it at 2. 
“you can’t win in this league giving goals as gifts,” maple leafs coach randy carlyle said. “They tried to grind and we tried to outskill them. They did a bet­ter job.” 
after Toronto’s phil kessel opened the scoring at 6:53 of the first with his 32nd goal of the season, new york’s michael grabner scored two short-hand­ed goals 48 seconds apart late in the period. 
The islanders held that lead entering the third before the outburst by both teams. 
kessel, who scored five goals for Team usa in sochi, took a pass in the high slot be­fore whipping the puck past nabokov. only washington’s alex ovechkin has more goals than kessel. 
grabner answered for the islanders with his first short­handed score at 15:53 off an assist from casey cizikas. The austrian forward then took ad­vantage of a misplay by leafs goaltender Jonathan bernier, in­tercepting an attempted pass by the netminder in the crease and sliding the puck into the empty net at 16:41. 
The goal was the 11th of the season for grabner, who tied kessel in goals at the olympics. 
“it’s a game of mistakes, but at least we got a point out of it,” bernier said. 
The last islanders player to score two short-handed goals on the same power play was Ziggy palffy, 53 seconds apart on april 17, 1999. 
“we kept coming and obvi­ously had a big shift to score that tying goal,” grabner said. “everyone fed off each other tonight. we still have a lot of games left. hopefully we can keep it up.” 
The islanders (23-30-8), had lost seven of eight games head­ing into the olympic break. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | louisville 88, Temple 66 
Cardinals dominate Owls 
Associated Press 

louisville, ky. — when preseason all-america guard russ smith is playing his best, defending national champion louisville looks like one of the nation’s top teams again. 
when he gets the kind of help he got from teammates montrezl harrell and Terry rozier in Thursday night’s 88­66 rout of Temple, the seventh-ranked cardinals appear nearly unstoppable. 
smith had 24 points, mov­ing into eighth place on the school’s career scoring list, harrell added 21 and freshman Terry rozier scored a career-high 19 as louisville capped a per­fect February with its seventh straight victory. 
The trio combined to shoot 25 of 34 from the field and nearly outscored Temple all by them­selves. louisville shot 53 percent (32 of 60) and has won 13 of its last 15 games. 
louisville’s fast-paced attack 

FOR RENT 

Fully furnished rental. Please call 574-360-6910 or email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ 
usually starts with smith and often finishes with a dunk from harrell. smith was 8 of 12 from the field and 7 for 8 from the free throw line. harrell shot 9 of 12 and had four dunks to extend his school record of 69 slams on the season. 
“The ball is flowing great,” smith said. “we’re pushing the ball and that’s important. ... Just being able to get out and put the pressure on the defense makes for a great team offensively.” 
The cardinals had 21 fast-break points to two for Temple. 
“Those two, it’s a lot of transition,” owls guard will cummings said of smith and harrell. “That’s where they re­ally hurt us. we were taking a lot of bad shots sometimes on offense. That kind of led to their transition and that’s what they thrive off.” 
Five days after drawing with­in a half-game of first-place cincinnati with a road win over the bearcats, the cardinals (24-4, 13-2 american athletic conference) followed up by completing a season sweep of the outmanned owls (7-20, 2-13). 
cummings scored 18 points and Quenton decosey added 17 for the owls. Temple has lost 15 of 17 since new year’s day, including an eight-game losing streak to start 2014. 
louisville coach rick pitino said this season’s squad could be better on offense than last year’s title-winning team when 
newcomers rozier and  chris  
Jones  are  factored  in,  along  
with  last  year’s  Final  Four  

most outstanding player luke hancock. 
“i think we have a lot of re­ally good offensive weapons who can put the ball on the floor,” pitino said. “we are not as good defensively as last year, but we are a better offensive team from an efficiency standpoint.” 
rozier shot 8 of 10 from the field, including 3 of 4 on 3-point­ers. Jones had a season-high eight assists and hancock hit three 3s to score nine points. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net  to  everything.  email  nd-house@sb­ 
cglobal.net  for  additional  info  and  
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo  photos.  
and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601  WANTED  
blg57@sbcglobal.net  
COMMENCEMENT  RENTAL:  Typist sought to type manuscript.  
Prime location next to campus. Walk  Call 574-631-5491.  



MEN’S TENNIS 


irish ready for inaugural acc home match 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
notre dame will make its home acc debut tonight against virginia Tech at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
The no. 6 irish (10-3, 0-1 acc) hope to regain their footing af­ter two weeks marked by nar­row 4-2 losses against defending national champion virginia and top-ranked ohio state. 
The no. 44 hokies (7-3, 1-0) enter the matchup with four wins in their last five matches. This is the first time they have faced the irish as members of the acc. 
“it is all about how you com­pete,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “The mental difference is what allows you to win these close matchups, and we have a great opportunity to show that against virginia Tech this weekend.” 
This is the second consecutive weekend the irish have played at home. The buckeyes came from behind and won four consecu­tive points on saturday to se­cure victory in front of an irish crowd that was over 400 strong. notre dame, however, was able to secure a 4-0 victory that same day over ball state. 
“it is not easy playing at this level of competition on a weekly basis,” sachire said. “The last few years we have really put an emphasis on recruiting a com­bination of talent and character. our guys are pushed to the limit on many levels and it is impor­tant that they can handle that pressure.” 
The match against the hokies provides an opportunity for the irish to regain momentum as they enter the second half of their campaign.  whether victorious or not, notre dame will have to refocus quickly. The irish have a rematch at the cavaliers (6-1, 1-0) on sunday. 
“our approach is the same whether we are playing the top-ranked team or an unranked team,” sachire said. “one thing we emphasize as a program is that the process is the same no matter who we are facing. you have to bring energy and consis­tency to win any match.” 
after sunday’s matchup, notre dame will be out of ac­tion for nearly two weeks before it ventures to los angeles to play usc on march 14. The match against the hokies will be the last home match for notre dame until march 28, when the irish host acc foe duke. 
The irish face virginia Tech at 6 p.m. tonight and virginia at noon on sunday. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Williamson, Babcock hit qualification times 
Observer Staff Report 

after a first day that saw two notre dame records fall, the irish went right back to work breaking records Thursday in day two of the 2014 acc championships at greensboro aquatic center in greensboro, n.c. 
on wednesday, the irish 200-yard medley relay, which finished fifth, and 800-yard freestyle relay, which fin­ished third, set new school marks, and both qualified for ncaa championships at the end of march. 
Thursday’s action started with senior and two-time all-american Frank dyer, who broke his own team record in the 50-yard free­style with a blistering time of 19.59 seconds. during the finals for that event, dyer swam a time of 19.62, which 
tied the original school re­cord to claim seventh place. dyer was not done there, as he contributed a time of 
19.57 for the lead leg of the 200-yard freestyle relay. The team of dyer, junior all­american Zach stephens, sophomore matthew buerger and freshman kevin bradley combined for a time of 1:18.72, which earned them an ncaa b-cut for the event. 
stephens became the first individual irish swimmer in the history of the program to finish at the podium of the acc championships, swim­ming a 1:44.01 for second-place honors in the 200-yard individual medley as well as all-acc honors. senior co-captain colin babcock earned himself an ncaa b-cut in the same event by clocking a final heat time of 1:45.68. 
Junior all-american John williamson picked up an ncaa b-cut in the 500­yard freestyle, finishing 11th overall with a time of 
4:23.22. he was followed immediately after by junior kevin hughes (4:23.26) and freshman Tom anderson (4:24.06) in 12th and 13th place, respectively. 
The irish currently sit in fifth place in the standings, with 325 total team points. The current leader is north carolina state with 415 total points. 
The irish resume competi­tion Friday at the greensboro aquatic center, with prelim­inary heats for the 400-yard individual medley, 100-yard butterfly, 200-yard freestyle, 100-yard breaststroke and 100-yard backstroke begin­ning at 11 a.m. 


Irish senior Frank Dyer competes in the Shamrock Invitational on Jan. 31. Dyer set a Notre Dame record in the 50-yard freestyle at the ACC Championships on Thursday with a time of 19.59 seconds. 
NBA | brooklyn 112, denver 89 
pierce’s 18 points lead nets past nuggets 
high city since a 112-102 victory points. 104-80 loss at portland the night rest of the game. 
Associated Press 

on Jan. 27, 2007. before the game, collins said before, their biggest loss since a The offensive struggles by 
denver — paul pierce scored randy Foye had 15 points to he planned to meet afterward 47-point defeat to memphis on denver, which was without 18 points and the brooklyn nets lead denver, which has lost four with the family of wyoming col-dec. 13, 2003. but they quickly leading scorer Ty lawson (left rebounded from their worst loss in a row and nine of 10. lege studentmatthewshephard, put that behind them with a rib fracture) for an eighth con-in more than 10 years by routing brooklyn’s 7-foot center Jason who was tortured and murdered runaway win of their own in secutive game, were epitomized the slumping denver nuggets collins, the nba’s first openly in 1998 because he was gay. a game in which they never in the first quarter. The nuggets 112-89 on Thursday night. gay player appearing in his collins wears his no. 98 jersey trailed. were held to a season-low eight 
Joe Johnson, marcus third game since being signed in shepard’s honor, and he said pierce scored 11 points in the points on 3-for-18 shooting Thornton and mason plumlee to a 10-day contract, was given during a pregame news confer-third quarter, helping the nets from the floor (16.7 percent) and each added 10 points for the a round of applause from the ence that the chance to meet extend their lead to 38 points. trailed by as many 31 points in nets, who snapped a six-game crowd when he entered the dennis and Judy shepard was brooklyn took an 89-56 advan-the second quarter before man-losing streak in denver. The game for the first time with 8:02 “one of those cool treats in life.” tage into the fourth quarter and aging to get within 23 at the nets hadn’t won in the mile left. collins finished with three The nets were coming off a played reserves for most of the half. 


TRACK AND FIELD | acc indoor championships 
Competition begins at ACCs 
By MATTHEW GARCIA 
sports writer 
while most of notre dame’s events at the acc indoor championships in clemson, s.c., take place Friday and saturday, a Thursday schedule with four opening events end­ed in success for the irish. 
early in the evening, gradu­ate student Ted glasnow led 
“Everyone is feeling good. Everyone has fresh legs. The team is starting to bond, which happens when you go on long trips.” 
Harvey Smith 
freshman sprinter 
the irish men in the heptath­lon, who claimed the victory in the shot put portion of the event with a mark of 14.21 me­ters. glasnow also finished fifth in the men’s long jump 
(6.66 meters), men’s high jump 
(1.93 meters) and men’s 60-me­ter race (7.22). glasnow stood in third place overall after the first four events of the heptath­lon with 3,021 points. 
Junior carly loeffel and se­nior meghan moore competed for the women in the pentath­lon, with loeffel grabbing two top-five finishes. loeffel was one-hundredth of a me­ter away from taking home the same honors as glasnow, placing second in the shot put with a mark of 12.30 meters. in another close finish, loeffel finished fifth in the 60-me­ter hurdles with a time of 8.92 seconds. 
moore finished in the top 13 in all five events to claim 11th place overall. 
The day ended with the men’s and women’s distance medley relays. The men took first with a time of 9:49.99, while the women came in sec­ond with a time of 11:16.59. The two finishes marked the end of the first day of competition for the irish, who stand in first place on the men’s side and fourth on the women’s. 
even though freshman sprinter harvey smith did not compete Thursday, he said he still took note of the team’s strong start. 
“we took first in the distance medley relay; that will give us 10 points, so that is nice for tomorrow,” smith said. “our main competition is probably Florida state, and they did not run it, so we have the advan­tage there.” 
Friday comes with an excit­ing schedule of eight finals, including the conclusion of the heptathlon. action in clemson begins at 11:00 a.m. with the 60-meter-hurdles portion of the heptathlon and ends with the men’s 5,000-meter race. saturday will bring another 22 finals, including the mile run, a strong point for the irish coming into this weekend. 
smith said the team is ready for the weekend and enjoy­ing the time together on the conference stage. moreover, smith said he expects the irish men to turn in strong perfor­mances in the mile run, the men’s 400-meter dash and the men’s 4x400-meter relay. 
“we had a team meeting, and we are just ready to go and run,” smith said. “everyone is feeling good. everyone has fresh legs. The team is starting to bond, which happens when you go on long trips.” 
The irish will look to continue Thursday’s suc­cess throughout the week­end. The acc indoor Track championships are available to stream on espn3. 
Contact Matthew Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu. 
BASEBALL 

defending champs await nd 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 

on Friday, notre dame will begin a four-game weekend with a matchup against no. 13 ucla, the reigning national champi­ons, as the irish travel to cary, n.c., for the usa baseball-irish classic. 
“as the defending champions, playing ucla (4-4) will be a great challenge for us, but we have the luxury of playing them as recent­ly as last year,” irish coach mik aoki said. “i thought we played a really good game against them last season. it was a good, com­petitive game, so i hope my guys feel good about the opportunity to play ucla. we’re very much looking forward to playing them this weekend.” 
on saturday, the irish (3-4) will continue their weekend against youngstown state (0-5) in an 
11:30 a.m. game before their 3 
p.m. game against michigan (1-5­1). Then, on sunday, notre dame will wrap up its weekend against appalachian state (0-8) at 11 a.m. 
“we’ve played michigan twice a year almost every year i’ve been here,” aoki said. “This year, we’ll be playing appalachian state and michigan later in the season, so it will be good to face them like this early on.” 
at the same time, the irish are not traveling south firing on all cylinders. This weekend, aoki said notre dame plans to drop junior right-handed pitcher scott kerrigan from the starting rota­tion after a rough start to 2014. Though kerrigan has already started two games this season, he has only made it through 3.1 innings and carries a 13.50 era. 
“we’re going to take [kerrigan] out of the rotation for the time being while we just get him throwing and getting a little bit more confidence back in what he’s doing,” aoki said. “For us to be good, we’ll need for him to be good. For now, he’ll have to work through a few issues, but i think he’ll be fine.” 

additionally, replacing 2013 big east player of the year eric Jagielo has been a challenge for the irish. last spring, the third baseman was drafted in the first round of the mlb draft by the new york yankees. 
so far this season, irish fresh­man infielder kyle Fiala has stepped into Jagielo’s spot, start­ing four of notre dame’s first sev­en games at third base. despite an impressive high school re­sume, Fiala has struggled to start the season, hitting just .125. 
“[Fiala] did enough to warrant another weekend,” aoki said. “he had one tough error, but as the weekend went on, i thought his at-bats got better. he had a big double against santa clara and had a couple other hard-hit balls. defensively, there were maybe three plays where i don’t think another third baseman in the program could have made those kinds of plays. with that, i thought he did enough to length­en out his leash a bit as our third baseman.” 
oddly enough, missing from notre dame’s schedule this weekend is no. 8 nc state, the sixth and final team in the tour­nament. according to aoki, this was a strategic move on the part of the two teams. 
“since we’re playing nc state next weekend, we aren’t playing them in this trip,” aoki said. “nc state, when they called us and asked us if we wanted to be in­volved in this, specifically talked about this. at the time, the acc schedule wasn’t out yet, so we decided that we would play each other if we happened to miss each other on the acc schedule. but, if we were on the schedule for play­ing one another, we wouldn’t play each other in this tournament.” 
Though the irish have to wait until march 7 to play the wolfpack (7-1) for the first time this season, the team will first have to take on another top-15 team in ucla on Friday. 
The irish will play the bruins at 
6:30 p.m. Friday in cary, n.c., at the usa baseball complex. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


W Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
minutes to play. notre dame (2-2, 0-2 acc) improved at this point, matching north carolina with two goals each, including the final goal of the game with one second left by senior de­fender molly shawhan on the feed from sophomore attacker kiera mcmullan. 
“i am really proud of my team that, in the final eight minutes, we still saw fight,” halfpenny said. “no matter the way the game went in the end, we scored a goal right at the end, and i think that shows that our youth will continue to grow.” 
even though the irish lost, halfpenny said there were still positives to take away from the game. 
“at the end of the game we have some obvious things that we can build off,” halfpenny said. “our youth continues to impress us, we had strong ef­forts on the draw from [junior defender] barbara sullivan and [senior midfielder] margaret smith, and that gets us really excited about what we’re going to see the rest of this season.” 
The loss drops notre dame back down to .500 and leaves it still searching for its first confer­ence win. That said, halfpenny stressed the season is still young, and now is not the time to be worried. 
“we can’t panic,” halfpenny said. “we have to learn to play with poise, confidence, and quickly overcome the small mistakes so they don’t lead to big ones.” 

The irish must move on quickly from the loss, as they immediately head to blacksburg, va., to take on conference foe virginia Tech on sunday. The hokies dropped their first game of the season to James madison but have since won their last three, including most recently a 15-8 victory against longwood. 
virginia Tech is led offen­sively by redshirt senior at­tacker Julia heaps and her 20 points, including 13 goals on 18 shots, and junior attacker megan will, with 18 points and two game-winning goals. The hokies boast freshman meagh graham in goal, who is 3-0 on the year and has 27 saves. 

after falling to north carolina on Thursday, notre dame will look to get its first acc victory against virginia Tech at Thompson Field in blacksburg, va., on sunday at noon. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
rebounded from the loss, partic­ularly this week in practice. 
“i thought our guys did a great job of bouncing back this week,” corrigan said. “we were very competitive in practice. The guys really played hard and i really liked our approach. … our lead­ership did a great job of picking everyone up, which you need.
 “[The captains and seniors] are extremely important after a loss, but it’s not just them. you need guys in every class to help pull each other up, and we have that leadership on this team.” 
beginning with the matchup against penn state, the irish now find themselves in the middle of a scheduling gauntlet, which has them facing seven consecutive ranked opponents in a seven-week span. some coaches might worry about their team fatiguing after consecutive games against top-of-the-line competition, but corrigan said that is not on this team’s radar now or moving forward. 
“That’s not an issue at all,” corrigan said. “our guys know how to compete and i think they do a good job of getting them­selves back in the mindset that they need to be in on game day. … i won’t dispute that it’s a tough schedule, but at the end of the day, it’s only 12 games [in a sea­son]. i’d hope we’d be able to pre­pare for that and more.” 
after going head to head with the stalwart nittany lions de­fense last weekend, next up on the docket for the irish is another marquee matchup, this time going against north carolina’s high-octane offense. 
The heels’ offensive attack is led up front by attackman Joey sankey. The 5-5 junior attack-man and inside lacrosse second-team preseason all-american has already scored nine goals and added six assists in just three games, including a seven-point performance against dartmouth on saturday, which tied his ca­reer high. Junior midfielder John Tutton, a first-team preseason all-american, has also already found the back of the net six times this season for the heels (3-0), who have scored 58 goals in their three games, all blowout victories. 
“They’re extremely prolific of­fensively,” corrigan said. “They’re averaging 19 goals a game, and they have a deep, talented, offen­sive group with a lot of people you need to worry about. so for us, we’ll have to control the tempo, not allow any easy goals and get them into the six-on-six where we can defend them.” 
in order for the irish to get back in the win column, corrigan said they’ll have to improve on the of­fensive end as well. 
“we struggled against zone de­fense,” corrigan said. “in the sec­ond half [against penn state], we had a lot of missed opportunities on the offensive end, too. we had to clean that up this week, and i think we did.” 
The irish take on the Tar heels at 12 p.m. saturday at Fetzer Field in chapel hill, n.c. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

further ahead. 
M Bball 

W Bball 
“Their back cuts really hurt 
conTinued From page 16 conTinued From page 16 

us,” mcdaniel said. “They took 

it to us.” you always have a love affair with 
lead.” Junior guard madison cable your point guards.’ and that is true. 
at times in the first half, north made two free throws to break i mean, i love those guys. i mean, i 
carolina (21-8, 9-6) struggled to the century mark with two sec-was one and i’ve been really con-
get the ball past half-court: of onds left in the game. nected with those guys, starting 
their 13 first-half turnovers, nine The irish will conclude the with [current irish assistant coach] 
were steals by the irish. although regular season sunday when martin inglesby [who played under 
the Tar heels narrowed the defi-they travel to face no. 13 north brey in 2000-01]. i don’t know if i’ve 
cit down to five points halfway carolina state (24-5, 11-4), been more connected to a guy than 
through the period, the irish who beat pittsburgh, 79-68, on eric, and he’s had an amazing ca-
build it right back up, leading by Thursday night. The wolfpack reer for us.” 
as many as 22 before heading into are 14-1 at home (the Tar heels atkins is the only half remain-
halftime with the 55-38 lead. handed them their only defeat ing of what was supposed to be a 
“i think these past two games, at reynolds coliseum on Feb. veteran irish backcourt after the 
we’ve come out and just tried to 16), and all but one of their losses dec. 22 departure of senior guard 
have fun,” mcbride said. “i think have come from acc opponents. Jerian grant from the team for an 
we weren’t pressing as much as senior center markeisha academic matter. 
the games prior to that, and we’re gatling currently leads the “i have the utmost respect for 
just coming out and getting stops wolfpack with 17.4 points per [atkins] this season because he re-him more, in my hindsight,” brey the co-captain. 
on defense and led to transition game and has hit 68 percent ally counted on playing with Jerian said. “but he’s never complained. “i know there’s a chance it could 
baskets.” of her shots this season. she this year,” brey said. “and those he’s come in and worked, coming be, but i don’t think of it that way 
The Tar heels stopped the is also the team leader in re-guys are really close, and they were off the bench, starting, whatever because he and his parents are so 
bleeding for the first five minutes bounds (7.0) and shots blocked roommates, and it didn’t work out. you need me to do. as we know, adamant about wanting to come 
of the second period, and a jump (1.1) per game. her fellow se­and he’s hung on in there and led he saved us last year when scott back and play basketball and grad-
shot by freshman guard Jessica nior, forward kody burke, is us and scored for us and tried to do martin went down. Flat-out saved uating in december,” he said. “and 
washington brought unc within averaging 15.1 points per game. a little bit of everything for us.” us. we don’t get to the ncaa tour-then whenever our season ends 
10 points with 14:32 left in the burke, a two-time academic all­sherman leads the team in nament without him. i’m hoping next year, he’s gone because there 
game. american, hit a three-point shot scoring and rebounding with 13.8 i can ride a little bit of that karma will be no more duties here. i think 
“we just picked up our inten-with 11 seconds left that gave points and 7.4 rebounds per game. right now because i thought he was he looks forward to coming back. 
sity,” sophomore forward Xylina the wolfpack a 68-66 win over in his two years with notre dame, great the other night … very proud he loves basketball, and obviously, 
mcdaniel said. “we did not have virginia on sunday. the michigan state transfer has of him … learned to be a worker, he’s got one more year to do it and 
as much intensity as we need-The irish close out the regular made 52.3 percent of his field-goal learned to love the game and just then he’s full-time throwing that 
ed in the beginning of the first season against north carolina attempts. has bought in to our program, our fastball and whatever else.” 
half, which is why we fell so far state at 2:30 p.m. sunday at the knight has primarily come off system, our style.” notre dame will celebrate its 
behind.” reynolds coliseum in raleigh, the bench in his career but has although irish junior guard/ seniors and conclude its home 
but as the minutes passed by, n.c. made 25 career starts, including 16 forward pat connaughton could season saturday by welcoming in 
it became clearer and clearer last season. forgo his senior season to begin pittsburgh at 2 p.m. 
that the Tar heels could not slow Contact Vicky Jacobsen at        “There’s probably times in Tom’s his professional baseball career, 
the irish, who pulled further and vjacobse@nd.edu career he should have played more, brey said he does not expect this to Contact Joseph Monardo at    the coach should have played serve as the de facto senior day for jmonardo@nd.edu 
shutout saturday, as he played college’s formidable top line, 
Hockey 
59:08 of the senior night which Jackson said is the best 
conTinued From page 16 
win before conceding the in the country. 

net to fellow senior goalten-“They’ve got great goaltend­forwards T.J. Tynan and bryan der Joe rogers for the game’s ing, they’ve got great defense rust and sophomore forward final 52 seconds. despite and they have maybe the best mario lucia all had goals in summerhays’ strong recent combination of forwards in notre dame’s losing effort. play, senior defenseman kevin the country,” Jackson said. since that loss, however, a lot lind said the irish can’t afford “That top line, since they’ve has changed, irish coach Jeff to let up in their preparations put them together, has been Jackson said. or effort. unstoppable. we saw it first­
“They had played the previ-“[summerhays] is playing hand when we played them at ous weekend, and we hadn’t well, which is great because Fenway park.” played in four or five weeks,” we really needed him to come while boston college has Jackson said. “i think the back strong,” lind said. “i clinched the regular season first 10 minutes of that game, think our mentality stays the hockey east title, the irish i don’t think we were ready same, continue doing what’s are still jockeying for seed-for the speed or competitive-giving us success. doesn’t mat-ing in the conference tourna­ness of the game. i thought we ter who the opponent is, we ment — with the potential to turned the corner after that want to take our game to them finish as high as sixth or as first 10 minutes, but we were instead of waiting for them to low as eighth — and trying already down 2-0. dictate play.” to enhance their chances of 
“This is a different scenario; on the other side, the eagles earning an ncaa tournament at least we’ve been playing are on a 19-game unbeaten bid. adding even more sig­better here in the last couple streak, with 17 wins and two nificance to saturday’s game weeks. our guys will be ready ties since a 5-4 loss to holy is the rivalry between notre to play them; every team gets cross on nov. 29. boston dame and boston college. up for them.” college has mostly relied on “especially since moving 
The irish have a 4-0-1 record freshman Thatcher demko in to hockey east, i think it’s in their last five games, in-net to lead a unit allowing a our biggest [rival],” lind said. cluding a pair of 2-0 wins over hockey east-low 2.00 goals per ”obviously, [it’s] the two pre­boston university last week-game in conference play. dominant catholic schools end. Junior forward austin demko’s excellence has been pretty much in this country. wuthrich scored a goal in both supported by a team that has we’ve always played them games of the series, raising his scored 74 goals in conference pretty well, always had one-season total to six. play, 17 more than the second-goal games against them. 
senior goaltender steven highest scoring team. boston we’ve played in ultimate set­summerhays, meanwhile, college’s potent offense is led tings like Fenway park and increased his ncaa-leading by gaudreau’s 29 goals and 63 things like that, so i think it’s number of shutouts this sea-points, both of which lead the a very good rivalry.” son to seven on Friday and nation. senior forward kevin The irish and eagles face off surpassed david brown and hayes has 22 goals and 29 as-at kelley rink in chestnut hill, Jordan pearce as the school’s sists of his own, and his 51 mass., at 4 p.m. on saturday. all-time leader in career shut-points are tied for second-most outs with 13. summerhays was in the nation. senior forward Contact Casey Karnes at not officially credited with a bill arnold rounds out boston wkarnes@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t fold under pressure or let anything get you down. Take action and make things happen, and you will find a way to turn any negative you face into a positive this year. opportunities are heading your way, but strategy and preparation will be required to measure the degree of success you can achieve. embrace change. your numbers are 8, 13, 24, 30, 38, 42, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): sharing is fine, but only if you receive something of equal value in return. resentment will set in if you have been taken for granted. protect your possessions and refrain from donating. it’s time to put your needs first. 4 stars. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): keep your conversations light and free from gossip. don’t make promises that will end up causing emotional stress. acquiring knowledge will open doors to new friendships. changes must be made for the right reasons in order to bring the best results. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t let laziness or a lack of realism stand between you and your success. stick to what you do best and focus on getting ahead and you will reach your goal. The motives behind someone’s assistance may be questionable. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll have to be imaginative and prepared to wheel and deal in order to get things done on time and to your satisfaction. simplicity, directness and affordability should all be incorporated into whatever you decide to pursue. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): whether money is owed to you or by you, it’s time to pay up. set a budget or payment plan that is doable for you or the person who owes you. a partnership will falter if equality isn’t maintained. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): socialize with people who have something to offer. put greater emphasis on the way you present and promote who you are, how you look and what you have to offer. love is on the rise and romance will brighten your personal life. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): participation will make the difference. you can sit back and wait, or you can be forward and go after what you want. don’t let a lazy attitude or demanding people be the reason you remain stationary. The pressure is on to get cracking. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): it’s important to ask for a straight answer when dealing with emotional matters. don’t confuse issues by making excuses or letting others get away with something that will ultimately end up being your responsibility. Take action. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): address issues that have been hanging over your head. be proactive and precise and you will get to the bottom of a situation that needs proper attention. make a good decision, move or change in your life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):weed out confusion by taking care of business pertaining to your past. whether it is an investment that needs to be altered or a friendship that is dragging you down, the time to act is now. protect your position and your rights. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look, see and do. don’t wait to be told or for someone else to take over. size up your situation and do something about it. whether you are concerned with a health, financial or legal issue, now is the time to act. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an unpredictable attitude will confuse the people around you. you may know what you are striving to achieve, but someone looking out for you may not be able to see the method behind the measures you are taking. share your thoughts. 

Birthday Baby: you are a creative entrepreneur. you are a self-starter and a participant. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

seniors close out home careers against pitt 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
notre dame hosts its final reg­ular-season contest of the season saturday in what will be the last game in purcell pavilion for a trio of irish players. 
senior guard eric atkins, se­nior center garrick sherman and graduate student forward Tom knight will lead the irish (15-14, 6-10 acc) against a pittsburgh team that has dropped five of its last eight contests. 
after a difficult season that has left the irish decisively out of consideration for the ncaa tour­nament, irish coach mike brey said the team is not focusing on postseason opportunities, in the niT or elsewhere, right now. 
“we’ve really not even talked past saturday,” brey said. “we’ve talked about this being senior week, not just senior night or se­nior day on saturday. and i was really pleased with how our se­niors led us [wednesday night in a 65-62 win over georgia Tech]. and that’s kind of been our fo­cus. … we’ve got that bye week at the end of the season, so we’ve got plenty of time to talk about, ‘ok, here’s where we’re at, here’s the things that are on the table as we head to greensboro [for the acc tournament].’” 
pittsburgh (21-7, 9-6) enters the matchup off a 66-59 win over boston college on wednesday, a victory that halted a three-game losing streak. after being ranked as high as no. 18 this season, the panthers have only notched three wins in February, two of which came in overtime against miami and virginia Tech, 12th and 15th in the acc, respectively. 
Two redshirt seniors, guard/ forward lamar patterson and forward Talib Zanna, lead the panthers. patterson averages 
17.1 points and 4.6 rebounds per game while Zanna contributes averages of 12.5 points and 8.0 boards. 

with only a road contest against north carolina on monday remaining after the home finale, brey said he hopes to see his seniors set the tone against pittsburgh. 
“i think it’s really in their hands how we finish, and right­fully so,” he said. 
The co-captain atkins has 1,370 career points and has av­eraged more than 11 points and 
2.5 rebounds per game in each of his past three seasons. he has reached at least 110 assists in four straight years and has played an average of at least 37.8 minutes per game each season since sophomore year. after starting six contests as a rookie, atkins has been in the starting lineup for all 96 of notre dame’s games over the past three seasons. 
“god, one of the all-time, i’ve got a lot of favorite guys, he’s right up there,” brey said of atkins. “i mean, special, steady and did it right away as a freshman. … he kind of reads my mind, i read his. he’s gonna be a heck of a coach when he’s done playing. he’s been an unbelievable kind of representative for us and an ambassador. Just a good guy, he’s a good guy. “sherm was teasing me back in the fall, he said ‘oh, 
see m bball PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 100, norTh carolina 75 
Shooting the lights out 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
seniors kayla mcbride and natalie achonwa said goodbye to purcell pavilion in style, scoring 28 and 24 points, respectively, while leading the no. 2 irish to a 100-75 win over no. 14 north carolina in their final home game Thursday night. 
“we shot the lights out, all over campus,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said in a darkened hallway after the game, jok­ingly taking responsibility for the campus-wide power outage that occurred minutes after the final buzzer. “i was so impressed by [guard] kayla mcbride tonight; she was phenomenal, yet again. and [forward] natalie achonwa — the two of them were just really, really in sync. They had a good rhythm going.” 
unlike their official senior night against georgia Tech on Feb. 17, the irish (28-0, 15-0 acc) were far from sluggish in the first few minutes of their final home game of the season. mcbride drove to the basket and sunk a layup in the first play of the game, which was soon followed by a jumper from mcbride and a 3-pointer from freshman guard lindsay allen. notre dame took just over three minutes to build a 14-2 lead. 
“we got off to a great start,” mcgraw said. “you know eventu­ally they’re going to make shots, and things are going to come back into balance, but tonight we did a better job of holding onto a larger 
see w bball PAGE 14 


MEN’S LACROSSE 
nd, Tar heels to meet 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
after having their frenetic second-half comeback thwart­ed by no. 10 penn state last saturday, the 11th-ranked irish look to rebound from the 9-8 defeat when they travel to chapel hill to take on no. 3 north carolina. 
irish coach kevin corrigan said he was extremely proud of the way notre dame (1-1) 
see m lacrosse PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | norTh carolina 19, nd 9 
irish remain winless in acc 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
Turnovers doomed no. 12 notre dame from the begin­ning as the irish fell to defend­ing national champion and no. 1 north carolina, 19-9, in their first road contest of the sea­son Thursday at Fetzer Field in chapel hill, n.c. 
“our team has to learn a really tough lesson regarding turn­overs,” irish coach christine halfpenny said. “it’s really tough to win a game with 19 turnovers.” 
The game started slow, with limited action for both teams through the first five minutes. north carolina (5-0, 1-0 acc) struck first with 25:07 left in the first half, and in the next seven minutes opened up a 5-0 lead that left the Tar heels comfort­ably ahead for the remainder of the game. 

“out of the gates, both teams seemed cheeky,” halfpenny said. “unfortunately, carolina got on the board first and gained quick momentum and were able to slow us down.” 
north carolina kept that five-goal cushion for the remainder of the half, going into the lock­er room up, 9-4. The Tar heels dominated the second half as well, opening up a 10-point, 17-7 lead with less than eight 
see w lacrosse PAGE 13 
HOCKEY 

Icers take on Boston College in final game 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no. 14 notre dame will ride a three-game winning streak into its final regular season game against no. 1 boston college at kelley rink in chestnut hill, mass. 
The two teams will complete their season series saturday after they faced off outdoors at Fenway park in boston on Jan. 4.  led by junior forward Johnny gaudreau’s two goals, the eagles (25-4-4, 16-1-2 hockey east) were able to earn a 4-3 victory over the irish (19­

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 12-2, 8-9-2). senior 
Senior center and alternate captain T.J. Tynan looks for an opening in Notre Dame’s 4-0 loss to Northeastern on Jan. 24. see hockey PAGE 14 






