

Irish look to add Williams to backfield commits 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 
Though notre dame has lost three of its last four games and dropped out of the national rankings, there hasn’t necessar­ily been a corresponding loss of recruiting momentum, accord­ing to Irish recruiting analyst Tom Loy. 
“I don’t think it’s going to play a big factor here,” said Loy, who covers notre dame recruiting for blue and Gold Illustrated, part of the 247sports network. “It does hurt, no doubt about that. … I don’t think it’s going to really af­fect recruiting going forward. If they lose to Louisville and Usc, it’s going to raise some red flags.” 
even before notre dame’s loss to northwestern on saturday, multiple recruits were forced to alter their plans to visit campus. class of 2015 defensive back Ykili ross had been scheduled to visit last weekend, but he was un­able to catch his flight following his Friday night game, per Loy. The four-star prospect, Loy said, could visit this weekend, but that “remains to be seen.” 
class of 2015 three-star athlete Gary Jennings won’t be visit­ing this weekend, Loy said, after Jennings’ team won last week­end, setting up a Friday night game. class of 2015 running back ronald Jones also won’t be in town after his squad advanced as well, according to Loy. Jones, the no. 9 running back and no. 83 overall player in the country, per 247sports’ composite rankings, is committed to oklahoma state. 
As part of notre dame’s con­tinuing search for a second running back to pair with com­mitment Josh Adams in its class of 2015, the Irish are planning to welcome miami pledge dexter Williams to campus this week­end, Loy said. Williams is slot­ted as the no. 14 running back in the country and gave his verbal commitment to miami in April. 
notre dame sent out an offer to class of 2015 running back and Penn state commitment saquon barkley on sunday, according to 247sports. barkley checks in as the no. 16 running back nationally. 
“At this point they’re extend­ing offers to cover their bases [at running back],” Loy said of the flurry of activity at the position. 
The Irish have already flipped class of 2015 linebacker Josh barajas and class of 2015 quar­terback brandon Wimbush from Penn state. 
“As of right now, everything [barkley] says [he] is complete­ly pro-Penn state, 100 percent committed,” Loy said. “All you can do is take his word for it.” 
In any event, Loy described the Whitehall, Pennsylvania native as a very athletic back who can do it all, including receiving out of the backfield. barkley already decommitted from rutgers be­fore pledging to the nittany Lions, and Loy said notre dame knows it’s a “long shot” to land him. 
other class of 2015 run­ning back targets include soso Jamabo, nick brossette and Jordan cronkrite. 
In addition to potential visitors ross and Williams this weekend, Loy said three-star safety ben edwards is in line to be on cam­pus for the Louisville game. Loy believes edwards’s recruitment will come down to the Irish and stanford. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at              aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 


Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 











Atkinson competes on field, track for Irish 
Observer Staff Report 
senior cornerback Josh Atkinson has done a lot of running in his time at notre dame, but his time running out of the tunnel at notre dame stadium will come to a close saturday, when the Irish take on Louisville. 
The stockton, california, native has split his athletic career at notre dame be­tween the football and track and field teams. 
on the football field, Atkinson has seen play­ing time mainly on special teams. In his freshman year, the cornerback played in eight games and recorded two special teams tackles. 
The next season, he still competed on special teams plays but also took more snaps at cornerback as well. Atkinson played in all 13 games, including the 2013 bcs national championship Game, and he totaled five tackles on the year. Three of those came against boston college on nov. 10, 2012, marking his career high. 
The 5-foot-11.5, 195-pound­er picked up three more tackles last season in five ap­pearances, including one dur­ing notre dame’s victory over rutgers in the Pinstripe bowl on dec. 28. 
Atkinson has not made an appearance for notre dame this season. 
on the track, Atkinson competed in sprint events for the Irish. he placed fourth in the 100-meter dash at the 2012 big east outdoor championships his freshman year and fin­ished fifth in the 60-meter dash at the big east Indoor championships earlier that year. 
After not competing for notre dame track and field his sophomore year, Atkinson took 15th place at the Acc Indoor championships in the 200-meter dash last spring. At the conference’s outdoor championships, he placed fifth in the 100-meter dash and seventh in the 200-me­ter event and was part of the 4x100-meter relay team, which took second place. 
Atkinson’s twin brother, George, was a standout on the gridiron, leaving notre dame after last season to prepare for the nFL draft. The oakland raiders signed George as an undrafted free agent in may, and the run­ning back is currently a member of the team’s prac­tice squad. George also com­peted on the track team his freshman year. 
notre dame declined to make Atkinson available for an interview. 


jalEN BROwN | cb | IrvInG, TexAs 

brown sees time on field in secondary 
Observer Staff Report 

out of high school as a football in 2012. brown recorded his sept. 7 and against Air Force he has not played this season. 
senior cornerback Jalen and track star at macArthur two career unassisted tackles on oct. 26 but did not record a brown is enrolled in the brown had his best year as a high school in Irving, Texas. that season, making one each tackle. college of Arts and Letters as a sophomore in 2012. brown didn’t play his fresh-against Purdue on sept. 8 and An assisted tackle and pass sociology major. 
Tall and quick, the 6-foot-2, man year at notre dame in michigan state on sept. 15. breakup against Wake Forest notre dame declined to 202-pound brown was a well-2011, but he appeared in seven As a junior in 2013, brown on nov. 17, 2012, round out make him available for an regarded Texas recruit coming games his sophomore season played against michigan on brown’s career stats. interview. 
cONNOR caValaRis | cb | LAKe ForesT, ILL. 



Cavalaris gains strong friendships, scholarship 
By GREG HADLEY Associate sports editor  freshman fall, you’re extremely and our fans proud. We still have a busy, and you’re out of your com-lot to play for.”  
fort zone a little bit, and things are As a walk-on, cavalaris said he  
connor cavalaris has never  moving really fast.” has developed deep friendships  
questioned the path he is on, even  his entire freshman season, with his fellow non-scholarship  
as it has led him to stranger and  cavalaris never saw the field. In players, including former walk-on  
stranger places.  his sophomore campaign, he reg-and senior linebacker Joe schmidt,  
While at Lake Forest (Illinois)  istered his first collegiate tackle he said.  
high school, the senior cornerback  against bYU on oct. 20. Then, in his “Joe and I were on the same visit  
drew interest from smaller Fbs and  finest moment on the field for the for the spring game of 2011,” he said.  
division-II schools. he could have  Irish, he collected two of his seven “We kind of became friends after  
played and possibly started for Ivy  career tackles during notre dame’s that, and ever since, we’ve been re- 
League teams. Instead, he chose to  42-14 loss to Alabama in the 2013 ally close. We’ve both had success  
walk on at notre dame.  bcs national championship on the field and off the field, and we  
“I was on a visit here, and one of  Game. live off campus together.”  
the coaches offered me a spot on  In 2012, calavaris played in 10 of As an accountancy major,  
the team as a walk-on,” he said. “It  notre dame’s 12 games on the run cavalaris has faced the usual  
was an opportunity that I couldn’t  to the national championship. As struggle to balance athletics and  
pass up. The academics, the pres- a junior, however, he took the field academics but plans to put that  
tige … the football tradition. It was  CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer only three times. major to use right after he leaves  
somewhere I knew I wanted to be,  Finally, before the 2014 season college, he said. Irish senior cornerback Connor Cavalaris gets set for a play during  
and I couldn’t pass that up. It was  the annual Blue-Gold Game on April 12 at Notre Dame Stadium. started, Irish head coach brian “It’s all about time manage- 
an easy decision.”  Kelly extended a scholarship offer ment and discipline,” he said.  come to notre dame. The thought  people you meet, the coaching  
Then, when he arrived in south  to cavalaris, rewarding the walk-“Accounting is a pretty demanding  of starting for other schools or at- staff … the teachers, your fel­ 
bend, cavalaris was assigned,  on for three years of dedication. and intense major and being on  tending other academically elite  low students, the people in your  
along with three roommates, to  This season, cavalaris has seen the football team, you don’t exactly  universities does not bother him at  dorm — it’s been incredible.  
carroll hall, a 30-minute walk  action in nine of notre dame’s have a lot of free time, so you really  all, he said.  being on the football team, you  
from the team’s locker room in the  games as one of four senior cor-have to be disciplined.  “I always knew in high school  meet guys from a lot of different  
Guglielmino Athletics complex.  nerbacks for the Irish, and he has “I’m definitely interested in  that I wanted to play college  backgrounds, and the relation­ 
“It was a little chilly on those  recorded one tackle. working in financial services or an  football,” calavaris said. “notre  ships you build with coaches and  
… walks to the east side of cam­ “We’re going to take each game accounting firm. I’m also interest- dame nation is strong wherever  teammates that last a lifetime are  
pus,” he said. “my first year, I was  one at a time,” calavaris said. ed in potentially in doing a master’s  you go, and you dream about  the best things to take away. It’s  
in a one-room quad with three  “We’ve got a really strong group program in accountancy or busi­ being a part of something this  just been very rewarding.”  
other roommates, and you know,  of seniors and senior leadership. ness administration.”  amazing.  
you meet guys from all different  We’re going to go out there and Through it all, calavaris has  “Looking back [on my time  Contact Greg Hadley at      
places around the world. That first  make our teammates, our coaches never questioned his decision to  here], it’s been incredible. The  ghadley@nd.edu  



brindza beats club foot, kicks into record book 
doctors that he’s not gonna be able goalie. It was at that time, Tiffany 

By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer to play sports, he’s always gonna said, she truly noticed the deter-be handicapped, he’s not gonna be mination and confidence her son 
Editor’s Note: A version of this like the normal kids,” she recalled. possessed. article originally appeared in the but sitting at shriners, Tiffany Oct. 10 edition of The Observer. soon realized that other kids had ‘i’ve always had confidence 
it worse. And right then and there, in myself’ “You’re made to be a kicker or Tiffany made up her mind that confidence comes naturally to you’re not.” she wouldn’t let a birth defect stop brindza. he had never kicked a 
The words of brandon Kornblue Kyle. football until the summer before ring true on notre dame’s campus. “I’m not gonna let this affect him his freshman year at Plymouth Kornblue, the former michigan and I’m not gonna stop him if he high school in canton, michigan. kicker and current kicking coach, wants to do something, I’m gonna set to be an outside linebacker on sees the innate traits in one of his encourage him and help him do the freshman team, brindza was budding pupils, Irish senior kicker what he wants,” she said. “That’s called over to give kicking a try. Kyle brindza. Kornblue sees the how I’ve always felt.” he connected on a few power, the strength. he sees the Unable to put any weight on 40-yarders. Then from more than confidence, the mental ability. his foot, Kyle was carted to day 50 yards. soon enough, brindza 
brindza agrees. care in a wagon. before he even was the varsity kicker. 
“choosing kicking and having reached seventh grade, brindza In 2008, brindza attended his all those physical traits and mental had somewhere between five and first Kornblue Kicking camp at traits, I feel like I’ve been born to be eight separate surgeries on his the University of michigan. able to do this,” brindza said. right foot. one even forced him “We saw a ton of potential in 
but what happens when the kid into two different casts for a com-him,” said Kornblue, the Florida-born to kick is born, well, not to bined 12 months and sapped the based kicking and punting coach kick? What happens when the oth-calf muscle from his right leg, a dif-who holds camps in more than erwise ready-made kicker is born ference still palpable today. now, 20 locations now. “he was a very with clubfoot? roughly 10 years removed from his strong kid for his age. he was just 

With his next made field goal, last operation, the evidence is still a sophomore in high school but brindza will set the all-time notre convincing. his right foot is etched had the leg strength of one of the dame record for most career field with stitching and scars the way older guys.” goals, breaking a tie with former the brown pigskin he boots is lined but potential, as Kornblue is Irish great and 23-year nFL kicker with white laces. quick to note, is a dangerous John carney. still, even though Amid the various braces and word. some lack the drive and as a young peewee soccer player casts, other kids called him Forrest determination. others lack the brindza said he wanted to be an Gump. discipline to stay sharp with mLs goalie or a “field-goal kicker” but people also called him weights, nutrition and flexibility. when he grew up, it was tough for dennis the menace, as he was al-“That’s one of the things that began playing two years ago. stationary stick. him to envision it playing out as it ways running around the house, separates Kyle, that drive to be brindza, whose favorite golfer is With his 45-yard field goal in has. even in a cast. the best and not just being satis-rickie Fowler, said he sees per-the fourth quarter of saturday’s 
“I look back now and I’m like, “having all the odds put against fied with being better than most fect parallels between kicking win over stanford, brindza pulled I never ever would have thought you, not being able to walk and all of the people,” Kornblue said. and golfing. into a tie with carney for 51 career he’d be where he is today,” these stories about this person’s “he wants to be as good as he can “It’s the exact same thing,” made field goals. brindza’s mother, Tiffany, said. life being affected — I threw it out be. he wants to be better than brindza said, citing similarities “This record is a blessing,” “but with his determination, this the window,” brindza said. everybody.” not just with the requisite on-brindza said. “John carney was is where he’s gotten.” In sixth grade, for in-brindza has always admired your-own mental toughness but one of my idols growing up and 
stance, brindza had surgery in his all-time favorite athlete, for-also with eye placement, follow-he still is. he was so accurate, pin­dennis the Menace november and was told he prob-mer new York Yankees closer throughs and hip orientation. “I point accurate. being able to take 
born with clubfoot that had his ably wouldn’t play sports for two mariano rivera. he loves rivera’s treat my drive like it’s my kickoff. that record is a blessing but at the right foot turned backward, young years — an eternity for someone mindset on the mound, the po-I treat my field goals like it’s my same time I couldn’t care less just Kyle was not like the other kids. who said he grew up playing any tent knowledge that nobody 9-iron.” because I want to be 6-0 rather soon after his birth, Tiffany hauled sport within an arm’s distance. could touch rivera’s cutter. than have a record.” her son to shriners hospital for by christmas break, brindza In a similar way, brindza is an ‘are you sure?’ children in chicago to be treated. had returned to his travel soccer avid golf fan and roughly a nine-brindza has been too busy to the ‘dilemma’ 
“You hear the words from the team because, well, it needed its handicap, even though he just golf of late, naturally. The do-it-all brindza still works with senior handles kickoffs, field goals Kornblue here and there through-and punting for notre dame. out the summer, now honing mul-
As a freshman, brindza han-tiple crafts. during nearly every dled just kickoff duties, allowing session, brindza and Kornblue him to “get his feet wet.” will work on all three phases of his 
As a sophomore, he drilled 23-game — kickoffs, field goals and of-31 field goals. Last year, he only punting. missed six field goals despite add-but Kornblue said the pair will ing punting duties. soon need to start deciding which 
“I’ve always had the leg area brindza will focus on. he’ll strength,” brindza said. “but it’s almost assuredly handle kickoffs been accuracy that pushed me to in his pursuit of the next level, but get better.” will he punt or kick field goals? 
brindza has also developed the “It’s actually a dilemma that trust of Irish head coach brian we’re in,” Kornblue said. “There’s Kelly. brindza said he is always in nobody in the nFL that does all Kelly’s ear on the sideline toward three.” the end of drives, prodding Kelly brindza is well aware of that. but to just “take the three points and that’s not stopping him from set-get out of here.” ting his sights high. Indianapolis 
“You got this?” Kelly will ask colts punter Pat mcAfee wants to 
brindza. perform all three, brindza said. “Yes,” brindza replies. but so far, no one does it. “Are you sure?” Kelly double-“If somebody takes a risk on 
checks, as if brindza’s answer will that, it’ll be the best risk they’ll change. ever take,” brindza said. 
brindza says he could hit from The odds have been stacked 65 yards away in a game with against him before. the wind at his back. he says he hit a 74-yarder this past summer Contact Mike Monaco at      with a snap and a hold, not just a jmonaco@nd.edu 







carlisle helps Irish in various ways after transfer 
knocked the 5-foot-10, 190-“notre dame was always lb. receiver out early during a dream out of high school, the Purdue game this sea-especially when notre dame son. but carlisle said he has was recruiting me,” he said. continued to keep his head “It’s such a prestigious up and his focus as strong as school, with all its tradi­ever. tion — academically and 
“It’s just about leaning on athletically. God and my relationship “The opportunity present-with God as a christian as ed itself while I was at Usc, well as staying mentally and it was kind of a God-strong with God as a heal-send that I couldn’t pass up er,” carlisle said. “It’s about the opportunity, so I decided trusting in God and trusting to come here. The weather in my training staff to get me is obviously an adjustment, back on the field. but otherwise my experience 
“Unfortunately, I’ve spent here has been a very solid a good amount of my ca-experience.“ reer with our training staff, As the senior helps the and they’ve done a great job Irish close out their regu­throughout my career.” lar season, carlisle ex­
carlisle said he will con-pressed humility for his tinue his football career on-field success, attribut­next year at notre dame, as ing his achievements to the he still has one year of eli-support provided by team­gibility left. While his ulti-mates, faith and especially mate goal of reaching the his family. nFL remained steady dur-“I have two great christian ing his transfer from Usc to parents who have really notre dame, carlisle said he raised me well, and I just was grateful for the opportu-want to thank them for all nity to shed Usc’s cardinal they’ve done and for getting and gold for the Irish blue me to the position that I’m at and gold — despite trading today,” carlisle said. 

after practices to get the help the team win in what-in the southern california 
By KIT LOUGHRAN sports Writer concepts down and to learn ever way I can. I’m not a guy sunshine for the south bend Contact Kit Loughran at the more minute details of who’s really focused on sta-winters. kloughr1@nd.edu From Usc to notre dame, the position,” carlisle said. tistics, but whether it says from running back to re-his dedication has cer-‘W’ at the end of the day in ceiver, Amir carlisle has tainly paid off. Through 10 the win column.” switched schools and posi-games, carlisle has recorded carlisle isn’t only help­tions en route to finding his 273 yards on 19 receptions ing the Irish on their road place in the Irish offense. for three touchdowns, aver-to victory in his new slot re­carlisle’s on-field presence aging 14.4 yards per catch. ceiver position. he has also has been made known dur-In notre dame’s 55-31 loss become an important asset ing his third year at notre to Arizona state on nov. on kick returns. dame. While he missed his 8, carlisle made a 32-yard he leads the Irish on the sophomore season due to an catch midway through the season with 491 yards on 23 ankle injury, carlisle made third quarter, tying his sea-kick returns, averaging 21.3 his first appearance as run-son-long catch against rice yards per return. carlisle re­ning back in 2013. carlisle on Aug. 30. by the end of that corded a career-long 47-yard played in all 13 games, car-same third quarter, carlisle return off the opening kick­rying the ball 47 times for beat his 32-yard stat with a off against Purdue on sept. 204 yards with an average of 35-yard catch. 13, which marked the longest 
4.3 yards per carry. he didn’t stop there. notre dame kickoff return 
however, the 2013 season carlisle caught a 25-yard since former Irish running ended less advantageously pass from senior quarter-back George Atkinson’s 47­than it began for carlisle back everett Golson for his yard return against Purdue after his fourth-quarter third touchdown of the sea-last season. Against Arizona fumble in a close game with son and a total of 92 yards on state alone, carlisle had four Purdue on sept. 14. The fol-the game to bring the Irish kickoff returns for 102 yards. lowing spring, the decision within three points of the “Kick return has always was made that the santa sun devils, 34-31. been fun for me,” carlisle clara, california native earlier this season, said. “It’s always an oppor­would switch positions to carlisle had a breakout game tunity to make a play, and it’s receiver — a decision that against michigan on sept. really a team unit because it would transform his career. 6. The converted receiver takes all 11 guys on the field 
“It’s been a learning expe-posted his first two career in order to have success. rience, definitely,” carlisle touchdowns for the Irish, “so, it’s definitely been said. “A new position is a with seven receptions for 61 fun, [and] it’s been a bless-new perspective. but it has yards. his successful com-ing that the coaches have been a cool position switch, pletion of a screen on his trusted me to this position. and it’s a learning experi-second touchdown speaks The best is yet to come for ence each and every day. We to carlisle’s ability to transi-our kick return.” are getting better as a unit, tion his running back traits however, carlisle’s jour­and I’m getting better as an to those moments when he ney has not been all smooth individual. gets the ball in space, as he as it may appear on paper. 
even for a talented player put the Irish up 28-0. since leaving Usc after the like carlisle, switching from “ P e r f o r m a nc e -w i s e, 2011 season, carlisle has a familiar running back po-[I would consider] the suffered from ankle, col­sition to an new slot receiver michigan game this year larbone and mcL injuries. role did not come without [one of my best games],” For most, sitting out an en-extra practice and focus. carlisle said. “but hopefully, tire season due to injury as 
“I met with [Irish offensive God has bigger and better carlisle did his sophomore coordinator] coach mike things in plan. year would demotivate, as denbrock in the spring time “my ultimate goal is to would the mcL injury that 







Collinsworth captains team through injuries 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports Writer 
As far as the brian Kelly era at notre dame goes, gradu­ate student safety Austin collinsworth has been a mainstay. 
When the Fort Thomas, Kentucky, native commit­ted to notre dame less than a week after Kelly was hired, he became the coach’s first commit at his new job. 
“I always loved brian Kelly when he was the coach at cincinnati,” collinsworth said. “I just didn’t really want to go there because I wanted to go to a school with great academic prestige … so when he moved and went to notre dame, for me, it was a no brainer. A coach I loved and a school I loved — it was just easy.” 
of course, with that aca­demic prestige comes a lot of work — especially when jug­gling the class load with the football load. 
“It’s been tough,” collinsworth said. “certain times more than others, but you’ve got to do what you’ve got to do. … It’s hard at any level at this school, but cer­tainly with the time require­ments, you’ve got to sacrifice sleep and get the work done and just find a way.” 
collinsworth’s career did not start out at his familiar safety role. When he first came to campus in 2010, he was viewed as a receiver be­fore quickly switching over to the defensive side of the ball. 
“[It was] a whole lot of working, a whole lot of time in the film room,” collinsworth said. “You know, one year I’m learning route combinations, and the next year, I’m learn­ing how to cover them. but it does all kind of fit in … so it did help me out.” 
Last saturday against northwestern, collinsworth recorded his first career touchdown on just his second play back from injury, scoop­ing up a Wildcat fumble and running it in for the score. 
“It was my first college touchdown, so it was pret­ty cool; I’m not gonna lie,” collinsworth said. 
however, for the safety, the moment is not clear-cut as his best in an Irish uniform. In each of the final three games of last season — bYU, stanford and the Pinstripe bowl against rutgers — collinsworth recorded an interception, becoming the first Irish player to notch an interception in three straight games since Kyle mccarthy did it in 2009. not to mention that his trio of interceptions started the Irish defense’s streak of 13 straight games with one, the nation’s second longest active streak entering this weekend. 



“They’re both great mo­ments,” collinsworth said. “It’s hard to put one over the other.” 
Prior to the season, collinsworth was named one of four team captains, along with senior running back cam mcdaniel, senior of­fensive lineman nick martin and junior defensive lineman sheldon day. 
“They named sheldon first, and I obviously knew that there were only two defensive captains, so I got a little ner­vous, you know, I was hoping to be captain,” collinsworth said. “I wasn’t sure, but then it ended up happening, and it was a pretty awesome surprise.” 
While not necessarily mak­ing it a goal to be named one, collinsworth said he had ex­periences from past mistakes that he wanted to share with the team as a captain. 
“I always wanted to lead the guys and have them look up to me,” collinsworth said. “I’m an older guy. I think I have a lot of wisdom from over the years, screwing a lot of things up, so it’s nice to be able to pass that down and have it recognized.” 
but thanks to a pair of inju­ries, collinsworth has played in only three of notre dame’s 10 games this season and has had to take on more of a coach-type role to carry on his captain duties. 
“I spend time watching film with the guys, getting them ready for games, coaching them on the sidelines,” collinsworth said. “It’s not the most glamor­ous job in the world, but that’s kind of what I signed up for, and I think it’s what everyone expects out of me as a captain 
— just doing whatever I can whenever I can.” 
despite his experience this season with watching film and coaching his teammates on the sidelines, collinsworth said he has no interest in go­ing into coaching — at least not immediately. 
“right now, I would say there’s no way I’m going into coaching,” collinsworth said. “now, that could change. I’ve just been so immersed in foot­ball for so long, I think it’s go­ing to be nice to take a break, get away from it for a little while.” 
collinsworth, who is cur­rently enrolled in the mbA program, said he is still un­sure about his path after graduation. 
“I graduate in may, so if I de­cide to pursue the nFL draft, I’ll be training all spring, but if I decide to go somewhere else, I’ll be doing job inter­views to get ready for the next step,” collinsworth said. 
As Kelly’s first commit near­ly five years ago, collinsworth has been around for the entire evolution of the program un­der the head coach and said he thinks the program has transformed dramatically during Kelly’s tenure. 
“The culture of this program has changed 180 degrees,” collinsworth said. “When I first got here, it was all about, ‘how do I get to the nFL?’ — people didn’t care that much about the team; it was a lot more individual-based, and every year, it’s taken a step towards more of a team, more of a team. And this year, you hardly hear about an individ­ual goal from anybody … and that’s a championship-caliber program, and I think that’s what we built here. 
“I really hope that, going forward, this is continued and built on until we are back in our former glory.” 


Contact Alex Carson at              acarson1@nd.edu 





Councell feels at home in unlikely place 
Prince shembo and defensive 

By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports Writer lineman Ishaq Williams. 
Last season, councell was 
more than 600 miles primed to have his best year away from his hometown in at notre dame, rotating in the Asheville, north carolina, se-starting outside linebacker po­nior linebacker ben councell is sition with Williams and then-convinced that notre dame has freshman Jaylon smith. he become a second home for him. played in nine games before in­
“I’ve never really heard of juring his left AcL against navy anything on notre dame pre-on nov. 2, 2013. viously to being recruited for councell was having a career football,” councell said. “I game against the midshipmen, watched rudy, and that was re-tallying five tackles, a tackle for ally the only thing I’ve ever re-loss and a pass breakup before ally known about notre dame, his untimely injury. councell so when they came up and they said it wasn’t easy for him to started recruiting me, it was accept the significance of the strange. but then all I had to do injury, which sidelined him for was come up for a visit with my the rest of the season. dad, and I was sold.” before talking about his inju­

ranked in rivals.com’s top ry, councell stood quietly for a 100 players in the class of 2011, couple of seconds, trying to fig­councell was an all-state line-ure out a way to describe an in-backer at A.c reynolds high cident he wishes he could have school and an esPn four-star avoided. recruit. he received interest “It was definitely a big set-from Auburn, Georgia Tech, back,” councell said with a sigh. north carolina, north carolina “I was finally getting comfort-state and south carolina, and able with the defense, getting notre dame was the only school playing time and starting for outside of his region that he re-a starting job. From Air Force ceived interest from. councell going into navy, I had two big these guys and watching the feels like he built another home remembered for going out and said his only concern about at-games, and getting hurt was young guys coming in and de-here. still undecided about pushing it 100 percent of the tending notre dame was how just tough, but it is what it is.” velop real quick. I try my best to whether he will return next time,” councell said. “Pushing far from home it was. councell admitted that there help them with the pressure and season, councell said he knows through pain and going out 
“compared to all the other was a silver lining following help them learn, but kicking back he has left his mark on notre there every single day, giving it schools, it was a different cul-his season-ending injury. his with them is probably the thing dame’s football program and my all, is what I hope to be re­ture here,” councell said. “It roommate, senior linebacker I’m going to miss the most.” will not forget the memories he membered for.” was orderly, the coaching staff Jarrett Grace, suffered a broken despite not wanting to get created during his four years here was really interested in tibia and fibula in a win over away from home as a senior in here. Contact Manny De Jesus at creating a family, and the aca-Arizona state a few weeks be-high school, councell said he “[ben councell] will be mdejesus@nd.edu demics here is next to none. It fore his injury. As both of them 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
was really weird for me because recovered from their respective I was a homebody. I grew up in injuries, their friendship grew north carolina, and I didn’t like by spending much of their time leaving home, so coming here together. councell said they was a huge step for me.” called themselves the “cripple 
councell entered the pro-crew.” gram as an outside linebacker “We were always together who looked to fit well in bob with our crutches and scooters diaco’s 3-4 defense. however, walking around campus, so the he redshirted his freshman year injury had its good and bad,” he behind a defense led by former said. Irish linebacker manti Te’o, A season removed from the defensive end Kapron Lewis-AcL injury, councell said he still moore and safety harrison doesn’t think he is 100 percent smith. despite not playing, back to full recovery. coming councell said he learned more into a new 4-3 defensive scheme than he could imagine watch-under new defensive coordina­ing and practicing with a de-tor brian vanGorder, councell fense that would go on to lead had to learn a new defense and the Irish to a national champi-play a different role than he did onship run the next year. in the last three years. 
“I learned a lot that year,” “I’m not going to use it as an councell said. “At the time, I excuse, but I definitely don’t don’t think we understood how feel the same as I did before,” good we really were, but now councell said. looking back, it’s easy to see despite the changes and that we were a good team. It return from injury, councell was cool being able to play with said he believes his role is still them and learn a lot from them, important on the team. With and of course, going to the na-Jaylon smith in his second tional championship game was year as a starter, councell puts surreal.” it on himself to help develop 
councell had won a state title smith and other young play-in the 4A north carolina foot-ers that have had to contribute ball division in 2009, but to go early. As a mentor for others, on to play in the bcs national councell said he feels like the championship Game was un-locker room atmosphere is only believable, he said. Although he getting better as the players was a part of the team’s run to a around him continue to grow, title appearance, councell was on and off the field. still limited on the field, appear-“my biggest takeaway from ing in all 12 games and back-this season is the camaraderie,” ing up former Irish linebacker councell said. “I love being with 






Farley finds success with position change 
and started at three of them. As 


By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant managing editor a freshman, Farley was on the practice squad as a redshirt re­
Editor’s Note: A version of this ceiver who often watched away article originally appeared in the games from his dorm, carroll Nov. 14 edition of The Observer. hall. As a sophomore, Farley was 
asked to play safety, and shortly 
Whatever may change on the thereafter, he was thrown into field, matthias Farley remains a starting role after injuries the same. to former Irish safety Jamoris 
“sweet beard pic,” Farley said slaughter and graduate student as he wrapped up his photo safety Austin collinsworth. shoot Wednesday. Farley excelled in his new role 
Farley’s facial follicles are a with 49 tackles, an interception talent of his, he noted. and a crucial seven-yard tackle­
“every time I have had a beard for-loss against stanford in the since I started playing foot-fourth quarter of notre dame’s ball, I have played better than 20-13 win in october 2012. As a if I shave my face, historically,” junior, much was expected from Farley said. Farley, but he did not quite live 
The easy-going, self-assured up to those high expectations charlotte, north carolina, na-throughout the season. Farley tive said it is this nature that al-said he placed these lofty expec­lows him to weather the chaos of tations on himself as well, but notre dame football. such thoughts were hindrances 

“I have been the exact at times. same way since I’ve got here,” “I think I had to grow up a Farley said. “When you’re go-lot,” Farley said of his play last ing through change, if you’re season. “When you get put in a grounded and find out who situation where you do well and you are as a person outside of then you come back and things football — because there’s so are expected of you and you many things that can change don’t do as well or don’t live up on a whim in this game — you to it, it’s easy to take it hard on can’t be serious all of the time. yourself and harp on things that so I think it has helped me be-you should probably let go.” cause I like to goof around and As a senior, Farley was asked have a good time. Just keeping to play the nickelback corner that in mind and understand-position under new defensive ing that there’s a lot of things at coordinator brian vanGorder. all in stride. Farley remains rooted in and in-music, one he has been trying to stake in the game of football [is The position was much more “I saw it as a way to start spired by the lessons his family has express by learning the ukulele important], but just remember-complex compared to the nickel over,” Farley said of his position taught him, he said. his memo-from sophomore receiver corey ing to enjoy it and understand corner in former defensive co-change. “It’s a new coordinator, ries cover his left arm, chest and robinson. it’s a blessing to be able to play ordinator bob diaco’s system, a new system. It’s kind of been back in the form of tattoos. on his “I love music,” Farley said. “I it period, especially to be able to and after watching a lot of film, the story of my career: starting bicep, his very first tattoo, which don’t think the world should exist play it here, [is also important]” vanGorder asked Farley to take over. I had no reservations about reads “Farley sempre,” or “Farley if there wasn’t music in it. I have 
Farley has played four differ-on that role. Used to changing when he said he wanted to move Forever,” surrounded by the out-never been musically gifted — I ent positions in an Irish uniform positions, Farley said he took it me. I was on board 100 percent.” line of north carolina reminds am not very good at the ukulele — 
Farley said he was much more him of his family and home. The but I really enjoy playing. I think prepared for his senior year be-number “7” on his elbow repre-music is applicable to anything cause he put his time at notre sents his seven siblings. coming off and everything in life, whether it is dame into perspective. his the “7,” a staircase climbs into the good or bad.” even-keeled demeanor has con-clouds of heaven in remembrance Learning the ukulele has not tributed to his play this season, of his deceased brother, Titus. The been as easy as changing a posi­which has included 32 tackles, poem, “Invictus,” on his back tells tion, Farley said. 
3.5 sacks, 6.5 tackles-for-loss him he “is the master of [his] fate” “It’s honestly a frustration be-and three interceptions. and the “captain of [his soul],” cause corey robinson is still so 
“I came in [this season] with while the large Icarus on his shoul-much better at it than me,” Farley a different mindset that I was der reminds him to be humble and said. “I always wanted to play an just going to enjoy this because grounded, he said. These images instrument. I joke around all the there’s somebody somewhere — map out how Farley became who time and say I’m really good at the probably thousands of people he is as a person, he said. kazoo, which I actually am, but 
— who would trade with me in “I think tattoos are the story of that doesn’t take too much talent. a day – and trade with any of us, my life on my arm,” Farley said. It’s been cool to learn something not just myself. It goes so fast. … “And it’s a constant reminder of new, pick something up.” I feel like I just got here. so really people and things that have had music connects to all things, I just enjoy every day, give my all huge impacts on my life. Just in a even football, Farley said. every day and try to encourage visual form … it is a great reminder “When you’re playing a game everybody else around me.” to pull me back to home base of like football, [music] definitely 
It is through all of his trials what I have gone through, where I adds to it, even if it is just a pre­and experiences that Farley have been and where I want to go, game soundtrack,” Farley said. “If has become a calming source and the people who have helped you hear it every time before you and advisor for his young team-me get there.” go out, it kind of gets your mind set mates and new starters on the The tattoos add to Farley’s right, adds consistency.” Irish defense, he said. unique style, something about The consistency and uniqueness 
“I feel like I have gone through which his teammates make fre-that define Farley as a person have a lot of things that they have quent comments. shown up on the field this season, gone through,” Farley said. “my “I think it’s kind of comical be-as he has consistently made the sophomore year, I got thrown in cause I wear the same things every big play when most needed. Farley due to an injury, and last year, I day,” Farley said. “every once in a summed up his personality and had a lot of ups and downs. so while, I throw a curveball and wear play in his description of his beard. having gone through that, and some cowboy boots. “If you have a gift, you should seeing guys when they get done, “There’s not too much variety. I share it.” it’s really easy for me to pick up just own it. I just rock it.” on it because I was right there With his style comes his mu-Contact Isaac Lorton at really not too long ago at all.” sic. Farley has a great affinity for ilorton@nd.edu 







Fiessinger makes most of experience as walk-on 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports Writer 
senior charlie Fiessinger has at least one thing in common with athletes like brady quinn, Joe Theismann and Joe montana: he played quarterback at notre dame. 
After deciding in his first se­mester at notre dame that “watching from the stands just wasn’t quite cutting it,” Fiessinger walked on to the team in the spring semester of his freshman year as a backup quarterback. 
Fiessinger sat behind former Irish quarterback Tommy rees and current senior quarterback everett Golson during his career. The mason, ohio, native said getting to know such prominent players was one of the highlights of his time here. 
“It was really cool to go from watching those guys to all of a sudden being teammates with them,” Fiessinger said. “but I think my favorite part of the whole thing was that … notre dame football players kind of have this aura about them, but you learn that they’re just regular guys like the rest of the students. having both the experience of being a fan as a student and then being on the team, it’s been inter­esting comparing the two.” 
Fiessinger’s main responsibil­ity in games is to signal the play calls to the notre dame offense. As a result, his understanding of the game really grew over his three years on the roster, he said. 
“my main role is to be the sig­nal guy who signals in the plays to the offense from the side­lines,” Fiessinger said. “It’s kind of all I’ve ever known and all I’ve ever done. I’ve certainly grown up a little bit through that and learned the offense a little bit better. now being a senior, one of the older guys, I’ve been able to help out the younger guys along the way as well.” 
signaling the plays can be a more difficult task than one might expect, Fiessinger said, es­pecially when a crucial game is on the line. 
“In a game, emotions can run high,” Fiessinger said. “You get really high, you get really low during a game. You have to keep an even head. It doesn’t matter if it’s fourth-and-goal against Florida state or the opening play of the game against rice — the play’s got to be signaled in, and you’ve got to do your job.” 
Fiessinger also said Irish head coach brian Kelly’s reputation as a quarterback specialist is well-deserved, as he owes much of his development and improved understanding of the offense to Kelly. 
“he’s an unbelievable teacher,” Fiessinger said. “his offense is very deep, very complex, but he does a great job of breaking it down step-by-step and explain­ing it to you. There’s nothing that we do that doesn’t have a reason behind it, and he’s very good at seeing the big picture and ex­plaining to us where everything fits in.” 
Fiessinger has taken snaps in a game just once in his career: in a 38-0 shutout of Wake Forest dur­ing notre dame’s 2012 run to the bcs championship Game when he was a sophomore. he de­scribed it as his favorite memory as an Irish football player. 
“It was a game that we won pretty handily, and I had a ton of family in town,” Fiessinger said. “It was the one game that I got into in my career. I got in, and then later on in the night, Kansas state lost and baylor lost, and we became the no. 1 team in the country. That was an experience that I’ll always remember.” 
Fiessinger emphasized that the lessons and experiences he has received as a member of the team would stick with him far past graduation. 
“I was in a job interview earlier this year, and one of the descrip­tions of the job was ‘teamwork under pressure,’” Fiessinger said. “It asked, ‘do you have any ex­perience in that?’ and yeah, of course. Teamwork under pres­sure in the fourth quarter of a football game isn’t the same as the kind of pressure you’re going to have in a conference room at a job, but I think that adversity is similar, whether it be on or off the field. This team is very used to dealing with all the noise and channeling that out and focusing on our jobs.” 
While playing football has given Fiessinger a host of unfor­gettable experiences, he said his love for notre dame centered not around football, but around the overall culture of the University: academically, athletically and otherwise. 
“I love that regardless of what I’m doing, I’m always around people that are better than me,” Fiessinger said. “Football, I’m around a lot of people that are a lot, lot better than me, but it doesn’t matter what I’m doing. 


If I’m in classes, I’m around peo­ple who are academically bet­ter than me. If I’m at mass, I’m around people who are spiritu­ally better than I am. I’m around people who are better in com­munity service than I am. being around people who are better than me kind of challenges me, and I think it makes me a better person, too. 
“The experiences I’ve had, the memories I’ll be able to look back on the rest of my life, it’s been unbelievable.” 


Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 

EilaR haRdy | s | reYnoLdsbUrG, ohIo 

Investigation mars hardy’s senior season 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
notre dame senior safety eilar hardy’s time at the University has been characterized by waiting. 
hardy waited to get his shot at playing time in his first two sea­sons, during which he didn’t see the field. After a junior season in which he became a contributor in the secondary, he again had to wait during his senior season — this time, it was to find out nov. 7, and he made his season if he would return after he was debut the following day against held out as part of an investiga-Arizona state. hardy recorded tion into “suspected academic his only tackle of the season to dishonesty.” date against the sun devils. 

hardy was cleared by the ncAA hardy did not see any playing to participate in competition time during his first two seasons. 

he appeared in 10 games last season, starting against Pitt and bYU. 
hardy made 26 tackles, includ­ing one tackle for loss, last sea­son. he accounted for 15 tackles in his two starts, recording a career-high eight tackles against bYU and seven stops against Pitt. 
A reynoldsburg, ohio native, the 5-foot-11.5, 202-pound hardy comes from an athletic back­ground. his father, bill hardy, played baseball for Youngstown state, and his brother, Terrance brown, played receiver at michigan state from 1998 to 2001. Another brother, eisen hardy, played cornerback and safety at ohio dominican from 2009 to 2012. 
hardy was named to the Associated Press ohio division I all-state first-team as a defensive back for Pickerington central high school in 2010. he recorded 63 tackles, six pass breakups and four interceptions during his se­nior season. 
hardy is enrolled in the college of Arts and Letters, majoring in sociology. 
notre dame declined to make hardy available for an interview. 


Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 





Golson makes anticipated return after suspension 

but according to his coach, he his vocal skills and his playing,” wasn’t as good of a quarterback day said. as he is now. but day said Golson’s natu­
“he’s definitely made some ral abilities may be his greatest strides,” Kelly said march 3 after strength. Golson’s first practice back from “his ability to make a play his suspension. “I think there last longer than it should, espe­must have been some real good cially him being able to be mo-teaching there that has allowed bile,” day said when asked about him that opportunity to come in Golson’s best feature on offense. here and have a better sense of With a small and select re-everything.” sume — a few videos of him 
That teaching came at the working out with Whitfield, hands of George Whitfield Jr., footage from this past spring the “quarterback guru” who and his 2012 stats — Golson has made sure Golson stayed sharp found himself on the watch lists in his absence. for the maxwell, davey o’brien 
Whitfield has worked and Walter camp awards this with some of the nFL’s fin-season. est quarterbacks, such as ben on saturday, Golson’s team­roethlisberger and Andrew mates, coaches and Irish fans Luck, and with him, Golson was will get their first chance to see able to fine-tune his skills out in if his much-anticipated return california. and much-discussed improve­
That’s allowed him to take on ment will live up to the hype. a more complex offense this sea-As for Golson himself? son, which will utilize his speed he’ll be living in the moment and that of his receivers. that he’s waited for so long to 
“It’s tremendously fast,” happen. Golson said. “Two years ago, we “It’s going to be crazy for sure,” didn’t run at as near a fast pace. he said. “Things like that, they It was more conservative, in a last for maybe 30 seconds to a sense — slow the ball down, run minute and then you have to dial the ball, that type of thing. now, in on what’s the task at hand. we want to be really aggressive That’s what I’m trying to prepare 

season came in the bcs national seen Golson take a more proac-on the offensive side.” myself for most is just under-
By MARY GREEN 

sports editor championship Game. tive approach to his game. That improvement has helped standing that the crowd is there Golson was as important to the “his ability to study film and to the Irish as a whole, day said. but also dialing myself in and
     Editor’s Note: A version of this offense as the team’s other no. 5 see where he made his mistakes “he definitely took over the performing my task at hand.” article originally appeared in the was to the defense. to make sure he doesn’t make role as a leader on the offense Aug. 29 edition of The Observer. but he wasn’t a leader. them again,” day said of what and built them to be a better Contact Mary Green at 
Irish head coach brian Kelly makes Golson so hard to stop. unit, and he shows that through mgreen8@nd.edu “Am I having too much fun?” said Golson was “spotty” in at-“he’s always asking us, ‘What everett Golson can’t help but tendance and occasionally late did you do here, what did you do 
laugh as photo after photo is for meetings. there?’ to make sure he doesn’t snapped of him. strapping up In his first year seeing play-make them again.” his helmet, tugging on the face-ing time for notre dame, Golson It’s a big step from Golson’s guard, staring into the lens like was the starting quarterback on game in 2012, when he tended to he’s focusing on a receiver on 3rd-the depth chart. but he had that rely on his mobility rather than a and-long — and then Golson even privilege taken away in a game thorough knowledge of the play-wants a few pictures for himself, against miami on oct. 6, 2012, for book to pick up first downs. smiling the whole time. being late to practice. day said that dedication is now 
It’s clear a career in modeling — “he wasn’t doing the things part of Golson’s demeanor, both at least one that requires keeping a leaders do,” Kelly said at the on the field, where he’s most vis-straight face — might not be in the team’s media day Aug. 19. ible, and in the classroom, where cards for the senior quarterback. In Golson’s defense, the 2012 his original mistake occurred. 
but this everett Golson — the squad wasn’t lacking leader-“he’s committed to every­one who is trying to stifle a chuck-ship, with leaders that included thing,” day said. “he’s al­le but can’t help it — is leaps and heisman Trophy runner-up ways putting his heart into bounds from the one he was a manti Te’o and two-time captain everything he does now, so if it’s year ago. Zack martin. school, he’s focused on school; if 
That Golson spent saturdays “I think 2012 was a little differ-it’s football, he’s putting his all on the couch, watching his team-ent,” Golson said. “I was a red-into football.” mates struggle at times from afar shirt freshman. We had manti; With his tardiness and irre­while he was suspended from the we had Zack; we had guys that sponsibility in the past, Golson team and the university for poor were in that leadership role.” said he now sees the value of the academic judgement. This year, the quarterback said game he loves. 
“It was extremely difficult,” he saw a hole and decided to fill it. “I think it means a lot more Golson said. “A lot of the times, just “For the simple fact that we now,” he said. “I’ve had time to me being the guy I am, I kind of don’t have as many guys — all evaluate. I’ve had time to see dif­put that on myself immediately.” those seniors that are now gone,” ferent things, being away from 
This saturday against rice, he said Aug. 19. “I look up now, the game.” Golson will take the starting snaps and I’m the senior, so I have to be And he readily shares his ap­and put on that familiar gold hel-the leader of this team.” preciation to learn and compete met again — this time for 80,000 Kelly said Golson emerged as a at notre dame once more. fans, not just for the camera. leader for other reasons. “I’m so grateful for just the 
A lot has improved for him in “he said it, he didn’t want opportunity to be back here be-the span of a year. And even more the suspension to define who cause it could have been another has changed for him from his he was,” Kelly said. “he wanted way,” he said. breakout season two years ago. this opportunity to show that 
he was much more than that, ————————————– ————————————– and I think he’s going to get that opportunity.” In 2012, everett Golson had a 
In 2012, everett Golson was Irish junior defensive lineman 131.0 quarterback rating. the starting quarterback for sheldon day, one of Golson’s best he averaged more than 200 a team whose first loss of the friends on the team, said he has yards through the air each game. 






Now-healthy Grace hopes to come back strong 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports Writer 
To put it simply, the 2014 sea­son did not unfold the way line­backer Jarrett Grace planned for his senior year. 
After sitting his freshman campaign and seeing mostly special teams action his sopho­more season, the cincinnati na­tive began come into his own last season, filling the void left by former Irish linebacker and All-American manti Te’o. he saw the field in every game to start the season, making his first start in the win over michigan state on sept. 21, 2013, and pro­ceeding to start the following two games against oklahoma and Arizona state. by the time the Arizona state game rolled around, Grace found himself tied for the team lead in tackles with 40. 
“I was definitely feeling good, getting into a groove,” the 6-foot-2.5, 253-pounder said. “It builds your confidence when you have success, when you’re able to fly around. That was the big thing for me, if I was able to fly around, that was my game, and that means I was confident and relaxed out there. … Just get to play ball, use your instincts, so that’s huge if you can do that.” 
Then came a sun devil run around the right edge and an of­fensive lineman landing on his right leg. 
“surreal,” Grace said of the moment. “You go from be­ing confident in your abilities, feeling good — school was go­ing good, too, that was a huge part of it. everything in life just seemed to be falling in all the right places.” 
Grace’s tibia fractured in four places, and he was carted off the field to a local hospital, where he underwent surgery while the rest of the team flew back to south bend. 
“I was confined to a hospital room for a month,” Grace said. “I actually had to experience my 21st birthday in Texas, all alone, so that was pretty [unfortu­nate]. Then being this guy who’s limping to every class for almost a year. Your confidence kind of goes down the drain, but you find those times, you find those people who bring you back up. You rely on your faith and things that lift you up, and know that there’s so much more to life oth­er than just being a good foot­ball player.” 
The rumor going around at the time of Grace’s injury was that he would probably miss the rest of the season but be ready to return at the start of this year. The severity of the injury and subsequent surgeries and pro­cedures to help speed up the healing process have kept him off the field all year. That would usually dampen a player’s atti­tude — usually. 
Yet Grace has worked hard all year, even if not always on the field. he is always one of the first at practice and last to leave, and he said he tries to bring a posi­tive atmosphere wherever he goes, as he focuses on helping the growth of the young Irish linebacker corps. 
“I definitely had a totally new role this year,” Grace said. “I was able to ‘see’ a lot more out there, and [senior linebacker] Joe [schmidt] was out there, too. Joe just really stepped into the spotlight this year. honestly, anyone who knows Joe wasn’t surprised by that because he’s always been diligent, prepared. he’s really intelligent. 
“At the same time, with [sophomore linebacker] Jaylon [smith], all these guys, just try­ing to take what coach says dur­ing the meetings or what our install is and be able to really watch that because it’s harder for them out there. They’re ac­tually doing the work, running around, so I can just try and re­member those fine details and pull them over to the side and say this, or after practice try to share what I saw with them — really in any way I can just to help out.” 
six years younger than his older brother, Grace said he was always trying to do what his brother did growing up. That meant strapping on the foot­ball pads when he was four and playing peewee football for the northside KFc rebels and the colerain Little cards. 
“I didn’t know anything,” Grace said with a laugh. “I was always the kid who did too many jumping jacks.” 
Grace played for colerain high school, where he was first looked at by then-cincinnati coach brian Kelly. When Kelly moved to notre dame, Grace came with him. 
“Leaving cincinnati was hard just because, being from a big German-catholic family, fam­ily is really important to you. You want to be there,” Grace said. “cincinnati was having a lot of success … setting records at the school, and I was like, ‘Wow. I could be a part of that.’ 
“but notre dame is just dif­ferent. People are going to say that to you. everyone knows that. … It’s a decision that goes beyond just the fun you have playing football — which is great, but I was thinking more about the relationships that I could build that would really just transform my life over the long-term. 
“And the challenges that notre dame presents as well. Academics stretch my mind, stretch my thinking and then the faith aspect to that as well. … The diversity of thought. meeting people from differ­ent countries, different coasts. People who had different life experiences than I had, being able to talk with them. I re­ally became a whole, rounded person.” 
staff decides who they’re going to bring back, but I’m definitely going to play some more foot­ball in my future,” he said. “And I’m going to play some good football. That’s my mindset.” 


Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
While it might have been a setback for this season, Grace said his leg is on a the road to a full recovery. 
“It’s doing fantastic,” Grace said. “I had some x-rays this past week. The bones look great, so that’s one part of the puzzle. Just working on the muscular and the nerves part of it, just get those on board and cooper­ating. so it looks optimistic.” 
With one more year of eligi­bility remaining after sitting out his freshman year, Grace said he will be playing football again in the future. 
“obviously, the coaching 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





Hanratty carries on legacy at Notre Dame 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports Writer 
senior offensive lineman conor hanratty has always been around notre dame. 
Long before his career began, hanratty’s father, Terry, was a three-year starting quarterback for the Irish in the late 1960s, win­ning a national championship in 1966, finishing third in heisman Trophy voting in 1968 and earn­ing consensus All-America hon­ors in 1968. 
“Growing up a notre dame fan was great,” hanratty said. “my dad is a great role model for me, and I always knew what notre dame had to offer [from] visiting here so much.” 
despite the fact that his father’s playing days are engrained in notre dame lore, conor hanratty said he tried to stay away from that legacy when mulling over of­fers in his recruiting process. 

“I kind of put that aside and vis­ited other schools and took other visits, knowing in mind what notre dame was all about,” he said. “At the end of the day, it was the best place for me. I visited a bunch of great schools that all had a lot to offer, but I felt like this was the best.” 
The new canaan, connecticut, native started his own notre dame career in 2011 in a position much different than that of his father’s — on the offensive line. At 6-foot-4 and 310 lb., hanratty came in as part of head coach brian Kelly’s second recruiting class at notre dame. 
As a member of some deep of­fensive line units at notre dame, it took some time before hanratty saw game action on the field. In his freshman season, he did not play at all; however, as a sopho­more in 2012, hanratty began getting opportunities on special teams. 
“It’s always good to get out on the field and play when you can,” hanratty said of his early oppor­tunities with special teams. 
It appeared that hanratty was headed for a similar fate during his junior season in 2013. The Irish offensive line was deep again and returned multiple starters from the team that played for the na­tional championship the year before. 
For the first half of the 2013 sea­son, hanratty’s work was on spe­cial teams, but toward the end of the season, opportunities to play on the line finally began to ap­pear. With two starters — former offensive lineman chris Watt and current graduate student christian Lombard — both bat­tling injuries during the final games for the Irish, hanratty was frequently called upon to step in and take their place. 
“A big part of what coach Kelly teaches us is the ‘next man in’ mentality — that everyone should be ready to fill a guy’s shoes when their number’s called,” hanratty said. “That’s what happened with me, and I think I did a pretty good job. It’s always nice to get out there and play.” 
hanratty appeared in each of notre dame’s final six games dur­ing his junior season, starting four times. 
hanratty contributed to what was overall a successful season for the notre dame offensive line. As a group, the unit allowed just 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 


eight sacks, which ranked second among Fbs teams for fewest sacks allowed. 
building off his performance in 2013, hanratty came into the 2014 season as a starter for the Irish at left guard. however, the offensive line as a whole did not have near the success at the beginning of 2014 as it had in 2013, and eventu­ally the coaching staff made some changes to the unit. 
Following notre dame’s win over Purdue on sept. 13, a shake­up resulted in a revamped of­fensive line for the Irish, which featured four players in new spots. Unfortunately for hanratty, he was moved to the bench because of the switches, leaving him in a similar spot to the one he was in at the beginning of last season 
— the role of a backup who will immediately take over if injuries become prevalent. 
“It feels as you could imagine,” hanratty said of his move to the sideline. “not playing kind of sucks, but I’ll just do whatever the team needs for me, and whenever I can contribute, I’ll contribute. I’ll be ready to be play when my num­ber’s called, just like last year.” 
off the field, hanratty said he plans to earn his degree from the mendoza college of business next spring. specifically, he is studying management-consult­ing, noting that a big influence in him choosing the major is the variety of potential career paths it opens up. 
“I feel like it’s a very adaptive major,” hanratty said. “There are a diverse amount of options for having success with it.” 
When hanratty looks back on his experiences at notre dame, he said he recognizes how special an opportunity playing for the Irish is and how captivating it can be for recruits. 
“Part of the appeal of notre dame is that you’re always on Tv, have sold out crowds and [have] all the tradition,” hanratty said. “being able to run out of the tun­nels here is something special. There’s nothing like it, and it’s just great being a part of that.” 
overall, hanratty said he couldn’t single out one moment as his favorite memory in his career. 
“It’s tough to pick a top mo­ment,” he said. “All wins that I’ve been a part of have given me a great feeling in terms of being able to contribute to the team and get­ting to play with some of my best friends.” 
hanratty’s last game at notre dame stadium this season will be against Louisville on saturday, and he said he is looking forward to being able to share some of the last few moments of his ca­reer with his former notre dame quarterback father and the rest of his family. 
“It’s just going to be great to have my parents and my family there,” he said. “senior day is spe­cial for me and them.” 

Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 




JODI LO | The Observer MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

caRdiNals PassiNg 

redshirt sophomore quarterback Will Gardner, Louisville’s starter in seven of its 10 games, won’t play after suffering a knee injury saturday in the cardinals’ 38­19 win over boston college. but Louisville has a viable if inconsistent option in fresh­man quarterback reggie bonnafon. 
Gardner had injured his knee earlier in the season against FIU, and bonnafon earned his first career start in the next game against Wake Forest, a 20-10 win for Louisville. bonnafon also started against syracuse and clemson. bonnafon’s best passing performance came against Wake Forest when he threw for 206 yards. he also threw for 174 yards against syracuse. bonnafon has thrown for only four touch­downs on the season, and Gardner took over partway through the loss to clemson. 
The Irish secondary has had its struggles this year, but bonnafon has yet to turn in an eye-opening passing performance. 
senior wide receiver devante Parker is the cardinals’ most dangerous receiv­ing threat, as the 6-3, 211-pounder creates matchup problems. Parker has averaged 
122.5 yards since returning from a broken foot suffered in the preseason. he could provide Louisville with big yardage plays, but the rest of the cardinals receivers have not been nearly as productive in terms of yardage.
     EdgE: EVEN 


caRdiNals  RushiNg 

Louisville hasn’t had a particularly con­sistent run game this season. 
several running backs have had good games, but the production hasn’t come reliably. redshirt sophomore brandon radcliff rushed for 97 yards against murray state, 129 against Wake Forest and 110 against syracuse. he has had three mul­tiple touchdown games. senior running back michael dyer posted 134 yards and three touchdowns against Florida state. Freshman running back L.J. scott rushed for 126 yards and one touchdown against murray state. 
despite the backs’ production, their big games have not coincided or come in streaks. 
The cardinals have the tools. The question is whether they will execute, and against a depleted Irish defensive line missing junior and captain sheldon day, Louisville has the edge.
        EdgE: lOuisVillE 

caRdiNals OFFENsiVE cOachiNg 
cardinals offensive coordinator shawn Watson has guided a high-scoring offense this season. Louisville has an 84.4 percent conversion rate in the red zone and has scored 31.6 points per game. he also has coached two very different quarterbacks with success this season. 
bonnafon has running ability that could give the Irish fits with the right play calls, as happened against boston college. Irish defensive coordinator brian vanGorder and notre dame’s defense haven’t been able to pull the right strings to stop simi­larly mobile quarterbacks this season, and this could turn into a problem saturday.
     EdgE: lOuisVillE 
caRdiNals sPEcial tEaMs 

Louisville has performed well on re­turns, and redshirt junior kicker John Wallace hasn’t missed a point-after at­tempt all season. he has made 13 of 16 field goals with one of his misses coming between 30 and 39 yards and two between 40 and 49. 
notre dame’s coverage units have been solid, however, allowing no punt or kickoff return touchdowns. The Irish will be able to limit the cardinals’ return game and win this part of the matchup. 
EdgE: NOtRE daME 
caRdiNals schEdulE (7-3) 

sept. 1    Miami (Fl.) (W 31-13)  
sept. 6  Murray State (W 66-21)  
sept. 13   @ Virginia (L 23-21)   

sept. 20   @ FIU (W 34-3) sept. 27 Wake Forest (W 20-10) oct. 3 @ Syracuse  (W 28-6) oct. 11 @ Clemson  (L 23-17) oct. 18 NC State (W 30-18) oct. 30      Florida State (L 42-31) nov. 8 @ Boston College (W 38-19) nov. 22 @ Notre Dame nov. 29 Kentucky 





HEAD TO 
3:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
LOUISVILLE 


(Sr.) DeVante Parker 

WR
(sr.) matt milton 86 

(Sr.) Jamon Brown 

LT
(Jr.) Aaron epps 78 


(Sr.) John Miller 

LG
(so.) Pedro sibiea 73 


(Fr.) Reggie Bonnafon 

(So.) Tobijah Hughley 
QB 

C

(r-Fr.) Kyle bolin 14 (sr.) Jake smith 53 
(Sr.) Michael Dyer 


(Sr.) Jake Smith 
RB 

RG

(so.) brandon radcliff 23 (r-Fr.) skylar Lacy 75 
(So.) Lamar Atkins 


(Jr.) Aaron Epps 

RT

FB
(so.) Griffin Uhl 39 (Jr.)  ryan mack 74 

(Sr.) Gerald Christian 

TE 

(Fr.) Keith Towbridge 89 

(Sr.) Eli Rogers



WR

(sr.)  michaelee harris 2 
(Sr.) Matt Milton 

WR
(so.) James quick 17 


(Sr.) Terell Floyd

CB

(sr.) Andrew Johnson 15 

(Sr.) Lorenzo Mauldin 



WLB 
(Jr.) Trevon Young 91 
(Jr.) James Sample 

27

(so.) Jermaine reve 

S (Jr.) Sheldon Rankins 

DE 

(r-Fr.) Kyle shortridge 95 

(Jr.) James Burgess

(r-Fr.) stacy Thomas 32 

MLB (Jr.) DeAngelo Brown

NT

(r-Fr.) Johnny richardson 90 

(So.) Keith Kelsey



MLB 
(Jr.) Keith brown 1 
(Sr.) B.J. Dubose 

DE 

(r-Fr.) Kyle shortridge 95 

(Jr.) Gerod Holliman 

S

(so.) Jermaine reve 27 

(Sr.) Deiontrez Mount 



SLB 
(so.) nick dawson 52 
(Jr.) Charles Gaines 


CB

(so.) devontre Parnell 21 
(Jr.) John Wallace 

(Sr.) Ryan Johnson 
PK 


H
(Jr.) Josh Appleby 40 

(Sr.) Ryan Johnson 
(Jr.) Charles Gaines 
P KR
(Jr.) Josh Appleby 40 (so.) brandon radcliff 23 

(Sr.) Eli Rogers 


(Sr.) Grant Donovan 
PR 


(so.) James quick 17 
LS 

Mike Monaco 
senior sports Writer 
All season long, I’ve said I can’t see notre dame losing at home on senior day, even though Louisville presents a formidable challenge. 
now, with the Irish reeling and injured and the cardinals fresh off a bye week, would be the time to flip. 
but I still don’t see it. simple statistics tell us everett Golson and Kyle brindza should progress to the mean. I’m not as convinced about improvement for notre dame’s defense, which takes another major hit this week without sheldon day. 
still, I expect Golson to play cleanly enough for the de­fense to not be routinely under siege, and I think Jaylon smith, cole Luke, Isaac rochell and company make enoughplaystoavoid an explosion by Louisville’s offense. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 31, Louisville 28 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
my first home game as a notre dame student was a 23-20 loss to south Florida in 2011. 
That game featured five Irish turnovers and sloppy play. 
I expect saturday’s game to feature much of the same. 
do I think notre dame has improved since 2011? certainly. 
but does that mean this team doesn’t have some of the same issues present in 2011? nope. 
The Irish are in a historically bad stretch defensively, at least by points allowed, and can’t keep from hurting them­selves offensively. 
These shortcomings both spell disaster against a Louisville team that averages more than 31 points per game and leads the nation in passes intercepted. 
And it means the result of my final home game will be sim­ilar to that of my first home game. 
FINAL SCORE: Louisville 38, notre dame 27 



Samantha Zuba 
Assistant managing editor 
The loss to Florida state: tough, but the team still had playoff potential. 
The loss to Arizona state: tough, but the team still had a shot at an elite bowl game. 
The loss to northwestern: tough, plain and simple. 
The Irish are banged up physically without senior linebacker Joe schmidt and now junior defensive line­man sheldon day, and they’re also psychologically shaken. brian Kelly’s rationale in going for two against northwestern, after all, was a lack of confidence in the kicking game. 
but Louisville will be missing its starting quarterback. And the cardinals have lost two of four. And the Irish are playing their final home game. notre dame will respond with a win. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 35, Louisville 28 








O HEAD 

ON NBC 
NOTRE DAME 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
iRishPassiNg overcome a stout Louisville defensive line. After a four-interception debacle Against Arizona state’s physical defensive Cody Riggs (Gr.) 
against Arizona state, the Irish offensive line, Folston ran for just 30 yards although 

CB 19 nick Watkins (Fr.) 
line provided everett Golson with more he received fewer carries than he has re-decision-making room and time against cently, as notre dame played needed to 

Jaylon Smith (So.) 
northwestern. Golson threw one intercep-play catchup quickly throughout the game. 
WLB 

48 Greer martini (Fr.) 

tion against the Wildcats but also threw for 

Romeo Okwara (Jr.) 

DE 
98 Andrew Trumbetti (Fr.) 
287 yards. And even against Arizona state,      EdgE: lOuisVillE 

Elijah Shumate (Jr.) 

S 


23 drue Tranquill (Fr.) he threw for a season-high 446 yards. In 
DT 
Sheldon Day (Jr.) four of his last four games, Golson has iRish OFFENsiVE cOachiNg 
53 Justin Utupo (Gr.) 

Nyles Morgan (Fr.) thrown three touchdown passes, the ex-other than in the 17-14 win over stanford, 


ILB 
42 michael deeb (so.) 
DT 
Jarron Jones (Jr.) ception being Arizona state. notre dame hasn’t failed to score a lot of 
daniel cage (Fr.) 

75 
At this point, one can feel confident points. Talent and coaching seem to have 
Max Redfield (So.) 

S 
41 matthias Farley (sr.) Golson will produce. his lowest-yardage aligned, as the play-calling has been 

Isaac Rochell (So.) 

DE 
92 Grant blankenship (Fr.) game was a 226-yard performance against working for the Irish, the two-point con­michigan, and he hasn’t thrown fewer version attempt against northwestern 

James Onwualu (So.) 
31 John Turner (Jr.) 
SLB 
than two touchdowns in any game. notwithstanding. 
Louisville leads Fbs with 22 intercep- There’s no reason to believe that will 
tions, even better than northwestern’s no. change against Louisville, despite 
22 rank with 12 interceptions. If the offen-cdardinals defensive coordinator Todd 

Cole Luke (So.) 

12
CB 
devin butler (so.) sive line does a good job protecting Golson, Grantham leading a defense keeping op-however, he has a chance to play a clean ponents at an average of 17.8 points per game and keep miscues from marring his game. 

Chris Brown (Jr.) 

WR 
88 
productive numbers. he also has an arse­
corey robinson (so.) 

nal of receiving options in wide receivers    EdgE: NOtRE daME 

Amir Carlisle (Sr.) 


20 c.J. Prosise (Jr.) Will Fuller, corey robinson, chris brown, 
WR 
c.J. Prosise and Amir carlisle as well as iRish sPEcial tEaMs tight end ben Koyack. Fuller has amassed    The kicking unit’s woes hurt notre dame 
RT 

Christian Lombard (Gr.) 853 yards on the season and has been part again versus northwestern. senior kicker 
68 mike mcGlinchey (so.) 

of several long plays for the Irish. notre Kyle brindza’s field goal percentage is now 

Cam McDaniel (Sr.) 
Steve Elmer (So.) 


62 colin mcGovern (so.) RB 
25 Tarean Folston (so.) dame should win some of the matchups 57.9 percent on the season. he hasn’t ben-
RG 

1 Greg bryant (so.) 

against Louisville’s secondary. efited from sloppy holds and inconsistent 

Matt Hegarty (Sr.) 

C 
75 mark harrell (Jr.) 

Everett Golson (Sr.) blocking on his attempts. 
QB 
8 malik Zaire (so.)

     EdgE: NOtRE daME   Kelly demonstrated how much the kick-

Nick Martin (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (sr.) 

LG 
ing unit has lost confidence when he elect-
LT 

Ronnie Stanley (Jr.) iRish RushiNg ed to go for a two-point conversion against 
70 hunter bivin (so.) 


sophomore running back Tarean northwestern while the Irish were leading 
TE 
Ben Koyack (Sr.) Folston returned to his effective ways last by 11 points. 
80 durham smythe (so.) 

13 Tyler Luatua (Fr.) saturday against northwestern. he rushed for 106 yards and one touchdown against       EdgE: lOuisVillE 
WR 

Will Fuller (So.) the Wildcats after a 30-yard performance 
16 Torii hunter Jr. (so.) 

against Arizona state. Folston has a touch-iRish schEdulE (7-3) down in three of the last five games and Aug. 30 Rice (W 48-17) has rushed for more than 100 yards three sept. 6 Michigan (W 31-0) times (plus a 98-yard, two-touchdown sept. 13 vs. Purdue (W 30-14) showing against north carolina). sept. 27 Syracuse (W 31-15) 

but Louisville has allowed just 87.4 rush-oct. 4 Stanford (W 17-14) 
Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 


85 Tyler newsome (Fr.) ing yards per game, good for second in oct. 11 North Carolina (W 50-43) Fbs. opponents have managed just 2.80 oct. 18 @ Florida State (L 34-31) 
KO 
PK 

Amir Carlisle (Sr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 

33 cam mcdaniel (sr.) 85 Tyler newsome (Fr.) 
KR 
P 
yards per carry. Folston’s talent will pre-nov. 1 vs. Navy (W 49-39) 
PR 
LS 

Cody Riggs (Gr.) vent him from being shut down, but he nov. 8 @ Arizona State (L 55-31) 

Scott Daly (Jr.) 

1 Greg bryant (so.) 

likely won’t have the kind of big game he nov. 15 Northwestern (L 43-40 OT) has turned in recently. The Irish offen-nov. 22 Louisville sive line hasn’t been dominant enough to nov. 29 @ USC 



Isaac Lorton 
Assistant managing editor 

despite the dreary prospect of finishing 7-5 with losses to Louisville and Usc to close out the season, I don’t think that will happen at home on senior day. 
Although the Irish defense is banged up, now with the loss of sheldon day, it will do just enough to stop the Louisville offense. 
everett Golson and the rest of the notre dame offense will limit its turnovers be­cause that is what the game will come down to: the Irish not shooting themselves in the foot. 
The Irish will pull this game for their seniors. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 41, Louisville 38 


Mary Green 
sports edtior 
The Irish will be geared up for saturday, desperate to bounce back from two consecutive losses and wanting to send their seniors off with a final home victory. 
but that’s not going to happen. 
notre dame’s turnover problems aren’t going to go away overnight and neither will its struggles on special teams. 
Louisville’s 23 gained turnovers rank 10th in the nation, and it’s scored 149 points off opponent miscues. That spells major trouble for the Irish. 
Adding insult to injury, sheldon day will join Joe schmidt on the bench, depleting the defense even more than it is already, and Kyle brindza isn’t the kicking ma­chine he was earlier this season. 
The seniors’ final Alma mater will be sung with disap­pointment, not in celebration. 
FINAL SCORE: Louisville 37, notre dame 28 








Hegarty recovers from stroke, becomes starter 
the same time, I’m a realist. I’m At that point, he said the hardest 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 

sports Writer thinking, ‘I’m in my 20s. This has hurdle to clear was in his head. 
got to be something else.’” “I think it was definitely mental They’re the immovable objects The next morning, hegarty went because physically, I worked out in the middle of the chaos. for an mrI to determine what had as much as I could on the side,” 
All things on the football field happened. After sitting in there hegarty said. “I really wasn’t too run through the offensive line, for about an hour and a half (“I re-worried about that, but the mental those five men in the middle with-member I had a cough stuck in my side was definitely frustrating be-out whom nothing can happen for throat, and I couldn’t get it out. I just cause as much as you tell yourself the offense. They are constantly had to sit there,” he said), hegarty you’re fine, I found myself having fighting and scrapping with no said he emerged to hear the doc-dreams where I’d hit a guy, and I plays off. tor tell him that he’d gotten off the knew something had gone wrong. 
no one is in the middle of the phone with matt’s mom, and she “I think really what helped there action more than the center. It’s a was flying out to be with him now. was the simple act of getting after it colossal burden to shoulder, and he’d had a stroke. in practice.” it’s a job Irish senior matt hegarty “I was shocked,” hegarty said. but nerves or not, hegarty was performs day after day. “It was surreal, especially since I back on the field for the Irish and 
It’s a responsibility he doesn’t was feeling so much better that I proved everyone who had believed take lightly. thought that whatever it was, it was he could make it back was right. 
“First and foremost, you gotta done, and all I could think about “I sincerely feel like that’s one make sure you get the play started was how soon do I get back out of the biggest things that helped with the snap,” hegarty said. “And [on the field]. And now, I’m given a me get through it,” hegarty said. then secondly, you got a guy on scale of just how big the picture was “Teammates here and my family both sides. And if there’s a miscom-now.” and people back home and people but more importantly, there that wherever the road takes him, munication, it falls back to you for hegarty’s stroke had been that have had strokes have reached was something that wasn’t on his he’s been fortunate to be where he not getting everyone on the same brought on by the presence of two out.” mind. is today. page.” small holes in his heart that had ex-That would be enough of a “by that point, most of my “I think the nice part about be­
There’s a notably relaxed nature isted there, undetected since birth. mountain to climb in and of itself, nerves about my health were ing here is that you don’t really in how hegarty describes his job. he underwent surgery dec. 14 of but several months into the sea-gone,” hegarty said. “I had the have to choose [a life without foot­It’s an exhausting position, yet the that year to repair the damage. son, injuries to the offensive line spring under my belt, and we were ball,]” hegarty said. “obviously, I way he presents it makes it seem With the rest of his season of forced hegarty to jump into the three to four months into the sea-would like to play for as long as I like just another everyday routine, that year immediately ruled out, role of starter against bYU on nov. son. I didn’t have time to be ner-can. my goal here is continue to like remembering to tie your shoes. hegarty said he did his best to stay 23. It was the first game hegarty vous about that. It was just, ‘hey, get my education while I get my­
That’s because considering what involved with the team. he was had ever started. I just gotta go out and do my job.’” self the best opportunity to get he’s overcome, juggling plays and always a presence on the sideline “That was my first time really now, as hegarty prepares for ready for the next level. I know his leadership duties on the line all and traveled to Florida for the bcs jumping in and taking the reins,” the home stretch of season, he that in my back pocket, whenever while handling a cagey defensive national championship Game. of hegarty said. “my first concern said he can look back on just what the time comes that my career is lineman in front of roaring fans is a course, now there was more to jug-was, with the wind and the snow he’s overcome to get to this point over, I can look at a degree from walk in the park. gle in addition to being a member blowing, just to get the ball to [for-and start thinking about the fu-notre dame. That’s really nice.” 
It was during boston college of the Irish. mer Irish quarterback] Tommy ture. hegarty, a management and week in mid-november 2012 that “I was going to team meetings, [rees], and the rest of it kind of consulting major in the mendoza Contact Mike Ginocchio at hegarty realized something was but I was also doing my rehab,” worked itself out.” college of business, said he knows mginnoch@nd.edu wrong. While most injuries or ail-hegarty said. “I worked out as ments for his position are relatively much as I could, obviously with PAId AdverTIsemenT recognizable, this was different. limitations on what I could and 
“We were in the weight room couldn’t do as far as pushing my during the walkthrough, and I heart.” couldn’t talk,” hegarty said. “I was It was that dedication and com-trying to make calls on the line. mitment that got him to notre basically, the brain was thinking, dame in the first place; it would be but the mouth wasn’t moving.” that same dedication and commit-
his teammates were quick to ment that would get him through notice. this. And in the midst of it all, he 
“We were about to get ready to found an unlikely — but all too fit-go to practice, and I was still try-ting — source of inspiration: Tedy ing to talk to them,” hegarty said. bruschi, retired new england “I’m still having trouble with [the Patriots linebacker. words]. but they didn’t really know “Tedy bruschi is a perfect exam-what to think about it, and there ple,” hegarty said. “he had a stroke they realized, ‘something’s wrong when he was playing, and he wrote with matt.’” a book about it. my parents got it 
They notified the coaching staff, for me for that christmas [after my and hegarty was sent to the hos-stroke], and it was really powerful pital. by then, hegarty’s speech to read. before I had mine, I had no had returned, and the effects of idea about his, until [former Irish whatever it was that had hit him center] braxton [cave] said, ‘hey, were fading away enough for him isn’t that what Tedy bruschi had?’ I to think that it was just a fluke. started looking into it, and was like but still, he said he found himself ‘Wow, this is kind of amazing.’ thinking. “The way I looked at it was that it 
“What really scared me most wasn’t so much a case of me trying was that I wasn’t sure because this to climb this hill that’s impossible; is such a wide range of things,” but rather, he did it, and I don’t see hegarty said. “I was like, ‘I’m why I can’t.” young, it couldn’t be this or that or Less than a year after that scary that.’” afternoon in the weight room, 
In the middle of his attempts to hegarty returned to action in the figure out the problem, a possible spring of 2013, in time for the blue-diagnosis emerged. Gold Game. 
“I’ve known people who’ve had “Initially, with spring ball, there strokes, and that was what this were some nerves,” hegarty said. “I reminded me of,” hegarty said. remember thinking, ‘I’m fine.’ but “especially when I heard them de-when I was out there, I found my-scribing trying to make a word.” self thinking, ‘Am I fine?’ I mean, 
did the thought cross his mind? I had thought I was fine before, 
“slightly,” hegarty said. “but at but…” 







Hounshell stays positive despite injuries 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports Writer 
most college football players would consider just one shoulder labrum tear a major setback, pos­sibly even a career-ending injury. 
senior defensive lineman chase hounshell has experienced this painful injury three times during his career at notre dame. 
born and bred in the heart of big Ten football country, the Kirtland, ohio, native was one of the state’s top players in high school. In 2010, the Lake catholic high school alum earned AP ohio division II co-defensive player of the year honors. 
The versatile lineman enter­tained offers from notre dame and big Ten schools, like michigan state, Iowa and Wisconsin. hounshell surprised many, how­ever, when he committed to Florida. 
however, after former Gators head coach Urban meyer’s abrupt­ly retired prior to the 2010 season, hounshell decommitted from Florida and decided on the Irish. 
“You could really feel a family at­mosphere here at notre dame, and I had great opportunities to con­nect with teammates and coaches prior to beginning my career,” hounshell said. “That’s what ulti­mately drew me to this school.” 


during his freshman year, hounshell saw action in seven games for the Irish because of inju­ries to some key defensive lineman. 
“I didn’t really expect to play as a freshman, so that came as a sur­prise to me,” he said. 
hounshell first saw game action in front of a sold-out notre dame stadium crowd on an unseason­ably warm and sunny saturday in october, during a contest against Air Force. 
“stepping out onto that field was something I’ll probably never forget,” hounshell said. “being out there with my teammates, hearing the crowd and having my parents and family in the stands, that’s something you can’t get anywhere else.” 
The freshman recorded four tackles in his debut, helping the Irish rout the Falcons, 59-33. 
hounshell soon faced his first major setback, however, as just three weeks after his debut, the maturing freshman tore his la­brum in a win against navy. 
demonstrating the resiliency that would become a defining characteristic of his career, the freshman played injured for the remainder of the season, contrib­uting in a limited capacity in six of the final seven games for the Irish. 
“You can either choose to quit or put your head down and work hard,” hounshell said. “I worked too hard up to that point to let one injury define my career.” 
hounshell had surgery to repair the torn labrum during the offsea­son, but in a moment of tragic irony, he reinjured the repaired shoulder again against the midshipmen to begin the 2012 season. This ended his sophomore campaign. 
bad fortune befell hounshell yet again during 2013 spring drills, as he reinjured the shoulder once more. 
he underwent shoulder and la­brum reconstructive surgery fol­lowing this third injury, and at this point in his career, hounshell said he began receiving advice from doctors to not play football again. 
“It was probably the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do in my en­tire life,” hounshell said. “I had teammates asking me if I even wanted to play again, and I even began asking myself if I should play, but I just continued to work hard.” 
hounshell has not competed during the 2014 season for the Irish but said he is currently healthy. 
“It’s hard to believe I’ve been through all these injuries, but we have such a great staff here that have helped me out along the way, and I just continued to work, and finally, I’m back,” he said. 
outside of football, the man­agement consulting major said he plans on pursuing a career in business or entrepreneurship following his graduation in may but added he will miss the “little things” about student life at notre dame. 
“I’ll miss the overall atmosphere of campus, just being able to walk along south quad and see so many people you know through­out the day — that’s something I’ll remember for the rest of my life,” hounshell said. 
The senior lineman said it was at first difficult to find the balance between academics and football, but he has developed a sense of enjoyment in completing his daily schedule. 
“coming in to notre dame, you always hear academics is so dif­ficult, and on top of that you’re going to be so busy with football, and for the most part that is true,” hounshell said. “but you start to realize that you choose your class­es and area of study, and football becomes something you enjoy with your brothers and something that you love.” 
And hounshell’s advice to in­coming notre dame football play­ers? It’s simple: don’t be lazy. 
“It’s hard work — nobody’s going to lie to you and tell you it isn’t — but it’s definitely something that’s doable if you put your head down and work hard,” he said. 


Contact Benjamin Horvath at         bhorvat1@nd.edu 

ERic lEE | Wr | WesT des moInes, IoWA 

Pre-med major finds football, school balance 
fan growing up,” he said. “I nev-even Lee’s favorite football 

By MAREK MAZUREK 

sports Writer er really followed them; I never memory points to his academic really thought about them un-excellence. Lee was a member eric Lee is the embodiment of til I started coming out of high of the “Green beret” his sopho­a student-athlete. school wanting to go to a good more and junior years, where he 
While the senior receiver academic school, and [notre would stand on the sideline and spends much of his time practic-dame] definitely popped on give the signals for the play to his ing and playing for a nationally-the radar. That’s when I started teammates on the field. ranked program, the science thinking about them for school.” “one of my favorite memories pre-professional major is also The 5-foot-8, 170-pound Lee was the Green beret,” he said. “It preparing to head to medical gained a preferred walk-on sta-was me, [graduate student run-school after graduation. tus as a freshman and has been ning back] Tyler Plantz and [for-
during his high school career part of the team for all four years mer receiver] nick Fitzpatrick at dowling catholic in West des of his notre dame career as a running signals into the game moines, Iowa, Lee maintained a slot receiver. Lee said he consid-my sophomore and junior years. 
4.1 GPA while competing as an ers himself fortunate to have had … We had a really good time do­all-conference athlete in three the opportunity he has had. ing that. I also got in the rice different sports. “It’s been a pretty cool expe-game, the season opener this 
For Lee, though, football rience,” he said. “coming in as year. I was in on malik’s [Zaire] quickly became his sport of a freshman was a pretty lucky long run and Greg’s [bryant] first choice over baseball and basket-opportunity to get the full four touchdown playing slot receiver, ball as he looked to college. years in — a lot of guys don’t so that was also pretty exciting; 
“I think it was more so the op-get that chance. It’s been a long the whole family was there, so as he goes to med school and last game. portunity,” Lee said of making process, but it’s definitely been that was pretty cool.” beyond. “I expect to feel a little colder the choice to play football. “I good.” Lee said his post-graduation “being part of the team is than usual just because it will be didn’t have a favorite out of the Throughout his career as a plans are much different than something I’m extremely proud late november,” he said sports — I liked them all. I played division I athlete, Lee said he still being part of the Green beret or of,” he said. “I would never in-seriously? them all pretty well. I think foot-find time to excel in his studies. lining up as a slot receiver. troduce myself as someone who “Well I don’t know,” he said. ball opened doors here. I could “It’s pretty tough, especially “I’m applying to medical played football at notre dame, “You do something a lot of times, come to camp my freshman as a pre-med major,” he said. school right now, and that’s a but I’m sure it will come up at and you start taking it for grant-year, and that was a big part of it. “That’s hard in and of itself, and stressful process,” he said. “I some point. I’d definitely repre-ed, but I think that [game] will It was more the doors that [foot-on top of football, it’s a challenge. have to interview [soon]. It’s sent and wear some notre dame really sink in. I’ll really look out ball] opened for me.” I have to give up a lot of social been a long process, but hope-gear at some point. I wouldn’t there and realize how lucky I’ve 
After narrowing down his time, but other students don’t fully I’ll get in somewhere by the hesitate to tell people I was a part been the past four years and just choice of sport to football, the get to run out of the tunnel on next couple months.” of something this special.” try to embrace the moment.” question that remained was saturdays, so I feel like it’s worth Looking past college, Lee said Just like his major, Lee took a where would Lee play. it for me. I’ve learned to manage he plans to carry his notre dame scientific approach to answering Contact Marek Mazurek at 
“I wasn’t a huge notre dame my time pretty well.” football experience with him how he thinks he will feel on his mmazurek@nd.edu 






Koyack earns membership in ‘Tight End U’ 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 
At notre dame, tight end might be considered the program’s most consistent­ly talented position. “Tight end U,” as the University has come to been known over the last few years, did not fail to disappoint once again, as ben Koyack stepped up at the position this year. 
For the first three seasons of his career, Koyack had been playing in the shadows of former Irish tight ends Tyler eifert and Troy niklas, who have both jumped from distinguished careers at notre dame to roster spots in the nFL, eifert with the bengals and niklas with the cardinals. 
This season Koyack was no longer the number two guy behind niklas. It was his turn. 
“I’ve tried to keep [the role] open, to keep a good re­lationship with all the guys,” Koyack said. “It doesn’t nec­essarily feel like a strict kind of environment but more like one where we have dif­ferent authority, where we still have to do the right thing but can still have some fun with it. I think that helps the guys out a lot.” 
With that humble ap­proach, Koyack has quietly yet powerfully help lead the Irish on the field. The senior stands fourth in receiving yards for notre dame, with 27 catches for 289 yards and two touchdowns. 
Perhaps Koyack’s most sig­nificant play this season was his game-winning touch­down against stanford. 
The Irish were down 14-10 to stanford with one minute left on the clock. on fourth­and-11 from the cardinal 23-yard line, Golson found Koyack in the back of the end zone. Koyack caught the pass on his way out of bounds to clinch notre dame’s 17-14 victory over stanford on oct. 4, keeping a then-undefeat­ed season alive. 
“I guess just execute and catch the ball,” Koyack said of his thinking on the play. “I knew there was going to be a guy coming who was go­ing to try and knock it out, so I thought [to] just follow the ball, catch the ball and keep my feet up.” 
The 6-foot-5, 254-pound­er made getting behind the stanford defense look com­pletely effortless. but it’s plays like those in which Koyack leaves his mark. his poise and consistency in run blocking and receiving have made him a silent weapon for the Irish this season. 
Just one week later, it was Koyack again, secur­ing notre dame’s slim-mar­gin 50-43 win over north carolina on oct. 11, when he recovered a Tar heel on­side kick with 47 seconds on the clock. earlier, he had a catch for nine yards dur­ing notre dame’s drive that ended with a touchdown by sophomore running back Greg bryant to put the Irish up 21-14. 



“I’d also say the north carolina game was one of my favorite game experi­ences,” Koyack said. “seeing everyone keep their heads up and play strong the whole entire game. every game this season, there is always a sce­nario where we all come to­gether, so I enjoy that with every single game.” 
In addition to the team coming together, Koyack and his quarterback, fel­low senior everett Golson, have continued to find their rhythm throughout the sea­son. between run blocking and receptions, Koyack and Golson have worked togeth­er throughout the season. 
“It’s definitely a good [re­ceiving relationship with Golson],” Koyack said. “We spent multiple times after practice working on stuff so that we could get on the same page. he’s been throw­ing the ball to me since my freshman year, so I’ve had a lot of time with him before, and we are on the same page now.” 
With Golson returning this season and niklas gone to the nFL, Koyack said he has seen a change in the dy­namic of his position from last season to now. 
“This year, I do a lot more of single tight-end things,” Koyack said. “I run some more routes and do some blocking, but at the end of the day, it’s doing what [Irish head] coach [brian] Kelly wants you to do. 
“my goal heading into this season was to improve in all areas. I couldn’t focus on one exact thing because then I’d lose focus of every­thing else … so it’s just about being well-rounded and be­ing able to be counted on for however many snaps. I can always improve. I’ll always be working to be the best I can possibly be.” 
The starting tight end will continue to strive to be “the best that he can possibly be” as notre dame closes out the regular season with games against Louisville on saturday and Usc on nov. 
29. As his time at notre dame comes to a close, Koyack re­flected on the time he has spent at the University, in­cluding the experiences that stretched beyond walking out the tunnel into notre dame stadium. 
“It went fast,” Koyack said. “It was hectic, but it was fun, and it feels like I was walking in the dorm freshman year, not knowing what I was do­ing, just yesterday. It’s been interesting, and it’s been a fun transition to go from my head swimming to now, knowing the entire offensive unit. It’s been something I will never forget. 
“It’s been a great opportu­nity and privilege to go here, to walk away with a degree from here. I’ve met a lot of great people. notre dame is something I’m really happy to have been a part of.” 


Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 





Lombard builds upon consistency on O-line 
“I saw a place here that holds 

By BENJAMIN HORVATH 

sports Writer you to high academic and mor­al standards,” Lombard said. “I 
As a leader of one of the most knew I wanted to be a part of oft-overlooked offensive units, that.” graduate student offensive but just as many freshmen lineman christian Lombard are expected to work to earn fits the bill: quiet, unassuming the respect of their players and hardworking. and coaches, offensive line-
Lombard has built an im-men must work perhaps even pressive résumé in his five harder to find a starting slot in years at notre dame. entering the highly cohesive unit of the saturday’s game, Lombard offensive line. has played in 42 games for Lombard said he understood the Irish, including the first this going into his first year, in national championship game which did not see game action, appearance for the Irish since but he also said he was com­1989. mitted to a positive mindset at 
Lombard, the starting right the year’s beginning. tackle in his fifth year of eligi-“Traditionally, offensive bility, was one of former Irish linemen don’t play as fresh-head coach charlie Weis’s ear-men, so I understood that go­liest commitments for the 2010 ing in,” he said. “I knew that it recruiting class. was a process, so I just com-
Weis was let go following mitted to taking all the steps the 2009 season, but despite necessary.” the coaching change prior to The next step in that process Lombard’s arrival in south would come the following 2011 bend, he said he never thought season, when Lombard saw ac-to de-commit from notre tion in all 13 of the Irish con-dame. tests, playing on the special 
“I never reconsidered my teams unit. choice because I told myself I Although not yet a starter on committed to a school, not to the offensive line, Lombard one particular coach,” he said. said this special teams role 
As a senior at Fremd high contributed to his preparation school in Palatine, Illinois, for earning a top spot on the Lombard received a number of depth chart. national honors, being named “I played punt coverage national championship motivator for the Irish before Just as the Alabama loss a UsA Today first-team prep and field goal protection, and Game. Lombard, then a junior, they kicked off the next season. served to motivate Lombard, All-American, eA sports first-those guys take a lot of beat-started at right tackle in all 13 “We really had a great off-the back injury inspired the team All-American and the ing,” Lombard said. “From the contests. season, and I think we all felt then-senior to rehab and re-Gatorade Player of the Year for standpoint of physicality, it Perhaps the team’s most im-like we really had so much turn the following season. Illinois. got me prepared for those next pressive stat from that season more to prove to the world and “It was tough sitting out and 
The 6-foot-5, 311-lb. lineman couple of years.” came from Lombard’s unit: the to ourselves and to our fans,” having to watch the guys that certainly had a number of of-And his first two years of Irish started the same five line-Lombard said. “It was definite-you play with for two years fers, including several from big hard work would come to frui-men in each contest, a rarity ly a motivation.” from the sideline,” he said. 10 schools, but he said notre tion in notre dame’s undefeat-for a position as physical as the In the 2013 campaign, Following the long rehabili­dame was different from the ed 2012 season, highlighted lineman spot. Lombard made the switch from tation during this past offsea­others. by an appearance in the bcs Lombard said this helped right tackle to right guard, a son, Lombard experienced 
the offense find a rhythm and difference that may seem in-another setback when he un­consistency, as the line devel-significant but has noticeable expectedly injured his wrist oped a tight-knit relationship nuances for any lineman. during spring practice. during the championship run. despite this transition, “It was definitely a kick in 
“That type of relationship is Lombard, and the offensive the stomach, and I kind of felt necessary for a successful line, line as a whole, excelled in like I couldn’t catch a break,” and the ability to protect and 2013, something Lombard at-Lombard said. “but you just block for the guys behind us,” tributes to the Irish coaching have to try and stay positive.” he said. staff. And again, the lineman ex-
In a year with a number of “The transition was difficult hibited the toughness that has close victories that came in the from the standpoint that I had been a defining characteristic games’ final minutes, Lombard never played the guard position of his career at notre dame, said his favorite memory was before, but we don’t necessar-as he fought through the wrist notre dame’s come-from-ily teach different fundamen-injury to prepare for the 2014 behind, triple-overtime 29-26 tals specific to each lineman opener against rice. victory against Pittsburgh on position, so it was fairly easy to currently building on an al­nov. 3, 2012, which kept the catch on,” Lombard said. ready impressive career this undefeated season intact at The 2013 offensive line was, season, Lombard could be a 9-0. statistically speaking, one of mid-round pick in the upcom­
“We ran a crazy amount of the best in the nation.  The ing nFL draft, according to plays, like 110 or something, Irish were second in the coun-draftcountdown.com analyst and afterward, we were all so try in fewest sacks allowed, scott Wright. exhausted, but we just kept be-and no other team attempted however, when asked about lieving and blocking play after more passes and allowed fewer hearing his name called in play,” Lombard said. sacks than notre dame, which the draft, Lombard remained 
however, as most Irish gave up only eight sacks on 429 expressionless and remained fans remember, the magic passes. razor-focused on his team’s of the season would come Lombard’s season was cut upcoming opponents. to a screeching halt in the short, however, because of a “That’s been the mindset bcs national championship back injury that had been ag-going into the year, and all Game, when Alabama con-gravating him since the pre-throughout it,” he said. “I’ll vincingly claimed its second vious summer. In the seventh worry about that when it’s straight championship in a 42-game of the season against time to worry about that.” 14 rout over the Irish. Usc, Lombard re-aggravated 
Although a difficult loss, the injury, which required im-Contact Benjamin Horvath at Lombard said it served as a mediate surgery. bhorvat1@nd.edu 






Martin follows in brother’s footsteps as captain 
By GREG HADLEY 
Associate sports editor 
For most of their childhood, senior offensive lineman nick martin and his brother Zack just couldn’t get along. They bick­ered and fought constantly, with Zack often getting the better of his little brother. 
“I hated him,” nick joked. “Well, no, I never hated him. We definitely fought a lot when we were younger though.” 
Things changed quickly, how­ever, when nick joined Zack on the offensive line of bishop chatard high school’s football team in Indianapolis. Through football, the brothers found common ground and became so close that when Zack left for notre dame, nick followed two years later. 
“We don’t have [a sibling rival­ry],” nick said. “The day I started playing high school football it really just clicked. … he’s why I came here.” 
Together, nick and Zack helped anchor the offensive line for the Irish in 2013, start­ing the first 11 games of the season at center and left tackle, respectively. 
nowadays, things have changed. Zack departed notre dame at the end of last season and was picked in the first round of the nFL draft by the dallas cowboys, where he now starts at right guard. 
“It’s definitely weird, not hav­ing him around,” nick said. “but it’s also great. he’s doing great things. I’m proud of him. I knew the whole time how good he was.” 
meanwhile, nick has stepped up, not only to fill his brother’s spot in the lineup, but also to take on a leadership role for an offensive line that lost three of last year’s starters and went through a midseason shuffle that changed almost everyone’s role along the line. 
That leadership role for the offensive line expanded at the beginning of the season when Irish head coach brian Kelly announced that martin would serve as one of the team’s four captains. 
“during summer practices, I just sort of became the leader of the o-line,” martin said. “[I] just started running drills, and that snowballed into me becom­ing a captain and a leader for the whole team.” 
Three games into the 2014 campaign, Kelly overhauled the line, which had allowed six sacks, including four to Purdue on sept. 13. he shuffled four players into new positions and brought in a new center while martin switched to left guard. 
While the move was diffi­cult for martin, it is something he said he has learned to take in stride. After sitting out his freshman season, the 6-foot-4, 295-pounder spent his soph­omore year mostly playing special teams while backing up the tackle positions. A year later, he shifted to starting center for the first time in his career. 
“It’s actually a great experi­ence,” martin said. “You want to able to play as many positions as possible. I had never played center before last year … and I fell in love with it immediately. but you’ve got to move around. You’ve got to put what’s best for the team first, and I’m playing guard, and I’m starting to get the hang of that. so it’s nice to play multiple positions.” 
The Irish have also had to ac­climate to the return of senior everett Golson to the quarter­back role. While Golson missed the 2013 season, the offensive line worked with the now-grad­uated Tommy rees, who tended to stay in the pocket, martin said. 
“It’s definitely different,” he said. “They each have their strengths, and we just need to adapt to them. The biggest dif­ference is the play extension. You’re blocking all seven, your man takes off and gets behind you, everett is going to extend the play. You just block for him, because he’s going to make a big play.” 
despite the numerous chang­es, the line remains close as a unit, martin said. 
“We’re the tightest group on the team,” he said. “We’re al­ways with each other and doing stuff together inside of football, outside of football, whatever. A lot of food is involved. I live in a house with [senior offen­sive linemen matt hegarty and conor hanratty], and we’re al­ways bringing over the younger guys and just hanging out, bar­becuing, really anything.” 
most of martin’s leader­ship style comes from what he learned from Zack when he was an underclassman adjusting to college life, he said. Apart from helping him adapt to the speed of college football, Zack also pro­vided nick with an example of the strong friendships the team can build, he said. 
“Just going off to college and having family there made the transition unbelievable,” nick said. “I became friends with all of his friends. … Leadership-wise, he also taught me a lot of things: consistency, how to lead by example, when to speak up and when not to. [I] just really watched him.” 


Together, nick and Zack are just the second pair of broth­ers to both be named captains in program history. That, com­bined with the year they spent starting together, is an experi­ence nick said he still does not fully appreciate yet. 
“[starting alongside him] was unbelievable,” nick said. “That’s one of those things that prob­ably won’t hit me until we’re older, especially now that I got the chance to be a captain. That, too, probably won’t hit us until we’re older.” 
The similarities between nick and Zack do not end there. With an extra year of eligibility re­maining, nick said he plans to return for another year at notre dame. If he is named captain again, he will join Zack in the elite group of two-time captains. 
After college, nick said he plans to once again follow Zack, this time into the nFL. Is an­other reunion along the same offensive line in the cards for the two? 
“That’s the dream.” 


Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 





McDaniel’s dedication stands out on field 
understanding and apprecia-call for mcdaniel to begin the 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 

sports Writer tion of my passion for the game,” drill, and he ran forward. 
mcdaniel said. “And they just “I’ve never really run through he runs angry. try to support that in whatever one that only goes one way,” It’s the first thing you notice way possible. I know that my mcdaniel said. “so I go to run 
about Irish senior running back mom and my wife in particular in it, and access denied. cam mcdaniel as soon as he get a little bit nervous watching “next thing you know, you’re receives the handoff. he runs me play, but you’re always go-an Internet sensation.” straight into the breach with ing to have that.” mcdaniel’s teammates im­an audacious approach. rather For the longest time, it looked mediately worried whether he than dance away from contact like mcdaniel was going to was all right. once it was clear or attempt to outrun an oppo-carve a comfortable niche in that he was fine, if slightly nent, he seems to actively seek the Irish program as a depend-dazed, they started laughing. defenders out, almost as if he is able power running back. Then mcdaniel, true to form, sim-daring someone to bring him a funny thing happened during ply shook it off and got back to down. It’s less like watching his junior year: he got famous. work (“now we have one that a running back and more like The first moment was cap-goes both ways,” he later said). watching a cannonball fire. tured on video. The camera fo-but his bout with Internet fame And even then, it’s hardly a vic-cused on the Irish running back wasn’t quite finished yet. tory for the defender to make corps as they prepared to run The second moment oc­the tackle: mcdaniel might through the “gauntlet,” the ma-curred during the Usc game on have been brought down, but chine used by running backs oct. 19, 2013. Though the Irish he will have made you regret it. during fall preseason practice. won the game 14-10, what ev­
“I’ve just always tried to be The “gauntlet” is an ominous-eryone remembers is a particu­aggressive when I run the foot-looking station with rubber-lar photo. There is mcdaniel ball,” mcdaniel said. “I mean, ized pads, intended to simulate in mid-carry, holding the ball early on, I used to watch old defenders’ arms swatting at the in tight to his chest as he hops highlights of [nFL hall of Fame ball in close quarters. It looks over a pile of bodies behind running back] earl campbell more like a painter’s scaffold-him. A Trojan defender is trying because I was a big Texas fan.” ing than a running back drill, to bring him down. his helmet 
has he ever been told of his yet it is something that run-has been knocked off, and in-running style? ning backs like mcdaniel have stead of catching a grimace of 
“I’ve had a few people tell gone through countless times concentration, the photogra­me that before,” mcdaniel said in their careers. pher captured a most inexpli-during the game.’ I didn’t think which was may 18, 2013, she with a smile. but there was one problem cably perfect shot. mcdaniel’s anything of it, really. I kind of ended up transferring to bethel 
still, it can be jarring to watch as mcdaniel prepared to run hair is slightly tousled, and looked at it for a second to make college, which is like 10 min-the 5-foot-10, 205-pounder through this one. It was set up on his face is a slight smirk. sure that it was real, and then I utes away [from notre dame.] launch himself into the fray, backwards. he looks less like a division I showed it to my mom and dad, she finished there in three absorbing contact with a terrif-“We were in the middle of fall running back and more like a and they were like, ‘That’s re-years. We got married may 17, ic crack, doing whatever he can camp, [and] it’s really hot, it’s calvin Klein model. ally funny.’” 2014, back in dallas. to get a few yards for the Irish humid, and I’m the first one up Thus, the “ridiculously Little did mcdaniel know, mcdaniel said he looks to and wear the defense down at in line,” mcdaniel said, a grin Photogenic running back” things were about to explode. the future with anticipation. the same time. Yet those who slowly forming on his face at meme was born. “my friends and family off the field, he and stephani know him know that that’s just the memory. “I didn’t even no-“I got [the photo] right af-started getting calls from ev-are expecting their first child. how he’s always been — full tice [that it was backwards]. ter the game,” mcdaniel said. erybody,” mcdaniel said. considering the fearless way he speed ahead. You can’t really tell unless you “The original photographer “Just random places and news has approached life so far and 
“my family and friends, look at it close.” forwarded it to me and was like, broadcasters from all over the the success he has found, it is 
I think they have a deep The coaching staff made the ‘Look at this awesome shot I got world, wondering, ‘Who is this little surprise that he continues kid?’ And it just ended up be-to dream on the field. ing a freak thing. Gained like “I’m looking to extend my 10,000 followers on Twitter.” football career and go on to play 
Through it all, mcdaniel in the nFL,” mcdaniel said. “At keeps a relaxed approach to least to give it a shot and see the fact that he will be remem-how it turns out. And so that is bered, in addition to his play on taking precedence for me right the field, for what amounts to now.” lightning striking twice. After Attending notre dame as all, what are the odds of becom-a student is hard enough. ing an Internet sensation twice balancing that with being a in one season? member of the football team is 
“It doesn’t bother me; it’s harder. Juggling that in addi­just part of the experience,” tion to being married and soon mcdaniel said. “I always told to be a father is almost more people that hopefully I’ll make than one can fathom handling. a sportscenter highlight reel It isn’t something mcdaniel where it’s not having to do with said he takes lightly. something that’s absolutely “It’s sometimes overwhelm-outlandish. It may not be here; ing,” mcdaniel said. “but you we’ll see.” kinda just take it as it comes, 
but all of these things that and when you sign up to be happened to mcdaniel last a student-athlete at notre year pale in comparison to one dame, you sign up for a huge very important moment in his obligation. sometimes you life this past offseason: he got don’t realize just how big an married. obligation that is when you 
“I met stephani going into my get into it. but you figure that senior year of high school, that one out pretty quick. And I summer,” mcdaniel said of his did. There were times that now-wife. “she was … she was were really tough, you know? just an amazing girl. We were but it’s just something that friends at first, and soon after takes a lot of diligence and that, I realized that she was discipline, and if you stick to something special. she went to it, it’s possible.” Texas A&m, so we did long dis­tance for two-and-a-half years. Contact Mike Ginocchio at Then after I proposed to her, mginocch@nd.edu 







Plantz lives out dream, earns scholarship 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports Writer 
From the very start, Tyler Plantz’s dream was playing for notre dame. 
As the son of former Irish of­fensive lineman ron Plantz, the graduate student running back said his father made sure that he would grow up supporting the Irish. 
“We started coming to games at a young age, and from there, we were wearing the jerseys, and we’d watch the game ev­ery saturday,” Plantz said. “We always just kind of grew up a notre dame family, and I al­ways had the goal of going to notre dame” 
Plantz received offers from multiple Ivy League schools and one school in the mid-American conference, but he said he always knew that he’d rather fulfill his ultimate goal by walking on at notre dame. 
“The one thing in the back of my mind for everything I did was trying to get to notre dame,” he said. 
And when the time came for him to make his first appear­ance for the Irish, Plantz said the experience was something he couldn’t believe. 
“It was pretty surreal,” he said. “Actually, the first play I don’t remember — I was so excited and the adrenaline was pumping so fast, but really it was the pinnacle of a dream come true. Finally getting on the field was one of the coolest, if not the coolest, experience of my life.” 
Plantz’s commitment to notre dame goes far beyond his appearances on the football field, having made appearances for the Irish club rugby team and in interhall football as well as reaching the quarterfinals of bengal bouts in 2013. 
“I’ve always had the mentali­ty my whole life, of not just play­ing notre dame football, but an overall love of notre dame,” he said. “Just my whole life, I’ve had this undying love for the University, so being involved in things outside of football has opened up my experience here, and I’ve been able to meet some amazing people.” 
having spent most of his high school career playing linebacker, a position in which he registered 287 tackles in his final two years at Providence catholic high school in Illinois, Plantz needed some time to ad­just to playing running back. however, he said it has made him a better player in the long term. 
“It was a lot tougher at first, being on the opposite side of the ball,” he said. “I always loved playing linebacker, trying to make tackles, but it’s actually pretty exciting getting to run with the ball in your hand and play on the opposite side, scor­ing touchdowns. 
“There’s definitely a different feel for the game, but it really helped me to understand both sides of the ball, and it could become the next step, where if I want to become a coach, I have a feel for how to play defense, how to play offense and how to bring those skills together.” 
After three years as a walk-on, Plantz was awarded a scholar­ship for this season in August, as part of the last announce­ment of scholarship players, and he said this experience was another of his highlights at notre dame. 
“When the coach got up and announced my name for a scholarship, it was one of the coolest things in the whole world,” he said. “not only that the coaches were excited and that they recognized me, but most importantly, my team­mates did. I got a huge roar from the guys. They were all giving me hugs and high-fives.” 
Plantz said his time as a walk-on had allowed him to under­stand the experience of some of the younger walk-on players and that he hoped he could act as a leader to them. 

“These guys definitely don’t get the recognition of a lot of people — a lot of them aren’t traveling to the games on saturday, but they have that mentality every day that they’re going to work hard every single day, and seeing these guys prog­ress, not only in football, but in what they do after football, is one of the coolest things about being here,” Plantz said. 
Plantz said his future remains open, and although he is study­ing finance, he still hopes that he might be able to find a career related to football. 
“honestly, I love playing foot­ball, and I love being around football, so I can definitely see myself taking the coaching route,” Plantz said. “but also, as a finance major, I can see myself also taking financial consulting or something in that direction. honestly, the doors are still open.” 


Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

aNthONy RaBasa | dL | mIAmI 


rabasa grows into leadership role on defense 
these kids are ballers. They’re all week out, and we’re just having a one in a million, and the opportu­ballers. but for off-the-field stuff, great season so far.” nity to come here doesn’t happen like when they have to handle After his freshman season end-to everybody,” he said. “If you’re school and football and being away ed prematurely with a shoulder one of the lucky few chosen ones from home, some of the guys come injury, rabasa struggled to find to get a scholarship to come play up to me, and I talk to them. It feels a position in former Irish defen-football here, then you’re a fool good to be that helping hand.” sive coordinator bob diaco’s 3-4 if you let that opportunity go to 
on a defense with so many scheme. rabasa said he knew waste and go somewhere else. so young players, his presence both he had a clean slate when diaco it was definitely a no-brainer once on and off the field is valued. left this offseason for the head-notre dame came and offered rabasa said he lets the whole team coaching job at connecticut. me.” know anyone can talk to him any-new defensive coordinator brian Looking back, he said he does time, and they take advantage of vanGorder’s 4-3 scheme further not regret his decision to come to his generosity. rabasa said his out-improved his chances of enlarg-notre dame and that he feels “like going personality helps him main-ing his role. it’s prepared me more than any tain his off-the-field presence. rabasa said he has felt a differ-other university could have that 
“I can blend with any group, ence this year compared to the last gave me an opportunity.” and there’s not one type of group three. Whatever he does after his time that I hang out with the most,” “You definitely feel a change like here, rabasa said he will never rabasa said. “I know them all, and in the culture with what the coach forget the memories he has cre-I get along with all of them pretty expects of you and stuff like that,” ated, especially during the game well, so I would say I’m pretty good he said. “There’s been front-office at Florida state. off the field with that.” moves, and it feels good. definitely “Florida state, oh my goodness, 
so far this season, the defense feels good.” that was insane,” he said. “The at-has played better than many ex-In vanGorder’s 4-3 scheme, mosphere there — you could feel expect.” pected, and rabasa said he attri-rabasa can play his natural po-it. It was so live, and you felt ev-
By SEAN KILMER 

sports Writer now rabasa said his role has butes the unit’s performance to its sition of pass-rushing defensive erybody’s breath, and everybody shifted. commitment. end. chanting and all that stuff. That 
The life of a freshman football “It’s funny, now that I’m a senior, “We’re just a committed group “[Pass rushing] is what I do,” he was nuts.” player at notre dame is hectic. I can tell which [freshman] are and we want to win, and we know said. “It’s what they have me doing “[Attending notre dame] is a Luckily for senior defensive line-struggling, having a hard time and what it takes to win,” he said. “We here, and it’s what I’m supposed to once-in-a-lifetime experience,” he man Anthony rabasa, the older all that kind of stuff,” rabasa said. don’t have a lot of veterans, and do on the defense.” added. “everywhere you play is a players looked out for him when In appreciation of what older we’re a very young team. but we A former standout at national spotlight. I will never for-he was a freshman. players did for him, rabasa said he just have that drive, and our en-christopher columbus high get walking through that tunnel 
“[Former Irish linebackers] dan has become a mentor to some of tire team just has that motivation school in miami, rabasa had a and playing amazing games on Fox and carlo calabrese are two the younger players. to go chase it. We want to play. We lot of options for college. he chose that field in front of 80,000 people.” guys I’m still pretty close with,” “I’m just trying to help out the love to play fast, hard and aggres-notre dame, and for him, it wasn’t he said. “They showed me as a younger guys, especially off the sive, and that’s what we do every a tough decision. Contact Sean Kilmer at freshman what to do and what to field,” he said. “I mean, on the field, weekend. We can do it week in and “The education you get here is skilmer@nd.edu 





Riggs makes immediate impact in first year 
decided to stay in state and attend year elsewhere. I had been in [the 
By ISAAC LORTON 

Assistant managing editor Florida to play football under Florida] program for four years. I then-head coach Urban meyer thought about leaving and going
    Editor’s Note: A version of this and then-defensive coordinator into the [nFL] draft last year, but article originally appeared in the charlie strong. I said, ‘I’m gonna go somewhere Sept. 26 edition of The Observer. “[my uncle] never really pres-else and do my fifth year and get 
sured me into coming here,” a master’s somewhere else, and 
A fiery red-headed boy, dressed riggs said. “he just explained the finish my college career.’” in notre dame gear ran up to good things that come with go-riggs is studying business cody riggs outside the main ing to notre dame. he always let management at notre dame, building on Wednesday after-it be my decision. he was really with the aspirations of possibly noon and yelled, “high five!” happy the second time around. starting or working for a non-With his hand extended above his First time around, I’m sure he was profit organization, he said. head, he leapt to meet the hand of upset. “I wanted to either own a non-the chuckling graduate student “but like I’ve said before … profit one day, hopefully, if I’m cornerback. Florida was the perfect fit for me. playing that long,” riggs said. “or 
“It’s a lot of fun,” riggs said. Urban meyer knew my family I wouldn’t mind working for one, “so many young fans here at the from before; it was close to home, whether it be in a position of op-games, especially when you go and I had a really good relation-erations or programming.” through the [player] walk. [There ship with charlie strong. Those riggs said it was not easy for are] a lot of little kids and a lot of were the reasons I went there.” him to leave Florida, but he made really loyal fans here. They have brown said that he never the decision with his life after been a part of this community pushed riggs towards attend-football in mind. for a long time, and it’s a great fan ing notre dame and that he felt “I wouldn’t say I had regrets tradition.” Florida was best for his nephew leaving Florida, but I have always 
The graduate student himself at that time. he said that riggs felt bad about it,” riggs said. “Just was once that little kid, coming picked up on things around him the fact that I had to leave a situa­to notre dame to watch his un-and always came to his own in-tion where I was a starter and the cle, former Irish receiver bobby formed decisions. coaching staff was depending on brown, play in notre dame “Throughout the process I me to be a leader. of course I feel stadium against michigan state wanted to be sure to let him know bad about that, but I explained to in 1997. since then, riggs has [what] the positives were about them that this decision was best had no issue fitting into the Irish notre dame,” brown said. “but for me. some people may look at defense or the notre dame com-overall, I wanted to make sure it as a selfish decision, but it was munity, despite his four years at a I didn’t pressure him. I wanted something that was the best for he’s got experience playing in big said. “even though I’m studying different university. him to make his own decision.” my future. games, so he’s got a great feel and all of the time [for my master’s], 
“It means a lot to me to be a part “I think his decision [to attend “[my master’s degree] is very understanding for the game.” I still find time to study for foot-of [this community],”riggs said. notre dame] was for all of the important. It allows me to have When it was announced riggs ball, and I always have questions “I have kind of been a part of it right reasons,” brown said. “It something to do after football. I would be attending notre dame for the coaches. I try to be a step since my uncle came here. I used shows how mature he is. he un-always like staying busy, and it in February, Irish head coach ahead of everything. to come to games. I almost came derstood the opportunity to get a means a lot to have something to brian Kelly praised riggs’s foot-“I watch a lot of film throughout here but now I am finally official-master’s [degree] was something fall back on after I’m done playing ball knowledge and work ethic. the week. I try and see what they ly a part of the community, and it that he shouldn’t take lightly.” football.” “cody riggs is an outstand-do in certain situations especially feels great. At Florida, riggs earned his Although riggs will only be at ing player,” said Kelly in a Feb. 19 on third downs, because teams 
riggs’s story is not one of fi-degree in family, youth and com-notre dame for a single year, Irish press release. “he played a ton of have go-to plays. I try to study nally fulfilling a family dream, munity sciences. riggs had one secondary coach Kerry cooks football at Florida, having started those and anticipate those. I try following in his uncle’s footsteps, more year of eligibility after he said he was eager to have an ex-at both safety and cornerback. to take guessing out of it.” he  said, but rather a story of him missed most of the 2012 season perienced defensive back among cody definitely brings veteran brown said he and riggs often learning and doing what was best with a foot injury, and he said he the young Irish secondary. leadership and versatility to our have conversations about the for his future, while continuing wanted to continue his education “[riggs] was one of the best team and defense. “nemesis” relationship between to play football at a high level. with a master’s program for his free-agent pickups that I’ve been “he will help us immediately receivers and corners, which riggs originally visited notre remaining year. riggs said notre associated with,” cooks said at but, more importantly, cody is a riggs said helps his play. brown dame in 2010 on his first recruit-dame was the best fit for his final notre dame’s media day on Aug. great kid with a tremendous focus added that his nephew has a great ing trip, with his uncle at his side. season. 19. “You got a guy who has experi-on both football and academics.” intelligence and unyielding ap­many speculated he would end “It was an opportunity for me — ence playing in the sec, he’s got Kelly proved to be correct proach when it comes to football. up at notre dame, but eventually before I even knew I was coming experience playing corner, he’s in saying the Irish would need “I remember at 11-years-old, the Fort Lauderdale, Fla. native to notre dame — to do my fifth got experience playing safety, riggs’s knowledge and leadership he was well beyond his years in 
immediately, as junior corner-terms of his football Iq,” brown back Keivarae russell was with-said. “he continues [to be] a very held as part of an investigation smart football player. … he can into suspected academic dishon-go into any situation one-on­esty and graduate student safety one presnap, knowing what the and captain Austin collinsworth receiver is thinking and then in was injured for the team’s first the midst [of the] route know-three games. riggs has been a ing what a receiver is trying to do steady and solid presence in the against him. It’s a game of chess Irish secondary with these ab-out there.” sences. he has seven tackles and That mental ability has helped one interception through the key riggs’s play on the perimeter team’s first three games. riggs through the first quarter of the said the transition into the Irish season, helping him integrate defense was a relatively smooth seamlessly into the Irish second-one because it played a similar ary. Looking at his transition from style to Florida. the big-picture perspective, riggs 
“The defense is very similar to said it might have been inevitable where I came from,” riggs said. that he ended up in south bend. “corners are very aggressive “Looking at it now, I fit in pretty in this defense, which is some-well here,” riggs said. “especially thing I was used to at Florida and with the coaching staff, the play-which is why I fit so well into this ers and the environment here. scheme.” maybe I was meant to be here. 
however, riggs said he does maybe it was going to happen not get by on talent and tenacity; eventually.” he watches as much film as he can in order to prepare. Contact Isaac Lorton at 
“I put in a lot of work,” riggs ilorton@nd.edu 







Soto leaps from interhall to varsity football 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports Writer 
ernie soto is no stranger to being on big-name, nationally ranked football teams. 
he attended st. Thomas Aquinas high school in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. during his four years at st. Thomas Aquinas, his team went undefeated three times and won a state champi­onship and two conference and regional titles. during his senior year, the raiders were ranked no. 1 in the country. 
but when soto graduated from st. Thomas Aquinas in 2011 with a 4.8 GPA, it wasn’t notre dame’s legendary football program that made him want to attend the University. 
“I’ve always been a catholic boy,” soto said. “I’ve gone to st. Gregory for middle school and st. Thomas for high school, so it was kind of another step for me. It’s also far from south Florida, so it was a new place for me to go to.” 
during his freshman year in fall 2011, soto played interhall football for Keenan, a team he said also has a winning tradition when it comes to football. 
“being a part of that Keenan team was a lot of fun,” soto said. “I think Keenan is one of the best dorms to play football for. 
The year I was on the team they were contenders, and the year after that and the year after that they’ve been contenders for the championship, so it was really cool to be a part of that team. They also have pride to it, and that’s the sort of thing you want to be around, especially when it comes to stuff like sports.” 
It was during his freshman year when soto realized he want­ed something more. so he called his former high school coach, George smith, from st. Thomas Aquinas. 
“I talked to him and told him I want something more than just an academic part in notre dame, and he told me he would call someone, and that call opened the door to how I could show the notre dame coaches my film,” soto said. “so having a connec­tion like that really helped out a lot.” 
soto said he knew that being a walk-on wouldn’t be easy. 
“I heard stories of how guys had to wake up at five o’clock in the morning and come in when it’s super cold outside and run drills, and there were hundreds of guys doing it, and it was kind of a crapshoot who gets a spot, so I kind of got lucky,” he said. 
soto said his most memorable moment during his time on the football team was the 2012 game against stanford, which notre dame won in overtime. but he also said being on the notre dame campus during summer practices has been one of his fa­vorite memories. 
“When you’re with all your teammates here in the summer, it’s a cool experience,” soto said. “being here and just going about your day, working out and then hanging around with your team­mates during a nice summer day, it’s pretty memorable.” 
soto said he credits current Irish defensive coordinator brian van Gorder and former de­fensive coordinator bob diaco and the culture they created during their tenures as having the biggest impact on him dur­ing his time with the team. 
“being able to play football for them has been absolutely incredible,” soto said. “They go about their day being a man about every way you can possi­bly be, and it makes you want to try to achieve to be that profes­sional. They have that determi­nation that rubs off on you, and they try to shove it down your throat. 
“You can’t be a good football team without a good culture and a strong foundation, and that’s what they build every single day, even if it’s something like a simple meeting for special teams or something like that.” 
soto said they also helped push him to be a better form of himself. 
“It’s not just about being the best kid on the field; it’s about being the best kid in the class­room,” he said. “An interesting point they made to me was it’s not just even that, it’s being the best brother you could be, be­ing the best boyfriend you can be, anything you can possibly be you always have to be on your toes and you always want to do it better than you did the day before. because it ultimately comes down to either you’re go­ing to get better or you’re going to get worse, and if you go about your day doing that, and trust­ing the other 10 guys around you, you’ll be fine.” 

soto is enrolled in the college of engineering as a chemical en­gineering major. he is currently applying to medical school. 


Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

tONy sPRiNgMaNN | dL | ForT WAYne, Ind. 

springmann transitions from player to coach 
as a medical hardship player and year, he said he found himself dame in 2011 from bishop community by working with the 

By DANIEL O’BOYLE 

sports Writer has adapted to a new role helping able to accept it and move into dwenger high school in Fort Alliance for catholic education to coach the defensive line. his coaching position. Wayne, Indiana, which had al-(Ace) and teaching in under-
during the summer of 2014, The former defensive lineman “over the past summer, things ready produced players for the resourced schools before he will before a down of football had said he had previously hoped just started to turn south, and I Irish in previous seasons — tight consider his long-term plans. been played, Tony springmann that his recurring knee injuries, knew it was time,” springmann end Tyler eifert, who was a junior “I was admitted into the Ace found out that his days playing which had also ruled him out said. “It just gave me a different when springmann arrived, and teaching program, so I’ll be for notre dame were over. for the entire 2013 season, were challenge, that’s all.” receiver John Goodman, who teaching for two years, and then 
however, springmann was over. however, when he realized Although he said he had to was a senior. springmann said from that point, I’m still not sure, 
able to hold on to his scholarship he would not be able to play this spend some time adapting to he felt that knowing some play-but I have a couple of different coaching instead of playing, ers before he arrived helped him options,” he said. springmann said he now feels when he was starting out. currently, though, springmann confident in his new role. “The guys I knew at bishop said he is enjoying being able to 
“It was a little weird at first,” he dwenger ... really made a dif-continue his involvement with said. “At first, it was sort of awk-ference in my coming here,” the team even after discovering ward to get over at the beginning springmann said. “They were he would no longer play. In par-of the season, but now it’s fluid, definitely an influence, and they ticular, springmann said being there’s a rhythm to it, and there’s were close friends of mine.” able to continue to work with the an expectation every day you From there, after not seeing players and everyone involved have to live up to, but it’s a lot of any game action in his fresh-with the program has been a fun.” man year, springmann was able highlight of his year. 
springmann also said recent to play a part in all 13 games of “my favorite thing about notre experience with the team gives notre dame’s 2012 run to the bcs dame and about notre dame him a new perspective and that national championship Game. football is the people,” he said. he feels he can use this to help over the course of the 2012 sea-“The people really make this pro-some of the younger players. son, springmann recorded 11 gram what it is. 
“my goal this season is to get tackles, along with sacking for-“I was close to a lot of older our defensive line, where we mer michigan state quarterback guys here when I was a freshman have a lot of young guys, to be Andrew maxwell. and a sophomore. Guys like [for-the best that they possibly can be springmann said he looks mer Irish receiver] robby Toma, by being a mentor, a role model back fondly upon 2012 and en-[safety] Zeke motta and [defen­and just whatever I have to do,” joyed being able to play a part in sive lineman] Kapron-Lewis springmann said. such a successful season. moore,” springmann added. 
“It’s been rewarding because “It was a lot of fun,” he said. “now, I’ve really been enjoying I can’t physically be playing, so “Like any season, it has its ups working with [defensive line-seeing some of the other guys and downs, but the season on man] Andrew Trumbetti, one of learn and work on obstacles that the whole was a lot of fun, and the freshmen — that’s been a lot I used to on a daily basis has been the guys made it a lot better.” of fun.” really rewarding,” he added. “It’s springmann said that af­refreshing.” ter this season, he hopes to Contact Daniel O’Boyle at 
springmann arrived at notre give something back to the doboyle1@nd.edu 





‘Grandpa’ Utupo earns increased playing time 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports Writer 
For graduate senior defensive lineman Justin Utupo, coming back for a fifth year at notre dame had always been the plan. 
“I just always knew I was going to come back, “ Utupo said. “As soon as I didn’t play my freshman year, I knew I would have an extra year of eligibility, and I knew I would use it to come back and play because this is where I committed. I wasn’t going to go anywhere else.” 
his final season marks the cul­mination of an up-and-down career for Utupo. since arriv­ing at notre dame in 2010, the Lakewood, california, native hasn’t regularly been a part of notre dame’s defensive rotations. Although he has gotten consistent special teams playing time since his sophomore season in 2011, it was not until 2013 that Utupo reg­istered his first tackle. 
one of the big challenges of Utupo’s career has been being able to find a steady position on defense, he said. Utupo came out of high school as an accomplished defensive lineman but was  small­er than the typical notre dame de­fensive lineman. Utupo switched to the linebacker position during his sophomore and junior seasons. 
Though Utupo was open to the change, he said his preference has always been to play on the defen­sive line. 
“I like standing up and trying something new, but if you haven’t played linebacker in your high school years, it’s hard trying to pick it up at the next level, especially when it requires you to cover fast and good receivers,” Utupo said. “I liked it, but my natural position is always having my hand on the ground.” 
In addition to the challenges of working to earn playing time and having to switch positions, Utupo dealt with a suspension for violat­ing team rules at the beginning of the 2012 season. 
“It definitely hurt,” he said. “I lost the chance to be in the two-deep at the beginning of the year. I bounced back though, which is what you have to do when you take a step back.” 
After switching back to defen­sive line before the 2013 season, Utupo saw an increase in playing time that resulted in him register­ing the first seven tackles of his career. In particular, he was given more opportunities when fellow defensive linemen sheldon day, Louis nix and Ishaq Williams battled injuries late in the season. 
“Last year, I was kind of an as-needed guy,” he said. “When they went down, it’s the next man up. That’s what they preach here. There can’t be any drop-off be­tween the first guy and the next guy that comes in. You have to pro­duce at that same level.” 
Though Utupo has still not been the beneficiary of consistent op­portunities on the defensive line in the 2014 season, his playing time overall has increased, highlighted by  his first career start against navy on nov. 1. 
In a 49-39 win over the midshipmen, he recorded the first interception of his career. Among other highlights for Utupo this sea­son was his performance in notre dame’s 31-0 victory over michigan on sept. 6, which included his first career sack. 
outside of his own performance on the field, Utupo said he has rec­ognized the importance of being a leader, which results from being one of the few graduate students on the team. 
“I feel like the grandpa of the group,” he said. “I’ve experienced the last four years, and I know what everyone else is going through and what they’re going to go through. It’s just nice for me being there 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

with experience that I can help the younger guys and everything that they do, whether it’s on the field or off the field. I embrace being that grandpa figure.” 
Away from the football field, Utupo received his undergradu­ate degree in anthropology last may. he currently is taking three graduate classes and said he hopes to be accepted into and receive his master’s degree through the Alliance for catholic education. 
When asked what he would con­sider his favorite moment of his career in a notre dame uniform, Utupo thought back to the 2011 season when he got on the field for the first time against michigan. 
“I’ll never forget that,” he said. “It was at the big house; it was loud, and [overall] was such a big game.” 


Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 





JODI LO | The Observer MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish senior linebacker Ben Councell (30) and freshman safety Drue Tranquill (23) attempt to block a punt Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson hands the ball off to senior by Stanford fifth-year senior Ben Rhyne during Notre Dame’s 17-14 win Oct. 4. running back Cam McDaniel in a victory against Rice on Aug. 30. 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 







Pondering the ‘what-ifs’ of class of 2011 recruits 


Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
Irish head coach brian Kelly spoke Tuesday about the “fine line” that exists in college football, one that has his team either seven points away from a 9-1 record or 10 points away from a 5-5 record, depending on how you view the prover­bial glass. 
Kelly’s statement about how the fine line makes col­lege football such a high-stakes game also translates to recruiting classes, which can turn from a group brim­ming with potential and the hope of being the team’s next leaders to an unremarkable unit, with just a few injuries, defections or struggles on the recruiting cycle for the class finding a true home, but they field. of 2010. for the most part lived up to 

of course, Kelly also said The class of 2011 in many expectations. such scenarios can be mitigat-ways illustrates Kelly’s point Then there are the cur­ed by consistency in recruit-about the fine line that exists rent team contributors — ing across all classes. And for in big-time college football. everett Golson, Kyle brindza, the most part, the Irish have Granted, the class has had matthias Farley, ben Koyack done that — their recruiting plenty of successes. Three and matt hegarty come to classes during Kelly’s tenure of its members — stephon mind. This group also in-have been ranked nos. 18, 9, Tuitt, Troy niklas and George cludes two team captains 18, 5 and 11, respectively, ac-Atkinson III — are cur-in nick martin and cam cording to 247 sports. rently in the nFL, Tuitt with mcdaniel. And it must be 
but the high school class the steelers, niklas with the noted that one of the big-of 2011, made up of 13 team cardinals and Atkinson with gest influences in the class is members who will celebrate the raiders. Their college ca-a guy who wasn’t awarded a their senior day on saturday, reers didn’t necessarily go scholarship upon high school doesn’t bear much resem-according to plan — niklas graduation — Joe schmidt, blance to the ninth-ranked, transitioned from outside who was a preferred walk-on, 23-member class that was linebacker to tight end be-if you haven’t already heard. widely seen as a good haul fore his sophomore year and While many in this group 
— Kelly’s first full-scale re-Atkinson bounced around have been beset by injury, cruiting class since he was from running back to receiver turnovers or struggles re­hired near the tail end of the to kick returner, never really cently, they still form the 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

backbone of the class, play­ers who stayed the course and will most likely leave notre dame with a degree in hand and a wealth of football mem­ories and experiences. 
And these experiences have been important to the Irish because so many others in the class did not fully get to com­plete the path that these play­ers have. 
Aaron Lynch, the highest-rated notre dame commit­ment in the class of 2011 per 247 sports, left for south Florida after his freshman year and now plays for the 49ers. 
davaris daniels, Ishaq Williams and eilar hardy were held out following an investigation into “suspected academic dishonesty” ear­lier this year — hardy has returned to the team, but the other two players will not play this season and the future of their notre dame careers is still up in the air. 
The injury bug heavily bit some players from the class — injuries forced brad carrico to retire even before stepping on the field and caused Tony springmann to hang up his cleats after his sophomore season. 
Likewise, injuries have been a constantly recurring theme in the college careers of players like Jarrett Grace, ben counsell and chase hounshell. 
And for varying reasons, some due to depth, others due to scheme, some players just haven’t found their particu­lar niche within the class and have struggled to see the field 
— Josh Atkinson, Jalen brown and Anthony rabasa come to mind. 
In short, notre dame’s high school class of 2011 is prob­ably what fans of a major col­lege football program should expect to see — I’m sure the senior classes at Alabama or ohio state have also been hit hard by players leav­ing early, injuries and some underperformance. 
but it also is interesting to play the “what-if” game and wonder what the stakes could have been saturday had guys like Lynch and Tuitt stayed all four years or daniels and Williams played this season or springmann and Grace re­mained healthy. 
Those few factors might have been enough to put notre dame on the right side of that fine line, the one between le­gitimate championship con­tender and playoff also-ran. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





