The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 40 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student club seeks end to sexual violence 
Men Against Violence launches its annual Pledge Drive, encourages men to actively denounce sexual assault 
associate news editor 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
notre dame’s men against violence (mav) launches its annual pledge drive today between 5:30 p.m. and 7:30 
p.m. in notre dame’s dining halls. 
The pledge drive will col­lect the signatures of men willing to take an active stance against sexual assault and raises general awareness about violence of this nature on campus. The signatures will be published in a later is­sue of The observer. 
according to mav’s web­site, the public must stop pi­geonholing rape and sexual assault because every woman out there is a sister, daughter or mother to another per­son and therefore violence against women victimizes not only a gender, but also the wider community. 
“i see the pledge drive as a way to bring together the en­tire student body in a really simple way,” mav president Thomas deranek said. “it re­minds each student that sex­ual violence is an important issue that they are willing to stand against.” 
deranek said the drive is vital to mav’s ultimate goal: to witness an end to 
see mav PAGE 5 





smc students, faculty reflect on Ferguson 
and facilitated by associate police act like military?” “They are not soldiers,” she 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer professor of religious stud-Ferguson began to pique said. ies stacy davis as part of the to public’s interest when the davis discussed the signifi­
saint mary’s students Justice Fridays series held police “left the uncovered cance of the Ferguson and st. and the college’s Justice in the saint mary’s student body” of michael brown in louis county police represen­department gathered oct. center. the streets and began to “cov-tations in the media. 


davis said responses re­garding Ferguson can be divided into four sources: residents of the cities of Ferguson and st. louis, the police shift between Ferguson and st. louis county, the department of Justice and so­cial justice groups. 
davis said the circumstanc­er their nametags with black tape” to conceal their identi­ties, davis said. 
she said the public was surprised and appalled by “nonviolent protesters getting gassed in this country.” 
davis said the pentagon should reconsider the conse­quences before it distributes 

“The police response to the shootings, in many ways, has been bigger than the shoot­ings itself,” she said. 
davis said the issues high­lighted during the protests should not wane the same way passing trends do. 
“we want to keep this in the forefront,” davis said. “we 

educator 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
music educator José antonio abreu received the final notre dame prize for 
17, to reflect on the events 
in Ferguson, missouri. The es in Ferguson raise the ques-extra military equipment to discussion was introduced tion: “what does it mean when police officers. see Ferguson PAGE 4 

students seek to shrink partisan divide 
long said the traditional it’s just that they need con-generate our own proposals 

By JACK ROONEY 
distinguished public service in latin america. abreu was awarded the prize on sept. 22 at a private on-campus ceremony. 
The award spotlights those who have made a large impact in the lives of citizens of latin 
campus party model leaves nection, both between college for a debate and actually have 
seniors sean long and alex caton sat on long’s dorm room couch in st. edward’s hall last year and dreamt of a student club that would shrink the partisan gap on campus and give politically active students a place to discuss politics in a constructive way. Their vi­sion was realized this year with the creation of bridgend, for which long serves as the president and caton as vice president. 
little room for both sides to connect productively with one another, a problem bridgend seeks to rectify. 
“we noticed a gap on cam­pus in the way people talk about politics,” long said. “we found that, traditionally on college campuses, what you have is the college democrat-college republican model. 
“we found a gap in that there’s no real connection be­tween the two. it’s not that they need more competition; democrats and college republicans and democrats and republicans. 
“what bridgend sees is, to tackle that gap, we offer a place to talk about politics in new ways. and by new, we mean ways that are both 
constructive — in that we bring students from the left, right and anywhere in be­tween to talk about politics constructively — and we talk about politics in a way that is actionable — in that we try to students see themselves as change agents.” 

long said the club’s goals are threefold: to foster construc­tive and actionable debate, to promote a sense of camarade­rie between members, regard­less of political ideology and to connect politically interested students to their ideas. 
“The goal for bridgend is for students to see themselves as change agents in politics,” he 
see bridgend PAGE 4 

Kellogg honors music 


america, paolo g. carozza, director of the helen Kellogg institute for international studies, said. 
“since 2000, in partnership 
see award PAGE 5 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 hocKey PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is the most embarrassing name you would name your kid? 

Carlos Concha 
fifth-year carroll hall 
“paige.” 

Dimitri Wolff 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“obamaniqua.” 

Matthew Freda 
junior 
alumni hall 
“olga or gertrude.” 


Megan Ball 
junior walsh hall 
“obadiah.” 


Phil Dudeck 
fifth-year 
sorin college 

“elmo or barney.” 

Stephen Cray 
junior off-campus 
“voltron.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
rebecca o’neil mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

margret hynds Kit loughran emilie Kefalas marek mazurek 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
susan Zhu maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Democratic Poland” Men’s Soccer Thriller Night Women’s Volleyball Men’s Basketball 
emmet Farnan Tabitha rickets 
Mendoza College of Alumni Stadium Rockne Memorial Joyce Center Joyce Center Business 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. 
5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. ND vs. Michigan State. Free and open to Notre ND vs. Georgia Tech. ND vs. Minnesota-
Corrections 

Lecture featuring Dame students. Duluth The observer regards itself as Hanna Suchocka. a professional publication and 
“Defamation” Theology on Tap Interdenominational Men’s Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass 
strives for the highest standards 
Snite Museum of Art Legends of Notre Fellowship Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
7:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m. Dame Coleman-Morse Arena Heart 
however, recognize that we will make 
Courtroom drama by 8:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Center 8:05 p.m. - 10:05 p.m. 5:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Todd Logan. “Homosexuality - From 10:00 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. ND vs. Vermont. Includes music by the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Tolerance to Love.” Meetings are held Women’s Liturgical 
we can correct our error. 

weekly in Room 329. Choir. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | The observer 

APA recognizes professor for contributions, research 
By CAROLYN  HUTYRA 
news writer 
The american psychological association (apa) recently selected psychology profes­sor Kristin valentino to re­ceive the 2014 early career award for outstanding contri­butions to research in child maltreatment. 
“when i was an under­graduate, i knew i wanted to pursue clinical psychology,” 

valentino said. “but it wasn’t until i took a course in devel­opmental psychopathology, where i had the opportunity to work one-on-one with a child in a psychiatric residential fa­cility who had a severe history of child abuse, that i became really interested in the topic.” 
valentino said the class in­spired her to develop a similar course on campus, practicum in child maltreatment, which involves pairing local children in foster care with undergrad­uates to serve as their mentors. 
“after developing a rela­tionship with a child who had been the victim of severe child maltreatment, i started learn­ing more about the prevalence of child maltreatment in our country, and was shocked to realize how many children are affected by child abuse and neglect, and how little atten­tion this issue generally re­ceived,” she said. 

compared to other chal­lenges to child development such as autism and adhd, valentino said far less atten­tion and resources are devoted to addressing child abuse and neglect, despite the stagger­ing rates at which they affect children. 
“i feel passionate about bringing greater awareness to this issue, and beyond that, to using psychological research to inform policy and treat­ment efforts geared towards improving outcomes among children who have been af­fected by or are at risk for child maltreatment,” she said. 
valentino is currently work­ing on a randomized clinical trial (rcT) called “Fostering healthy development among maltreated preschool-aged children” through funding from the national institute of child health and human development (nichd). 
“we are one and a half years into a five year project and ultimately will be enrolling 240 families into the project overall,” she said. “each fam­ily participates in the study for one year.” 
valentino said the proj­ect involves an intervention aimed at teaching maltreating mothers the necessary skills to enhance emotionally support­ive communication with their children. 
“i’m mainly interested in understanding if this brief in­tervention can improve mal­treated children’s functioning in cognitive, emotional and physiological domains, if we can improve parenting and if we may identify the mecha­nisms that support positive intervention outcomes,” she said. 
valentino said she will con­tinue to conduct the longitudi­nal rcT design in order to fully evaluate whether her interven­tion — aimed at improving certain processes deficient among maltreating families — is effective and able to expand nationally. 
“we think that teaching mothers to sensitively discuss children’s feelings and to talk more frequently with their 
children  will  enhance  the  
mother-child  relationship,”  
she said.  

Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


exhibit on polish history opens in laFortune 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
a traveling exhibit detail­ing the history of poland from the beginning of world war ii to the end of the cold war and the country’s role in international affairs dur­ing the 20th century opened monday in the dooley room of laFortune student center with a public reception. 
The display, “From war to victory: 1939-1989,” show­cases noteworthy events in polish history, such as the 1939 german invasion that kicked off world war ii, polish resistance during the war and years later during soviet occupation, the emer­gence of the solidarity trade union in 1980 and the first democratic elections since the beginning of the cold war. The exhibit tells its story through photos, quota­tions from polish and other world leaders as well as ex­planations of events in both english and polish. 
The exhibit was created by the institute for national remembrance, a warsaw­based organization which preserves polish documents and provides education about 20th-century polish history. The polish club of notre dame, which has pre­viously sponsored institute of national remembrance displays, brought the exhibit to notre dame, senior polish club co-president Julia banasikowski said. 
banasikowski said the ex­hibit emphasizes the polish struggle for freedom and connects its history to its current status in the inter­national community. 
“This exhibit depicts cru­cial events in poland’s his­tory, and it shows what brought it to be such an in­fluential part of europe to­day,” she said. “For example, its former prime minister donald Tusk was just cho­sen to be president of the european council starting in december. obviously, they are going to have a big lead­ership position, and they’re a key u.s. ally in talks about ukrainian-russian tension. 
“They’re a very important part, not only for europe, but also for the united states. so this will be an interesting exhibit not only for people of polish descent, but histori­
“It shows Americans and people of different ethnicities the role Poland played in World War II and the post-war era during the Cold War.” 
Arthur Laciak 
co-president 
Polish Club 
ans, political science majors, anybody who is interested in europe.” 
senior arthur laciak, the other co-president of polish club, said the exhibit was a way to teach polish his­tory to those who may know nothing about it. 
“it shows americans and people of different ethnici­ties the role poland played in world war ii and the post-war era during the cold war,” laciak said. “i know a lot about polish history and polish politics because i grew up in a polish fam­ily. i’ve shared stories with friends and other people, but a lot of this history is not known outside polish fami­lies, so it’s great to spread the word and tell other people.” 
banasikowski said the ex­hibit helps the club educate the community about polish history and culture. 
“The polish community is not all about just polish sausage and polish beer and polka dancing,” she said. “it’s also about history and culture, and a lot of peo­ple overlook that. There’s a misconception of that. That’s something that we really want, is to teach peo­ple about the importance of polish history.” 
The exhibit is open to the public and will be on display through wednesday. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ndso plans halloween concert 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
since its inception, the notre dame symphony orchestra (ndso) has attracted students and faculty alike to perform. 
devoted to music from the 18th to 20th centuries, the orchestra is an opportunity for any interested member of the university commu­nity to participate — regardless of major or occupation. 
senior michael prough, a bio­chemistry major who plays the french horn, said ndso is an ac­cessible forum to display musical talents. 
“i joined the orchestra my fresh­man year because i had always wanted to play in an orchestra but didn’t have the opportunity in high school,” he said. 
sophmore political science ma­jor and clarinetist John mccready also said ndso provided opportu­nities his high school hadn’t. 
“my high school didn’t have a lot of music programs, so i sort of looked to the youth orchestra programs in my area, and i really enjoyed that, so i really wanted to continue with that in college,” mccready. 
prough said the group not only provides a community for its mem­bers, but also provides them with fantastic experiences. 
“being a part of the ndso has been quite rewarding for me, and i’m looking forward to my last few performances with the group throughout this year,” prough said. 
This Friday at 8 p.m., ndso will take the stage at the debartolo performing arts center (dpac) to perform the first of three shows this school year. The halloween performance will feature works by stravinsky and beethoven. 
“it’s a really cool, spooky-themed show,” mccready said. “... we’re doing the last movement of a five-movement piece about a witch. we’ve been preparing for this all year, thus far.” 
The group performs three con­certs a year in dpac and takes bi­ennial tours off-campus. 
“This year, the plan is in January to start in houston, Texas and work our way back up to campus ... going to st. louis and some other cities,” mccready said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
Ferguson 
conTinued From page 1 
don’t want people to forget. last month, colleges across the country have had panels and peaceful protests. [saint mary’s] did the same. on our first day of classes, aug. 
BridgeND 
conTinued From page 1 
said. “For example, our prima­ry meeting structure revolves around bridge negotiations. we take one issue area and extend it to about a six-week period and over a period [of] three to four meetings, we actually dive into the issue.” 
long said the club currently is addressing the issue of stu­dent debt in the context of sen. elizabeth warren’s, d-mass., student loan refinancing bill that fell two votes short of be­ing able to survive a republican filibuster. 
long said members, also known as “bridgers,” set out to define the issue and hear from an expert either on-campus or via video call during the first meeting. members then divide into three “beams” 
— democratic, republican and mediator — and discuss the issue from these points of view. Finally, members of raise awareness about police brutality. 
“what happened there af­fects all of us no matter where our political interests stand,” davis said. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 
25th, there was a nationally renown #handsupwalkout campaign to raise aware­ness of police brutality and cruelty.” 
davis said supporters of the peaceful protest gathered in Ferguson and st. louis be­tween october 9 and 13 to 
each beam develop a concrete proposal to the issue at hand and in the next meeting, pres­ent the proposal to the larger group before holding a vote to decide which of the proposals will receive the club’s “bridge endorsement.” 
long said this process might not always lead to a consen­sus, but the respectful dia­logue it creates ultimately will help people from anywhere on the political spectrum better understand important issues and how to talk about them practically. 
“it’s almost taking partisan­ship and seeing how we can still transcend that,” he said. “it’s ambitious. we talked to our members [at our last meeting] about how you define success, and we realize that we might not come to an agreement, but that doesn’t mean that we failed. The most important part is that we got people talk­ing — both inside the meeting and outside the meeting.” 
long said the club also spon­sors events, such as an oct. 2 lecture presented by philip K. howard, which bridgend co­sponsored with the potenziani program in constitutional studies. additionally, long said the club will promote any event held by other campus clubs so long as they can develop ques­tions about the event that in­spire constructive, actionable dialogue. 
long said the club plans to hold an election-night event in november to “unite people so­cially in a way that doesn’t nor­mally unite politically-inclined people.” The next night, he said bridgend hopes to host a pro­fessional politician to analyze the election results from his or her point of view. 
bridgend meets Thursday nights at 8:00 p.m. any students interested in joining should email moderate@nd.edu. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | The observer 




Award 
conTinued From page 1 
with the coca-cola Foundation, we have pre­sented this distinctive award to a dozen distinguished latin american leaders in recognition of their efforts to enhance the region’s pub­lic welfare,” carozza said. “The notre dame prize cel­ebrates the significant role visionary public figures play in strengthening democracy and improving the well-be­ing of citizens across latin america and the caribbean.” 
The criteria for the award include visionary leadership, distinction in public service and advancement of the well­being of the citizens of latin america, carmen-helena Téllez, professor of conduct­ing, said. 
“abreu was chosen because he has matched these criteria in an unexpected field, that of classical music. he cre­ated a network of youth or­chestras in venezuela, now colloquially known in the 
u.s. as el sistema,” Téllez said. “Through this network, abreu offers young people under trying circumstances of poverty and crime an av­enue for survival and self-determination through the discipline and camaraderie of orchestral practice.” 
el sistema has had a huge social as well as artistic im­pact in latin america, Téllez said. 
“many people today say that abreu not only saved young people from a life of criminality, but also saved classical music from be­ing considered irrelevant by certain pockets of society,” Téllez said. “many think clas­sical music is elitist, but they forget that the greatest classi­cal composers have been hu­manitarians or defenders of human dignity, and art is one of the tools of expression of the spirit. abreu instills these values through his work.” 
The goals of abreu’s work and that of the Kellog institute are the same, Téllez said. 
“as a latin american artist and economist, abreu rep­resents a geographical area of research for the Kellogg institute,” Téllez said. “The Kellogg has become very important for its study of democracy and social ad­vancement in the region. abreu’s work addresses these areas with unexpected tools and extraordinary results, and it is very fitting that the Kellogg institute has recog­nized his work.” 
The award is the last of its kind, carozza said. 
“it is the last award because the entire initiative was funded by a large, multi-year grant from the coca-cola Foundation, and that fund­ing has now been exhausted and not renewed,” carozza said. “note, however, that a few years ago we started giving a different recogni­tion, the notre dame award for international human development and solidarity, and that is now going strong.” 
abreu’s work provides an example to students of how thinking outside the box can provide new and exciting ways to help others, Téllez said. 
“i think that undergrads can learn that doing good and transforming lives and com­munities, even in extraordi­nary ways, can come through anything and everything that they are called to do in life, so long as it is done with passion and love for others,” carozza said. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


MAV 
conTinued From page 1 
sexual assault and domestic violence. 
“i want us to be widely seen as a group that is unafraid to start and to participate in the conversation of why sexual vio­lence is still a problem at notre dame and what we can do [to] solve this problem,” deranek said. 
according to mav’s website, 
“MAV was founded a number of years ago in the hope of freeing our campus of all sexual violence, and that is still the goal we are striving for today.” 
Derek Kuns 
treasurer 
MAV 
the club’s creation was rooted in the belief that men should act as positive role models for other men and take responsi­bility to help end sexual vio­lence against women. 
“we believe that, as men, we should take pride in our mascu­linity and responsibility for our actions,” mav Treasurer derek Kuns said. “mav was founded a number of years ago in the hope of freeing our campus of all sex­ual violence, and that is still the goal we are striving for today.” 
derenek said the pledge drive promotes awareness of and op­position to all sexual violence against women and is available for all men to sign. 
“i remember that the only takeaway most of my friends got from Frosh-o in regards to sexual violence was that every male is a potential rapist,” Kuns said. “we shouldn’t think this way; rather, we should think that as men we can do a lot to prevent sexual violence just by taking pride in our actions and policing ourselves and our friends.” 
Kuns said men must take a position of responsibility be­cause they are too often the perpetrators of sexually violent crimes. 
The pledge states that “real men care.” 
“we appreciate that every­one is busy, but in less than a minute, the pledge can remind notre dame’s sons what it re­ally means to be a man,” Kuns said. 
aside from giving names to men’s faces that stand against sexual violence, deranek be­lieves the pledge drive comes with even more benefits. 
“most importantly, the pledge drive reminds every­one that it is something that all of us students stand against together, providing us with a sense of unity for a great cause,” derenek said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

A great day to be ND 

Zach Klonsinski 
Sports Writer 

After wandering trance-like around the Florida State University campus for three hours after the game, I had every reason to feel disappointed or ticked off, pull out my hair in frustra­tion or a combination thereof. Every right. 
Yet I didn’t. Instead, as I sat by one of the fountains on campus, I couldn’t help but have a slight smile on my face. True, the outcome was not what I had travelled over 1,400 miles to wit­ness, but I couldn’t help but see the big picture. Two things stuck out to me. First, I was fortunate enough to witness such a good college football game. 
And second, I could not have been more proud of Notre Dame. We beat Florida State in everything that day: fans, band, pride and, arguably, football. 
Talking with friends who watched the game on TV, everyone said there didn’t seem to be many Notre Dame fans there. What they don’t realize is FSU scattered us all over. Perhaps this was meant to weaken the unity of our cheering. If so, it failed. From the mo­ment the team in white came out of the tunnel, chants of “Let’s go Irish!” were taken up all across the southeast corner of the stadium. There were times Florida State fans around me looked confused and helpless, the FSU band unable to overpower us enough to get that weird chop thing going in a vain attempt to drown us out. 
Our band, on the other hand? 
Let me put it this way: after only the first Notre Dame touchdown, one female Seminole fan, visibly upset, complained, “Do they ever stop?!” 
No. No they don’t, Ms. Seminole. 
After the game, grizzled Seminole fans shook my hand and said even against Florida or Miami they had never seen anything like our fans in spirit, volume or number. 
I have come to realize that we put a scare in Florida State hearts Saturday; we made an impression they never ex­pected coming in. We came into their house and hit them in the mouth, refusing to be overpowered in the stands, through the sound waves and, most definitively, on the gridiron. So, as the FSU faithful filed out of the stadium relieved — some to their cars, others to bars and frat parties — I couldn’t help but smile with pride at what Notre Dame, collectively, had done. 
Well that, and the thought of how great it’s going to feel when we smash them in the playoffs. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Regret: the story of Bob 

Erin Thomassen 
The Examined Life 
This is the story of Bob. 
Bob was a good engineering student at the University of Notre Dame. He went to most of his lecture classes, except for 8:20 physics. He did not have the energy to discuss potential energy at 8:20. 
He felt slightly guilty about cutting class, but real­ized it made for great conversation starters with fellow engineers. 
“You make it to the 8:20 today?” 
“No. Did you?” 
“Nope.” 
Friendships were made. 
Bob liked the idea that he could get good, at least good enough, grades without going to class. He also liked that other people thought he was naturally smart enough to ace tests without going to lectures. 
Bob liked that he wasn’t considered a nerd anymore. He also liked sleeping until 10. It meant he could stay up until two in the morning playing videogames with his quadmates and still get eight hours of sleep. Yay college. 
Sarcasm aside, Bob loved college. He understood why adults called it the best four years of their lives. 
Bob didn’t mind the lectures to which he did go. When he sauntered into class at 10:33, he felt cool. He dropped his bag with a thud. He didn’t care about being late. 
What he did care about was the latest activity on YikYak, so he pulled out his phone and scrolled through the newest posts for the next 10 minutes. Jokes about SMC chicks and Feve were worthy of his care, more worthy than the principles of statics the professor was going on about. He knew what statics were: the art of staying still. He had mastered this art during numerous Netflix binge watches. 
Bob was satisfied with life. He was satisfied with him­self. He had gotten the hang of college. 
He had learned how to get through college without learning anything. He would purchase a piece of paper with his name and degree on it for $200,000. Would you like some knowledge with that? No, thank you. 
Bob landed a job in fall of his senior year; as soon as he met his interviewer, he was golden — as golden as the dome. He shook the employer’s hand firmly, letting him get a glimpse of his emerald class ring. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

His navy blue portfolio and Brooks Brothers cufflinks said it all: he had his stuff together. He brought up the Blackhawks game at the end of the interview — how about that miracle shot in double overtime? He was in. 
On his first day on the job, Bob got a tour of the office and a tutorial on the coffee maker (as if he didn’t know how to work a simple machine). His boss had invented the coffee maker, so Bob listened intently (at least pre­tended to listen intently — that high school drama re­quirement was finally good for something) as his boss described the newest improvements: recyclable filters and LED-lit buttons. 
His boss hit brew. The coffee brewed. The boss liked being obeyed. 
The coffee maker served up a hazelnut concoction with the appropriate squirting sounds. Did Bob know they had copyrighted the coffee maker squirting sound? 
Finally, it was time for Bob to begin work. His boss handed him the hazelnut concoction and a folder con­taining his first project. 
Looking over the briefs, Bob wished he had paid more attention during the coffee-maker tutorial. Too bad he had forgotten how to pay attention. 
He realized he didn’t know how a simple machine worked. He didn’t know how anything worked. 
He wanted to re-watch his boss explaining the coffee machine but couldn’t find the rewind button when he was living in 3-D. He couldn’t find the tutorial notes or recording online anywhere. 
He did what he always did in college when he didn’t know what to do: he pulled out his phone and scrolled through Facebook. Maybe one of his buddies had poured an ice bucket on his head recently. 
He felt a cold chill above his head just thinking about dowsing himself in freezing water. Then he realized the chill was the cold breath of his supervisor, reading his newsfeed from behind his shoulder. 
“How’s the first day on the job, Bob?” 
It was Bob’s last day on the job. 
Bob wished he had paid attention in class in college and made the most of the education he’d paid for, but he couldn’t hit rewind or redo. Instead, he hit ‘regret.’ 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her san­ity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Whoever wins in November 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

The 2014 midterm elections are a week away. although the outcome is uncertain, one thing is certain. whoever wins in november, not much will change. 
congress is known for party bickering and gridlock while working people struggle through a recession that has long since ended for the elite. it’s easy to understand why most people would see a broken system. The political system isn’t broken at all, however. in fact, it is func­tioning perfectly. people tend to act in their own interests, and congress is no different. The aver­age member of congress has a wealth of capital investments, and so naturally has different eco­nomic interests from the large majority of soci­ety that labors for a wage. 
Keeping a mind on these different interests, the political structure begins to make sense. The electoral structure does not favor popu­lar will. in the 2012 elections for the house of representatives, democrats received 1.4 million more votes than republicans, yet republicans received 33 more congressional seats. voting districts cobbled together by politicians acting in their own interests disenfranchised whole societies. 
both parties cheat the voters through gerry­mandering; the republicans have just been more effective lately. party leaders play their own game to determine the outcome of elections. sometimes the winner of their game coincides with the winner of the popular vote; sometimes it doesn’t. it’s not that the popular vote is totally irrelevant; it’s just one factor among many that determines a result that will be hailed as the people’s will. 
when you read your ballot, you will have the illusion of choice. republican vs. democrat. This dichotomy, and the rage with which pun­dits and politicians fight over it, makes you think you are seeing a wide field of political op­tions. but whichever you elect, neo-liberal free trade agreements will be signed and financial policy will be focused on the good of the stock market over the good of working people. bombs will fall on south asia; palestine will starve, and coups will be instigated against latin american democracies that challenge u.s. business interests. 
one might respond that major similarities ex­ist because most americans support those poli­cies. The problem is that political opinions are formed under institutional control. people base their views on their understanding of the world, which they receive from news and media out­lets. when most of these outlets are controlled by just a few corporations, the information we receive about the world is regulated by a small class of people with very real political and eco­nomic interests. 
in spite of this, our history is filled with radi­cal movements. The industrial workers of the world, the old socialist party of america, the black panthers — all were suppressed. over time, the mechanisms of control became more sophisticated. The First red scare saw mass ar­rests and political trials, but by the 1960s and 70s, the Fbi could infiltrate and subvert organi­zations with false flag operations and just a few political assassinations. 
in part, this system functions so well because there is no mastermind. no one is sitting in a room pulling the strings. political suppressions are obviously intentional, but our current power structures are largely the result of a capital-owning class just acting in its own interests day-to-day. it doesn’t take leaders of state and industry plotting to undermine democracy. The system just adds up through the functions of its constituent parts. 

The complexities of a constitutional conven­tion and the fact that it would have to be called by the very elite which profits from the present system offers little hope to redrawing the rules through internal reform. direct action is neces­sary. a mass movement with a cohesive program can fundamentally transform the political and economic structures of society. given the role of the economic elite in controlling the state, it is only through democratizing the economy that regular working people can seize more control of their society at large. 
so, if you want to vote, go vote. From election to election, there are some differences between candidates that you may find valuable enough to support one over another. do the bizarre cal­culus of human suffering and decide who may cause the least. but when history looks back on the exploitation of working people or the abuse of the poor or the crimes of american imperial­ism, crying that you chose the lesser of two evils will not be an absolution, but an indictment. if you participate in the system without also pro­testing it, you are responsible for its ills. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Taking the urban plunge 

my urban plunge experience at the Father mcKenna center in washington d.c., was one i never expected and certainly one that i will never forget. 
having grown up in the suburbs of d.c. all of my life, i was unaware of the extent of urban poverty that existed just miles away. i knew there were poor individuals living in certain parts of the city, but i had never known what those conditions entailed or all of the obstacles those individuals had to overcome on a daily basis re­garding things that many people take for grant­ed. urban plunge broadened my perspective of a place i thought i knew well; it exposed me to the vicious cycle of urban poverty that dominates the lives of too many. 
during my immersion at the men’s homeless shelter, i spent my time preparing and serv­ing meals to the men, doing handiwork around the shelter and attending meetings to learn more about the social, economic and political challenges that perpetuate poverty. i learned much in such a short amount of time and was truly immersed in the setting as we slept on church pews, served food and gathered for warmth during the polar vortex. on the last day of the plunge, my group and i really made an ef­fort to talk with the men at the shelter and hear more about their stories; this was the highlight of my experience. 
one man explained how he accepted a life in poverty so that he could afford for his daughter to attend a private university and receive a top­notch education. he beamed as he spoke of his two-year-old grandson whom he had not seen since he was an infant in hopes of preventing the child from being exposed to his unpleasant lifestyle. many men also spoke of the prevalent mental health issues and numerous other chal­lenges that make it seem impossible to get off of the streets and into a stable home. i remem­ber hearing one story about a mother who had earned enough qualifications to receive a well-paying job outside of the city but could not afford to send her kids to daycare while she worked, ultimately forcing her to resort to a much lower-paying, unsteady job. 

Too many people assume that homeless indi­viduals are lazy and unwilling to put in the ef­fort to make a change, but that is not the case. sometimes there are circumstances out of their control that force them to be stuck in poverty. Through urban plunge, i was able to become much more aware of these sorts of challenges, and my broadened viewpoint helps me to see the world in a new light. i encourage my peers to take advantage of this opportunity and learn more about the lives of others. 
Kristen Loehle 
sophomore cavanaugh hall oct. 27 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

let's get one thing clear: Taylor swift has always been a pop star. sure, swift was first introduced to america as a curly-haired nashville teenager who sang about Tim mcgraw and slamming screen doors, but even early hits like "Teardrops on my guitar" were pop songs at heart. by the time Kanye west in­terrupted her acceptance speech at the 2009 vmas, she had secured her place as one of america’s biggest pop stars. 
"1989," swift's fifth album, has been touted as her "first documented, official pop album." it’s a promo­tional claim that feels somewhat disingenuous given her track record as one of the most consistently excel­lent pop songwriters of the past decade. 
her last album, 2012's "red," was essentially a pop album — a great, if inconsistent, collection of songs 
— even if it was not documented and official. on the album, swift tried her hand at a number of different genres, as if proposing multiple paths forward as an artist. There were vaguely-folk ballads with hints of Joni mitchell. There were springsteen-esque stadium anthems with soaring guitars. and of course there were top-40 smashes like "we are never ever getting back Together" and "i Knew you were Trouble." 
on "1989," swift doubles down on the last of those paths: the big, broad max martin-produced pop song. martin, the scandinavian hitmaker behind 18 number-one hits over the past 15 years, produced the 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

i initially had no inclination to see “st. vincent;" the “mean old man and young boy becoming besties” plot seemed contrived. however, while at home on break during my third consecutive hour in front of the Tv, i watched bill murray on “The ellen show.” promoting the film clad in a velvet maroon fedora, murray went on about first-time director, Theodore melfi. it seems odd that murray, a big time, somewhat reclusive actor, would agree to star in a movie with a first-time director, but he said after reading the script he knew it would work and took the part of st. vincent. Thank god. 
murray’s performance is phenomenal. The film opens with murray’s character, vincent, stealing an apple from a fruit stand as he passes by. The petty crime is worsened by the fact that he touched every type to find the best. 
vincent, a broke old man with a gambling and drinking problem who spends his time with “the lady of the night” is similar to the other lovelorn, exhausted characters he’s played in films like “rushmore,” “lost in Translation” and “life aquatic with steve Zizzou.” perhaps oliver, vincent’s twelve year-old neighbor and source of income via his babysitting services, summed the character up SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 
album along with swift. it’s a natural progression for the 24-year-old singer and also the least interesting route she could have taken. 
on past albums, swift's best songs grounded uni­versal emotions in the specificities of her own ex­periences. it's hard not to think martin's influence smoothed off some of the rough edges and idiosyn­crasies that made her songwriting so compelling. The songs off "1989" seem designed to take over the world, and i guess that's kind of the point. it's a decent pop album, but not a very Taylor swift album. 
That said, martin’s production work on the album is top-notch with a glossy sheen that, despite the al­bum's title, sounds unquestionably like 2014. The al­bum is indebted to the moody electropop of lorde, whom swift has befriended in recent months, and the vocal affectations of lana del rey. swift also mines in­spiration from the indie pop of groups like chvrches, haim and bleachers (whose frontman Jack antonoff collaborated with swift on two "1989" tracks). 
unfortunately, so many of the album's tracks come off as offensively generic like "welcome to new york," an ode to disneyfied new york where "you can want who you want." with its cliche portrayal of the city, the song seems bound for a tourism ad in the coming months. The vindictive "bad blood" is a takedown of a pop rival (rumored to be Katy perry) who "tried to sabotage [swift's] entire arena tour." ironically, it is the song that sounds the most like a Katy perry single with its bratty chorus and gratingly corny lyrics. 
The results of swift's pop experiment are not 
best: “he’s sorta cool in a grouchy sort of way.” 
murray’s character has a depth exceeding the usual depressed, quirky characters he is known for, however. although first presented as a grumpy slave to many vices, vincent develops into a complex character. 
oliver, first-time actor Jaeden lieberher and his mom maggie, melissa mccarthy, move next to vincent after a rough divorce. vincent takes on the unexpected role of babysitter — maggie needs someone close by to watch oliver after school as she works overtime at the hospital, and vincent needs the money. so begins vincent's role as a modern day mr. miyagi. 
he teaches oliver to ward off bullies with a signature nose-breaking move, feeds him “sushi” (canned sar­dines), has him mow his “dirt patch” in the backyard and takes him to the bar and race track. 
in one of the cutest scenes, the two win big at the race­track but play it off as if they lost because a man vincent owes money to is in the crowd. They proceed to run out to the parking lot in slow motion — an example of melfi’s effective styling as a first-time director. The scene chan­nels wes anderson’s recurring use of slow motion, as he is a director murray has worked closely with. 
other details in the film emphasize melfi’s involved directorial style, including a scene in which vincent uniformly terrible. The fantastic "blank space" is a self-aware skewering of her public perception as a se­rial monogamist. "got a long list of ex-lovers, they’ll tell you i'm insane," swift sings on the chorus. "but i've got a blank space, baby," she continues, followed by the sound of a pen clicking, "and i'll write your name." similarly, "style" is an excellent, atmospheric 80s synth pop song about a guy with a "James dean daydream look in [his] eye." it is one of her strongest tracks to date and undeniably swiftian, showcasing her unique storytelling ability and a clever (but not­at-all-subtle) reference to her ex harry styles. 

"1989" is ultimately the work of an artist in transi­tion, trying to figure out her place in the pop land­scape with mixed results. it's a minor misstep in swift's career as a musician — but then again, mak­ing mistakes is what your early twenties are all about. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
“1989” 
Taylor Swift 

Label: Big Machine Records 
Tracks: “Blank Space,” “Style,” “Out of the Woods” If you like: Lorde, Chvrches, Lana Del Rey 

meanders all the way through a velvet-roped line at an empty bank to get to the teller. 
another standout moment occurs during the cred­its — so don’t leave early. vincent steps outside to water a dead plant while singing bob dylan’s “shelter From The storm” along with his yellow walkman in a quirky, murray-esque ending. 
melfi’s directorial approach is empowered by his witty, heartfelt script. Filled with hilarious one-liners delivered by every character, the film will have you laughing until you cry. literally. 
although a funny film, the story has a depth that will leave you crying next to your dad in the theater, pass­ing back and forth the one napkin you got for popcorn finger-grease. Tip: get more than one napkin or see it with a grandma who always has a pack of tissues in her “pocketbook.” 
The plot is, at its basis, a well-known, somewhat pre­dictable story; however, the performances and writing elevate the film to the “this is going to win oscars” level it reaches. go see “st. vincent” to laugh, to cry and to see bill murray play his most “holy” developed character to date. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 


FLORIDA STATE 31, NOTRE DAME 27 | TUESDAY, ocTobEr 28, 2014 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 
Tomahawk stopped 

Last-minute offensive pass interference penalty negates ND TD, preserves Florida State victory 
There’s no debating Notre Dame is for real 

Mike Monaco 
Senior Sports Writer 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Heads hung low, Notre Dame was stunned. 
Players moved slowly to the tunnel of the opposite end zone. While Doak campbell Stadium roared, the Irish were silenced. 
Notre Dame had just topped the Seminoles — the defending national champions. Against the Heisman Trophy-winning quar­terback. On the road. 
but an offensive pass-interfer­ence penalty negated the touch­down. Florida State won. 
We could debate the call. 
We could debate the value of moral victories. 
We could debate Notre Dame’s chances of a trip to the college Football Playoff. 
There’s no debating Notre Dame is for real. 
Doubts surrounded this Irish team the way #blameJameis signs enveloped the college GameDay scene. 
Notre Dame hadn’t played anyone. 
Notre Dame couldn’t run the ball. 
Notre Dame got shredded by North carolina. 
Some of the criticisms were warranted; some weren’t. None of that matters now. 
because for 60 minutes, Notre Dame went toe-to-toe with Famous Jameis, the ‘Noles and the simple-yet-seductive war chant. The Irish outgained Florida State, 470-323. The Seminoles grabbed their first lead with just 7:39 remaining in the fourth quarter. Notre Dame punished Florida State in the trenches. Notre Dame did every­thing except win. 
“We came in here 100 percent confident that we were going to beat them, that we were going to shock the world,” Irish sopho­more receiver corey Robinson said. “It was us against the world today, and, unfortunately, we didn’t pull it out.” 
Notre Dame’s players were confident. Ardent Irish support­ers were confident. but who else was sold on the Irish? Apparently not “the world.” between Everett 
see STATEMENT PAGE 3 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Assistant Managing Editor 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — “Pass interference” will ring in Notre Dame’s ears for a long time. 
The Irish thought they had won when sophomore receiver corey Robinson hauled in a would-be two-yard pass from senior quarterback Everett Golson. Touchdown Irish — but the refs were waving their arms instead of raising them. 
Offensive pass interference called on junior receiver c.J. Prosise. 
“We execute that play every day, and we do it legally, and that’s the way we coach it,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said af­terward. “We don’t coach illegal plays.” 
With one more chance on fourth-and-18, Golson tossed the ball up under heavy pres­sure, and Seminoles freshman linebacker Jacob Pugh came up 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
COREY ROBINSON 
IRISH SOPHOMORE RECEIVER 
Robinson nabbed eight receptions for 99 yards and two touch­downs, including a couple of highlight-reel grabs (see his second score). Robinson hauled in a 20-yard reception on fourth-and-18 on Notre Dame’s final drive to set up the would-be, go-ahead touch­down in the final seconds. 
with it — Florida State 31, Notre Dame 27. 
“We needed to make one more play,” Kelly said. 
A few snaps earlier, Golson had converted on fourth-and-18, connecting with Robinson for 20 yards to keep the Irish hopes alive, but the second effort didn’t pan out. 
“They called the offensive pass interferences,” Golson said. “That’s something that you can’t argue with. You just gotta play through it. That last play on fourth-and-18, I probably could have made a play, so I think that’s what I’m more just disap­pointed in in getting that loss.” 
Notre Dame ended the first half on a high, with a 17-10 lead after scoring on a 34-yard field goal by senior kicker Kyle brindza. but Florida State jumped out after halftime, out­scoring the Irish in the second half, 21-10. 
The Seminoles scored first in 
see LOSS PAGE 2 
Golson-Winston showdown brings game down to wire 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Editor 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Much of the allure of Saturday’s matchup between Florida State and Notre Dame centered on the nation’s No. 2 team facing No. 5, but just as much intrigue came from the du­eling No. 5s on the field. 
Jameis Winston versus Everett Golson — two possible Heisman contenders and two quarterbacks who were supposed to make or break their teams. 
And when both gunslingers stepped up to force the game to come down to the very last play, the most-watched and arguably best game of the season so far resulted. 
“These guys going back and forth — somebody called and left me a message and said this is Ali-Frazier,” Seminoles head coach Jimbo Fisher said. “This is a slug-fest, Thriller in Manila, standing toe to toe. That’s what it felt like.” 
Winston completed 23 of his 31 pass attempts for 273 yards. 
He only notched 92 yards in the first half on eight completions, including an 11-yard touchdown strike to freshman receiver Travis Rudolph. 
The Notre Dame defense was able to get to Winston and hold back the Florida State offense as a whole. The Irish allowed just 19 rushing yards and five first downs, and the Seminoles, who failed to convert any of their four third-down opportunities, punted three times. 
However, Winston brought the heat in the second half. 
“I think they came out with the attitude that they weren’t go­ing to not score,” Irish sophomore defensive lineman Isaac Rochell said of Florida State after halftime. “I think there was a huge shift in their attitude. You could tell on the field their players were more en­gaged in the game.” 
After his team began the third quarter down 17-10, Winston led three drives that ended with points for the Seminoles. One of those came in the fourth quarter to set up senior running back Karlos Williams’ one-yard touchdown scamper, which vaulted Florida State ahead for the first time in the game at 31-27. 
see QUARTERbAcKS PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 


QUARTERBACKS 

Everett did throw one legitimate interception, but you can’t ask for a whole lot more from the quarterback going up against the No. 2 team in the country. Golson com­pleted 31 of 52 passes for 313 yards and three touchdowns. He kept the final drive alive by finding corey Robinson on fourth-and-18. 
RUNNING BACKS 

For the second consecutive game, sophomore Tarean Folston was the main man out of the Notre Dame backfield. Folston toted the rock 21 times for 120 yards. He didn’t have a single rush for negative yardage. And while he wasn’t the pass-catching force he was against North carolina, Folston still turned in a strong all-around effort in the lead role. 


RECEIVERS 

corey Robinson and Will Fuller — who hauled in eight catches each — combined for 178 yards and three touch­downs. Robinson, in particular, made some spectacular catches in key spots. c.J. Prosise (six catches for 59 yards) and chris brown (five grabs for 38 yards) chipped in as well. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Notre Dame’s offensive line consistently created running lanes for Folston, as the Irish racked up 157 rushing yards on 35 attempts (4.5 yards per carry). For the most part, Golson had enough time to throw. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The Irish defensive line earns the first solid ‘A’ of any posi­tion group this season. The Seminoles were limited to 50 yards rushing on 26 carries, and Jarron Jones, Sheldon Day, Isaac Rochell and Romeo Okwara kept a steady stream of pressure on Jameis Winston all night long. 



LINEBACKERS 

Joe Schmidt notched nine tackles and an interception, and Jaylon Smith added four. The linebackers held stifle the Seminoles run game, but Winston did find a lot of success through the air over the center of the field. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Though Jameis Winston had his way in the second half, it’s tough to really condemn the Irish defensive backs. The reigning Heisman Trophy winner was bound to have some success at some point in the game. He picked apart Notre Dame in the second half. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kyle brindza connected on his two field-goal tries (34 and 46 yards), but Notre Dame again couldn’t get much go­ing in its return game with either Amir carlisle or cam McDaniel. The Irish allowed a couple of decent returns to the Seminoles, but the special teams were solid all things considered. 
COACHING 

brian Kelly drew up an impressive game plan against the Seminoles, replete with a stimulated rushing attack and a strong passing game. brian vanGorder had the defense fly­ing around in the first half but did give up some big plays to Winston in the second half. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.44 (A-) 

Notre Dame played one of its best games in recent memory, outplaying Florida State for the bulk of the game, only to come out on the losing end in the final seconds. The offense clicked and the defense made life diffi­cult on Jameis Winston, especially in the first half. brian Kelly, who called a strong game throughout, even drew up a seemingly perfect final play. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
OFFENSIVE PASS-INTERFERENCE PENALTY ON NOTRE DAME 
could it be anything else? The offensive pass-interference penalty on Notre Dame’s final drive negated the would-be go-ahead touchdown — a two-yard reception by corey Robinson from Everett Golson. Instead, the Irish could do anything on fourth-and-goal from the 18-yard line. 

Loss 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
the second half to even the score, 17-17. 
“I said, ‘Think about this, as well as you got outplayed in the first half, you’re down one drive, 17-10,’” Seminoles head coach Jimbo Fisher said. “We got out, got the drive, got back in the game. Got the momentum and started playing our game.” 
The adjustments Florida State made were evident on the field, Irish sophomore defensive line­man Isaac Rochell said. 
“I think there was a huge shift in their attitude,” Rochell said. “You could tell on the field their players were more engaged in the game.” 
That attitude was a refusal to quit, Seminoles redshirt sophomore quarterback Jameis Winston said. 
“The one thing that peo­ple need to realize about the Seminoles team is when we’ve got our backs against the wall, we always rise,” he said. “We start playing harder.” 
Winston threw for two touch­downs in the second half, and Florida State activated its run­ning game for two rushing touchdowns. 
before that, the Seminoles rushing attack hadn’t been rolling. Florida State tallied 19 rushing yards in the first half. The Seminoles added just 31 yards in the second half, but senior tail­back Karlos Williams scored a two-yard rushing touchdown in the third quarter and added a second in the fourth. 
The Irish, on the other hand, ran heavily at Florida State, par­ticularly in the first two quarters as they racked up 115 yards be­fore the half. Sophomore running back Tarean Folston handled the bulk of the work and finished with 120 yards on 21 carries. 
On the third Irish drive of the game, five Folston carries drove Notre Dame from its own 16 to the Florida State 32. The Irish scored the first points of the game on a pass from Golson to Robinson. 
Offensively, Notre Dame put itself in position to meet its goals, Kelly said. 
“We needed to get into the 30s [in points],” he said. “We needed to have some balance in our of­fense, which I thought we did. We needed to have some tempo in our offense, which I think we did. And some ball control. I think we hit virtually all of those.” 
Winston evened the score at 7-7 on the drive immediately follow­ing Notre Dame’s first touchdown with an 11-yard pass to freshman receiver Travis Rudolph. Irish senior safety Matthias Farley grabbed Rudolph but lost his footing and slid out of bounds as Rudolph scored. Seminoles senior receiver Rashad Greene found space and turned it into 22­yard and 33-yard gains, respec­tively, to set up the touchdown. 
Facing a momentum shift after Florida State intercepted Golson, Irish senior linebacker Joe Schmidt intercepted Winston on the very next play. Junior defen­sive lineman Jarron Jones hustled Winston back toward his own end zone, and Schmidt snagged the off-balance throw. The result­ing Irish touchdown increased Notre Dame’s lead to 14-7. 
“Jarron got some great pres­sure and flushed him a little bit,” Schmidt said. “And [Winston] just threw it up there for what felt like a millennium, and thank God it just came down, and somebody whacks me from behind, which is kind of fun, and it was pretty cool.” 
Golson played a clean game other than his interception and a fumble. He completed 31 of 52 passes and threw for 313 yards and three touchdowns. Winston was 23-for-31 with 273 yards and two touchdowns. 
“I thought our quarterback played better than [Winston] to­night, just didn’t show up on the scoreboard,” Kelly said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

Kelly criticizes officials 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — barely 14 hours after brian Kelly and his players took the bulk of the blame for Notre Dame’s heartbreaking 31-27 loss to No. 2 Florida State on Saturday at Doak campbell Stadium, Kelly added a different tone Sunday. 
The common refrain from the Irish in the wee hours late Saturday night and into Sunday morning was that they needed to make one more play. Kelly reiter­ated that sentiment on Sunday but also criticized the referees — from the Acc — that adjudicated Saturday’s top-five matchup. Notre Dame was whistled for an offensive pass-interference penalty in the games final sec­onds, negating what would have been the go-ahead touchdown 
— a two-yard pass from Irish se­nior quarterback Everett Golson to sophomore receiver corey Robinson. 
“I have less clarity,” Kelly said Sunday. “I guess it was ac­tually called on [sophomore receiver] Will Fuller, not [junior re­ceiver] c.J. Prosise. Just adds more uncertainty as to the final play. 
“Again, the play itself in terms of what we ask our kids to do, it was pretty clear what happened on the play. Florida State blew the coverage, and they got rewarded for it.” 
Kelly said he didn’t think Fuller went out of his way to “impede the defender.” 
“The official that was furthest from the play that had the ability to see it saw it differently,” Kelly said. 
The official box score listed the 

see OFFIcIATING PAGE 3 NDSMcObSERvER.cOM | TUESDAY, ocTobEr 28, 2014 | THE ObSERvER 



ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson looks to fire downfield during Notre Dame’s 31-27 loss to Florida State on Oct. 18 in Tallahassee, Florida. Golson tossed three touchdown passes in the defeat. 
Qbs 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
“He’s a competitor,” Fisher said of the reigning Heisman Trophy winner. “He can compartmen­talize and focus. And he can see. He has a drive to win. Drive for greatness. Not because of him but for his team. He really does.” 
Golson picked up 313 passing yards, connecting on 31 of his 52 throws. He fired two touch­downs to Irish sophomore re­ceiver corey Robinson, the first on a one-yard pass in the first quarter and the other on a nine-yard pass in the second. The se­nior threw his third score to Irish sophomore receiver Will Fuller in the third quarter. 
“Their quarterback is a heck of a player,” Fisher said. 
On the final Irish drive of the game, Golson was sacked 
Statement 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Golson’s turnovers and the youth on defense, there were still unanswered questions. 
All the off-the-field and on-field noise that had followed both teams throughout the season funneled in through the Doak campbell Stadium tun­nels and exploded into a raucous environment for three hours and 27 minutes of entertaining, competitive football. but the Irish refused to let the never-ending war chant deafen them. 
Notre Dame answered all the questions. The players and coaches knew the answers beforehand. The studying was done. It was just time to teach everyone else. 
“We knew that our football team was a good football team,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “And they were excited 
officiating 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 2 
penalty against Prosise. Kelly said it was his understanding the call on the field went against Fuller, though there hasn’t been any clar­ity since the end of the game. 
“We’ll have our conversations with the supervisor of officials for the Acc here a little bit later this afternoon,” Kelly said. “I’m sure we’ll get even less clarification.” 
Replays also show Florida State junior defensive back P.J. Williams remove his helmet after the play while still on the field. by rule, a on third-and-12 at mid­field. However, he then found Robinson on fourth-and-18 to give Notre Dame another chance to retake the lead with just over a minute left. 

“The stadium got real loud and I knew this was it — we’ve got to make a play and I thought he was going to come to me, and I just put myself in the best posi­tion to get open,” Robinson said. “Luckily, I made the play and ex­tended the drive.” 
Golson also extended his streak of games with a turnover to four, tossing a second-quarter pick to Seminoles freshman line­backer Jacob Pugh. Florida State could not capitalize on the mis­cue, as Winston followed that up on the next play with an inter­ception to Irish senior linebacker Joe Schmidt. 
However, it was Golson’s sec­ond interception of the night that 
about the matchup. Look, they were on a national stage and I think they showed everybody what kind of football team they are tonight.” 
Notre Dame is an elite team. It isn’t a year ahead of schedule, although it can return nearly every starter next season. This is the new schedule. A playoff berth is within reach. 
Kelly had his players truly believing they could win. Every time this season he’s been asked if he is “surprised” by his team, he says no, in so many words. He says he always knew the poten­tial was there. Asked if he has been surprised at any point this season, Irish junior defensive end and captain Sheldon Day followed Kelly’s lead. 
“I wouldn’t call it surprise,” Day said, “because we kind of established ourselves in camp to make sure that we live up to the expectations.” 

player who intentionally removes his helmet during the down com­mits a foul for unsportsmanlike conduct. 
“They said they missed a call,” Kelly said of the non-call. “They said they just missed it.” 
A live-ball penalty (such as pass interference) followed by a dead-ball penalty (removing a helmet) results in penalties administered separately and in the order of occurrence. 
Penalties and no-calls aside, Kelly did say the Irish just didn’t finish the job. 
“You gotta take the belt from the champion,” Kelly said. “You made the difference in the game. 
On fourth-and-goal from the Seminole 18-yard line with 13 seconds left, he heaved up a do­or-die pass that Pugh grabbed to seal the Seminoles’ win. 
That play followed what would have been Golson’s third touch­down pass of the game Robinson, but the score was negated by an offensive pass interference call against Fuller. 
Winston’s team may have left Doak campbell Stadium with the 31-27 win, but Irish head coach brian Kelly said the quar­terback in blue and gold out-shined the one in garnet and gold. 
“I thought our quarterback played better than [Winston] to­night, just didn’t show up on the scoreboard,” Kelly said. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
For the first time in a long time at Notre Dame, the Irish might be surpassing expectations with their performance. but the Irish themselves aren’t surprised. They expected to win. 
And they nearly did. 
“We needed to make one more play,” Kelly said. 
Notre Dame did — then it hadn’t. 
but that penalty — that con­troversy — changes little. Notre Dame proved itself Saturday night, and a season of opportu­nity lies ahead. 
“Just keep your head up,” Golson said of his message to teammates. 
He’s right. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
can’t leave it up to a decision that’s made at the end.” 
“When you get a team like this, you outplay them, you got to put them away,” he added later. “You got to make sure that you put them away, and we didn’t do that.” 
Despite his noted frustrations, Kelly circled back to his attitude Saturday night. 
“If you got the champ, you can’t win by split decision, you got to knock them out,” Kelly said. “I think that’s what we want to take away from this.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  10  7  3  27  
7  3  14  7  31  






NOTRE DAME 7, SYRACUSE 0 
corey Robinson one-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

2:10 remaining 

NOTRE DAME 7, FLORIDA STATE 7 
Travis Rudolph 11-yard pass from Winston (Aguayo kick) 

0:19 remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 65 yards, 1:51 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, FLORIDA STATE 7 
Robinson nine-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

12:00 remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 31 yards, 0:40 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, FLORIDA STATE 10 
Roberto Aguayo 28-yard field goal 

4:46remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 39 yards, 3:41 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, FLORIDA STATE 10 
Kyle brindza 34-yard field goal 

0:39remaining 

Drive: 14 plays, 67 yards, 4:01 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, FLORIDA STATE 17 
Rashad Greene 10-yard pass from Winston (Aguayo kick) 

10:37 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 70 yards, 4:17 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, FLORIDA STATE 17 
Will Fuller 11-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

7:26remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 83 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, FLORIDA STATE 24 
Karlos Williams two-yard run (Aguayo kick) 

3:38remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 75 yards, 3:45 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, FLORIDA STATE 24 
Kyle brindza 46-yard field goal 

11:40remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 29 yards, 4:01 elapsed 
FLORIDA STATE 31, NOTRE DAME 27 
Karlos Williams one-yard run (Aguayo kick) 

7:39remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 4:01 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 

157 50 
PASSING YARDS 
313 273 


Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
32:51 27:09 
PASSING 

Golson 31-52-313 Winston 23-31-273 
RUSHING 

Folston 21-120 Williams 8-25 Golson 11-33 Cook 12-20 
RECEIVING 

Robinson 8-99 Greene 8-108 Fuller 8-79 Rudolph 6-80 Prosise 6-59 Wilson 4-45 

THE ObSERvER | TUESDAY, ocTobEr 28, 2014 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 


ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Irish senior tight end Ben Koyack sprints downfield during then-No. 5 Notre Dame’s 31-27 loss to No. 2 Florida State on Oct. 18 at Doak Campbell Stadium in Tallahassee, Florida. The Irish dropped to 6-1 with the loss. Following a bye week, Notre Dame will face Navy on Saturday. 
Corey Robinson’s two-yard, go-ahead touchdown reception with 
13 seconds left in regulation was wiped away by an offensive pass interference penalty on Notre Dame. Florida State held on to defeat 
TURMOIL IN 
the Irish, 31-27, on Oct. 18 in Tallahassee, Florida, at Doak Campbell Stadium. The Irish led or were tied with the Seminoles for roughly 52 
TALLAHASSEE 
of the 60 minutes and outgained Florida State by 147 yards. 








The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

it doesn’t take long for “The Trip” to introduce the per­sonalities and cruxes of its two characters. steve coogan, or rather the fictionalized version of him, quickly clari­fies to peer, colleague and long-time acquaintance rob brydon, also playing a fictionalized version of himself, that he had asked several other people to accompany him on a tour of northern england’s restaurants before call­ing brydon at the opening of the film. brydon hesitantly responds that he’d have to ask his wife before committing to the trip sponsored by the english publication, “The observer." brydon is not close to coogan’s first choice for companionship on his weeklong expedition, and brydon would obviously much rather be with his family. These qualifications inform the actors’ film-long journey across the english countryside’s acclaimed restaurants. 
The film itself unfolds like a calmly paced, mature roadtrip comedy, mining for laughs through conversation instead of gross-out gags or huge set-pieces. in a slight skewing of the traditional form, the reason for the trip re­ally is the trip and not some end objective; at one point, one of the men assures the other that it’s not about the destination — it’s about the journey. still, the two stars never feel compelled to ascend above their own child­like pettiness, with their meals and general interactions often devolving into impression-offs or tit-for-tat bouts of mostly friendly gibes and gritted teeth. competition between the two stoops down to as insignificant levels 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

Few bands in our lifetime have been able to hold us in the same kind of abusive relationship with their atti­tude, sound and emotion, so abusive to the listener but so essential to our world experience that we can’t imag­ine our world without them after that pivotal first listen. 
when we were youngsters, we had my chemical romance to pin us into evenings of essential angst and needless sorrow in the bedrooms of our parents’ hous­es. but as we matured and our experiences in this world grew, we lost the need for this kind of emotional release, and my chemical romance became irrelevant and dis­solved. but as they did, the experimental hip-hop group death grips rose to prominence, with a set of more ma­ture context for our maturing problem set: an outlet for the seemingly unhinged testosterone of our young bodies, the sexual frustration of our hedonistic pastime culture and the revulsion of and revelry in each. but as we learned to contextualize these problems and devel­op ourselves into more sophisticated hominids, death grips, too, has acknowledged that their time had come. 
who, then, is to take up the heavy yoke of relating to our intimate fears, anxieties and secrets? The lead­ing candidate in my book is l.a.-based noise rap group clipping. consisting of daveed diggs, Jonathan snipes as the appeal of their separately ordered appetizers and their individual singing ranges. 
in lesser hands, this central function of contention could come off obnoxious or even mean-spirited — es­pecially in the defining cemetery scene in which coogan delivers a hypothetical eulogy to an inquiring brydon. instead, coogan and brydon have such an ingrained chemistry that their bickering feels completely natural and normal to their relationship. despite the fact that, at various times, they are both independently unwilling to admit to the weight of their friendship, their familiarity with each other is apparent throughout — particularly in this cemetery scene. coming after coogan has a con­versation with his son revealing that coogan and brydon have known each other for 11 years, the scene pinpoints each character’s complex, flawed psyches. both coldly make jokes about the other’s career moves, clearly know­ing and having at least a little appreciation for them, but not wanting to cede to any compliments. 
while these subtle complexities permeate the motiva­tions for the two main characters, they lay buried under the utter ridiculousness of the tour mates’ conversations. coogan’s genius, auteur-only mentality clashes with brydon’s laidback demeanor and steady mainstream suc­cess. coogan never misses a chance to critique brydon’s work and unrelenting impression outbursts while brydon mindfully works in slight checks to coogan’s inflated ego. The actors’ awareness of each other’s ticks shows their knack for quick yet substantial improv, most apparent in their collaborative riff on a mel gibson-esque costume 
and william hutson, this trailblazing trio represents all the confusion, chaos and self-indulgence, both in sound and lyrical content, that young twenty-somethings need to abuse their ears and lacerate their minds. 
diggs, the lead mc, offers an impressive flow, mo­tivating listeners to throw hands in the air and hips against a partner. one part sleaze and two parts in-your-face, diggs canvases both of clipping’s releases ("mid city" in 2013 and "clppng in 2014") with fast and furious verses concerned with anything you’ve ever re­gretted — and he does it with uncanny efficiency. in the intro to "clppng" (released Jun. 10 on sub pop), which clocks in at only 1:05, diggs spits an intricate, smooth-yet-dangerously-sharp 296 words (that’s more than four words each second, if the context is helpful). delivered by an energetic and forceful set of pipes, this voice alone is enough to accompany the personal pre­scription to the head-banging, wall-punching, stair-sprinting or guttural yelling needed for your emotional upkeep. 
building the foundation for diggs to rap works the prodigy pair of snipes and hutson (Fun fact, they were college roommates). hutson, a current ph.d. student in performance studies at ucla, studies the effect of the sonic in art on the human brain. he once gave a talk at nyu’s conference for recorded music’s pop conference entitled “abrasive nostalgia: a noisescape drama’s climactic action. director michael winterbottom carefully catches all of the pair's masterful commitment and improvisation, finding laughs in the heated moments as well as the lulls and reactionary beats. 

winterbottom lends a patient hand to his film’s other aspects as well. ably handling the sprawling scenery and the insular two-seated tables, he keeps the camera roll­ing past conventional timing and lets everything play its course. big scenic shots and behind-the-line cuts to the dishes being prepared praise the country and add char­acter to the food.  “The Trip” is therefore natural and re­laxed, playing out almost like a documentary. events and drama rise to prominence for brief moments, providing momentary stakes. Then they sink back, lying dormant while subconsciously affecting the characters’ behavior. not every plot point is solved by the conclusion, acknowl­edging the trip’s brevity in comparison to the men's great­er lives outside the movie. 
“The Trip” ends on perhaps a melancholic note — much like the smaller ones sprinkled throughout in various line readings and reaction shots — juxtaposing coogan and brydon’s opposing lifestyles. however, coogan’s final career and life decision-making may provide a moment of hopefulness.  still, these moments merely float in and out, as spending two hours eavesdropping on the week-long trip shared by these two enigmatic personalities completely entertains and sometimes even offers slight revelations. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
of deindustrialization." snipes, a seasoned band mem­ber, sound designer and producer, lays claim to associa­tion with 20 acts on his website. he is a current teacher of sound design at ucla and has given lectures across the world. 
while it may seem strange to describe these gentle­men by their cvs, it is much less strange than trying to vet them by verbalizing the intricacies and ingenuity of their style and sound. The very name of the band gives away their expertise and intentionality about making music that pushes the boundaries; “clipping” is the phe­nomenon that occurs when an amplifier is overdriven by trying to give an output voltage beyond its capacity (it sounds scary).  The band’s first release is built with beats primarily from this effect. "clppng" features much of the noise and confusion of mid city while in­corporating beats and hooks which are, although gen­tler in delivery, still bad to the bone. when performing live, the dJ duo provides an absolutely awe-inspiring intensity of noise while standing stony-faced and silent behind its animated and vocalized front man, in addi­tion to sophisticated, seamless transitions and ad hoc rave-style dance outros. 
This band is for danger, regret and confusion. This band is badass. This band is for you. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



Ryan will never be passed 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
Few sports offer the opportu­nity for career longwevity that baseball does. 
sure, there might be some older winners of golf tourna­ments — Jack nicklaus’s victory at The masters at the age of 46 comes to mind — or in nascar races. 
if we liberally expand the definition of sports to things televised by espn, such as poker and bass fishing, we probably find a greater number of older champions — age and wisdom are likely major pluses in these competitions. 
but as far as the big four sports go, baseball offers by far the best opportunity to play into your 40s. plenty of players have been key contributors at ages when they start facing graying hairs and a slowing metabolism — Tim wakefield, mariano rivera, bartolo colon and derek Jeter are some of the recent players to come to mind. heck, Jamie moyer and Julio Franco played until they were mere months shy of 50. 
but in mlb’s extensive history, no player exemplified longevity as much as nolan ryan did. 
ryan played a total of 27 sea­sons, beginning his career with the mets in 1966 and ending it with the rangers in 1993. he pitched in four different decades and played from his late teens to his mid-40s. 
To put it in perspective, he entered the majors in sandy Koufax’s last season and exited it in the year of chipper Jones’ mlb debut. 
along the way, he accumulat­ed some incredible statistics — 324 wins (along with 292 losses), a career 3.19 era, 222 complete games, 61 shutouts, eight all-star game appearances and seven career no-hitters, which is still the most all-time (Koufax is next with four). 
ryan essentially did every­thing but throw a perfect game and strangely enough, win a cy young award, as he even won a world series title with the 1969 amazin’ mets. 
yet there is one ryan statistic that stands out from all the rest. 
it’s a number as large and as looming as his home state and his longtime playing home of Texas and as his place in base­ball lore. 
5,714. 
That’s the number of strike­outs ryan amassed over his quarter-century-plus in the game. and that’s the one ryan record that will remain unbreak­able, even more so than his no-hitters record — no-hitters are a function of chance, as seen by the number of hall of Famers who lack one and number of one-hit wonders who have one. 
ryan’s record will remain un­reachable for two reasons. 
The first is the longevity mentioned above. ryan played the most seasons in baseball history. Few starting pitchers today break into the league early enough to have 15, let alone 20, productive years, and the ones that do either rely on a specialty pitch — see wakefield and gaylord perry — or are pre­cision pitchers — see the great braves duo of Tom glavine and greg maddux. it is doubtful that a pitcher in these above groups will contend for a strikeout title anytime soon. 
even the fireballers, such as randy Johnson, who remain the league long enough to challenge ryan’s longevity fall short of ryan’s mark — even after a 22­year career, Johnson was still 839 strikeouts behind ryan. 
ryan’s longevity belies the fact that he was worked at a rate most pitchers today wouldn’t come near, due to fears of arm inju­ries. ryan averaged 232 innings and 33 starts per season — only four pitchers in all of baseball pitched more than 232 innings this season. i can’t even imagine the reactions that would ensue in a front office if a team dared to send its star pitcher out for 332 innings, as the then-california angels did with ryan in 1974. 
The second factor that renders ryan’s record unreachable is his incredible productivity across his entire career. make no mis­take, ryan didn’t stop fooling hitters as he got older. he won 11 total league-wide strikeout crowns, but his final four came in four consecutive seasons be­tween the ages of 40 and 43. a 42-year-old ryan struck out 301 batters in 1989 — for compari­son, this year’s league strikeout king, david price, struck out 271 hitters. 
he produced at such a level that any run at his strikeout record would require incred­ible productivity. a player who pitches for 20 seasons would have to average 286 strikeouts per season. even a pitcher who spends 25 seasons in the league would have to average 229 strike­outs per year to pass ryan 
although baseball allows for the longevity to match ryan, there has yet to be and will never be a player who can outsmart and out-pitch hitters as well as he did for as long as he did. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | midwesT regional championship 
Irish pair falls in championship match 
By ZACH KLONSINKI 
sports writer 
irish coach Jay louderback said the day notre dame left for champaign, illinois, last week the team had a good shot at taking home a singles title, a doubles title — or both. 
Junior Quinn gleason and sophomore monica robinson almost succeeded in doing just that. 
gleason and robinson had three match points in the midwest regional doubles championship match but were unable to secure the win, falling to the michigan duo of senior emina bektas and fresh­man alex najarian by a slim margin, 8-7 (8-6). The irish pair, ranked 28th nation­ally, led the tiebreaker, 6-3, in a race to seven, but the wolverine team rallied for five straight points to win by two. 
“The final was a great match,” louderback said. “Quinn and monica played very well. it was a high qual­ity match, and we looked really good.” 
gleason and robinson were not the only irish dou­bles duo to post a strong showing. Junior Julie vrabel and freshman allie miller fell to bektas/najarian in the semifinals, 8-1. The irish came within one vic­tory from playing each oth­er in the championship. 
“we had two doubles teams in the semifinals,” louderback said. “both teams played really well. Julie vrabel and allie miller had a very good tournament.” 
gleason and robinson cruised into the champion­ship match, beating teams from northern illinois (8-4), michigan state (8­6), ohio state (8-5) and northwestern (8-1) along the way. vrabel and miller advanced past pairs from illinois (8-3), wisconsin (8-7, (7-3)) and eastern michigan (8-6) before losing to the eventual champions 

FOR RENT 
Commencement rental - next to campus and Eddy Street Commons. Walk to everything. Email for addition­al details. nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
There’s no time for us, There’s no place for us, What is this thing that builds our dreams, yet slips away from us. Who wants to live forever, Who wants to live for­ever.....? There’s no chance for us, It’s all decided for us, This 


in the semifinals. 
louderback said he was encouraged by the team’s performance, an improve­ment over the doubles line­up’s struggles last season. 
“it’s still early, but it was good to see how well they did,” louderback said. “and we’ve still got brooke broda, another freshman who hasn’t played yet … so it’s a little up in the air, but just getting to see how those two doubles teams who were in the semis did and how well they played together was great.” 
robinson also posted a strong showing for the irish in the singles brack­et, advancing to the semi­finals before falling 6-4, 6-2, to michigan junior ronit yurovsky, the 21st­ranked singles player in the country and last year’s midwest regional cham­pion. northwestern senior lok sze leung knocked out gleason in the round of 16 in another tight match, 7-6 (7-5), 2-6, 6-3. vrabel, miller and sophomore mary closs advanced to the second round before their tourna­ment runs came to an end. 
“it was a good tourna­ment for us,” louderback said. “monica getting to the semis, Julie vrabel, mary closs … allie miller quali­fied [for the main draw], which was great for her first road trip.” 
in addition to the early season action and the op­portunity to play more matches, louderback said the tournament helped his team adjust to traveling. 
“our first tournament we played was here, so it was good to get on the road,” louderback said. “it was good just to get them out, and allie hadn’t been on the road yet with the team so that was good for her. … we’ll be on the road a lot in the spring. 
“we’ve been really excit­ed about ... the extra time everyone has been putting in, and we really felt that at the regional it showed.” 
notre dame returns to practice for a couple weeks before its next competition. The irish will send two players south to sarasota, Florida, to play on clay courts at the lakewood ranch invitational, and the rest of the team will travel to the western michigan invitational in Kalamazoo, michigan, on nov. 7. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
world has only one sweet mo­ment set aside for us. Who wants to live forever, Who dares to love forever, When love must die. But touch my tears with your lips, Touch my world with your finger­tips, And we can have forever. 
paid adverTisemenT 




MEN’S GOLF | bridgesTone golF collegiaTe 
Notre Dame wraps up fall season 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish concluded their fall campaign with a 13th-place finish at the bridgestone golf collegiate on sunday. 
notre dame was unable to carry its second-round momentum into the final round of the 13-team event, hosted by north carolina at greensboro at the grandover resort east course in greensboro, north carolina. The irish posted a final score of 903 (305-295-303). north carolina finished first at 849 and virginia Tech as runner-up at 861. 
“we had a tough go of it this weekend,” irish coach James Kubinski said. “we had some good individual rounds, [senior] Tyler [wingo]’s 70 and both [sophomore] matt [rushton] and [freshman] Thomas [steve] shooting 72, but that covers only 25 per­cent of our play. 
“we made too many simple errors throughout the event, things our teams just don’t typically do.” 
The irish opened with a slow first round (305), but they managed to improve their overall score by 10 strokes for a score of 600 and the 12th-place standing after saturday’s second 18. wingo led notre dame’s comeback effort in the second round, posting a 2-under-par 70 for a share of 16th place at 146 (76-70). 
wingo shot three straight pars on the back nine to make the afternoon round his best 18-hole score of his 2014 season. wingo finished the event with a score of 232 (76-70-86) and a share of 64th place. 
steve led the irish across all three rounds, tied at 27th overall with a total score of 223 (72-77-74). he tallied three birdies in the open­ing round for an even-par 
72. Though two double bo­geys landed steve 5-over­par after the second round, the freshman birdied two par-5s to secure his second top individual placement in the irish starting lineup. he posted three top-25 fin­ishes throughout the fall campaign. 
“Thomas posted two pretty good rounds, a good sign from the freshman,” Kubinski said. “he definite­ly competed his heart out, which is a trademark of a high-achieving player.” 
sophomore matt rushton followed next behind steve. The sophomore shot 12­over overall (80-76-72-228). rushton shot 16 pars in the third round, gaining 16 spots on the leaderboard to snag a share of 51st place. 
senior patrick grahek tal­lied a 54-hole total of 231 (77-74-80) and tied for 62nd place. sophomore liam cox completed the irish lineup in 67th place with a score of 233 (81-75-77). 
notre dame’s 13th-place finish caps off the program’s fall season. Though the bridgestone golf collegiate did not mark the team’s best performance this fall, the irish secured four top­10 finishes throughout the campaign. now, with the promise of young golfers and opportunities for the re­maining lineup’s continued improvement, Kubinski said the irish are prepared to step up for the spring season in 2015. 
“in some sports, being big­ger, stronger and faster will allow a team to overwhelm an opponent regardless of slightly better preparation or practice,” Kubinski said. “our sport is mostly a men­tal game. it comes down to confidence and core beliefs. 
“neither is built overnight. it takes long-term commit­ment to the sport and the process. we need more play­ers invested in this way. we have physical talent. our task is to develop the most important area.” 
The irish begin their spring season at the Jones invitational at the vallencia country club in los angeles on Feb. 23-24. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
serves but was unable to capi­talize and lost, 33-31. The cavaliers took the fifth set, 15-8, to win the match. 
despite the squandered opportunity, bere said he took away some positives from the game. 
“against virginia we played well, and our distribution was really nice,” he said. “if we can do that again [in our upcoming matches], i think that will give us a little bit of a different look.” 
although victory elud­ed the irish against the cavaliers, their 72 kills and 67 assists were their highest sin­gle-game totals in nearly six years. They topped virginia with a .256 attack percentage and 81 digs. 
bere said he was impressed by the strong performance of junior setter hannah muzzonigro, who totaled seven kills, 54 assists and 16 digs, all career highs. muzzonigro’s passing helped smith tally 20 kills, and soph­omore middle blocker Katie higgins added 14 more. 
The irish host georgia Tech on Friday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion before trav­eling to chestnut hill, massachusetts, for a rematch against boston college at 12 p.m.sunday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | The observer 



M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
were turning the ball over at a great rate, and we were lucky we didn’t lose a goal through any of these turnovers.” 
however, the only ball that beat irish graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall was a corner kick sent by indiana senior defender patrick doody, whose curving kick missed everyone in the six-yard box and banked off the far post before tuck­ing into the net. 
The irish reacted well to adjust­ments they made in the second half, gaining more possession of the ball in indiana territory and generating quality chances, clark said. 
“i thought we could have taken something out of the game,” clark said. “would i say we deserved it? maybe not. ... i think they were able to play their game better than we were able to play our game. it was disappointing.” 
notre dame jumped back into acc action saturday to host virginia Tech (7-6-2, 2-4-1 acc) at alumni stadium on the team’s senior night. 
Two of the team’s senior defend­ers, graduate student and team cap­tain andrew o’malley and senior max lachowecki, did not compete due to injury, but the irish defensive depth rose to the occasion. 
To replace o’malley and lachowecki, junior michael shipp and sophomore matt habrowski,with the latter notching 

paid adverTisemenT 
his first collegiate goal in the 23rd minute. habrowski netted the re­bound off a hodan shot to put the irish up, 1-0.  hodan also tallied one goal for notre dame in the 3-1 vic­tory, and gallagher iced the game in the 88th minute with his second goal of the season and his college career. 
“michael and matt have both been two of our hardest working players all year,” clark said. “you need support. good teams have depth and have support, so it’s good these guys did well. and Jon gallagher, he and Farina have been doing tremendous as freshmen to be honest.” 
The win put notre dame one point up on no. 14 north carolina in the acc standings, with both teams having only one conference game remaining on their respective slates. The irish travel to pittsburgh on saturday while the Tar heels (11­4-0, 5-2 acc) host virginia. notre dame beat north carolina 2-0 at alumni stadium on sept. 26. 
clark said he refuses to let his team get caught looking too far ahead though. The irish take to the alumni stadium pitch for their last home regular season wednesday against no. 15 michigan state, who notre dame beat last year in the ncaa tournament quarterfinals, 2-1. The game is slated to begin wednesday night at 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
connor hurley. 
“The good thing is, we are get­ting a little better each game,” Jackson said. “steven [Fogarty] played extremely well for us, and really we had strong play across the board. hinostroza finally found some success offensively, and hurley really elevated his play as well. we are consistently improving, and that’s what you want to see especially with a young team.” 
Jackson said he was also glad to see the power play unit succeed in saturday’s matchup. The power play has been a point of empha­sis for Jackson, as the irish were 0-for-20 prior to saturday’s game. Jackson said he hopes saturday’s success will get the unit on track. 
“consistency is the key,” Jackson said. “we had one good game on the power play, so hopefully that will increase con­fidence, but we have to keep im­proving and keep practicing to maintain that success.” 
The goalkeeping competition for the irish continued, as both sophomore chad Katunar and freshman cal petersen played a game in each series. Katunar surrendered three goals in each game and made 51 total saves, and petersen allowed one goal while collecting 50 saves. Jackson said he was pleased with the per­formances by both goalies but thought petersen in particular stepped up. 
“i though both played well, but petersen has started to elevate himself,” Jackson said. “he’s espe­cially been better on the penalty kill where he’s shown excellent rebound control. if chad can get better at that, we’ll have two very strong options.” 
The irish notched four victo­ries and improved a great deal, but Jackson said notre dame will have to continue to raise its level of play as the schedule gets tougher. 
The irish play their first hockey east games of the season this weekend when no. 13 vermont visits compton Family ice arena. The following weekend, the irish head to minneapolis to take on minnesota, the country’s top-rat­ed team. 
“with conference play start­ing and us playing some of the top teams in the country, it’s only going to get tougher from here,” Jackson said. “we have to just keep improving our play, take care of the puck and continue get­ting better each game.” 
The irish and catamounts face off Friday and saturday. The puck drops at 8:05 p.m. Friday and 7:05 
p.m. saturday at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Josh Dulany at        jdulany@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
forward Kaleigh olmsted dribbled down the right side of the field and found bohaboy with a sharp cross, which the mission viejo, california native headed in for the goal. it was bohaboy’s team-lead­ing seventh score and fifth in the last six games. 
“[The goal was] just a great head­er off Kaleigh’s cross,” romagnolo said. “Kaleigh made that happen going one-v-one and [bohaboy], again, finding herself in the right place at the right time. [she had] great instincts around the goal to get there.” 
defensively, the irish once again shut down their opponents, limit­ing the cardinals to five shots, including just one chance in the second half. notre dame also dominated possession, not allow­ing any corner kicks. 
“we’re not allowing a lot of op­portunities,” romagnolo said. “we’re denying crosses, denying shots. … we’re really controlling the ball and giving ourselves the opportunity to possess a lot more than the other team.” 
The victory capped off a whirl­wind week for the irish, who put away syracuse on the road, 2-0, on oct. 18 and then scrapped their way to a tough 1-0 win over no. 20 clemson on Thursday. romagnolo said she was pleased with how her team handled the turnaround from the win over clemson to the louisville game. 
“it was senior day, and they were excited to get a result for the seniors, but also to get a result to get into accs.” romagnolo said. “i think they responded really well.” 
The win over the orange kept notre dame unbeaten on the road this season at 6-0-1, and the team’s two wins at home boosted its re­cord at alumni stadium to 6-4. 
in those three games, the irish unloaded 64 shots and scored four times, for a shooting percentage of .063, below their season average (.103). heading into the acc tour­nament, the offense will have to convert on more of their chances, romagnolo said. 
“i’d like to see us play a little bit faster,” she said. “especially in a sunday afternoon game, [we need] to come out and just attack an opponent [and] put two or three in the back of the net if we have those opportunities, not take for granted that we’ll have 22 shots like we had today. maybe we’ll only have five opportunities, and we need to capitalize on those.” 
before notre dame heads to greensboro, north carolina, on nov. 7 for the acc championship tournament, the irish wrap up their regular season saturday in newton, massachusetts, against boston college. Kick-off is sched­uled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 


DOME  NUTS  |alexandria wellman 


9/4/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

Happy Birthday: let your imagination run wild. creativity coupled with excellent timing will help you gain ground this year. don’t let the changes going on around you deter your plans. it’s important to follow your gut feeling and build the future that will bring you the greatest satisfaction. don’t let anyone bully or manipulate you to take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. your numbers are 3, 13, 19, 21, 23, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take control and do your thing. you’ve got what it takes to dazzle your peers and superiors. let your intelligence and cooperative attitude shine through, and your desire to advance will come to fruition. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): moneymaking ventures will pay off if you act fast, but don’t go over budget. Keep your deals simple and interesting. a career opportunity will lead to good fortune. use your charm and know-how to promote a skill you have to offer. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on happiness and self-improvement. expand your interests and make your surroundings conducive to pursuing your goals. share personal thoughts and make plans that will enforce greater incentives. don’t mix business with pleasure. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): networking will pay off, so don’t sit at home when you should be mingling. love is in the stars, and discussing plans with someone you think is special will help you build a relationship based on goals you share. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): stick to your plans and use intelligence when dealing with family or your lover. Taking in lighthearted entertainment or engaging in an activity that will challenge you physically or take you to an unfamiliar destination will broaden your horizons. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): invest in your skills, your home and your future. don’t be too eager to make a decision or give in to someone else’s plans. stay on course and use your experience to fine-tune your next move. Keep your emotions well hidden. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): speak from the heart and listen to the suggestions offered, but don’t act in haste. you have time to mull over the information you gather and shouldn’t feel pressured by anyone giving you an ultimatum. a past experience will prove to be a lifesaver. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you are on the right track, so don’t let anyone convince you otherwise. Keep your dreams intact and your vision clear. Taking a route that is unusual or unorthodox will end up being in your best interest. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you need a pick-me-up. renovate, redecorate or take a day trip that will help lift your spirits. emotional matters can sway either way depending on the company you keep. make plans to have fun with someone who makes you smile. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will face opposition concerning matters that deal with educational, financial, legal or medical institutions. ask for any promise in writing. a last-minute change must be handled cautiously. don’t be afraid to pull out of a deal if it doesn’t feel right. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Think before you act. someone will try to goad you into doing something by not giving you enough time to consider the pros and cons. believe in your abilities and opt to go it alone if you feel uncomfortable. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will come in to money or find a way to raise your income if you are patient and pay attention to the circumstances. love is in the stars, and a promise made will lead to greater happiness. 


Birthday Baby: you are engaging, intense and imaginative. you are strong-willed and unpredictable. luck will be yours today if you act boldly and decisively. don’t be afraid to try new things and meet new people, but remember those that you have left behind. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, louisville 0 
nd continues five-game win streak 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
all year long, irish coach Theresa romagnolo has stressed to her ninth-ranked irish squad the im­portance of consistency. now, af­ter a 1-0 victory over louisville on sunday at alumni stadium, that reliability has paid off for notre dame in the form of an acc tour­nament berth. 
“The team that steps on the field right now, it’s the same team ev­ery given game,” romagnolo said. “we’re bringing toughness and a desire to compete. we’re orga­nized, and we are getting a hold of the ball.” 
with the victory over the cardinals (7-8-2, 3-4-2 acc), the irish (12-4-1, 7-2-0) finished the fall break with a 3-0 record, stretching their season-high win streak to five games. 
before this streak, notre dame had not won more than two games in a row on the season. during it, the irish have outscored their opponents, 11-0, and outshot them, 127-25. 
“a good toughness,” romagnolo said when asked what has been key in the recent stretch. “on the attacking side, we’re … building up the field and creating a lot of op­portunities for ourselves.” 
The win guaranteed the squad a top-four finish in the conference and a place in the acc tournament with one game left in the regular season. The irish also gave their six seniors a victory in the final home game of their careers. 
“we knew what was at stake, and we wanted to play well not only to get to the acc [championship], but to finish the season strong for our seniors,” romagnolo said. 
senior forward lauren bohaboy led the way against the cardinal defense sunday afternoon, re­cording five shots and the lone goal of the contest in 76 minutes of play. 
in the ninth minute, sophomore 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 4, duKe 1; indiana 1, nd 0; nd 3, virginia Tech 1 
Irish offense erupts 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after scuffling for much of the season, no. 3 notre dame saw its offense explode over the mid-se­mester break. 
The irish (9-4-2, 5-1-1 acc) tal­lied seven combined goals in acc victories over duke and virginia Tech to propel themselves into first place in the conference standings although they did see their win­ning streak snapped with a loss to no. 2 indiana 1-0 in a mid-week, non-conference tilt. 
The irish traveled to durham on oct. 17 where they squared off against duke (6-8-1, 3-4-0 acc) and tied their season-high single-game goal mark in a 4-1 victory. Junior midfielder patrick hodan led the irish in scoring, with back-to-back goals just over two min­utes apart. 
Junior midfielder evan panken initiated notre dame’s drive in the 37th minute off an assist from graduate student forward leon brown, and freshman forward Jon gallagher buried his first col­legiate goal to cap the scoring in the 78th minute. Fellow freshman forward Jeffrey Farina registered two assists. 


notre dame’s four goals matched its total in a victory over dartmouth on sept. 6 and fell just short of the five goals scored in an exhibition matchup against wisconsin on aug. 25. 
“we didn’t start the duke game well, but we came into it,” irish coach bobby clark said. “The big thing was that we didn’t concede any goals in the duke game when we weren’t playing well.” 
notre dame then trekked to visit the in-state rival hoosiers (10­2-3, 3-2-1 big Ten) on wednesday. indiana dominated the first half, as sloppy notre dame turnovers gave the hoosiers several opportunities to score. 
“[indiana] came out and got af­ter us,” clark said. “They pressed us really hard, and we had a hard time completing passes. … we 
see m soccer PAGE 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

nd clinches one, drops three 
HOCKEY | nd 5, niagara 3; nd 7, niagara 0 
Irish sweep two series 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
no. 20 notre dame swept two consecutive weekend se­ries to pick up its first four wins of the season. 
on oct. 17 and 18, the irish (4-2) took down lake superior state, 5-3 and 5-1, before dom­inating niagara, 6-3 and 7-0, last Friday and saturday. 
Junior center and captain steven Fogarty and junior left wing mario lucia starred for the irish in their series against lake superior state (0-8, 0-4 wcha). in the 5-3 win, Fogarty tallied two goals and two assists as notre dame jumped out to an early two-goal lead and never trailed. The following night, lucia led the way with a hat trick. Two of his goals came in the third pe­riod, and the irish scored three goals in the final frame to pull away with the 5-1 victory. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said he was pleased with the offen­sive surge, the result of better play across the board. 
“The offense was strong — we had a number of guys up front step up,” Jackson said. “That came out of just doing a better job of managing the puck. The turnovers for us re­ally dissipated, and that’s al­ways going to help the offense.” 

The offensive explosion con­tinued last weekend as the irish routed niagara (0-6, 0-2 atlantic hockey) by a com­bined score of 13-3. Junior left wing and alternate captain sam herr opened Friday’s game with two quick goals, and the irish led 4-0 by the end of the first period. notre dame gave up three goals on the night, two of which came on purple eagles power plays, but the irish scored two goals in the third period to hang on for the win. 
it was notre dame’s turn to rule the power play saturday. The irish were 3-for-9 on the night when they had an extra man and found the back of the net four more times while outshooting niagara, 39­


23. sophomore center vince hinostroza had one goal and two assists on the night to spearhead the irish attack. 
Jacskon said the irish are becoming more cohesive as a unit. he complimented espe­cially the play of hinostroza, Fogarty and freshman center 
see hocKey PAGE 13 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
The irish achieved mixed results over the last two weekends against four conference opponents, beat­ing boston college at home after losing to clemson and then los­ing at virginia Tech and virginia. 
notre dame (5-16, 2-8 acc) struggled from the start against clemson (15-7, 4-5), who capital­ized on irish miscues and used its strong offensive attack to take the game in three sets, winning 25­10, 25-19, 28-26. 
The irish had eight service errors in the last set alone, as well as 23 hitting errors in the match and an attack percentage of just .075. 
in their next match, the irish played much closer from the start, but boston college (8-12, 3-6) was able to fend them off and take the first two sets, 25-23 and 25-19. 
notre dame, however, show­cased its resilience, winning 25-22 and 25-18 to force a fifth set. in the final frame, the irish pulled away on an 8-0 run that put them up 11­5, ultimately winning 15-7 to cap­ture a 3-2 win. 
“in the boston college match, we didn’t come out and play extremely well right off the bat,” irish assis­tant coach craig bere said. “but we regrouped and continued to grind and do the little things well.” 
senior middle blocker Jeni houser led the team with 13 kills, and graduate student outside hitter nicole smith and freshman middle blocker sam Fry each added 12. 
“outside hitting has been a point of emphasis for us,” bere said. “being consistent there has been important for us when we’re playing well.” 
The irish seemed to carry their momentum into the next game at virginia Tech, taking a 21-14 lead against the hokies (9-13, 2-7) in the first set. notre damecould not hold on and droppedthe set 27-25. notre dame’s struggles continued as the team hit just .070 for the match and was swept in three sets (27-25, 25­20, 25-16). 
notre dame made a quick turnaround and traveled to charlottesville, virginia, the fol­lowing day for what turned out to be an exciting match against the cavaliers (13-9, 6-3). virginia was 7-1 at home coming in and took the first set, 25-23, but the irish took a 2-1 lead with 25-22 and 25-15 set wins. 
what followed was an intense fourth set with 21 ties and 11 lead changes. notre dame had three chances to close the match on its 
see volleyball PAGE 12 




