the iNdepeNdeNt to uNcoVer NewspAper serViNg the truth Notre dAme ANd ANd report sAiNt mAry’s it AccurAteLy 

VoLume 48, issue 47  | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 
ND, SMC alumni excel in elections 
Seven graduates take part in midterm elections that show Republican shift, set the stage for 2016 
By JACK ROONEY 
Associate News editor 
the results of the midterm election, which featured seven Notre dame or saint mary’s alumni running for national of­fice or governor, will help shape the immediate political future of the country, profegssor of politi­cal science david campbell said. 
campbell, who specializes in American politics, said the republican party’s success in reclaiming a majority in the senate could produce a more dif­ficult road to a republican white house in 2016. 
“From the republicans' per­spective, winning congress may actually complicate their attempt to win the presidency in 2016,” campbell said. “they succeeded in 2014 by running against the president and, to a lesser extent, the democratic senate. 
“it will be much harder for the republican nominee to blame the country's sour mood solely on the white house, since the gop will have had full control of the legislative branch.” 
with a majority in the senate, republicans now control both houses of congress, something campbell said would increase governmental productivity 
— ideally. 
“one would like to think that republican congress and 
see eLectioNs PAGE 7 




Round table analyzes female image 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News writer 
saint mary’s students par­took in a roundtable discus­sion to reflect on women's limited depiction in the me­dia after a public screen­ing of the 2011 documentary "missrepresentation" in the 
student  center  wednesday  
evening.  
Jessica  richmond,  a  se­ 

nior social work and politi­cal science major, facilitated the screening and following discussion. 
richmond said she applied for the dooley grant last spring in order to screen the film. 
“the dooley grants are for saint mary’s students who find their passion in justice educa­tion issues,” richmond said. “i am interested in redefining feminism and eliminating the derogatory persona it’s associ­ated with.” 

richmond said she watched "missrepresentation" for the first time in one of dr. sonalini sapra’s political science class­es and couldn’t get enough. 
“i’ve probably watched it 10 times since,” she said. 
richmond said she felt com­pelled to share the film and its message with as many mem­bers of the saint mary's com­munity as possible. 
see rouNdtABLe PAGE 6 


Operation Smile fundraises at Five Guys 
By WEI LIN 
News writer 
today, you can indulge in Five guys and not feel guilty about it, since every dollar spent will bring the Notre dame chapter of operation smile closer to its goals. to help the cause, present the voucher, virtual or physi­cal print, from the operation smile Five guys Fundraiser’s Facebook event page to the ca­shier at the Five guys Burgers and Fries at eddy street commons. Five guys Burgers and Fries will donate 25 per­cent of all eligible purchases to operation smile. 
the Notre dame chapter of operation smile was founded in 2003 and currently is led by ju­nior Janie Zhang. 
Founded in 1982, operation smile is a national nonprofit medical service organization that raises money to provide cleft lip and cleft palate surgeries for families who cannot afford the procedure, particularly those in countries without widespread access to health care, Zhang said. cleft lip and cleft palate are birth defects that occur when a baby’s lip or mouth do not form properly during pregnancy. the national chapter of operation smiles also conducts research on the causes and eradication of the birth defect. 
the Notre dame chapter’s goal for this year is to raise enough money to provide sur­geries for 12 kids with the con­dition, Zhang said. the cost required for each procedure is approximately $240. 

Zhang said operation smile has been planning this fund­raiser since september.From 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m., operation smile club members will be stationed outside of south 
see smiLe PAGE 7 

professor emeritus to visit china 
Subhash Basu
chemistry professor emeritus 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News writer 
chemistry professor emeri­tus subhash Basu is sched­uled to present the lecture, “characterization of Biosimilar Anti-cancer Agents using Apoptosis Assays,” in suzhou, 

china on Nov. 20 as part of the 12th Annual congress of international drug discovery science and technology (iddst). 
the theme of the conference, “shaping the Bright Future of drug discovery,” is part of a larg­er effort to provide “the perfect meeting place to exchange 
see chiNA PAGE 7 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Brian hartnett Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: Lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: Allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices postmAster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall Notre dame, iN 46556-077 the observer is a member of the Associated press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
When is it too soon to start playing Christmas? 

Nicole Frederickson 


Teresa Sandoval 
junior 

sophomore 
welsh Family hall 

Lyons hall 
“Before thanksgiving.” 

“Before November.” 
Joe Jarad 


John Clark 
freshman 

junior 
Alumni hall 

st. edward’s hall 
“Before thanksgiving.” 

“August.” 
Elizabeth Fenton 


Samantha Lessen 
sophomore 

senior 
ryan hall 

Lewis hall 
“Before thanksgiving.” 

“Before halloween.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kelly Konya Kit Loughlin Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: haleigh ehmsen greg hadley emilie Kefalas henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
sam coughlin caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Fatal Assistance” Swimming and Diving Vigil Mass Basilica Sunday Information Session:
wei Lin rex shannon 

DeBartolo Performing Rolfs Aquatic Center Basilica of the Sacred Mass Common Good Arts Center 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Basilica of the Sacred Initiative 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. The Irish face 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Heart Geddes Hall
Corrections 

Film about post-Pittisburgh and Music by the Women’s 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
the observer regards itself as earthquake Haiti. Virginia Tech. Liturgical Choir Music by the Notre Open to graduate and a professional publication and 
Dame Liturgical Choir. professional students. 
strives for the highest standards 
ISI Felowship Men’s Basketball “Six Characters in Film Showing: “The “Man Up!” : 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion Search of an Author” Sword in the Stone” Reimagining Modern
however, recognize that we will make 
Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing Manhood 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Exhibition game vs. Arts Center Arts Center Hesburgh Library
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Open to all Christian Lewis. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m.
we can correct our error. 

faith denominations. Student tickets are $7. Free for students. Open to all students. 


Professor contrasts two WWI interpretations 
By JEREMY CAPPELLOLEE 
News writer 
John deak, assistant profes­sor of history at Notre dame, gave a lecture thursday on the divide between mainstream and revisionist interpreta­tions of the habsburg empire’s downfall during world war i, as part of the Nanovic institute world war i Lecture series. 
“what i’ve seen in the last 30 years is a complete and ut­ter gap between what world war i historians say about the habsburg empire and what habsburg scholars ... say about the empire,” deak said. “the problem is that we don’t talk to each other.” 
deak said traditional schol­arship views the habsburg empire as an outdated monar­chy in decline even before the outbreak of world war i. 
“the habsburg empire is seen and written about as a weak political anachronism ... that isn’t equipped to survive [after world war i],” deak said. “it’s been cast as a historical breaking point when the gold­en epoch of the 19th century europe crashes to an end.” 

revisionists, on the oth­er hand, view the habsburg empire as a functioning mon­archy and seek alternative ex­planations for its collapse, he said. 
“the habsburg monarchy was vibrant: it was a function­ing state under the rule of law,” deak said. “i think [world war 
i] killed the empire in a dra­matic way, but since the 1920’s ... this idea has been completely downplayed.” 
despite Austria-hungary’s best efforts, world war i de­stroyed many years of political and infrastructural improve­ment, deak said. 
“this bureaucratic state of trying to manage democracy and build infrastructure was completely thrown out the win­dow," he said "By the time 1917 comes around ... there’s no way to put the thing back together again." 
many historians also over­look Austria-hungary’s resil­ience during the war, deak said, as the empire was forced to raise three armies between 1914 and 1916 despite losing over a million soldiers. 
Further study of the habsburg empire not only pro­vides a better understanding of the causes of collapse, but it also sheds light on the war’s ef­fects on europe, he said. 
“we need to give the war more credit than we do,” he said. “i think if we tune our fo­cus on understanding why an empire, which was continually evolving and aiming for mul­tinational democracy ... could collapse so quickly, we might understand the First world war in more important ways.” 
though this revisionist ar­gument provides “common­sense interpretations” on the downfall of Austria-hungary, academia still favors the tradi­tional view of a failing empire, deak said. 
“the trope that the habsburg monarchy in 1914 was on the verge of collapse when war broke out is something we’re going to see more and more of in the literature being pub­lished today,” he said. 
According to deak, part of this divide is because world war i historians spend little time studying the habsburg empire, focusing only on the brief month of activity during which Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austria-hungarian throne, was assassinated in June of 1914. 
“historians of the First world war generally develop some interest in the habsburg monarchy, but then they either forget it or they kick it off,” deak said. 
in addition to viewing Austria-hungary as the “sick­man” of europe, “generalist” world war i scholars also be­lieve the dissolution of the habsburg monarchy enabled the multiple nations formerly comprising the empire to de­velop as modern states, he said. 
“the First world war is the point in time that open the gates of this prison and lets these prisoners out,” deak said. “this largely fits into the trope that the First world war was this modern cataclysm that broke open central europe. 
“when we commemorate one thing, we inevitably don’t say other things,” he said. “i think history has become quite eso­teric over the last 30 years.” 
Contact Jeremy CapelloLee at jcappell@nd.edu 

students visit campus as part of Ndignite 
By ANDREA VALE 
News writer 
A group of middle and high school students from Lawrence, massachusetts, will visit campus thursday through sunday to experience collegiate life at Notre dame. 

the experience is part of the Ndignite connection program, which aims to connect students with the university early in their college search processes. 
the program is run by the office of outreach and engagement recruitment, whose mission “has a lot to do 
pAid AdVertisemeNt 

with establishing the pipeline for the university,” director dr. Alyssia coates said. 
“so we are at the tip of the recruitment tunnel," she said. "we are identifying early stu­dents who are in the seventh to ninth grade with the hopes that after coming to the university to get a glimpse of what college life is like, they will ultimately gain admission to the university of Notre dame or to selective col­leges across the country." 
coates said the program aims to impact students whether they choose Notre dame or an­other school. 
“what we say is to use aca­demics as a foundation to iden­tify the students, and we use Notre dame principles, values and cornerstones of leader­ship, service and faith to culti­vate and shape the students," coates said. "so whether or not they come to Notre dame or go somewhere else, we feel that we have placed our mark on those students so that they can live up to the university’s mission of the greater good, aligning their academics with their interests and really helping others.” 
the students in eighth through twelfth grade arriving from Lawrence are “high ability students” and rank in the top 5 percent of their classes. 
Lawrence is the “pilot city” for the office of outreach and engagement recruitment ini­tiatives, coates said. 
“For years, we’ve had ssLp students coming to Lawrence, and we said that we’d love to see Lawrence come to Notre dame," she said. "that, along with the initiative that our asso­ciate vice president had for this early outreach initiative, is the reason we thought Lawrence would be a great city to begin in. what was really nice about that was we were able to utilize the ssLp counselors that typi­cally work in Lawrence to par­ticipate in the program.” 
the program will be hosted by both ssLp students and coates' interns, she said. 
After arriving on campus on thursday, the students will par­ticipate in a variety of activities meant to give them a flavor of many aspects of life at Notre dame. According to coates, they will begin on Friday work­ing with professor ted mandell and students involved in the Film, theatre and television (Ftt) program to create a video. 
other activities include a panel, in which current stu­dents can answer questions and describe their experiences at Notre dame. in addition, coates said the students will participate in “what we ulti­mately love to do with Notre dame students – service activi­ties. they’re going to be making blankets and cards and close out Friday with a prayer service at the grotto.” 
the students will also spend time meeting with the department of enrollment, in­cluding members of the office of Financial services and Admissions and dean of the First year of studies hugh page. 
“the program aligns Ndignite with the First year of studies,” coates said. “we teach the students about college readiness, and those are some of the things that we address with them, that these are some of the things that high ability students are doing or should be doing and what universities are looking for in high ability stu­dents. we bring it to their age level.” 
students will join a watch of saturday's game and will con­clude their visit with a tour of the Basilica of the sacred heart that includes a concert and in­teraction with the Voices of Faith choir. 
Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 


pAid AdVertisemeNt 




PEMCo performs ‘Into the Woods’ 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News writer 
pasquerilla east music company’s (pemco) pro­
duction  of  “into  the  
woods”  will  begin  perfor­ 
mances  thursday night  on  

washington hall’s main stage. 
Actor chris siemann said the musical’s plot is a “mash­up” of fairy tales. 
“it’s cinderella, Jack and the Beanstalk, Little red riding hood and rapunzel all thrown into the same sto­ry," siemann said. 
Auditions for the cast were held at the beginning of the semester and rehearsals be­gan in september, for several nights a week, siemann said. 
“on average, for each of us, it was maybe one to three hours a night," he said. "some nights i wasn’t even called, but other nights i was there for four hours.” 
siemann said he plays the role of the wolf from Little red riding hood, as well as cinderella’s prince. 
“the parts were meant to be double cast, for symbolic reasons,” he said. “the wolf interacts with Little red riding hood, and that story plays out the way you think it would. then i have to kind of quick change into the cinderella’s prince — with­out spoiling too much, he’s exactly who you think he’s going to be. the characters are similar; they have a very similar mindset of instinct, 

and  getting  what  [they]  
want.”  
“into  the  woods”  is  a  

unique show because it has a large cast but no chorus, siemann said. 
“there are seventeen peo­ple and they’re all unique characters, and we all have our own moment, so to speak, on the stage," siemann said. "it’s really cool that we get to develop these characters. when you’re in a chorus, you can still develop your char­acter, but you don’t have as much to work with. so it’s really cool that we’re all on even playing ground.” 
the production is entirely student-run, which creates a unique experience for all the members of pemco, he said. 
“everyone understands ev­eryone else’s commitments, 
pAid AdVertisemeNt 
pAid AdVertisemeNt 

we’re all doing school, we all have other things that we’re involved in,” he said. “it 
“It’s really cool that we get to develop these characters. When you’re in a chorus, you can still develop your character, but you don’t have as much to work with.” 
Chris Siemann 
actor 

makes you feel really proud of something, that we’re working as one unit.” 
producer and senior emma Kusters said she began prep­arations for the production last semester, along with fellow producer and senior shannon Kirk. 
“we started last spring, when we reviewed director applications and selected a director for the show, and we picked what show we were going to do,” Kusters said. "over the summer we were e-mailing, designing set and costumes, and then we had auditions the second week of school. 
“A large part of my time this summer was revamping the pemco website," Kusters said. "i’ve really been try­ing to make the information about pemco more accessi­ble, so that we can reach stu­dents who aren’t already in the pemco fold, so we can be pulling in new talent, so that everyone feels welcome to participate and audition in whatever capacity they can.” 
Kusters said the producers considered several factors in choosing pemco’s fall show. 
“part of the consideration is always budget," Kusters said. "we took a pretty big risk this year because usu­ally our fall show is a small­er-scale show. Last year there were only four actors in the show, and the year before that there were seven. 
"this year we have a sev­enteen-person cast, and we actually ended up spending even more money on this show than we did on 'Legally Blonde' last year, which was our big show last year," she said. 
the producers also looked for a show that would appeal to the student body, Kusters said. 
“into the woods' is all these fairy tales coming to­gether in a sort of fantastical way, in a way that’s also very relevant to the human expe­rience and everyone here,” she said. 
Kusters said the show has a variety of stunts and visual effects, as well as an elabo­rate set. 
“everyone in the cast has to pitch in to make the set; it was a really a group effort,” she said. "i think this is the best set pemco has had in a while.” 
“into the woods” premieres thursday, November 6th at 
7:30 
p.m., in washington hall. performances also running November 7th at 

7:30 
p.m., and November 8th at 4:00 p.m. tickets are $7 for students and $10 for non-students. 


Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

American Enterprise hosts Al Qaeda analyst 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News writer 

Katherine Zimmerman, the lead analyst on Al Qaeda for the American enterprise institute’s (Aei) critical threats project, gave a live skype interview hosted by the Aei executive council wednesday evening on Al Qaeda, isis and the threat they pose to the united states both short and long term. 
“to understand the ques­tion of what kind of threat isis poses to the united states, you actually have to go back and understand where isis comes from,” Zimmerman said. “it’s not a group that just appeared around 2013 or 2014. this is a group that traces back to the early 2000’s and even back to Al Qaeda leadership in the 1990’s. 
“isis is really the realization of the vision of Abu musab al-Zarqawi,” Zimmerman said. “he believed in an even more radical form of islam than the leaders of Al-Qaeda such as osama Bin Laden. this includ­ed believing that if you don’t subscribe to the grand sharia that he did, then you were not a muslim and you could be killed.” 
Zimmerman said Al Qaeda and isis are two very differ­ent organizations in differ­ent locations with different leadership. 
“Because of the difference in ideology, Al Qaeda in iraq has always been on a slightly different trajectory than the broader Al Qaeda network,” she said. “Because of the war on terror prompted by the 9/11 attacks, Al Qaeda was on the run by 2002, and this led to an opportunity for a new group in iraq to rise. 
“the two groups began to compete for leadership of the global Jihad and in spring 2013, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi announces the beginning of the islamic state of iraq and syria. this caused a schism that yielded two self-sustain­ing groups, isis and Al Qaeda, in which neither had authority over the other.” 
while some may be tempt­ed to think the emergence of two rival groups of radi­cal muslims may seem to be a good thing for the united states, Zimmerman said this is simply not the case. 
“Both of these groups have the same goal, which is to de­velop the global caliphate,” she said. “this won’t be an all-out war between the two groups that will divert their attention from the united states.” 
Zimmerman said we need to be prepared for a lengthy fight and any strategy that we use must address the tricky nature of neutralizing a dangerous ideology. 
“Not to sound too pessimis­tic, but, let’s say tomorrow we defeat isis, and iraq and syria go back to two functioning states with legitimate govern­ments in place that respect 
“Both of these groups have the same goal, which is to develop the global caliphate.” 
Katherine Zimmerman 
lead analyst 
AEI Critical Threats Project 
human rights,” Zimmerman said. “Now we have to think about the foreign fighters that were in those countries re­turning home. i don’t think it’s a huge step to say that we’ll see a wave of jihadis that return back to their own countries and continue the fight for that same ideology. 
“we need to have a broad strategy that incorporates the short term by stopping terror­ist attacks here in America and abroad, but also eventually defeating Al-Qaeda and pre­venting the cancer that is the ideology from taking hold and growing. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 


the oBserVer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 

molière gets a makeover with “the misanthrope” 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
News writer 
the saint mary’s department of communication studies, dance and theatre will pres­ent a modern adaptation of molière’s "the misanthrope" at 7:30 p.m., Nov. 12-14 and at 2:30 p.m. on Nov. 16 in the Little theatre, moreau hall. 
molière’s 350-year-old play receives a modern-day make­over in this new adaptation as a comedy set in a trendy bar where characters text and use social media, according to a college press release. 
“the French comedy, writ­ten in 1666, is about love, friendships, gossip and ru­mors, all human themes that transcend time and place,” the press release stated. 
while the names of the characters and the script re­main as molière penned them, the setting has been changed from a king’s court to a mod-ern-day nightclub called “the misanthrope," according to the press release. 
in another modern twist, characters use texts and so­cial media to deliver some lines and communicate their thoughts. one char­acter, for instance, changes 
Roundtable 
coNtiNued From pAge 1 
“my goal is to educate people to simply think about this issue,” richmond said. 
Bri o’Brien, a junior also awarded the dooley grant for a project regarding ethi­cal consumption, said just thinking about feminism seems to be an obstacle even some women struggle to overcome. 
“[the misogynist mindset] seems inherent,” o’Brien said. “Are [people] aware that they are embracing patriarchy?” 
o’Brien said this embrace is especially apparent in women’s perceptions of oth­er women in political power. 
“Look at hillary and sarah palin and how they are la­beled as the ‘bitch’ and ‘the dumb one,’” o’Brien said. “what’s so crazy about see­ing women in power?” 
sophomore emma english said men are more likely to discredit women when they classify the physical aspects of the female sex — periods and pregnancy — as handicaps. 
Junior Anna gainey said both men and women are hormonal but a violent surge in testosterone is more so­cially acceptable than pre­menstrual syndrome (pms). 
“if boys act uninhibited, they’re told ‘boys will be boys,’” gainey said. “Boys are excused from doing im­pulsive things. if women do his relationship status on Facebook from “in a relation­ship” to “it’s complicated,” associate professor of theatre and the play's director mark Abram-copenhaver said. 

“in the play, molière made fun of the way people com­municated at the court dur­ing the reign of King Louis XiV,” Abram-copenhaver said. “how they compliment­ed each other to their faces and sniped about each other behind their backs. it’s not unlike how people use social media now.” 
theatre faculty and students had fun adjusting molière’s characters to character types seen in today’s society, cos­tume designer melissa Bialko said. 
“Alceste, a French aristocrat who takes everything to the extreme, is now a hyper-emo, and his love, the elusive and flirtatious célimène, is cast as a party girl,” Bialko said. “Arsinoé, a bitter and unpleas­ant woman in the original play, is now a prude wearing a button-down shirt and a long skirt.” 
For the set, professional scenographer michaela duffy and Bialko took a road trip to an ikea furniture store in 
something impulsive they are deemed incompetent.” 
english said the media’s influence exacerbates the double standard on a per­sonal and public level. 
“you can’t be what you can’t see,” english said. “we grow up thinking of certain jobs — firefighter, policeman 
— as masculine careers.” 

sophomore emily rush said she wanted to know if the united states is the only country struggling with the media’s portrayal of women. 
“i wonder what our stan­dard of beauty would be if hollywood was in another country?” rush asked. 
gainey said depictions of hyper-effeminate women in anime suggest that patri­archy pervades Japan, or at least Japanese culture. 
“All the girls in manga look like they are literally eight years old,” gainey said. “And they’re all drooling over men who are at least 18.” 
richmond said this plot-line was emblematic of the misogynistic idea that wom­en are accessories to men. 
“women are ornamental,” she said. “women have for­ever been seen as an orna­mental piece that belongs to men.” 
richmond said women who claim the feminist move­ment asks for “too much, too fast, too soon” perpetuate oppression onto their own gender. 
richmond said she looks forward to "the mask you Live in," another chicago, duffy said. 
“the set is made up largely of furniture purchased at ikea to give the feel of a trendy, ur­ban nightclub,” duffy said. 
seniors Nia parillo and claire stewart, who both took a communication studies course on social media over the summer with associate professor colleen Fitzpatrick, were enlisted to weave the us­age of social media into the 350-year-old script. 
stewart said she came to be involved with the produc­tion with the assistance of Fitzpatrick. 
“[Fitzpatrick] knew i was in­terested in how social media can be used in a wide-range of industries," stewart said. "Knowing that the two of us are interested in the topic and work well together, dr. Fitzpatrick reached out to us to see if we were interested. we met with mark Abram­copenhaver, the director of the production and imme­diately became interested in working with the production staff.” 
Both students considered ways the audience might re­ceive texts, selfies and social media updates from charac­ters on stage, stewart said. 
“we threw around a lot of different ideas when decid­ing what social media and technology to use in the play,” stewart said. “ultimately, we decided that texting, snapchat 
“The set is made up largely of furniture purchased at Ikea to give the feel of a trendy, urban nightclub.” 
Michaela Duffy 
professional scenographer 

and twitter were best suited to the progression of the play.” 
By romanticizing the pow­er of writing, stewart said she hopes students will find the value of the French play­wright’s in today’s world. 
“i think that my greatest hope for this production is that, due to its modern setting, students will come to realize that even texts that are centu­ries old have value in the mod­ern world,” stewart said. “the play directs a great deal of at­tention to what constitutes appropriate communication. Because of this focus, the play is able to transcend time. though the play was written hundreds of years ago, the re­lationships and interactions that it depicts are highly relat­able in our modern world.” 
For stewart, the most re­warding aspect of being in­volved in the show has been getting to experience a whole new side to theater, she said. 
“i was involved in technical crew in high school and have always loved going to plays,” stewart said. “it is such a dif­ferent experience being on the production side of things. it's amazing how much thought and planning has to go into putting on a production of this scale.” 
Audience members are en­couraged to chat about the production on social me­dia by including the hashtag #smcmisanthrope. 
“if you're drawn to relatabil­ity and interactivity, this is the show for you,” stewart said. 
tickets for “the misanthrope” show range from $8-13 and are available at moreaucenter.com. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefala01@saintmarys.edu 

documentary set to be re-American society. “they should be.” leased in 2015 that explores “i doubt that wabash, an the patriarchal media’s af-all boys school, discusses Contact Rebecca O’Neil at fect on boys and men in these issues,” english said. roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
pAid AdVertisemeNt 




China 
coNtiNued From pAge 1 
information and discuss breaking scientific discovery toward enabling technologies that are driving bio/pharma­ceutical innovations, the drug discovery and development process," according to the iddst invitation letter. 
“i think at least 200 people are going to talk in four days, so [the conference] is very im­portant,” Basu said. “you in­crease your horizons of known people. Not only do you sell your product, but you also get ideas, so it’s very important to get an invitation from there and interact with those people all over the world.” 
Basu said conference attend­ees include vice presidents, ceos and directors from some of the largest research and pharmaceutical companies around the globe. Although the conference includes many aspects of the drug delivery process, Basu said he is pre­senting on the use of lipo­somes in cancer drug delivery. 

“the research is focused on finding new chemicals, which can kill cancer cells,” he said. 
Basu, who has worked at Notre dame for the past 44 years in the area of breast and colon cancer drug discovery, said the goal of his lab is to use the smallest and least toxic dose of chemicals to cause cancer cells death without harming normal cells. 
“the dying of normal cells means the dNA gets degraded, but cancer cells, they don’t want to die,” he said. “they are immortal.” 
15 years ago, Basu said an undergraduate in his lab ran an experiment using the anti-cancer chemotherapy drug, cisplatin. results of the experiment showed that cisplatin killed cancer cells by apoptosis, which Basu said was not known at the time. 
the lab published the paper and then began working on other chemicals with the abil­ity to induce apoptosis, Basu said. 
“it caught the attention of to kill cancer cells by apopto­sis induction,” he said. 
in addition to his cancer re­search at the university, Basu said he is currently in the process of establishing a non­profit foundation, the cancer drug delivery research Foundation. 
“i conceived of this new foundation [for] cancer drug delivery, how we deliver these 
“The dying of normal cells means the DNA gets degraded, but cancer cells, they don’t want to die. They are immortal.” 
Subhash Basu emeritus professor of chemistry  
the whole world that can­cer cells could be induced for apoptosis, which then i said, i can bank on that … that i want  apoptotic chemicals,” he said. “i have four or five more pat­ents to apply for immediately so i’m preparing myself to  

build a new lab, a new crew and everything.” 
Basu said future patents will help finance cancer research, and he said he should receive all necessary confirmations to move forward with the project within the next six months. 
“Now, i have in my posses­sion all the equipment,” he said. “All i need [is] declaration from the irs that this founda­tion is tax exempted, and then i can accept the money from different agencies.” 
until then, Basu said he plans to continue his research and attend various global conferences. 
Next month, “Advances in experimental medicine and Biology” will publish a chapter on potential anticancer drugs written by Basu. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Smile 
coNtiNued From pAge 1 
dining hall to hand out pro­motional flyers. the Five guys vouchers will be at­tached to the flyers. 
“it only takes $240 to pro­vide a free surgery that will heal a child’s smile and change [his or her] life forever,” Zhang said. “it can be hard at an individual level to provide these funds, but collectively, as a student body and a community, we have the potential to change the lives of more than just a dozen children.” 

Besides the primary goal of funding surgical pro­cedures, another goal is to raise awareness for this organization, Zhang said. 
“even though we’re a rep­resentation of the national organization, not many peo­ple have heard of operation smile,” she said. 
According to Zhang, operation smile is in the process of planning its first 5K race, miles for smiles, to promote awareness. operation smiles will also continue to hold its annual photo booth event for the spring’s Blue and gold foot­ball scrimmage. 
Aside from directly sup­porting the national chap­ter, the Notre dame chapter also helps out in the local community, Zhang said. 
“we’re volunteering at center for the homeless later this month to teach the kids about oral health,” she said. 
“set some time off to­day, make the trip to Five guys and enjoy a delicious burger,” Zhang said. “All the while, you will help restore children’s smiles and shape their futures. good food, good cause.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 

to mold his legacy, campbell 
Elections said, though he must do so 
coNtiNued From pAge 1 

without a democratic ma­
jority in either house of democratic president will congress. now have an incentive to “traditionally, presidents work together but, alas, in their final two years look that is unlikely,” he said. to establish a legacy and of­“more likely is that president ten do so in areas where the obama will use his veto au-president can act without thority more than he has the need for congressional thus far and reject legislation approval,” he said. “Foreign passed by congress.” affairs is the classic exam-
with a little over two ple — look for the president years left in office, president to engage more on the world obama will likely start to try stage. But another example 
pAid AdVertisemeNt 

is executive orders, often to create national monuments and parks. president obama has already done some of this recently [and] i expect to see more.” 
overall, campbell said these midterm elections re­flected national trends that have recently solidified and a historical pattern typical of midterms. 
“we continue to see many of the patterns that, in re­cent years, have been ‘baked into’ our elections,” he said. “young people went democratic, but turned out in low numbers; minori­ties went democratic, but also turned out in low num­bers; white men skewed republican and turned out in reasonably large numbers. 
“it has long been the his­torical pattern that the president's party loses seats in midterm elections,” he said. “And, given the presi­dent's low approval num­bers, it is thus not surprising that we see the same this year. the notable aspect of this election is less that the republicans picked up seats, but more that they did so well and thus took control of the senate.” 
though the only Notre dame alumnus currently serving in the u.s. senate, Joe donnelly (d-iN), class of 1977 and Law school class of 1981, was not up for re-elec­tion this year, Notre dame and saint mary’s alumni who ran for other national offices fared well in their races. 
rep. peter King  (r-Ny­
2) won re-election for his 12th term in congress with nearly 70 percent of the vote. King, who gradu­
“We continue to see many of the patterns that, in recent years, have been ‘baked into’ our elections.” 
David Campbell 
professor of political science 

ated from Notre dame Law school in 1968, serves on the house homeland security committee and as chairman of the sub-committee on counterterrorism and intelligence. 
rep. pete Visclosky (d-iN­1), who received his law de­gree from Notre dame in 1973, won re-election with just over 60 percent of the vote. Visclosky, whose district in­cludes gary, Valparaiso and michigan city, has served in the house of representatives since 1985. 
rep. mike Kelly (r-pA-3) won just over 60 percent of the vote en route to re-elec­tion for his third term. Kelly, who attended Notre dame on football and academic schol­arships, graduated in 1970. 
rep. Keith rothfus (r-pA­
12) claimed nearly 60 per­cent of the vote in his district to win re-election to his sec­ond term. rothfus graduated from Notre dame Law school in 1990. 
rep. Brendan Boyle (d­pA-13), Notre dame class of 1999, won with nearly 70 per­cent of the vote in a district that includes parts of north­east philadelphia. this was Boyle's first election for the 
u.s. house of representatives after serving for 5 years in the pennsylvania house. 
rep. eddie Bernice Johnson (d-tX-30) ran without a republican challenger and took 88 percent of the vote in her district, which includes parts of the dallas metro­politan area. Johnson, who graduated from saint mary’s in 1956 with a degree in nurs­ing and was the first nurse elected to congress, will be­gin her 12th term when the 114th congress is sworn in this January. 
rep. donna christensen (d-u.s. Virgin islands), a non-voting delegate to the 
u.s. 
house of representatives who has served nine terms, graduated from saint mary’s in 1966. she is the first wom­an to represent an offshore 

u.s.
 territory in congress and the first female physician to serve in congress. this year, she ran to become the first female governor of the 

u.s.
 Virgin islands. Neither she nor her main opponent, independent Kenneth e. mapp, claimed a majority of the votes so the election will result in a runoff sometime in the near future. 


Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 



the oBserVer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

isn’t this a little early? 
Mike Ginocchio 
sports writer 

there was a moment, nary a few weeks ago, where i witnessed something that nearly broke my poor little brain. it was during fall break and i was with my dad shopping for home repair equipment at home depot, my dad’s version of toys r us. the door opened and i was greeted with a most mind-shattering revelation. 
No, it was not the fact that for the first time in my life i was actually looking for­ward to stepping inside a home depot, after having complained with religious fervor every time my dad dragged me there in the past, which was as clear-cut a sign i can think of that i am getting older. it wasn’t even the fact that when my dad started explaining the specific pieces we needed to get and where to find them that i was able to, for the first time in my life, offer constructive suggestions that went beyond nodding and going “uh huh. yeah, let’s get that. ok.” 
it was the sight of christmas decora­tions on sale right in the front row of the store. 
i saw these things and brushed it off at the time. home depot is a department store of sorts, after all, and it pays to be ahead of the curve. Also, there are a lot of cool projects one can do around the house for christmas decorations! (wait, that sounded like i’m turning into an adult.) 
But the biggest shocker, the true mo­ment that made time stand still, was right before the Fsu and Notre dame game — the game that we shall not speak of, lest we have fury towards tallahassee. i went to get a coca-cola from the fridge, not­ing that it was a brand new pack from the store. i opened it up… 
…and saw Jolly old santa claus beam­ing back at me. 
it was oct. 18th. 

don’t get me wrong, christmas is one of my favorite times of the year, and always fills me with a sense of warmth and hap­piness and, dare i say it, optimism. But at what point are we going to reach where we realize that we’re jumping the gun? part of what makes christmas so special (in addition to the obvious) is the fact that it doesn’t take up the entire calendar year. it builds up a sense of anticipation, and lets you really appreciate the little things that are so important — the things that make the holiday season special. otherwise, you water it down and risk losing the magic that makes it such a special time of year. 
of course, i say this now as i fret over the fact christmas has successfully overtaken thanksgiving and is now coming for halloween. But as soon as the food settles on Nov. 27th and i’m half watching foot­ball and half falling asleep i’ll probably start hearing Jingle Bells in my head. 
…okay. i’ll do my best to wait until the very next day. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at      mginocchio@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Snow time like the present 
Stephen Raab 
Let’s talk smart 

over this fall break, i found myself with a quiet mo­ment between hectic sessions of “doing nothing” that christopher robin would consider excessive. i decided to take the time to read a 1959 essay by British chemist and novelist c. p. snow titled “the two cultures.” professor maginn had mentioned the text briefly in my sophomore thermodynamics course, and my curiosity had been piqued. 
in his essay, snow laments that “the intellectual life of the whole of western society is increasingly being split into two polar groups ... literary intellectuals at one pole, at the other scientists and at the most representative, the physical scientists. Between the two, a gulf of mutual incomprehension.” scholars of the humanities, he says, regard scientists as illiterate specialists, ignorant of the supposed higher concepts of philosophy or art. At the same time, these literati regard scientific knowledge with contempt — that is, when they regard it at all. 
snow reports on a few instances of conversation with literary intellectuals in which “i have been provoked and have asked the company how many of them could de­scribe the second Law of thermodynamics. the response was cold, it was also negative. yet i was asking something which is about the scientific equivalent of: have you read a work of shakespeare?” of course, it cuts both ways. snow tells stories of scientists he’s met who regarded charles dickens as an obscure author. 
in reading the article, i began to think more critically about how i had personally contributed to this divide. while i haven’t seen the impassable gulf that snow spoke of here at Notre dame, i have noted a certain crevasse of passive aggression. i can recall laughing along with my engineer friends who scorned “the college of Arts and crafts,” secure in the knowledge that we were taking “real” majors. to be sure, i had friends in the humani­ties, but as my course load veered towards the harder sciences, i saw them less and less. i wonder how many of them were conditioned to look down on us engineers for “measuring the marigolds.” 
i certainly want to make amends for my own part in this senseless culture war. throughout my mission of reconciliation i’ve found that one of the best sources of common ground is science–fiction. As if the name didn’t say enough, the genre provides a unique opportunity to fuse the two cultures. this is the realm of protago­nists like Lazarus Long, who in robert heinlein’s “time enough for Love” proclaims: “A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a com­puter, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. specialization is for insects.” 
Now, do i expect us all to become renaissance men and women, experts on every subject from aerospace to Zoroastrianism? of course not — although it would be nice. the cutting edge of both the arts and sciences has become so highly refined that it’s impossible to know everything about everything, but it certainly can’t hurt us to explore a little bit more of the life’s work of our fel­low human beings. 
one of the groups in particular need of this message is our nation’s politicians, both incumbents and newly elected alike. one of our primary foreign policy con­cerns — preventing the spread of the ebola virus into the united states — is fundamentally a scientific prob­lem, rooted in biology and germ theory with a lineage stretching back to pasteur. yet the men and women in washington who are in charge of organizing this effort are far more likely to have studied solzhenitsyn in school than they are van der waals. wouldn’t it be nice if our politicians had a little more grounding in the physical sciences? 
ultimately, i’m hopeful that science and the humani­ties will someday no longer suffer the communication breakdown that has hampered them in the past. it will take a concerted effort from both sides, and it cer­tainly won’t happen overnight. But i’m sure that one day, the two cultures can exist in mutual respect and appreciation. 
that is, of course, unless you expect me to read poetry. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying Chemical Engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at 
sraab@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Addressing a void of leadership in America 
Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve Lost our Quorum 

do you hear the collective nationwide sigh of relief? the midterm elections have passed. After months of analysis, predictions and inexorable cam­paigns, votes have been cast and the talking heads are deciphering the results and brandishing new prognostications. 
Although the republican party ran away with a sweeping victory, the gop should be careful not to interpret its triumph as an anointing of conserva­tive policies. the American citizenry has voiced a conspicuous dissatisfaction with its national govern­ment, both in the white house and on capitol hill. 
certainly, there are many factors that contribute to this political malaise, but i believe foremost among them is a failure of leadership. consequently, i would like to share some personal reflections on leadership that look beyond political punditry and aim at guid­ing others through uncertain waters. 
the concept of leadership is discussed so frequent­ly that its meaning has faded into an obscure talking point for admissions officers, politicians, coaches and advisors. As students, we hear it from every cor­ner: calls to demonstrate leadership, expectations of leadership experience and frustratingly abstract appeals to leadership as the key to a better future. 
this raises the question, what exactly is the mean­ing of this broad notion of leading others? 
Leadership is no simple task. Navigating inter­woven demographics with divergent preferences on a laundry list of issues resembles running a marathon through a dry savanna of starving lions. Leaders have to pick their battles in hopes of serving the common good all while being bombarded by a cacophony of conflicting voices and balancing their values with a necessary pragmatism. 
i believe that leading is deeper than having sup­porters, setting an example or changing your envi­ronment — although these are crucial to the success of a leader. there exists a deeper ethos of human impact to which leaders must aspire. 
John Quincy Adams once wrote: “if your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more, and become more, then you are a leader.” Adams refers to the vision that a leader must paint to gather the members of his or her community to a common purpose. A vision must pull on the heartstrings of the people, quickening heart rates as the imagination ponders what potential the future holds. 
with that said, foresight and a strong message are not enough to bring change to a community. Leadership requires discipline, perseverance and a strong moral compass to be successful in the long term. the welfare of the community must take pre­cedence over political and personal interests. 
solving the difficult challenges that fall to our po­litical leaders also requires creativity, compassion and teamwork. i don’t think anyone would consider it a stretch to claim that our national leaders have been severely lacking in these qualities in recent years. it is incumbent upon our leaders to realize that those who disagree with them are not intellectu­ally inferior but simply hold different priorities and philosophies. there are brilliant men and women on both flanks of political issues, and solutions are best achieved through dialogue conducted in good faith. 
And yet, dialogue alone will not close the deal. making tough calls requires great courage. we must expect our leaders to tackle the hard decisions, rather than duck into hiding to avoid political retri­bution or popular disapproval. Leadership is built atop responsibility and shirking that duty is a true disservice to the people who bestowed that authority through a democratic process. 
my most profound understanding of leadership, however, is one for which i must credit my mother. At its core, leadership can be summarized by a simple decision — that of acceptance. it may seem counter­intuitive, but acceptance is central to the role of a leader. 
Leaders must accept the circumstances in which they lead. they must accept the gifts and burdens of their communities. personal bias must be recog­nized and challenged. unfamiliar ideas and meth­odologies must be explored and embraced to resolve new problems. ignorance on issues must be acknowl­edged and self-image put aside to utilize the exper­tise of others. 
Leaders must confront the issues that arise during their terms, whether the issues evoke passion or in­difference. when initiatives end in success or failure, leaders must accept the outcome. As leaders make decisions, they must accept the shower of opinions on their actions, whether admiration or disdain, loyalty or defection. 
most importantly, leaders must accept that quit­ting is not an option, for they have been chosen and hold an obligation to lead. it is my hope that our leaders, especially on the stagnant national stage, can overcome distractions to leadership by practic­ing acceptance. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and po­litical science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Ask more, do more, be more 
if there’s one thing Notre dame knows how to do well, it’s build community. From residence halls to athletic teams, musical groups to student clubs, there are hundreds of ways our university strives to make the Notre dame family feel more personal and welcoming. we are drawn to Notre dame because of this community, and we hope to find a place in it when we arrive. 
however, some of us don’t find the perfect fit in our randomly assigned dorm or extracurricular endeav­ors. instead, we find it in our college. certain courses grasp our attention, whether due to a passionate professor or a field we especially connect with. the students sitting beside us in class challenge, inspire and even entertain us. A future of opportunities to learn, grow and make a difference seems to appear before us, and we’re wondering why we didn’t see it before. we feel like we belong. 
these students exist in every college, and in the mendoza college of Business, 18 of us are formally working to make our college community stronger as members of the mendoza student Leadership Association (msLA). created last fall with class and major representatives carefully selected by our founding members, our mission is to serve as a voice for students in the college and foster a stronger bond between students and faculty. After recogniz­ing opportunities to improve the academic, social and post-graduate experience for each business stu­dent, we’ve organized our initiatives into three core divisions. 
Ask more: in our time at Notre dame, we have many occasions to experience world-class academics and network with brilliant professors and students. however, the sheer number of opportunities can be overwhelming, especially when balancing major selection, study abroad applications and internship interviews along the way. in the past, students have had trouble knowing where to look for advice when choosing between majors or trying to select the best elective courses based on their interests. with this in mind, msLA created a peer-mentoring program that will connect underclassmen with seniors with a wide variety of experiences. this program launched on Nov. 3rd, so be sure to check out our website for more information. 
do more: one of our greatest opportunities for improvement lies in the creation of more events that celebrate and foster the mendoza community. Last semester, msLA organized a series of dinners with professors, which allowed interested groups of stu­dents to join professors in casual conversation over a home-cooked meal. Additionally, msLA hosted an end-of-year charity gala bringing together students and faculty and raising over $3,000 for the declan sullivan Foundation. due to the success of both of these events, they will be continued throughout the current academic year, in addition to new initia­tives such as a student spotlight social media cam­paign. Follow us on twitter (@ndmsla) and like us on Facebook to find out more. 
Be more: Beyond our university exists an enor­mous network of Notre dame graduates and op­portunities that students may not know exists. Last spring, we offered “the road Less traveled” panel sessions intended to make student more aware of opportunities in less-traditional career paths. students who had experience in social entrepreneur­ship, marketing and the sports industry shared their experiences and advice on how to get involved. one attendee said the panel was the most helpful event he had participated in regarding career discernment. with that momentum, we are looking to expand the series over the course of this year. 
the msLA is an opportunity for business students to identify what could be improved in the college and design the solutions ourselves. with the backing of the office of undergraduate studies, we have the po­tential to create a community where future students interested in business will easily find their place. 
MSLA 
mendoza college of Business oct. 27 


the oBserVer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 

By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

stephen sondheim’s “into the woods” makes a name for itself in the musical theatre world as a notoriously dif­ficult production to perfect. its score and accompanying singing parts are difficult, special effects play a key role in the plot and the ending is not exactly what you’d call a “happily ever after.” 
the pasquerilla east musical company managed to pull it off during its dress rehearsal wednesday. 
the musical opens as the Narrator (played by Anthony murphy) introduces us to the generous assortment of classic fairy tale characters who make their way “into the woods,” intertwining in each others’ fictional lives and learning that there’s far more to their tales than we all once thought. 
it’s here, with a talented cast, where i think the pemco production excels the most. Across the board, the young individuals executed their demanding singing parts bril­liantly and their above-average actin chops made the trek through the mysterious woods of this magical world feel a little more like reality. 
As for standouts, chris siemann, who doubles as the wolf and cinderella’s prince, gives an amazing per­formance in both of his extremely different roles. he is deliciously disturbing as the gluttonous canine — his rendition of “hello, Little girl” is a highlight of the show 
— and he finishes the performance humorously mascu­line as a royal who decides the best way to get a girl to marry you is to trap her in “pitch.” 
the witch, the undeniable star of “into the woods,” is brought to life by elizabeth curtain, who brings plenty of star power of her own. she is flawless, fake pointy nose and all. As i watched her belt the final notes of “stay with me”, i occasionally forgot that Bernadette peters was ac­tually not in this performance. 
curtain is the whole package, nailing the acting, sing­ing and development of the famous character through­out both acts. if anything, the show is worth the ticket if only to be able to tell your friends one day that you saw elizabeth curtain perform before she made it big. 
Alongside the performances, the other aspects of the show succeed with very few stumbles along the way. the costumes are more modern and simplistic than one would usually expect from a fairy tale musical, a decision that works well with this production and lends itself to the aesthetic. Jack’s cow, from “Jack and the Beanstalk,” milky white, is embodied by an almost gruesome look­ing skeleton puppet. 
the design succeeds in telling the audience that milky white is not the most productive cow but makes it harder for us to understand why Jack would really want to be friends with a carcass. however, the puppetry was well done and does not seem out of place amongst the other costumes and set pieces. 
the set is another modern take on the “woods,” which would traditionally provide the backdrop for the pro­duction. while i admired the idea, the two huge stand­ing structures behind the cast made for a crowded stage. “into the woods” famously hops from one story line to another, requiring a lot of people to be on stage at one time. that coupled with the fact that half of the stage is eaten up by huge, seemingly impractical “trees,” makes for a cramped scene which is atypical considering we’re supposed to be in the woods. 
pemco.’s attempt at perfecting “into the woods” is successful mostly thanks to the superb cast. 
Beautifully scored with a surprising storyline, it’s a de­lightful musical that will have you rethinking your favor­ite fairy tales and the old adage – “be careful what you wish for.” 
“into the woods” premieres November 6th at 7:30 p.m. in washington hall, with performances also running November 7th at 7:30 p.m. and November 8th at 4:00 p.m. tickets are $7 for students and $10 for non-students. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at alowery1@nd.edu 


the oBserVer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
Associate scene editor 

Notre dame will expand its borders this weekend when it hosts the 26th annual con­ference for the haitian studies Association. the conference includes various events aimed to exhibit haitian culture and the country’s current situation. 
several faculty, staff and alumni will attend the conference, and students are invited to attend. 
co-sponsored by 14 different campus groups, including the center for social concerns and the snite museum of Art, the conference is being brought to campus by the Kellogg institute for international studies. Notre dame applied to host the confer­ence in 2011 because of its long relationship with haiti as well as its strong interna­tional studies programs. 
the conference previously has been hosted at universities in cities such as Boston, Bloomington and montréal. 
A main feature of the conference is the panel presentation session by Notre dame faculty and students. 
there are 13 presentations total, most taking place Friday. topics cover a wide range of subjects, from the dynamics of health to politics and development to solutions to Vulnerability. 
Another interesting aspect of the weekend is an exposition of solutions to the hous­ing crisis in haiti. Notre dame engineers created the project engineering2empower, and they dedicate themselves to “breaking the cycle of aid dependence and vulner­ability” in haiti. 
over the course of the weekend, e2e will host tours of prototypical innovative housing models on the outskirts of campus — replicas of actual houses built in Léogâne, haiti. the houses are brightly colored and designed to withstand hurricanes and earthquakes. 
the conference includes several cultural events, including art and photo exhibits and movie showings. the main art exhibit includes pieces by haitian artist georges Liautaud, an artist famous for his metal sculptures. 
there will also be drapo Vodou art, which comes from the haitian region of Vodou and has both African and european roots (specifically, “drapo” comes from the French word for flag, “drapeau”). the collection includes several Vodou flags dating to the 60s and 70s. 
there are two film screenings in conjunction with the conference, both showing at the deBartolo performing Arts center. on thursday, the 2012 film “Assistance mortelle” (“Fatal Assistance”) will show at 7 p.m. 
originally produced in French and haitian creole, the film will play with english subtitles. it is a heart-wrenching documentary that depicts haiti post-earthquake. the second film, “deported,” speaks of deportation in haiti caused by u.s. policy. Both will inform viewers of serious yet neglected issues. 
Finally, the conference is holding a photo contest throughout campus to depict modern-day haiti. Because the theme of the conference is “migration, crossing Boundaries, paths Forward,” the contest will focus on these ideas. 
Friday features pre-conference events including receptions and talks, while panel discussions begin saturday and continue through sunday. 
For more information, please visit www.kellogg.nd.edu/hsa. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: “Snite@Nite” 
When: 7:00 p.m. 

Where: Snite Museum of Art 
How Much: Free 

Featuring performances from student groups such as the echoes, halftime, and the humor Artists, the snite showcases its current col­lections. the current exhibition is “roaring twenties exuberance & depression era extravagance: selections from the Jack B. smith Jr. Automobile collection.” the show­case includes t-shirt screening and food from Biggby coffee and gigi’s cupcakes. 
FRIDAY 

What: “Six Characters in Search of an Author” When: 7:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $7 for students, $15 for non-students 
Notre dame showcases a new ad­aptation of Luigi pirandello’s 1921 play. 2007 Nd alumni patrick Vassel adapted and directed the play, which casts the six title characters as stars of a reality tV show. in the original, the characters take over rehearsal to tell their own story, questioning the rela­tionship between art and life. 
SATURDAY 

What: “Frank” When: 10 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $7 
the 2014 film by irish direc­tor Lenny Abrahamson comes to Notre dame. A young, would-be musician  Jon (domhnall gleeson) joins a pop band featuring a lead singer who hides himself within a large fake head. Frank is played by michael Fassbender. gleeson and Fassbender are joined by maggie gyllenhall, who plays another band member, clara. 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a scene writer picks a movie or show available on instant streaming ser­vice, then writes a review. 
this monday, we’ll talk about this summer’s sleeper hit “snowpiercer.” this film follows a group of rebels as they struggle for control of the globe-spanning train that con­tains the last remnants of human­ity. “snowpiercer” just came out on Netflix, so be sure to check it out and join our discussion next week. 
check it out then check in for Jimmy Kemper’s review in monday’s paper. 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Players and fans lose with ties 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 
there are a lot of things to hate in sports. But in all of ath­letics, there’s one thing in par­ticular i can’t stand: ties. 
As a player, i hated ties. As a fan, i hate ties. And as a jour­nalist, i still hate ties. there is nothing more unsatisfying than playing/cheering for 65 minutes 
— regulation in hockey plus the standard regular-season overtime — and ending up right where you began. having to go over and shake your op­ponents’ hands while trying to decide whether or not you want to start a line brawl just so you can try to take away some sort of victory. 
o.K., so i never did that, but after a tie, “good game,” just has a hollow ring to it. 
yes, it very well may have been a good game, between two teams so evenly matched that neither one ended up distin­guishing itself from the other in the ‘win’ column. yet that is the whole blasted point of high-level athletic competition. there is a winner; there is a loser. 
most people go into a game, match, meet, etc. trying to win because they love winning. there are even some who go into a game trying to win sim­ply because they hate losing so much. either way, nobody goes into a game saying: 
“eh, i just feel like tying today, boys. sound good?” 
No fan tailgating in the park­ing lot or walking into the arena sees someone in the other team’s jersey and says, “i hope we tie you guys today!” they may wish them good luck or put a curse on everyone and their mother — but no one wishes for a tie. 
Beginning with the 2005-2006 NhL season, if teams are still tied after regulation and a five-minute sudden-death overtime period, the game is decided in a shootout. No more going home unsatisfied, always a winner and a loser. i would argue it was one of the greatest decisions the NhL has ever made because it guarantees a conclusive and exciting finish to every hockey game. 
i have heard arguments that get hung up on awarding an extra point to a team based on a tiebreaker where only three or four skaters and a goalie compete for the entire team, that a win in a shootout should not be worth as much in the conference standings as a regu­lation or overtime win. 
if you are so worried about that then, make the points dif­ferent. As it stands now, in the NhL for example, the winner of every game gets two points, while the loser gets none if they lose in regulation and one if they lose in overtime or a shootout. 
in my perfect sports world, if i were looking to keep action going at full speed, this is how overtime would go: if tied at the end of regulation, you go to the standard, four-on-four over­time period. if still tied, go to a five-round shootout to decide a winner. 

the points breakdown would be as follows: three points for a regulation or overtime win, two points for a shootout win. that way, you get added incentive for winning through normal play. the loser, on the other hand, gets nothing for a regulation loss and one point for either an over­time or shootout loss. Basically, you can play with literally noth­ing to lose and everything (two points) to gain in overtime, while still having one point up for grabs in the shootout if noth­ing happens in extra time. 
i could get really fancy and say that after the four-on-four overtime, you could slide in another five-minute, three-on­three overtime period. For those of you who have never seen a three-on-three with guys who can skate like the wind, i’m sor­ry. you’re missing out. But again, that would be in an ideal world. 
instead, we all have to settle for ties. settle for the awkward­ness of having watched an athletic spectacle that basically gave us absolutely nothing to brag or seethe about. settle for settling for nothing. 
heck, i would even take a shootout just for shootout’s sake. you do not even have to actually count it for anything other than the fact that it gives the illusion that one team won and the other lost. it would not tide me over indefinitely, but at least it’s something. 
Contact  Zach Klonsinki at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

texas court sentences peterson to probation 
Associated Press 

coNroe, texas — minnesota Vikings star Adrian peterson avoided jail tuesday by reaching a deal with texas prosecutors to re­solve a child abuse case that revived a national debate about corporal punishment. 
peterson was sentenced to a form of probation af­ter pleading no contest to a misdemeanor charge of reckless assault for using a wooden switch to discipline his 4-year-old son. it was not immediately clear how the plea deal would affect his playing status or whether he might be subject to a new NFL policy that calls for a six-game suspension with­out pay for a first domestic violence offense. 
the All-pro running back was indicted in september on a felony charge of in­jury to a child after the in­cident earlier this year in suburban houston. he has been on paid leave under a special exemption from NFL commissioner roger goodell. 
“i stand here and i take full responsibility for my actions. i love my son more than anyone of you could even imagine and i’m anx­ious to continue my relation­ship with my child,” peterson said outside the courthouse after accepting the plea deal. 
“i’m just glad this is over,” he added. “i can put this behind me, and me and my family can continue to move forward.” 
he was not allowed to be near his son while the case was pending, but now can resume having contact with the boy. 
“Adrian wants to get on with his life and have his re­lationship with his son and get back to playing football,” 
peterson’s  attorney,  rusty  
hardin, said.  
NFL  spokesman  Brian  

mccarthy said the league “cannot provide a timetable” for that. 
“we will review the matter, including the court record, and then make a determina­tion on his status,” mccarthy said. 
the Vikings said they were aware of the plea agreement, and would have further comment “at the appropriate time.” 
peterson is one of a hand­ful of NFL players who have been involved in domestic violence cases lately, includ­ing carolina panthers defen­sive end greg hardy, Arizona cardinals running back Jonathan dwyer and former Baltimore ravens running back ray rice. 
After receiving plenty of criticism for initially hand­ing rice only a two-game suspension, goodell an­nounced in August that he was toughening the league’s punishments for domestic violence. 
Attention to the issue rose considerably in september, when a video surfaced show­ing rice knocking out his then-fiancee — and now wife 
— in a casino elevator; he soon was cut by the ravens and indefinitely barred by the league. 
peterson has said he never intended to harm his son and was disciplining him in the same way he had been as a child growing up in east texas. the boy suffered cuts, marks and bruising to his thighs, back and one of his testicles, according to court records. 
peterson had tentatively been set to go on trial dec. 1. if he had been convicted of the felony charge, he could have faced up to two years in prison and a $10,000 fine. instead, he received two years of deferred adjudica­tion, a form of probation. he was fined $4,000 and must complete parenting classes and perform 80 hours of community service. 
his no contest plea wasn’t an admission of guilt but was treated as such for sentencing. 
peterson will have no trav­el restrictions. if he com­pletes his probation without incident, the misdemeanor charge will be removed from his record. 
montgomery county district Attorney Brett Ligon said he believed the plea agreement was in the best interest of peterson’s son. 
“the probation is all about making him a better parent,” Ligon said. 
Last month, a visiting judge denied a request by prosecutors to have a new judge appointed to the case. prosecutors had accused montgomery county state district Judge Kelly case of being biased against them. 
NFL 

Browns head to Cincinnati for ‘Battle of Ohio’ 
Associated Press 

ciNciNNAti — too often, the so-called Battle of ohio has been about as tasty as week-old skyline chili. 
Not this week. 

when the Browns travel to cincinnati on thursday night, there’s plenty at stake. cleveland is 5-3, barely be­hind the first-place Bengals (5-2-1) and second-place pittsburgh (6-3) in what has shaped up as an intriguing division. they’ve won four of their past five. 
“this is a big game,” Browns coach mike pettine said, noting he and his play­ers won’t shy away from the pressure of being in conten­tion halfway through the schedule. 
“i don’t think i need to hype it any more as far as where we are. i’m not going to be that coach that just ignores it and doesn’t talk about it. that is our goal. i’m not going to hide from it, but at the same time, we have enough on our plate worry­ing about a short week and going down to cincinnati and playing well.” 
cleveland must play bet­ter offensively than it did in its past three games, against NFL weaklings Jacksonville, oakland and tampa Bay. the Browns even managed to lose to the Jaguars, the only win so far for the hap­less Jacksonville team this season. 
cincinnati has had a slightly tougher road, and if head-to-head comparisons mean anything, the Bengals beat the Jags last week. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
pAid AdVertisemeNt 



ROWING 

ND to conclude fall season 
BY BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
Notre dame will con­clude its fall season saturday in columbus, ohio, where it will compete in a four-team scrimmage. 
the irish go up against indiana, michigan state and two-time defending NcAA champion and host of the scrimmage, ohio state, in the race. 
this scrimmage will feature a series of five-minute side-by­side races, which will give each team an indicator of where they are heading into the win­ter training months. 
irish coach martin stone said competing against this level of talent will give the irish an opportunity to identify the areas where they can improve during the winter. 
“this scrimmage should def­initely give us a very good idea of where we are speed-wise go­ing into our training portion of the schedule,” stone said. “A lot will happen between now and the beginning of the spring, but this event will allow us to know where are right now.” 
this past month in cambridge, massachusetts, the irish raced in the head of the charles regatta, a world-renowned rowing event 
NBA | mAgic 91, 76ers 89 

featuring both collegiate and olympic-level teams. 
stone said the upcoming scrimmage will feature teams familiar to the irish, as op­posed to ones they faced for the first and only time at the charles regatta. 
“i think we’ll transition well to this type of event,” stone said. “charles regatta was an event where we saw a number of crews we’ll never see again, but now it’s time to compete against those we’ll be facing in the spring.” 
with its side-by-side ar­rangement, saturday’s scrim­mage varies greatly from the regatta’s head race format. the head race is essentially a time-trial competition, where crews row in a single file line and are timed from beginning to end. 
unlike the regatta, the scrimmage will pit crews di­rectly against each other, which stone said will allow his coaching staff to give direct feedback to the team. 
“this race we’ll just be able to have a much better idea how you’re doing at the mo­ment because you’ll be side by side, and we’ll be able to work more directly with the team,” he said. 
Although different from the regatta format, stone said the team’s strategy will be similar during saturday’s event. 
“they’re clearly different events, but our strategy will be pretty much the same,” he said. 
After saturday, Notre dame will head into its four-month winter training session. 
given south Bend’s typi­cal weather, the irish will be unable to get out on the wa­ter during winter training, but stone said this period will be crucial to ensuring the team’s success for the upcoming spring schedule. 
“ we will be training very hard during the offseason,” he said. “we plan to improve both our physical fitness, through weight training and condi­tioning, as well as our mental toughness, which will come from being inside and training on a daily basis.” 
the irish open their 2015 spring schedule on march 14 at melton Lake in oak ridge, tennessee, where they will compete in the oak ridge invitational. 
Notre dame takes on the hoosiers, wolverines and Buckeyes at the griggs reservoir in columbus, ohio, on saturday in an all-day scrimmage event. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 

Magic buzz past 76ers in first overtime win of year 
four games, the sixers kept Kentucky. Noel had shown 
Associated Press 

the score close for most of flashes in the first four 
phiLAdeLphiA — tobias the first three quarters, but games of living up to his No. harris made a jumper at the didn’t have enough in the 6 overall draft pick status. buzzer to give the orlando fourth. Noel had a double-double magic their first victory the question remains, against milwaukee, and he of the season, 91-89 over when will the sixers win? made highlight reels with the philadelphia 76ers on they play their third home his leaping, one-handed wednesday night. game of the week Friday stuff of houston’s James 
Nik Vucevic scored 17 against chicago. then harden’s two-handed dunk points and channing Frye games against toronto, attempt on monday. had 13 points and 11 re-dallas, houston and san the sixers did it again bounds for orlando. harris Antonio mean it could be with the nifty dunks, this had 18 points and eight re-late in the month before time when wroten lobbed bounds to help the magic their next legitimate shot one to K.J. mcdaniels for snap a season-opening, against Boston. the one-handed slam over four-game losing streak. the sixers blew several helpless maurice harkless. 
it helped they played chances to tie or trim the mcdaniels sank a free throw the sixers. the sixers are lead within a bucket in the for the three-point play and 0-5 for the first time since final minutes until wroten’s a 42-41 lead in the second. the 2001-02 season. tony driving layup pulled them But neither team could wroten scored 27 points and to 85-83. philadelphia’s Luc pull away from the other, an Brandon davies had 20 to mbah a moute lost the ball expected tight one between give the sixers two 20-point on the next possession — two of the worst teams in the scorers in a game for the just one more sloppy play in NBA. first time this season. a game full of them. the sixers will get a rare 
henry sims swished the sixers rookie Nerlens Noel, dose of good news thursday tying bucket from the top of who sat out all of last sea-when NBA rookie of the year the key with 4.6 seconds left. son recovering from a torn michael carter-williams re­
harris buried a fallaway AcL, left the game with a turns to practice. he’ll par-at the horn for the thrilling sprained left ankle. Noel ticipate in a full practice for win. scored four points and had the first time this season fol-
close or not, the sixers two rebounds in 16 minutes. lowing surgery in may to re-still ended up with the L. he tore the AcL in his pair the labrum of his right 
As in most of their first left knee his lone season at shoulder. 




McGlinn ties Howard 
W INTERHALL | mcgLiNN 12, howArd 12 
By TYLER WOJCIAK 
sports writer 
mcglinn and howard both entered monday night’s game with a 2-3 record, and the squads walked off the field still evenly matched with iden­tical 2-3-1 records, as they tied, 12-12. 
After two promising drives stalled and resulted in turn­overs on downs, howard ju­nior quarterback stephanie peterson led the ducks down the field and scored the first touchdown of the game when she ran in untouched from about 10 yards out. the ducks failed on the extra-point conversion, to take a 6-0 lead, which stayed that way for the rest of the first half. 
mcglinn had the ball first af­ter halftime, and senior quar­terback meaghan hannon led the shamrocks down the field for a touchdown thanks to three costly penalties committed by the ducks. the shamrocks failed to convert their extra-point conversion as well and the score remained 6-6 at the end of the third quarter. 
Following a turnover on downs by howard, mcglinn retained possession and scored on the very first play after junior receiver maddy sowar evaded defenders and streaked down the sideline for a shamrock touchdown to make the score 12-6. the ensuing extra-point conversion was intercepted, and the score remained the same. 

howard responded to the mcglinn touchdown on the ensuing possession by driving down the field and scoring on a 20-yard touchdown reception by senior captain and receiver claire Kozlowski. For the fourth consecutive time in the game, the conversion was unsuccess­ful and the shamrocks got the ball at their own 20-yard line with a chance to win the game. 
mcglinn was able to move the ball effectively as time ran out, but howard finally dug in and stopped the shamrocks at their own 30-yard line and re­gained possession with only 48 seconds to play. however, the ducks failed to move the ball downfield and the game ended 12-12. 
Because mcglinn allowed five less points than howard on the season, its season lives on, and it will enter the playoffs. 
on the other hand, howard’s season comes to a bitter end, Kozlowski said. 
despite the fact that howard’s season was over, Kozlowski said she was proud of the way her team fought throughout the game and the rest of the season as well. 
“it was a great game, both teams definitely came to play because a lot was on the line,” Kozlowski said. “i think we gave it our all, it was a great season, and i’m excited for the years to come for this team.” 
mcglinn senior captain emma collis was thrilled af­ter the game, knowing that the outcome of the game resulted in a playoff berth for her team. 
“i think this game against howard showed us both our strengths and where we can improve,” collis said. “we’ll be working out the kinks this week so that we can deliver another great performance come the playoff games.” 
mcglinn takes on unbeaten welsh Family on sunday at 5 p.m., at the Labar practice Fields. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 


pAid AdVertisemeNt the oBserVer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 



SMC SOCCER | smc 0, triNe 0 
Belles end season with scoreless draw 
Observer Staff Report 
the Belles closed out their 2014 season with a scoreless, double overtime draw against trine on monday night. 
the Belles (6-11-3, 4-9-3 miAA) had opportunities to score but were unable to push one past trine’s freshman goal­keeper Kristina Veljovic, who made her first career shutout for the thunder (4-11-4, 2-10-4). 
saint mary’s created its first scoring opportunity in the 10th minute. senior defender Kerry green rocketed a free kick into the box, but senior for­ward Kelly wilson headed the ball just wide, left of the post. Freshman midfielder gabby guerra had another chance for the Belles with a strong shot from just outside the 18-yard box, but Veljovic made the save. 
the Belles also nearly scored in the 41st minute. wilson had another chance, but the thunder defense thwarted her attempt, forcing her shot to land just above and to the right of the post. 
in the final minute of the first half, saint mary’s earned a free kick just outside the pen­alty area. green sent the pass to senior Natalie warner, but she headed the ball slightly right of the goal. 

the story was much the same in the second half for the Belles. Both sides earned a number of scoring chances, but neither team was able to find the back of the net. 
wilson and sophomore for­ward Liza Felix almost con­nected in the first overtime period, but wilson’s ball bounced opposite of Felix as the Belles missed another op­portunity on net. 
ultimately, neither the Belles nor the thunder were able to capitalize. wilson led the Belles in shots with three, followed by green and guerra, who each tallied two. senior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum posted four saves to earn her 19th and final career shutout. 
the tie against trine marks the end of saint mary’s 2014 campaign. the Belles finished seventh in the miAA, while hope claimed the conference title with a 14-1-1 record in con­ference play. 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Belles senior midfielder Erin Mishu dribbles the ball down the sideline during Saint Mary’s 2-0 loss to Olivet on Oct. 28. 


pAid AdVertisemeNt pAid AdVertisemeNt 





W Tennis 
coNtiNued From pAge 20 

five players advanced in their first round singles matches and two doubles teams made the semi-finals. robinson’s performance es­pecially stood out, as she reached the semi-finals in singles, while she and gleason lost the doubles championship match by a single point. 
overall, Louderback said he saw a lot of positives at the regional and throughout the entire fall. 
“i think the fall, especially our last tournament, was re­ally good for us,” Louderback said. “At our regional we played really well. we had two doubles teams in the semi-finals, which was real­ly good. i felt like in singles we had two or three matches that we lost in tight matches, but they were ones where we had player playing other team’s top players and we were in the match with them. it has been a strong fall and if we can come out with an­other this next weekend it’s going to help in the spring with our kids’ confidence.” 
in addition to building confidence, Louderback said he will be watching how the team’s two freshmen play. Brooke Broda has yet to see any playing time this fall due to injuries, while Allison miller has been play­ing through a wrist injury. Louderback said he has seen good things from both in practice and hopes it carries over into matches. 
“Broda has not played yet, but i think we are going to get her in the doubles this weekend,” Louderback said. “miller has played where she has to hit a one-handed backhand, but even with that she has had a great fall. i’ve been really impressed with her. her work ethic is amazing and the way she’s handled herself as a fresh­man on the court has been great.” 
As the freshman look to play their way into the line­up, Louderback said he feels good about gleason and robinson as his top players. Both played in the All-American invitational earlier this fall, and Louderback said he hopes their experience both there and in New york this week­end will help them grow as players and leaders of the team. 
“they’ve had a good fall,” Louderback said. “they’re a good doubles team, and monica has made a huge jump. she was not even in our doubles lineup half the time last year and i think her not being in the lineup real­ly motivated her to work on some things that has really helped her doubles. Quinn was very good last year and they complement each other well. they work hard at it and we’re hoping they have a good indoor. i feel good about them being able to play at the top of our lineup.” 
the itA/ustA National indoor collegiate championships begins thursday. the Notre dame pair will open with a match against senior Linda Fritschken and junior emma olina of Barry university. 
the western michigan invitational begins play on Friday and will contin­ue through saturday and sunday. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 





MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish sophomore Josh Hagar sets up to return a volley during Notre Dame’s 4-3 win over Kentucky on Feb. 2 at Eck Tennis Center. 
W Bball 
coNtiNued From pAge 20 
Notre dame’s first six points off the layup, a putback of a miss by mabrey and a second layup on a fast break. 
though she played only 18 minutes wednesday night, sig­nificantly less than her 29.8-min­ute average last season, Loyd led all scorers with 20 points. she added eight rebounds, two as­sists, two blocks and a steal to round out a solid performance on both ends of the court. 
“Jewell Loyd was pretty much unstoppable, which is what we hope her to be most of the year,” mcgraw said. 
Ferris state did not get on the board until nearly mid­way through the first half when Bulldogs redshirt sophomore forward christina Branch’s la­yup brought the score to 28-2. 
up until that point, the irish defense had forced eight Ferris state turnovers and 12 missed shots. 
Notre dame also collected 38 points off 32 total Bulldogs turn­overs throughout the game, with eight irish players registering at least one steal. 
“that’s definitely something that coach has been wanting us to focus on, is defense,” reimer said. “And so using a game like this, we’re trying to focus on do­ing the little things on defense and just focusing on everything we can and trying to get better, and obviously, we’ll watch film on that and try to improve.” 
the irish held a 51-30 re­bounding advantage and al­lowed the Bulldogs to pull down just 10 offensive boards. 
mcgraw said part of that re­bounding success stems from a friendly competition between reimer and turner. 
“Both of them actually have a goal of a double-double [each game],” mcgraw said. “they’re competing for the leading re­bounder and most double-dou­bles this season.” 
turner played 20 minutes in her debut, and her fellow fresh­men joined her on the court for much of that time. 

Forward Kathryn westbeld entered the game after the first media timeout to begin her 18 minutes of play. in that time, she scored five points, dished out three assists and swiped a team-high five steals. 
mcgraw said she sees westbeld as a key reserve this season. 
“right now, she’s probably the seventh man,” mcgraw said. “i see her coming in and playing quite a bit. she’s also a tough matchup. she can shoot 3s; she can score on the block. i think she’s going to be a really good player for us.” 
guard mychal Johnson also saw significant time on the floor, taking over as point guard for much of the second half and playing 24 minutes, the longest appearance of any irish player. 
Johnson knocked down three 3-point shots as part of her 15 points, second only to Loyd’s total. 
“mychal Johnson, coming off the bench, had a fantastic first time out,” mcgraw said. 
A packed purcell pavilion watched the irish open their season, with 8,174 fans in at­tendance. that mark is the sec-ond-highest for a Notre dame exhibition in program history. 
“i thought that was a great be­ginning for us, a good chance for the freshmen to get in front of the crowd — great crowd — a chance for them to see what it’s like to put the uniform on.” 
After the tune-up victory, the team will next lace up for its season opener against umass Lowell on oct. 14, at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
M Tennis 
coNtiNued From pAge 20 

should they win this af­ternoon, covalschi and hagar will be back for the round of 16 Friday. they will likely face the top-seeded doubles team of yannick hanfmann and roberto Quiroz fro usc. hanfmann will also be participating in singles play in this week­end’s competition. he is seeded 32nd among singles competitors and plays to­day at noon. the top trojan doubles team will face the winner the first round match between columbia and North carolina state this afternoon. 
“After such a strong sea­son last year, the team has made it clear from the be­ginning of the fall that we are not satisfied with last year’s success, dawson said “we have made it a point to be gritty as a team this season. we have focused a lot on maintaining a dual match intensity in every practice. “ 
the irish are familiar with the tournament. Last year, they did not send a doubles team but were rep­resented by then-senior greg Andrews in singles play. Andrews fell in the second round. 
this weekend’s itA National championships will mark the final time that the irish will take the court for competitive play during 2014. their spring campaign will begin with the morgan run hidden duals in rancho santa Fe, california, from Jan. 9- 11. 
“we are going to really fo­cus on our fitness between next week and the end of the semester,” dawson said, “our trainer has made it clear to us that we will be spending a significant amount of time in the gym, working on getting faster and stronger. Aside from that, we will stay be hitting together without the coach­es and preparing ourselves for the upcoming season.” 
the irish compete to­day in the doubles draw of the itA National indoor championships in Flushing, New york. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 


pAid AdVertisemeNt 



CROSSWORD | wiLL shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christopher BrucKer 
SUDOKU | the mephAm group 


DOME NUTS | ALeXANdriA weLLmAN 


9/6/12
WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE 9/11/12
SOLUTION TO MONDAY’S PUZZLE 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 

Level: 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed byTribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugeNiA LAst 
Happy Birthday: Keep an very open mind, but be realistic when it comes to your goals this year. Listen to what others say and observe what’s going on around you and you will find a unique way to express what you want and carry on with your plans. communication with will make the difference between failure and success. Ask questions and avoid mistakes. your numbers are 6, 17, 13, 27, 34, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): consider your motives before you ask for something that may be unreasonable. you stand a better chance of getting what you want if you are willing to give something in return. offering an incentive can make your plans move forward faster. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you may want to look into upgrading your skills or discussing opportunities with your colleagues or boss. An opportunity to make a move that will help you explore new avenues is apparent. don’t settle for less when you can have more. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen carefully, but don’t make financial, medical or legal decisions until you see enough proof that you are making the best choice. Nothing is as it appears, and time is on your side. A home improvement project will make your life easier. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): refrain from making changes based on what others do or say. trust your own judgment and believe in your abilities. A romantic adventure will help you revitalize an important relationship that can be so much more. choose equality over giving up. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t give in to depression when you have so much going for you. expand your interests and visit destinations that provide hope and offer you incentives. don’t let anyone or anything drag you down. you have what it takes to excel. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): community events will be exhilarating. express your thoughts, and the changes you want to make will draw some people in and push others away. it will be a quick way to weed out who you want or don’t want in your life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotions will spin out of control, disrupting your day. try to get along with everyone and step away from anyone looking for a fight. An intelligent approach and generous, well-meaning people will keep you out of harm’s way. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t give in to big talkers trying to sell you something you don’t need. Focus on home and conserving rather than spending and adding to your stress. uncertainty regarding a job is best treated cautiously. Look for ways to lower your overhead. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can raise your standard of living if you make the right moves. opportunity knocks and travel or relocation can play a role in what you learn, gain or change to improve your lifestyle and future prospects. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): indecision will strike if someone puts pressure on you. Back away and take a moment to figure out how you want to handle what’s going on around you. Being productive and doing the best job possible should be your main concern. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look at potential opportunities and partnerships, but don’t make a commitment until you have had a chance to consider doing your own thing. don’t fold under pressure or you will lose equality as well as control. protect your health. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look for a deal or draw up an agreement. Negotiate and take control of whatever situation develops. you have more going for you than you realize. put your plans in motion. celebrate your win with someone you love. 


Birthday Baby: you are an instigator, an organizer and a planner. you are adaptable and proactive. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
LEYCC  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NOWDU  

 
 
 
 
 

ABEENT  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


TARENB  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: PRINT ALLOW CLASSY REVERTYesterday’s 
Answer: His unique sound system wasn’t this — STEREOTYPICAL 


make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. Box 779 
Notre dame, iN 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

the oBserVer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014 | NdsmcoBserVer.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 92, Ferris stAte 32 
Kicking things off with a bang 
Loyd leads five players in double figures; Turner and Reimer post double-doubles in exhibtion win 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
if the No. 3 irish had any ner­vous energy flowing before wednesday’s exhibition win against Ferris state, they did not let it show on the court, cruis­ing to a 92-32 win against the Bulldogs at purcell pavilion. 
sophomore forward taya reimer led the irish effort with a double-double, scoring 10 points and grabbing 11 rebounds in 18 minutes of play. 
“i thought taya played just a great game — showed a lot of experience, a lot of maturity,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “[she] just looked really, really comfortable in the game, lead­ing rebounder, scored as much as she wanted to. she probably could’ve scored a little bit more, but we’re just really unselfish with the ball.” 
Freshman forward Brianna turner contributed a double-double as well in her first game in an irish uniform, tallying 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
turner collected eight of those points in the paint, where teammates found her through­out the game after sprinting down on fast breaks. 

“i thought Brianna did a nice job on the boards,” mcgraw said. “[she] did a great job run­ning the break, something new for her, for us.” 
After losing three starters from last season to gradua­tion, Notre dame rolled out a revamped starting lineup, with turner, reimer and junior guard michaela mabrey joining last year’s returning starters, junior guard Jewell Loyd and sopho­more guard Lindsay Allen. 
mcgraw initially did not en­vision turner starting in the first game of the season, despite turner’s status as a highly her­alded recruit, but she said the freshman impressed her in re­cent practices. 
“she earned it, but it did hap­pen quickly,” mcgraw said. “i think that her ability coming in, as far as rebounding and de­fense, blocking shots, was some­thing that we really needed, and she filled that void immediately. 
“And she just gets more com­fortable every day. it’s fun coming to practice and seeing basis.” turner tapped the opening tip to what improvements she’s going the irish opened the game reimer, who found Loyd under-to make that day because she’s with 28 straight points, get-neath the basket. Loyd scored just going to get better, and she’s ting started right away with been doing that on a consistent an easy layup from Loyd after see w BBALL PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS MEN’S TENNIS 
Gleason and Robinson two doubles pairs travel to Indoor Nationals head to itAs 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
Notre dame wraps up its fall schedule this weekend at the western michigan invitational and ustA/itA National indoor championships. 
the majority of the team heads to Kalamazoo, mich. for the western michigan invitational, while 28th­ranked doubles team con­sisting of junior Quinn gleason and sophomore monica robinson will travel to New york for the ustA/itA National indoor intercollegiate championships at the ustA Billie Jean National tennis center. 

coach Jay Louderback said the fall season’s goal will be to find what the irish have for the spring season, we are going to look at,” especially when it comes to Louderback said. “it’s also doubles. just the last chance our kids 
“we’re still looking at will have before January to some different doubles play matches. we use the teams and it’s our last tour-fall to get a look at what nament of the fall so we’ve our lineup is going to be in got a couple new teams the spring so it’s their last chance to have a chance to play and really show how well they are playing.” 

the irish are coming off a strong showing in the midwest regionals, where 
see w teNNis PAGE 17 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 

After three weeks since its last match, Notre dame will be back in action for the fi­nal time in its fall campaign this weekend for the four-day itA National indoor championships at the ustA National tennis center in Flushing, New york. the singles and doubles com­petition begins today, with the final round to be held on sunday afternoon. 
“since our last match, practices have been at an extremely high level of in­tensity and competitive­ness since the tournament,” sophomore drew dawson said. 
the annual itA National indoor championships fea­tures 26 teams in singles competition for a 32-person singles draw. on the doubles side, 20 duos will be partici­pating this weekend. 
Notre dame, who does not have any singles players par­ticipating this weekend, will be represented by its doubles teams of sophomores eddy covalschi and Josh hagar, and senior Billy pecor and junior Alex Lawson. 
the duo of covalschi and hagar is seeded fifth in the doubles category and has a first-round bye. 
covalschi and hagar will face the seventh-seeded team from mississippi state of Julian cash and Florian Lakat. they are slated to take the court at 4 p.m., this afternoon. As the sev­enth seed, cash and Lakat also earned a first round bye for the National indoor championships. 
“Both our doubles teams have a solid shot at mak­ing it deep into the tourna­ment,” dawson said. “i don’t think many other teams are sending two doubles teams so that could serve as an ad­vantage for us. given how well both teams have been playing since regionals, they both have a legitimate shot at making it into the final day.” 
see m teNNis PAGE 18 





