The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 37 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame responds to protests 
University staff and students react to current demonstrations in Hong Kong 
By MATT McKENNA 
news writer 
protesters and students alike have rallied in critical intersections in hong Kong since sept. 26. The demonstra­tion is the public’s response to the government in beijing’s interpretation of hong Kong’s basic law. The city’s constitu­ents believe this interpreta­tion, endorsed by hong Kong’s chief executive leung chun­ying, ignores the portion of the basic law that promises a transition to democratic elec­tions of the chief executive in 2017. 
“The occupy movement was precipitated by the deci­sion that the chinese com­munist party made to restrict the voting rights of hong Kong citizens,” associate pro­fessor of east asian culture and languages lionel Jensen said. “The hong Kong basic law calls for a transition to a democracy — one person one vote.” 
Jensen said the chinese gov­ernment’s interpretations of the basic law are not in accor­dance with the spirit or the let­ter of the law. 
“i feel that there is room for compromise here, especially on beijing’s end of things,” Jensen said. “it would be a very effective and forthright maneuver for the govern­ment in beijing to reconsider its coercive relationship with hong Kong and to see that the protests that are going on are not against china and they’re not against the communist party. They are simply against illegality and the violation of the prospect of people’s free­doms that were granted under previous arrangements.” 
associate professor of politi­cal science victoria hui said she was surprised at hong Kong’s use of a police force to try and control the protesters. 
see hong Kong PAGE 5 



New tool  identifies cancer mutations 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The harper cancer research institute, a notre dame and indiana school of medicine collaboration, recently initi­ated a partnership with lo­cal healthcare organizations including the beacon health system (bhsmh), The medical Foundation (TmF) and saint Joseph regional medical center (sJrmc) in order to provide mu­tational profiling to local cancer patients through the acquisi­tion of a sequenom massarray instrument. 
associate director of the 
see cancer PAGE 5 



neh awards professors fellowship 
applications each year and to the fact that i think it ex-it impacted the course of 

By ELENA GACEK 

news writer award between 80-990 fel-amines an interesting and american history. For a span lowships, so it is quite com-under-appreciated facet of of about 15 years in the 1930s notre dame professors petitive – only about seven american history.” and 1940s, mann in essence 

students recount service abroad 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
six saint mary’s students presented their experiences in uganda this past summer yes­terday evening. Three education majors and three nursing ma­jors traveled to uganda for seven weeks to teach in the school and work in the ugandan clinic. 
senior nursing major Kelly wilson said the experience taught her to be more effective with communication and more respective of other cultures. 
“The program is one of the greatest because it fully immers­es you into the ugandan culture,” wilson said. “you aren’t living in a hotel, you aren’t checking your phone because you don’t have access to that so you’re really get­ting to know the world around you and most importantly the people around you.” 
wilson said the workers in the clinic were friendly, but she faced a language barrier. 
“our first day, a nurse took us aside and kind of took it upon himself to make us comfortable and teach us a bit about their lan­guage,” wilson said. “one of the challenges was that in the clinic the workers spoke a fair amount of english, but the patients of the clinic did not speak english. it was up to us to really dive into the culture and make sure we could communicate with the patients.” 
senior education major Francine rizzo said she came to the same presentation last year and thought the girls’ account of 
Tobias Boes
associate professorgerman 
Tobias boes and eugene 

boes said he will use the ulrich received national 

fellowship to continue his 
their experience in uganda was 
exaggerated. 
“last year when i  came to 
this presentation, one of the 
girls spoke about how uganda 
was god’s best kept secret and 
i thought to myself, ‘oh she’s 
doing a presentation so maybe endowment for humanities research on Thomas mann, 
(neh) Fellowships for the “one of the most important 
2014-15 academic year. 
german writers of the twen­
boes, an associate profes­tieth century.” 
sor of german, said although “[mann] was once read 
this was not his first time ap­
not only in universities and 
plying for the fellowship, his 
by a handful of intellectu­
approved research proposal explored a relatively novel part of the united states’ past. 
“They [the neh] receive an average of about 1,300 percent of applications are ever funded,” boes said.  “in my case, i succeeded on the third try, and i attribute this success not only to the qual­ity of the proposal, but also als, but very widely by ordi­nary americans,” boes said. “and it also shows that this form of us-german cul­tural exchange had solid policy implications, and that was the public face of what has sometimes been called the “other germany in the united states. he reminded 

see research PAGE 5 
that’s a little corny and she’s just trying to get us to go,’” rizzo said. “but as i was thinking about what i wanted to say to you guys 
see uganda PAGE 5 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
brian hartnett alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your most listened-to song? 

Maddie Hetlage 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“wave your Flag - K’naan.” 
Colleen Halpin 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“anchor -mindy gledhill.” 
John Michael Hogue 
freshman 
stanford hall 
“volver volver -vincente Fernandez.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Zosia Zdanowicz 
freshman 
badin hall 
“Trays - 21 pilots.” 
Sam Jones 
freshman 
Fisher hall 
“number 41 -dave matthews band.” 
Nicole Calderon 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“seven nation army - The white stripes.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Kayla mullen alex carson peter durbin hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
mary mcgraw caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Snite Salon Series Science Friday Taping Valerie Mejer Reading Volleyball STEM Run
emmet Farnan Tabitha ricketts 
Snite Museum of Art DeBartolo Performing Hammes Notre Dame Purcell Pavilion Hesburgh Library 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Arts Center Bookstore 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Discuss art with fellow 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Includes Pi K and Mole
Corrections 

students and faculty. Taping of the Science Reading and reflection Clemson. K Runs. The observer regards itself as Friday radio show. on poems. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Soccer Grotto Trip ISI Fellowship Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Alumni Stadium Bond Hall Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Center Arena Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on All are welcome. 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Northwestern. Faith and fellowship for Notre Dame vs. Lake Music by the Women’s
we can correct our error. 

all Christian faiths. Superior State. Liturgical Choir. 


Students receive grant to fight social injustice 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
The Katharine Terry dooley endowment Fund, established in 2000 to support projects of peace and justice initiated by saint mary’s students, award­ed junior brianna o’brien and senior Jessica richmond grants this year for taking action against social injustice. 
working toward a degree in social work, o’brien said she hopes to one day go into policy or politics. she will use the grant to address ethi­cal consumption in a proj­ect titled “Food for Thought: a sustainable approach to consumption,” she said. 
raising awareness of ethi­cal consumerism can foster a natural inclination toward sus­tainability, o’brien said. 
“Know what you are con­tributing to when you buy something … by buying those out-of-season strawberries, you are contributing to the emission of fossil fuels and use of non-renewable resources,” she said. “The only way these unethical and unsustainable practices can continue is if we keep demanding their products.” 
educational events through­out the school year as well as the creation of ethical con­sumption fact fliers will raise awareness about the issue, o’brien said. she said she in­tends to bring in local com­munity leaders such as chicory café, the purple porch co-op and the humane society to highlight examples of ethical consumption. 
“at saint mary’s college and the university of notre dame, there is definitely a lack of ethi­cal consumerism,” she said. “students walk around with clothing items, accessories and foods that directly contradict the way in which our schools’ mission statements call for us to act as responsible, ethical students.” 
o’brien said delving into the issue of ethical consum­erism opened her eyes to the difficulty of meshing sustain­able changes with modern day culture that values nike shoes over the quality of another hu­man’s life. however, o’brien said she believes in the say­ing “knowledge is power” and hopes to use knowledge to in­fluence other students. 
“i understand that it can be hard to incorporate sustain­able, ethical changes into our lives, but this is the world we have to live in,” she said. “There is nowhere else for us to go, and things are going to continue worsening unless we make ma­jor changes. … it is as simple as going to the thrift store instead of the mall when in need of a pair of pants.” 
senior Jessica richmond said she plans to use the dooley grant to initiate conversation on the objectification of wom­en through a poster campaign and screening of the documen­tary “miss representation” fol­lowed by a discussion panel, she said. 
“The need for women to be respected and valued as a whole is immense,” she said. “by showing this documen­tary, i see a conversation being started that will spill over into the community. … hopefully, if nothing else, it will make people aware of the things they condone and possible ways to change that.” 

by sharing the film with col­lege and local area high school students, richmond said she hopes to work with the stu­dents to address the seeds of fe­male objectification at a young age. her work with young chil­dren at the early childhood developmental center instilled in her a desire to positively in­fluence the lives of young girls, she said. 
after watching the docu­mentary as a college sopho­more, richmond said she was inspired to share the message with classmates, friends and family. Through the dooley grant, she said she now has the opportunity to achieve this goal. 
“women are 51 percent of the population and yet they are facing great adversity on a daily basis,” she said. “This documentary shows the forc­es which feed this national epidemic of objectification of women.” 
richmond said she intends to hold a discussion panel fol­lowing the documentary to enable viewers to connect the film with issues on and around campus. such a discussion will also lead to a proactive action conversation, she said. 
“This project is all about awareness and the ability to be aware of the things we mind­lessly condone on a daily ba­sis,” she said. “we are doing the first injustice by staying quiet about issues like this one. we, as an all women’s college, need to be having these sorts of con­versations about what society is doing to women.” 
Through their projects, both richmond and o’brien have the opportunity to explore their social justice interests and share these interests with the surrounding community, philosophy professor adrienne lyles-chockley said. by exam­ining the root causes of these social problems and applying this knowledge to create their own responses, chockley said the two students are excellent examples of the goal behind the dooley grant. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

Experts explore history of Fr. Badin’s Bible 
By EMILY McCONVILLE news writer  one of carey’s first editions and gave it to the first priest he or- room, a short distance from the log chapel, where badin is laid  by english exiles in France who translated directly from st.  he was wealthy and because he supported the patriots dur­ 
dained, stephen badin.  to rest.  Jerome’s  latin  vulgate in the  ing the  american  revolution,  
history and theology experts  badin brought the bible with  margaret  abruzzo,  associ­ 16th  century.  anderson  said  griffin said.  
explored the conception of the  him  as  he  traveled  through  ate professor of history at the  Jerome translated from the orig­ “we see some of badin’s sto­ 
bible  belonging  to  stephen  the midwest and upper south,  university  of  alabama,  said  inal greek and hebrew books  ry in [carroll’s] story, but like  
badin,  an  early  american  cummings said. badin left the  carey  published  the  bible  of the bible working in the late  carey, he also saw the liberating  
priest who purchased the land  book with a religious order he  to promote a good image of  fourth and early fifth centuries.  possibilities of toleration in an  
upon which the university of  helped found, the  sisters of  catholics as religious liberty  anderson said certain books  american republic shaped by  
notre dame currently resides,  loretto, before traveling north  and toleration reached a high  Jerome included did not have an  the forces of revolution,” griffin  
in  the  hesburgh  libraries’  to minister to the potawatomi  point in the states.  original version in hebrew.  said.  “Tolerating  catholics,  
department of rare books and  in the  south  bend area and  abruzzo said badin, who mi­ anderson  said  protestant  carroll  believed,  would  allow  
special collections Friday.  purchase the land that would  grated to the united states to es- reformers in the 16th century  americans to argue reasonably  
director  of  the  cushwa  become the university of notre  cape the religious persecutions  took Jerome’s insight to heart  with one another about vari­ 
center  for  the  study  of  dame.  of the French revolution, speaks  but downplayed or eliminated  ous truth claims, differences he  
american catholicism Kathleen  Two hundred years later, a vol- to the influence of French cul­ these books, while  catholics  hoped would fade through faith  
cummings introduced the four  unteer archivist at the sisters of  ture on american catholicism.  — specifically at the council of  working hand in hand with rea­ 
“badin bible symposium” pan­ loretto found the bible and the  abruzzo said carroll’s inscrip- Trent — wanted to keep them,  son … he argued that catholics  
elists. cummings said an expa­ order contacted  notre  dame.  tion in the bible was written in  leading to two distinct versions  could become good citizens and  
triate irish catholic by the name  The university purchased the  english, which illustrates the  of the bible.  good republicans.”  
of mathew carey published the  bible this summer with help  importance of being multilin­ “Trent  didn’t  require  the  professor  of  history  mark  
first catholic version of the bible  from  the  hesburgh  library,  gual in early america. carroll’s  vulgate as the necessary text  noll said the carey bible  was  
in the  united  states in 1790.  cushwa center and several fac­ handwritten inscription also re- for use in any kind of vernacu­ unusual not only because it was  
cummings said John carroll of  ulty, cummings said. The bible  vealed the bishop’s and priest’s  lar translation, but it  did  say  a catholic bible, but because it  
baltimore, the first bishop of the  is now on display in the special  close  relationship,  as  did  the  that the vulgate was free from  was a revised  douay-rheims  
new  american nation, bought  collections  and  rare  book  letters they exchanged later on,  area in matters of morals and  translation  that  reflected  the  
cummings said.  faith and as a result of that,  protestant King James’ version  
paid adverTisemenT  “The letters between [carroll  catholics, when they translated  — emblematic of a period of tol­ 
and badin] illustrate the inti- the bible into the vernacular,  eration and religious freedom in  
mate scale of the diocese, de­ took the vulgate as their norm,”  the united states and was par- 
spite the 865,000 square miles,”  anderson said.  ticularly large  and  well-made  
abruzzo said. “it illuminates  patrick griffin, chair of notre  for the time.  
carroll’s  direct and  personal  dame’s  history  department,  “it’s a good-sized bible, al­ 
involvement in the affairs of  spoke on the lives of carroll,  ready by the mid-18th century,  
his priests. badin would write  carey  and  badin  and  their  production of the King James  
carroll to ask for pastoral ad- connections with the  age of  bible had become ... a more  
vice, to sort out theological  revolution.  compact, more portable version  
problems, to request dispensa­ badin  hated  the  French  of the  scriptures,”  noll said.  
tions. but he also confided his  revolution because of the per­ “This particular version is un­ 
spiritual struggles,  his  loneli­ secution of  catholics,  griffin  usual not just for being the first  
ness and his sense of inadequa­ said.  carey was close friends  catholic bible, but for the care,  
cy in the face of his job.”  with  benjamin Franklin and  the size and the binding of this  
notre  dame  professor  of  sympathized  with  revolution- particular scripture.”  
Theology gary  anderson said  ary ideas. carroll experienced  
carey used the douay-rheims  discrimination as a catholic but  Contact Emily McConville at  
translation of the bible, made  was widely respected because  emcconv@nd.edu  



Saint Mary’s hosts Bronte performance 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
emily bronte’s “wuthering heights” graced the stage at o’laughlin auditorium at saint mary’s monday night with a performance by the aquila Theatre company. six actors, united by aquila’s mission to make classical works accessible to everyone through performance arts, brought the classic novel to life under the direction of desiree sanchez. 
“it was a marvelous perfor­mance,” director of special events richard baxter said. “very well put together, very clear. you know what i loved most of all? no mics.” 
one of the production’s lead actors, Kali hughes (cathy earnshaw), said although the show is demanding, it is grat­ifying to perform. 
“it’s a really tough show,” hughes said. “it’s kind of shocked me. i’ve got to stay fit and healthy. you can’t have a day off, but it’s immensely enjoyable as well.” 
dale mathurin (heathcliffe), who is just old­er than most members of the saint mary’s audience, said “heights” has been on the road for three weeks and the central role can be taxing for such a fresh actor. 
“it’s a very hectic show,” mathurin said. “i’m fresh out of drama school. This is my first time abroad. There are a lot of days in the van getting to different venues.” 
mathurin said she and hughes lived in london, england prior to touring “heights.” 
“i worked for the compa­ny last year,” hughes said. “i knew they were doing ‘wuthering heights,’ and i begged for the role. i love ‘wuthering heights,’ and i think every teenage girl holds this book close to their hearts.” 
mathurin happened upon the role after a chance audi­tion, he said. 
“i’m a baby, literary,” mathurin said. “it’s funny. i’m in my third year of drama school, and as i’m ready to leave school, my agent posted this audition to me. i turned up, and i got a recall, went to the second audition. what kept me here was the book and the cast, the environ­ment and the story.” 
hughes said bringing bronte’s world to life has been a challenge. 
“it has been a hard book to adapt,” hughes said. “you’ll notice we have only really have done the first half of the book. cathy dies in the first half of the book, and i think part of that has to do with having a young heathcliff. 
“As brilliant as the book is, it really does peak in the middle. It’s really exciting, this bit where we ended. A novel is different. On the stage, you need to be gripped, despite the absolute mess they’ve gotten themselves into.” 
Kali Hughes 
actor 
it’s just a more truthful story. 
“as brilliant as the book is, it really does peak in the mid­dle, it’s really exciting, this bit where we ended. a novel is different. on the stage you need to be gripped. despite the absolute mess they’ve gotten themselves into. if we were to put the whole thing onstage, when [the char­acters] fail, we want to see more, do we care? it’s like a book with lots of little ends. it kind of leeches the drama.” 

hughes said part of the chal­lenge in adapting “wuthering heights,” is the complexity of cathy’s character. 
“i actually find cathy to be an energy vacuum,” hughes said. “she walks into a room and sucks the energy out of everything, like a vortex. but she’s also very human, and she makes a mistake. i think she’s just this fantastically flawed individual. she’s try­ing to claw back her love for heathcliff.” 
mathurin said heathcliff’s mysterious side makes the role appealing. 
“what draws me the most is his mystery,” he said. “i find him to be very enigmat­ic to play with in the scenes that he’s in,” mathurin said. “The mystery of the charac­ter’s what drew me. i don’t think at this point in time i want to be anyone else but heathcliff.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




professor explains china’s classic of history 
By DAN DeTORO 
news writer 
dr. edward l. shaughnessy, professor of east asian languages and civilizations at the university of chicago, recounted the com­pilation process of the classic of history in a lecture monday titled, “unearthing china’s classic of history.” shaughnessy recapped the history of china’s classic of history over the past couple of centuries, from its compiling by confucius in sixth century bc to a recent discovery of bamboo strips from approximately 300 bc that challenge the authenticity of the current version of the classic. 
“The classic of poetry and The classic of documents — they have the same status in the chinese tra­dition as the bible,” shaughnessy said. shaughnessy said he uses the classic of documents to refer to the classic of history because the translation is more accurate. 
The liu institute for asia and asian studies sponsored the lec­ture as part of their distinguished speaker series because the classic of documents is one of china’s “Five classics” that have a “a role in chinese tradition analogous to the bible in the western tradition.” 
shaughnessy said the docu­ments in the classic of documents are divided up by type. 
“There are consultations,” shaughnessy said. “These are supposed to be conversations between ministers and the King. There are instructions, which are sort of teachings that the ministers give to the King. There are announcements which are royal announcements to the peo­ple at large. There are declarations which are battlefield speeches and then there are commands, or ap­pointment documents, where the king is appointing someone to be an official.” 
shaughnessy said the classic of documents was thought to be lost following a mass book burning in 213 and 212 bc. scholar Fu sheng recounted and recorded 28 chap­ters in the third or second cen­tury bc. This account is known as the “new Text,” shaughnessy said. shaughnessy said the other 17 chapters of the text were dis­covered in the wall of confucius’ mansion in second century bc and are known as the “old Text.” 
shaughnessy said the parceled past of the classic of documents caused various chinese scholars to question the validity of the ver­sion of the classic of documents rediscovered by the scholar mei Ze, adopted by the chinese em­peror in the fourth century and the version referred to today. 

“This one text that was found that corresponds to a text in the an­cient script classic of documents, there’s only one phrase in the two texts that is the same … we can see how the forger made this text,” shaughnessy said, referring to the old Text rediscovered by mei Ze. “he found a phrase quoted in an­other text, put that in the middle of his text and then built up a text all around it. That seems to prove yet again that the ancient text classic of documents chapters, at least this one, is a fake. if this one is a fake, since all of them seem to have the same flavor, then presumably all of them are fakes.” 
shaughnessy said Tsinghua university in beijing received around 2,300 bamboo strips that were donated anonymously after being excavated during a tomb robbery in 2008. 
“The strips date to around 300 bc,” shaughnessy said. “They had four different texts in this first vol­ume of the Tsinghua manuscripts that are related to the classic of documents.” 
shaughnessy said Tsinghua university plans to release one volume of the bamboo strip man­uscripts a year for 18 years, pro­viding for much more research and debate about the classic of documents. 
Contact Dan DeToro at ddetoro@nd.edu 
Cancer 
conTinued From page 1 
harper institute andy bullock said grant funding for the project began July 1, and the community partnership organizations have since purchased and validated the analyzer, which is now lo­cated in the south bend medical Foundation. 
“we just got a note from the south bend medical Foundation that in the patients they’ve [screened] so far, they’ve found 22 percent more mutations in these samples that they never would have found previously,” bullock said. “it’s already having an impact and it’s only been go­ing on for a few months now.” 
according to the notre dame press release, the project re­ceived a total of $851,910 includ­ing a substantial grant from the walther cancer Foundation. bullock said the Foundation was a driving force in making the project a reality. 
“This is not a community where everybody can just fly to boston or md anderson [cancer center for treatment] and we wanted to do something,” he said. “we had partners in the community that were willing to 
Research 
conTinued From page 1 
american citizens that there was more to the country than the nazis, and that na­tional socialism didn’t speak for everyone in germany.” 
ulrich, a specialist “in ar­eas of the hebrew scriptures and the septuagint,” was also awarded the neh Fellowship, according to a press release. 
“[The fellowship will] en­able me to finish a book on the developmental composition of the bible … and get a good start on another book about the text of isaiah — part of a large, multi-scholar critical edition of the hebrew bible,” ulrich said. “both books are direct results of my research [help since] it was not something we could do on our own.” 
bullock said the partnerships with other organizations in the community were key in pursu­ing and funding the research because harper is a basic cancer research institute. 
bullock said the collaboration has made the test available to qualifying patients at no cost for the next two years. 
he said the analyzer tests about 200 mutations simultane­ously in approximately five hours to identify certain mutations in tumors and determine how drug therapies may effect treatment. 
“you want that information so you don’t spend six months on chemotherapy that’s going to do nothing for you and to deal with all the side-effects,” bullock said. 
in two years, bullock said he hopes other hospitals in the area join the effort and screening expands to cover more tumor types. 
“in two years, hopefully it will be a bigger project, and we’ll be going to walther to show them all the people that have benefit-ted in the last two years and why we should keep doing it.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
on and editions of the bibli­cal dead sea scrolls.” 
according to a press re­lease, notre dame profes­sors have received 51 neh Fellowships in the past 15 years, “more than any other university in the country.” 
“i absolutely think that the college of arts and letters, and especially the institute for scholarship in the liberal arts (isla) does an outstand­ing job to foster a faculty re­search environment,” boes said. “not only are faculty members actively encour­aged to apply for outside awards, there is also a tre­mendous amount of support available. 
Contact Elena Gacek at egacek@nd.edu 
Uganda 
conTinued From page 1 
to represent my time there i kept thinking back to her words and how uganda really is god’s best kept secret.” 
rizzo said the people’s hum­ble and joyful attitudes were contagious. 
“it brought into my mind to see how other cultures live when we have so much over here and half the people don’t appreci­ate it,” rizzo said. “and just to see what you can really do with your resources when you push the limits.” 
Janice heffernan, a senior 
nursing major, said one word 
summarized her experience in 
uganda — grateful. The spirit of 
the ugandan people under diffi­
cult circumstances and willing­
ness to accept the saint mary’s 
students into the community 
was amazing, she said. 
“From the neighborhood children who welcomed us into their village to the workers at the lab who let us learn new skills, i was always astonished by the generosity of the community,” heffernan said. “on our last day in the clinic i was overwhelmed by the gifts of fruits and cards 
Hong Kong 
conTinued From page 1 
“i have never seen the riot 
police in the streets of hong 
Kong,” hui said. “it was so 
startling to see because of the 
civil and peaceful nature of 
the protests. if beijing had just 
agreed to make the nominat­
ing committee, many people 
would have been less upset. 
by closing the option of direct 
election and using repres­
sion, the chinese government 
forced the people of hong 
Kong to organize.” 
hong Kong native and ex­change student Johnson Kong said the protests are spurred on by a new form of self-iden­tification for the young people of hong Kong. 

from the students and clinic staff. when you are offered so much from people with so little, it’s impossible not to reflect on your lifestyle at home.” 
bridgette minnema, a senior education major, said she, like other study abroad students, entered the program without the slightest idea of how the ex­perience would ultimately af­fect her. From the moment she landed on ugandan soil, she knew she was in for one incred­ible journey, minnema said. 
“i didn’t expect to fall in love with a country as much as i did or enjoy the simplicity of their lifestyle,” minnema said. “The truth is that uganda took me by surprise in more ways than one. it restored my faith in human­ity and taught me what is truly important in life. surprisingly enough i found the hardest part of my adventure wasn’t adjust­ing to life in a developing coun­try but being back home and trying to describe to others how astounding my adventure was.” 
brehl said she remembers feeling so welcomed by the sisters that live in uganda when first arriving and automatically feeling at home. 
“we were living somewhere new, somewhere i had no idea 
“The older generations are not that rooted in hong Kong,” Kong said. “They feel that hong Kong is just a place of transition. our generation was born in hong Kong and grew up in hong Kong. we identify strongly as hong Kongers.” 
china-born freshman Flora Tang expressed her hope that the protests will lead to mean­ingful conversation between hong Kong and mainland china. 
“i’m hoping that the scale of the protests will cause the governments of china and hong Kong to start talk­ing and negotiating,” Tang said. “previously china’s communist government has been unwilling to listen to anything.” 
“This isn’t just about some what to expect,” brehl said. “when i first arrived i remember on our doors was our name and a welcome sign … it really made me feel so welcome in a place i felt like an intruder. a place that i felt really far from home … but i just felt like this was home.” 
gianna ventrella, a senior education major, said she was in a second-grade classroom. on one of the first days of school there were 55 second graders looking up at her and they were learning math. 
“There was this little boy and he was having trouble counting so the special education teacher in me just wanted to sit down and work with him,” ventrella said. “i remember the teacher came up to me and said that he was stupid and that he would never be able to understand math. well, i took it upon myself for the rest of the time to make sure that he caught up in math. by the end of the time, we were dividing.” 
ventrella she wants to return to uganda. 
“all i know is that i need to go back. i need to see my people, i need to go back home.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
country in asia,” Tang said. “This is about universal suf­frage and freedom of speech for everyone.” 
Jensen said hong Kong’s unique identity is important and should be valued, not sup­pressed, by beijing. 
“in the end, what makes hong Kong flourish is the plu­ralist dimension of its life,” Jensen said. “hong Kong has always been a melting pot of very seriously vital energies of chinese people and to take that away by trying to limit it or contain it or control it will harm hong Kong and china as a whole so deeply that it will be to the detriment of the communist party as well.” 
Contact Matt McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

My Webassign life 

INSIDE COLUMN 

off-campus club 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

as a senior, i’ve gotten the opportunity to explore so many of my interests, get in­volved in some great causes and meet new people through clubs and classes. with that, i’ve also been able to narrow down my focus. after signing up for every club at activities night freshman year and at­tending a different meeting each day of the week, i’ve pared down my club frenzy to concentrate on just a few things: my class­es, my thesis and my job at The observer. 
most of this narrowing of focus came from finding my passions, but the move off campus this year has certainly helped. being away from laFortune and the resi­dence halls makes it a little more difficult to stay involved with on-campus hap­penings, and that’s okay. what i hadn’t anticipated, however, was a whole new extracurricular activity in my life: emerg­ing adulthood. 
yes, it turns out that when you’re poised to graduate in the very-quickly-approach­ing 2015, and when you live in a house with all of its awesome, homey amenities, there’s an entirely new set of activities with which to involve yourself. 
Take, for example, paying bills. it turns out that’s a whole thing. and when you no longer live a brisk walk away from the dining hall (which is, i now realize, one of the most beautiful places in the world), you have to learn to feed yourself. every day! who knew? From fixing a washer to joining a co-op to learning that bleach and drano do not mix, off campus living is never dull, i promise you. 
please don’t think i’m complaining about my new after-school activities. Trying to be a real person has been both educational and a lot of fun. There’s apply­ing for post-grad jobs, a thrilling extracur­ricular i just embarked on. i’ve learned to cook new things. i’ve explored and grown to love south bend. i know what a credit score is. i bought a vacuum! and not to brag, but i can make shelving out of just about anything. while these things can’t exactly go on my résumé, i can see the value in them every day. 
of course, this is just the beginning, and i’m certainly not getting it all right on the first try. There has been missing paper­work, a broken down car and that drano incident (don’t ask), but being able to make mistakes with so many supportive friends and the university just down the road has been a pretty unforgettable experience so far — and it’s only october. 
Though i may have underestimated my involvement in the extracurricular activity that is living outside “the bubble,” and i’ll always look back fondly at my three years in a residence hall, i don’t regret joining the off-campus club. now i’m just working on paying my dues. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
i love little green checkmarks. i hate red X’s. This is my webassign life. 
my home is the webassign homepage. it is white and rather empty. my list of current assignments is not empty. There are 63. 
i take a deep breath and click on the first one. The “0/0” is concerning. i scroll down the page, on the lookout for a “watch it” box. i locate one under number six. 
i know i can answer this question, for the man with the robot-voice will lead me through every step of the problem. he is my sensei. 
how could he be my sensei if i have never seen him? how can i even know he is qualified to be my sensei? 
The first time i discovered the joys of “watch it,” i saw how my sensei-to-be added a cute hat on his î unit vectors. after that, there was no question about it: he was the sensei for me. he also gave me the answers, which helped him beat out the nonexistent competition. 
even though i love my sensei, he has been getting on my nerves lately. he refuses to give me the answers to the prob­lems i struggle with most, such as finding the maximum volume of a cube and finding a way to talk to mr. shoeless. 
i had the prime opportunity to talk to mr. shoeless the other night in north dining hall; he was wearing shoes for once (go health regulations, beat hipsters), and i thought i could comment on his recent addition of soles to his feet. 
i wasn’t quite sure how to say what i wanted to say, so i did what i always did when i didn’t know how to tackle a problem: i logged onto webassign for a “watch it” video. i assumed that my sensei could walk me through the solu­tion step-by-step. i should not have assumed, for i couldn’t find any advice on approaching shoeless strangers — not even a “read it.” i was dismayed. 
but i couldn’t give up now; i had already devoted two minutes to this master plan. maybe i was looking in the wrong place. i looked around me and saw a wonderful are­na for practicing: a three-dimensional dining hall. 
i headed over to the stanford table to “practice another version.” 
“hey,” i said to the first guy i saw. “you’re wearing shoes.” 
“i always wear shoes,” he said, and returned his attention to his taco. i was less interesting than cheddar cheese. i would have been okay with provolone, but cheddar? i know when i’ve been insulted. 

i tried to shake it off, but was struggling to get my Taylor swift on. her new album wouldn’t come out for two weeks, but i couldn’t afford to wait that long. mr. shoeless was right here, right now. i had to do what i did when i was desperate on webassign: enter “asdf” and “click to view solution.” 
i went up to the next person i saw. “asdf,” i said. he didn’t respond. maybe the network was down. “asdF,” i said loud­er, this time to his back. he didn’t turn around. maybe my answer was off by more than 10 percent. 
i couldn’t give up, though — not now. he was mounting the staircase. 
“asdF!” i popped out from behind the column. he dropped his tray and everyone applauded. yes! applause must equal a green checkmark. 
now i knew my answer was right, but what if “asdf” would not do the trick with a different stranger? maybe mr. shoeless was a “qwerty” kind of guy, or maybe he used an international keyboard. what if he would only respond to special characters or wanted a negative rather than a posi­tive answer? The anxiety was real. 
i decided to calm down. my volition was to calm down. unfortunately, i could not turn this volition into my will, for i was not capable of calming down. logic could not con­quer emotion, at least not my emotion. remember: i was a Taylor swift fan. 
i tried to tune out ms. swift and listen to my left-brain, which told me i had no reason to stress. even if “asdf” were not the best way to start a conversation with mr. shoeless, i would still have seven submissions left. 
on webassign, the only answer that mattered was the last one; all the others were erased. real life must be the same; even if i tripped or burped or broke out in an unfor­tunate duggie in front of mr. shoeless, i could still get a 100 percent on our interaction by getting the eighth submission right. 
my right brain told me finger-painting with pesto would be a better idea than embarrassing myself in front of mr. shoeless. i listened. mr. shoeless was spared, and mr. seinfeld finally understands why everybody likes pesto. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. She has worn shoes in the past, but is considering a lifestyle change. Send her comments, questions about her sanity or stories about going sole-less at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Through the needle’s eye 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

Three years ago this fall, i met with university president Fr. John Jenkins to discuss what i saw as an important human rights issue: the university’s contract with coca-cola. i was motivated by human rights violations commit­ted by coca-cola’s bottlers in colombia, which have prompted university boycotts internation­ally. The bottling companies, which coca-cola continues to approve for operations, have hired paramilitary squads to murder union leaders and abduct and torture their families in an effort to drive down the workers’ already low wages. 
seeing as how i was meeting with a priest at a university that prides itself on its commitment to social justice, i thought he would be interested in what i had to say. The reality differed somewhat from my expectations. 
after calling me “arrogant” for thinking i knew enough about the issue, but before kicking me out of his office, Jenkins made it clear to me that any reassessment of the coke contract was im­possible in light of the university’s relationship to donald Keough. Former president and chief operating officer of the coca-cola company, Keough has long sat on the university’s board of trustees. 
not to make myself appear totally innocent, i may have responded by insinuating that Jenkins cared more about a donor’s money than the lives and dignity of poor (catholic) workers. 
it was therefore with some dark humor that i read Fr. Jenkins’s remarks fawning over donald Keough last year when Keough donated $30 million for the construction of “Jenkins hall,” due to begin this spring. Tragically, neither the colombian workers being whipped into line nor the small indian farmers having their water sto­len were able to field a competing donation in the president’s honor. 
one thing Fr. Jenkins said has stuck with me. when i told him about the dozens of universi­ties domestically and internationally that have cut their contracts with coca-cola in response to these murders, he responded, “notre dame isn’t like other universities.” 
maybe i was just thrown off by the force of his condescension, but this confused me. when discussing football or academics, the adminis­tration brags that notre dame is one of the top universities in the country. but apparently when discussing human rights, we don’t compare our­selves to the riff-raff. 
notre dame certainly isn’t the worst place for human rights. The center for social concerns runs a number of programs focusing on poverty and injustice. “catholic social teaching” is touted to the point where it’s impossible to discuss hu­man rights on campus without it dominating the conversation. The university has even boycotted chinese goods over labor concerns. 
in its own dealings, however, the university has a long way to go. as the largest employer in the region, notre dame has a great deal of influ­ence on working conditions. while maintaining an air of neutrality, the administration has long fought labor unions on its own campus. They have also stone-walled efforts to win a living wage for campus workers. 
as for the investments on its $9.8 billion en­dowment, the university does its best to fight transparency. This is understandable, given the headache chief investment officer scott malpass had to go through when it came out that the university had invested in hei hotels, which has been accused of violating labor rights to cut costs. 

The university panders to rich donors and seems obsessed with growing its already exten­sive wealth. in the gospels of matthew, mark and luke, Jesus is recorded as admonishing a rich man and telling him that it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. For a university that claims to be founded in these beliefs, notre dame has been awfully kind to rich men. when the rich man in the bible asked what he must do, Jesus responded that he must sell all his things and give the money to the poor. This passage is understandably difficult for a university that caters disproportionately to the children of the wealthy. 
i invite the notre dame community, including my friend Fr. Jenkins, to do some self-reflection. do we need expensive new buildings? do we need $10 billion stockpiled in capital invest­ments? should a university committed to social justice be one of the richest in the world? is there anyone else who could use those resources more? would Jesus side with a rich executive or a poor worker? maybe then we can reassess our position and commit ourselves to human dignity. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Compassionate conservative giving 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

in november 2006, arthur c. brooks, behav­ioral economist and former syracuse university professor, published findings from a wide-rang­ing study in a book called, “who really cares: The surprising Truth about compassionate conservatism.” his findings, taken in part from george will of the washington post, include the following: 
although liberal families’ incomes average six percent higher than those of conservative families, conservative-headed households give, on average, 30 percent more to charity than the average liber­al-headed household ($1,600 per year vs. $1,227). 
conservatives volunteer more time and give more blood. 
people who reject the idea that “government has a responsibility to reduce income inequality” give an average of four times more than people who ac­cept that proposition. 
what? i thought conservatives were supposed to be against the poor? i thought the gop was sup­posed to be greedy? don’t we hear from liberal pundits that republicans want to keep all they earn and let those with lesser means fall by the wayside? 
well, i guess if we did, they may not be correct. 
another recent study confirms this: The chronicle of philanthropy concluded, in their com­prehensive analysis of internal revenue service information, that the 17 most charitable states all voted for mitt romney in the 2012 presidential election and 21 of the 24 least charitable states voted for barack obama. This would indicate that republicans are putting our money where our mouths are when declaring that fiscal freedom can lead to a prosperous future for all. i believe that is generally true, but there may be another element at play here. 
charitable giving holds another strong correla­tion besides party identification and voting pat­terns: religiosity of states. states that donated the highest shares of their income to charity were both deeply religious and deeply conservative; which does not mean we must choose between these two factors, but instead leads us to confirm the old per­ception that religion and political preferences are closely intertwined. 
i have had personal experiences with this phe­nomena growing up in utah, a state dominated by the republican party and with a majority of the population being adherents of the church of Jesus christ of latter-day saints (more commonly re­ferred to as mormons). in utah, it is less a contest of democrat vs. republican and more of a contest of mainstream republican vs. tea party republican vs. libertarian republican, which makes for a sometimes unpredictable political dynamic. First, as many people here always ask me upon mak­ing my acquaintance, i am not mormon and am catholic as most of you are — although many of my friends are mormon and are wonderful people. second, i am proud to highlight the fact that my home state is the highest in charitable giving and volunteerism. i mention this not just to brag about my home state, but also to show that republicans are, in fact, not evil. if anything, republicans are more likely than other groups to put in the time and money to help those in need. 
why, then, are republicans generally against a large government that is aimed at helping the people within its jurisdiction? There are a few rea­sons, chief among them being that republicans are not anarchists. we do not want a nation without a government, we just want a government that is efficient and works within its means. a government which makes its social programs sustainable and keeps its budgets in surplus. more relevant to the topic at hand, however, is that republicans, or at least i, do not believe the government should force us to feign altruism by increasing taxes for social program after social program. governmental so­cial programs lead to dependency, true charitable giving leads to life-changing experiences for both the beneficiary and the benefactor. 

The ideal here is personal independence. if you go to a homeless shelter and help sort clothes, serve food or simply take the time to talk to the residents of the shelter, they are grateful to you for doing so and you walk away from the experience with a broadened view of the world around you. both par­ties in this case may be inspired to change their lives as best they can. if the government just takes your money and hires employees for minimum wage to do the job day after day, you are mad at the government that taxed you, the employees are bogged down in a regimented schedule when they could be pursuing something greater and those in the shelters who just need a stranger to talk to are robbed of that experience. i am not advocat­ing for the riddance of all social programs, i am instead saying the government should make social programs feasible and permit the human spirit of charitable giving to flourish. 
benevolent human independence is not just some dream, as evidenced above — americans are living this ideal day after day when possessing the resolve and given the chance. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

brian regan returns Thursday to south bend as part of his non-stop tour around the united states. 
regan has performed 26 times on “The late show with david letterman” and released two hour-long Tv spe­cials, two cds and three dvds. he was nominated for a 2014 american comedy award for best concert comic. 
both audiences and fellow comedians have praised regan as one of the best stand-up comedians of this gen­eration. The observer had the chance to interview him before his show Thursday. 
What does the creation process look like for you? 
well, i just go through my day the way i normally would. you know, i go where i would go, i see what i would nor­mally see, i watch what i would normally watch, i read what i would normally read. every now and then some­thing jumps up and down and it just feels like it’s a bit or a joke or a routine. The initial inspiration is hard to figure out, where that comes from. but then once you have it, you can apply a craft to it. so it’s like okay i know how to take this thought and form it into a little bit that i can try on stage. so you can get it in that form and then you try it on stage and more writing takes place on stage. you know, you figure out how to say things in a tighter way or a better way once you’re up there. so i tape all my shows in case i do something differently on stage. 
How would you say your creation process has developed over your career? 
it’s a balance between brevity and exposition. it’s like you want to explain enough of an idea but you don’t want 
Alexandra Lowry 
scene writer 

as college students at the university of notre dame, we have a whole lot to be thankful for. our football team is 6-0. as of right now we are able to walk to class with­out contracting frostbite. and, in my opinion, the dome is looking extra dapper this year. however, an aspect of notre dame that i am, and always will be, eternally grateful for is my right to wear leggings. 
now, it is more difficult than you would think to find statistics on the prevalence of leggings, yoga pants, jeggings and skinny jeans on college and high school campuses, but from personal observation and experi­ence i’m going to go ahead and assume that you would be hard pressed to find a young woman under the age of 22 that doesn’t own at least one, if not all four, of these clothing items. 
That being said, if Fr. Jenkins woke up one morning and suddenly realized that the promising minds of our virile male student population were being led astray by the sight of intelligent women wearing comfortable at­tire to their classes and decided to ban said attire, the uproar would be unavoidable. 
while the likelihood of this happening on our campus is fortunately very small, regulations of the same nature are being instituted in high schools across america, most recently in devils lake, north dakota. 
The devils lake school district lately instituted a ban 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 
to over explain it. you can err on both sides. sometimes you get it so lean and mean that you’re taking the heart out of the idea so you have to put some more words back in. but sometimes it’s way too wordy and you need to cut it down. so sometimes i feel like your show is sort of like a squeezebox — it’s like you’re opening it sometimes and sometimes you’re squishing it together. it’s fun that it’s constantly a work-in-progress. and in the same show, you might be doing one bit and stretching it out to see if there’s new funny stuff in there. The very next bit, you might be trying it much tighter version than that than you did the previous night. audiences don’t know what you’re doing but it’s fun to be playing around like that on stage. 
What is that you like so much about doing stand-up versus doing other types of comedy? 
well, in stand-up you get the immediate feedback. There’s just something really beautiful about thinking of something at 5 in the afternoon, trying it on stage that night and knowing right away whether or not you’re on the right track. you know, Tv and stuff like that, from what little i’ve been involved with it, just seems like a much lon­ger process. 
you write something and then you rewrite it and then other people weigh in on it and then you gotta cast for it and then you shoot it and then you edit it. you’ve got all these things happening where you go, you know, was it even funny to begin with? so it’s fun to be able to just try something right on stage in front of a bunch of people and go, hey, that worked. 
What would be the one piece of advice you would give to your younger self? 
well it depends on what age i’m going for. i think com­edy-wise, i made some pretty decent decisions over the 
on leggings, jeggings and “tight” jeans. The assistant principal of the school system’s only high school told valley news live that the teens were made to watch clips from the movie “pretty woman,” and subsequently the administration compared the girls’ banned attire to Julia robert’s character in the film — a prostitute. an english teacher at the school even went as far to say that the female students looked like “prostitutes walking down the street.” 
The assistant principal claimed that the policy “is not meant to objectify girls, but to stop boys from focusing on something other than class work.” however, if the “offending” clothing continues to be worn by certain individuals, those girls can face detention or even sus­pension, which does little to improve their own focus. 
with everything else going on in the world, the denial of skinny jeans to a few small-town teenagers seems superfluous. while i somewhat agree, i urge my peers to understand why liberating tight pants for adolescent students in america is important too. 
school administrations like the one in devils lake continue to perpetrate this idea that young men are unable to control their own impulses, that it is the job of young women to cover up rather than the responsibility of young men to look away and pay attention to the work at hand. when teenage girls are told that their comfort in the classroom by wearing leggings to school, comes second to the quality of teenage boys’ education, society is depreciating the emphasis placed on female teenag­ers’ learning experience and augmenting the emphasis years. i learned as i went along and it sounds like i’m patting myself on the back but just, you know, keep do­ing what you’re doing. The thing i’m happy about is that i didn’t quit. it’s not an easy ride. a lot of people’s goals can be challenging and comedy’s no different. i had to pay dues. i got on a greyhound bus one time to go from one gig to the next and every seat was taken. i had to sit on the floor of a greyhound bus. i remember just laughing to my­self, going “wow, there’s gotta be levels of this career that are higher than this.” but i loved it. i knew i was paying dues. it felt like if i’m willing to do this, then i must really want this dream. 

What would you tell younger comedians/col­lege-age students in general about getting into the business/doing what they love? 
The thing that motivated me when i was in college, and i guess this could apply to anything, is that i had heard enough people in interviews and stuff say if i had my life to do over again, i would have tried this. people in their ’60s, ’70s, ’80s saying “if i had my life to do my life over again, i think i would have tried acting or i would have tried to make a business or something.” i said to myself, all these older people are saying this to younger people, i’m a younger person, i should listen to this. i just swore to myself that i would not get to an age where i said to myself i wonder what would have happened if i had tried stand-up comedy. i just said to myself i’m gonna try it and i re­fuse to ask myself this question in my ’70s or ’80s. so that’s what i would say — if there’s something inside you that you’re curious about, you should probably give it a shot. 
brian regan will be performing Thursday at the morris performing arts center at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
placed on their bodies. 
in my own public school near dallas, nike running shorts are banned from school grounds for the way the sides rise a few inches higher up the leg. at the time, it was something my friends and i complained about, the subject of many a Facebook status updates that mostly dwelled on the fact that we wanted to slum it to school, rather than the sexism of it all. college-me would slap high school-me upside the head. 
i am grateful that as university students we have the freedom to wear whatever it is we feel comfortable in to class, male or female. yet, with all of us coming from high schools with similar policies or even uniform regu­lations, the stigma is still attached. This idea of women needing to police what they wear in order to send the “correct” message to men is ingrained in each sex from an early age and carries on through not only young peoples’ educational and professional careers, but their personal lives as well. 
so, coeds, i urge you to join the movement. liberating leggings, jeggings, yoga pants, skinny jeans and nike shorts from the drawers of young teenagers takes steps towards healthier gender equality in public schools and restores the right to rock the leggings-spirit jersey look three days-a-week to the teenage girls of america. if that’s not justice, i don’t know what is. 
Contact Alexandra Lowry at alowry1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

late last week the rock and roll hall of Fame an­nounced the nominees for the 2015 induction, which will take place april 18. First time balloters include sting, bill withers, The smiths, nine inch nails, green day and stevie ray vaughan. moreover, nine inch nails and green day earned nominations in their first year of eligibility, having just met the requirement of publishing their first releases 25 years ago. 
The remaining nominees are lou reed, The paul butterfield blues band, Kraftwerk, chic, n.w.a., Joan Jett & the blackhearts, the marvelettes, the spinners, stevie ray vaughan and war. as in the previous two years, the public has some say in the inductions with the ability to vote for their top five picks on rolling stone’s website. here i’ll offer up my own personal ballot and a brief ex­planation for my choices — i will refrain from the argu­ments for non-nominees or whether it’s actually rock ‘n’ roll enough to be inducted into the rock and roll hall of Fame and just praise the acts that have been nominated. Lou Reed 
This year’s nominations dropped nearly on the one-year anniversary of lou reed’s death. what better way to honor one of the most badass, unapologetic, cool visionaries in rock music than to induct him into the hall of Fame? not that reed’s influence and memory needs to rely on this bit to be voted in; the singer-gui­tarist is already in with his co-founded band The velvet underground, but should be in through his solo work, as 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

childish gambino just redefined the game. he re­leased a free mix tape, “sTn mTn,” on oct. 2 and an ep, “Kauai,” followed the next day. artists have been trying different promotional strategies recently — or no promo­tion at all if you’re beyonce — and donald glover just capitalized on the trend. 
“sTn mTn” serves as an homage to atlanta, featuring gambino rapping over aTl-based beats. 
“i had a dream i ran atlanta. and i was on every ra­dio station,” gambino opens on “dream/southern hospitality/partna dem.” The “i had a dream” motif harkens back to martin luther King Jr., as gambino describes the effects he would have on the city and its problems. The track resembles lamar’s “Kendrick had a dream” concept in “backstreet Freestyle,” where he raps about his rise from compton. 
“sTn mTn” emphasizes how important gambino’s hometown is to him. in continuing his attempt to shed his reputation as “that guy from ‘community’,” he wants to establish his credibility as an atlanta-based rapper. he acknowledges that many would say iggy azalea fits that description before him. 
in his plan to better the city, he mentions in “dream” that he would keep chick-fil-a open on sundays — ap­pealing to my own dreams. 
The mix tape employs gambino’s fast-paced, hard-hit­ting verses intermixed with other atlanta-based rappers: his younger brother and upcoming rap talent, steve g. lover and young scooter. 
The gangsta grillz mixtape hosted by dJ drama fea­tures beats from staples such as “move That dope” and well. 
The man could tell a seedy story like no one else, and matched his lyrical prowess with an unflappable voice and slick guitar work, besides the nerve and disposition to do whatever the hell he wanted. Bill Withers 
bill withers, one of the smoothest men in soul music, absolutely deserves to get inducted on his first ballot. withers wrote and performed a number of the most popular r&b standards including “ain’t no sunshine,” “lean on me,” “lovely day” and “Just the Two of us.” moreover, his vocal performances on his songs “use me” and “hope she’ll be happier” speak volumes to the singer’s strength and deep rooted connection to his ma­terial, on par with the ranks of peers and hall of Famers marvin gaye, otis redding and same cooke. Kraftwerk 
Kraftwerk invented and pioneered synthesized elec­tronic music. electronically fueled music now domi­nates popular forms of most mainstream genres, in one way or another.  Thank and/or blame Kraftwerk for your synthpop, all other pop, synthesizer-produced hip-hop, new wave, post punk, emo, post punk revival, dance, art rock, ambient, trip hop and experimental music, and wave high to them as they are inducted into the hall of Fame. Joan Jett and the Blackhearts 
Joan Jett is rock ‘n’ roll incarnate.  she’s commonly known as the Queen of rock ‘n’ roll.  she’s a rock role model and was hugely influential in the riot grrrl move­ment, not to mention greater rock and roll genre in general. her most popular segment in her illustrious 
“go dJ,” with glover spitting his signature comedic, fierce lyrics over recognizable rhythms. 
he even added an elaborate, amusing commercial for himself that sounds like it was ripped off my local radio station for hip-hop and r&b (shout-out 101.1 The wiz), featuring an unenthusiastic gambino trying to get you to his performance at The atrium in atlanta on Friday. The fictional concert promises to feature every atlanta-based athlete and offers free admission to anyone with a con­nection to the atlanta Twerk Team. 
“Kauai” acts as the second piece in gambino’s co­hesive project. while “sTn mTn” portrays his dream to be atlanta’s top rapper, the ep acts as his whimsical reality after waking up from the dream on the shores of the Kauai island, according to glover’s complex inter­view. The ideal seems to be somewhat of a stretch: the island lifestyle of Kauai and experimental nature of the ep sounds more illusory than the recognizable hip-hop beats and idea of topping the atlanta rap game central to the mix tape. 
The exploratory ep features eccentric beats combined with glover singing and rapping interchangeably in a hypnotizing flow. 
on first listen, i was ready to tear the ep apart. i had not yet heard “sTn mTn” and was both expecting and want­ing gambino’s in-your-face style and unique lyrics. i was met with lulled lyricism, styling similar to what i would expect from drake or Frank ocean and Jaden smith reading poetry to bongos. 
however, after downloading “sTn mTn” off datpiff and satisfying my craving for his trademark stylings, i returned to “Kauai” with an open mind. although Jaden smith’s spoken word poetry, reminiscent of his existential Twitter style, is absurd and humorous, tracks career has been her time with her backing band the blackhearts and — like in recent reparative actions from the hall of Fame regarding backing bands — she and her bandmates should get inducted together. 

N.W.A. 

having already been nominated on the ballot two previous times, in 2012 and 2013, i would not want to stand in between n.w.a. and their induction into the rock and hall of Fame.  one of the seminal hip-hop and rap groups in the culture and genre’s history boasts legendary members who could and should be included individually, and if the group does it quickly enough, it could provide the lamest hollywood ending to the col­lective’s upcoming biopic. Other Thoughts:
 – 
green day debuted with strong material and slowly, then consistently, got convoluted and delusional to their grandeur as they aged as a band. They are a shoe-in.

 – 
i would not be against seeing war and nine inch nails inducted, as well.

 – 
still, many snubs, oversights and strange decisions plague the rock ‘n’ roll hall of Fame, greatly discredit­ing its merits

 – 
none of this matters at all and in ten years time, mu­sic will be so diffuse and personal it will be impossible to please any two people.

 – 
except lou reed and bill withers are bosses that deserve all the acclaim and attention. 


Contact Matt McMahon at  mmcmaho7@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
like “sober” and the catchy “pop Thieves (make it Feel good)” have started to lessen my initial hostility. The proceeds from the ep, available on spotify and iTunes, will go to preserving Kauai island, hawaii. 
The mix tape/ep duo pulls a beyonce/sasha Fierce: “sTn mTn” showcases gambino’s hard-hitting rap game, while “Kauai” exposes his exploratory, breezy nature. 
The duo acts as an extension of the experimental na­ture of his previous album “because the internet.” 
a music video was released for “Telegraph ave.,” a track off the 2013 album, on Friday. The video, filmed on the shores of Kauai, starts out as a commonplace ocean-side romance but ends with an unexpected dark twist. 
a secret track, discovered by fans who decoded mes­sages on glover’s website and Twitter, put an a capella track found on his site to the instrumental “3005 (beach picnic version)” off “Kauai.” 
The discovery, confirmed by glover, further linked his new work to his previous work; the lyrics to the new track a continuation of the song “3005” off “because The internet.” 
in another connected experiment, gambino has a Tv show for FX, “atlanta,” in the works. 
gambino’s recent works showcase two different styles in an experimental fusion of his different realities. “sTn mTn” plays on his roots and signature rap style, while “Kauai” acts in experimental juxtaposition. The proj­ect pushes the sometimes limiting boundaries of the rap game, which may polarize fans. however, in the wise words of Jaden smith’s Twitter: “hate me love me doesn’t matter i’m still occupying Time inside of your psyche.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Vander Meer to stand test of time 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 
when people think re­cords, it’s the big numbers that come to mind. whether, it’s 88 wins, 100 points, 109 yards or 2,632 games, re­cords get people thinking about how high, long and far human ability can stretch. sometimes, though, in a rush to count as high as we can, we can miss something small. i think the most un­breakable record indeed comes down to a surpris­ingly small number: two. 
yep, just two. in 1938 Johnny vander meer tossed two consecutive no-hitters and gave us the most un­breakable record. 
The cincinnati reds rookie – rookie! – took down boston for his first no-hitter and came back four days lat­er in brooklyn and pitched another. eighteen innings, no hits and two straight no-hitters. 
For anyone still looking for big numbers, how about 
3.375 billion? The most gen­erous odds the world wide web can offer will tell you that there is about a one­in-1500 chance of throw­ing a no-hitter. if you want three in a row, you are up to 1 in 3.375 billion. That’s a tough sell even for lloyd christmas. 
what i really like about this record is that it seems deceptively breakable. recently, the rate of no-hit­ters has sharply increased. There have been 13 solo-no hitters in the last three seasons alone, and san Francisco giants pitcher, yusemeiro petit, threw 15.1 consecutive perfect innings in relief this season. it seems that pitching gets better and better every year and sooner or later someone could put a ridiculous run together and take down vander meer. This seeming ability to be caught is what makes the record all that more impressive. 
because it’s only when you look closer that you see how truly unbreakable the record is. since 1919, only sixteen pitchers (including vander meer) have thrown three straight complete games in which they allowed three hits or less in each. other than vander meer, only two of the games in those runs were no-hitters. in other words, in the last 100 years only 15 other guys have got kind-of-sort-of-not-really­all-that close to vander meer. That’s what unbreak­able looks like. 
each and every record that will be covered in this column in the days ahead is impressive in its own way. some speak to the quirks of stat keeping such as the nFl not recording partial yardage. others, such as win streaks and point totals, reflect a parody-lacking era that seems to have passed. still others display a truly impressive combination of longevity of skill. yet, the best unbreakable record holds up under continued pursuit.  as athletes get faster and stronger and as games change and evolve, the best records will remain. vander meer’s remains un­shakeable even as baseball steadily provides opportuni­ties to go after it. 
The baseball season is notoriously long, and start­ing pitchers trot out to the mound over thirty times a year. yet, putting three no-hitters together remains a ludicrous prospect. it is a record that is ceaselessly pursued and, yet never truly approached. 
it is likely even vander meer wouldn’t be able to tell you how it was possible. he led the league in strikeouts for three consecutive sea­sons (1941-43), but was nev­er as dominant as his rookie campaign. he ultimately compiled a 119-121 record in 13 years, never threw another hitter in the major leagues and is not even en­shrined in cooperstown. yet, vander meer need not worry about being remembered. The number two will stand forever. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB 

rain slows down royals when orioles can’t 
Associated Press 
Kansas ciTy, mo. — The last two times the Kansas city royals played a postseason game at home, rain fell after the final out. This time, it started well before the first pitch. 
game 3 of the al championship series between the royals and baltimore orioles was postponed monday because of steady rain that saturated Kauffman stadium. The game was rescheduled for Tuesday at 8:07 p.m. edT. 
along with steady rain, wind gusts of 25 mph were buffeting the ballpark. The forecast for Tuesday is cold and windy but dry, with weather improving the rest of the week. 
“we want a game we know we can get through nine innings, hopefully play dry baseball, not risk player safety or uncom­fortable fans,” major league baseball senior vice president peter woodfork said about 4 hours before the scheduled first pitch. 
The royals, who lead the best-of-seven series 2-0, will keep former orioles pitcher Jeremy guthrie on the mound for game 3. The orioles will start wei-yin chen, as planned. 
after that, rotations become a little murky. 

royals manager ned yost said he’ll decide before Tuesday night’s game whether to stick with left-hander Jason vargas for game 4 on wednesday or call for an audible and pitch game 1 starter James shields on regular rest. That game is scheduled to start at 4:07 p.m. edT. 
“guthrie will throw tomor­row, and then we’ll go from there,” yost said. “shields can come back or if we feel like we want to give him another day, we can do that, too.” 
orioles manager buck showalter was facing a similar conundrum. miguel gonzalez was slated to start game 4, but chris Tillman could return on regular rest. he opposed shields when the royals beat the orioles in extra innings in the series opener. 
“he’s on normal rest, so yeah, he’s an option,” showalter said. “That’d be five (days), right? but i wouldn’t commit to anything right now other than chen and see where we are.” 
it’s not a slam-dunk deci­sion for yost and showalter to go with their aces. shields and Tillman struggled Friday night, neither lasting past the fifth inning. 
“we’re still getting our arms wrapped around it,” showalter said. 
if needed, game 5 would start at 4:07 p.m. edT on Thursday. games 6 and 7 would return to baltimore and be played Friday and saturday, as scheduled. 
“our teams are used to play consecutive games in a row,” woodfork said. “hopefully it will not have a negative impact on the clubs.” 
rain had been in the fore­cast for the first two games of the alcs at camden yards, but both games were played without delay. The royals won the first 8-6 in 10 innings, and alcides esocbar’s go-ahead double in the ninth inning boosted them to a 6-4 victory saturday. 
since the best-of-seven for­mat was adopted in 1985, all 11 teams that have won the first two games of a league cham­pionship series on the road reached the world series. 
That doesn’t seem to have put a damper on the orioles’ confidence. 
“we’ve played two close games that have gone their way. we’ve had our chances,” orioles reliever andrew miller said. “we can stop their momentum with a win. They stopped ours. They came in and we hadn’t lost in a while. we’ve got to experi­ence that. now it’s our turn.” 
NHL | ducKs 5, sabres 1 

Karlsson scores twice as ducks dominate sabres 
Associated Press 
buFFalo, n.y. — rookie william Karlsson scored the first two goals of his career in lead­ing the anaheim ducks to a 5-1 victory over the winless buffalo sabres on monday afternoon. 
ryan Kessler scored on a third-period penalty shot and corey perry and matt beleskey had a goal each during a one-sided game in which anaheim outshot the sabres 44-12. 
The ducks (2-1) were so domi­nant — and sabres so inept — that anaheim was outshooting buffalo 40-10 when Kessler beat goalie michal neuvirth with a low shot inside the left post with 
7:35remaining. 
Frederik andersen stopped 11 shots to win his second of the season and career-best match­ing sixth straight. andersen, however, was denied a chance to earn his first career shutout when Tyler ennis converted matt moulson’s centering pass from behind the net at 6:36 of the third. 


neuvirth held his own by stop­ping 39 shots in making his first start. The trouble was, the sabres provided little offensive support in a game buffalo was outshot 17-3 through the first period and 29-7 through 40 minutes. 
The sabres hardly look im­proved in coming off a last-place finish in which they scored an nhl post-expansion-era-low 150 goals, and lost a franchise-worst 51 games. before last year, buffalo had never opened a sea­son 0-3. now they’ve done it in consecutive years. 
coming off a 6-2 loss at chicago, buffalo has been out­scored by a combined 14-4 and outshot 131-57. 
ducks forward patrick maroon did not return after hurting his left leg 11 minutes into the sec­ond period. maroon was driving up the right wing, when his left knee was clipped by sabres de­fenseman Josh gorges’ hip check near the boards. maroon lay on the ice for several minutes and required help to be escorted to the locker room. 
perry opened the scoring with a power-play goal at 15:30 of the first. maroon had the puck in the left circle and slipped a pass into the middle, where perry snapped into the left side of the net. 
Karlsson scored 8:15 into the second period, when he was set up in the high slot by hampus lindholm. Karlsson snapped a shot over diving sabres forward cody mccormick and just un­der the crossbar past a screened neuvirth. 
The sabres were thoroughly outplayed. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC VOLLEYBALL | elmhursT inviTaTional 
SMC SOCCER | KalamaZoo 1, smc 0 
Belles keep momentum 
smc succumbs to 
going, go three for four 
first-half goal 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writer  
saint mary’s three for four weekend at the invitational in illinois.  finished this past elmhurst elmhurst,  

The belles (12-9, 6-5 miaa) defeated simpson and bethany on Friday. They opened saturday with a win over bethany, but fell to wisconsin-eau claire lat­er that afternoon. 
The belles carried the momentum of two straight conference victories prior to the tournament into the their first match against st. olaf (8-14, 1-4 miac), win­ning in a 3-0 (25-23, 25-16, 25-13) sweep. senior outside hitter Kati schneider, who led all players with 13 kills and 14 digs in the match, became the fifth player in program history to record 1,000 career kills and digs. 
with this victory under their belt, schneider and the belles headed into their next match against simpson (10-12, 1-3 iiac). while the storm proved a greater challenge for saint mary’s, the belles still walked away with a 3-1 (25-17, 25-21, 17-25, 25-19) victory. The victory was a team effort, as schneider, senior middle hitter melanie Kuczek and junior outside hitter Katie hecklinski all had double-digit kills — 19, 14 and 10, respectively. 

Following the two victo­ries on Friday, saint mary’s started off its saturday double-header by avenging an earlier loss in the sea­son opener to bethany (16­9, 9-1 pac), posting a 3-1 (25-17, 19-25, 25-22, 25-18) win. once again, schneider, Kuczek and hecklinski all had double-digit kill totals, while sophomore setter clare mcmillan provided a team-high 43 assists. 
in their final match, the belles looked to emerge undefeated, however, in a back-and-forth, five-set match, saint mary’s fell to wisconsin-eau claire (11­13, 1-3 wiac). The belles took the first and third sets by a 25-22 margin, while the blugolds won the second set 25-16, the fourth 25-18 and the final set 15-7. 
while the team was led by all-tournament team selection Kati schneider, belles coach Toni elyea said 
paid adverTisemenT 


she believes it was an all-around team performance this past weekend. 
“i was so proud of our team and our performance as a whole,” elyea said. “our hitters did a great job at the net this weekend and took their game to a new level. our defense and servers did the same. The extra effort and communication really paid off. everyone really played a role in our wins this week.” 
Tonight, the belles go up against Trine (18-3, 7-3), who sits third in the miaa standings. The Thunder pose a test for saint mary’s as the belles look to carry their current momentum forward. elyea said the belles must put in a strong performance to clinch the win. 
“[we have to shut] down their setter and [play] ag­gressively,” elyea said. “[we] will have to play well in all areas to get the win.” 
The belles and Thunder meet tonight in angola, indiana at hershey hall at 7 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam at bpanadil@nd.edu 
CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Belles sophomore forward Liza Felix holds off a Trine defender during the Belles’ 1-0 home win over the Thunder on Oct. 4. 

By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 

saint mary’s fell 1-0 to Kalamazoo by a single first-half goal Friday night. 
hornets senior midfield­er maria rich dribbled past three belles defenders into the box and placed the ball in the bottom corner to score the decisive goal for Kalamazoo (6-3-1, 9-3-1 miaa) in the 26th minute. 
The belles’ (4-8-1, 2-6-1) best chances to equalize came late in the game. a well-placed pass in the 75th minute from soph­omore midfielder Jenn Jarmy put sophomore forward liza Felix through with only the goalkeeper to beat, but Felix’s shot went narrowly wide. 
saint mary’s had two ad­ditional chances in the last minutes of the game, but Kalamazoo junior goalkeeper lucy mailing produced two saves. mailing blocked both a long-range free-kick from se­nior defender Kerry green and a free header deep inside the box from Felix. 
saint mary’s coach michael Joyce said he was impressed by the chances his team created and that the belles were unfor­tunate to fail netting any goals. 
“i was a little surprised we didn’t score, we created some great chances, so that was encouraging,” Joyce said. 
Joyce said that narrow de­feats were becoming a theme of the belles’ season — with this being his team’s fifth de­feat by a single goal in the 2014 campaign. he said he hopes that this run will soon come to an end. 
“we’ve lost a lot of close games this year,” Joyce said. “we haven’t always been tight for 90 minutes, we’ve missed some good chances and haven’t gotten the right bounce when we needed it. it’s tough to lose so many close games when the teams are even, but we’ve got some competitive players who will keep pushing until it breaks our way.” 
The belles look to rebound from Friday’s defeat in their game against alma today. alma enters the match 8-4-1 overall and 6-3-1 in conference play, and Joyce said his team is prepared to top alma for the first time in a while. 
“we’re looking forward to alma – they are the one team in the conference we haven’t beaten in the last few years – so hoping to break through that,” Joyce said. 
The belles travel to alma, michigan to face the scots to­day at 4 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL | pasQuerilla easT 14, pangborn 6 
Pyros hold on to beat Phoxes, stay undefeated 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
pasquerilla east held on against a late pangborn of­fensive drive to complete its undefeated regular sea­son with a 14-6 victory on sunday. 
The pyros (6-0) opened the game with aggressive defensive backfield play that led to an early interception to halt the first pangborn (4-1) drive of the day. From there, freshman running back sidney boll converted to culminate a fast-paced drive that had pangborn’s defense on its heels early. 
pangborn’s defense quick­ly recovered, though. The defensive unit regained its resolve and slowed the lightning-fast pyros of­fense, thanks to the play of their defensive line. Junior defensive linesman molly cullinen led the pangborn line. she contributed two of her four sacks during the first half and helped pre­vent the pyros from scoring again for the rest of the half. 
The third quarter began with a rapid push from an in­vigorated pangborn offense. The sudden change in tem­po thwarted the pasquerilla east defense, leading to a quarterback scramble that yielded pangborn’s only points of the game. however, the pyros roared back, airing out the football and reasserting their lead despite tight coverage by the pangborn secondary. 

boll stressed the impor­tance of the team dynamic in the pyro’s win. 
“we just go out as a team pretty much every game,” boll said. “[we] try to work together and make the plays we needed to … we were a little faster than [the pangborn defense] today.” 
despite the loss, pangborn displayed its defensive prowess. 
“it took us a while to fig­ure out their set up because 
MEN’S INTERHALL | morrisey 32, siegFried 7 
morrisey routs siegfried 

it was different from what we expected,” cullinen said of pasquerilla east’s early driving score. “once [the defense] got it, [it was] a lot more cohesive and could work together a lot better.” 
boll and the pyros con­cluded their regular season an undefeated 6-0 and now await the beginning of the postseason. 
The phoxes will conclude their regular season against ryan on nov. 2 at 4 p.m. at labar practice Fields. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 

morrissey continued its perfect season with 
a  convincing  32-7  win  
over  siegfried  on  sunday  
afternoon.  
The  manor  (3-0)  con­ 

trolled the game on both sides of the ball from start to finish. They opened the game with an 11-play touch­down drive that showed the team’s ability to run the ball. Towards the end of the half, morrissey saw its receivers open the field as it capital­ized on its passing game. The end result was a 19-0 halftime lead. 
“[Junior running back] hunter white went down and because of the clock we kept the ball in the air [to­ward the end of the half],” morrissey junior captain and running back erik rayno said. 
outside of the team’s of­fensive outburst, the manor’s defense stood strong, par­ticularly late in the second half when it intercepted siegfried junior quarter­back spencer Judd on each of the ramblers’ final three possessions. 
“[our defense had] been practicing that all week so it’s nice to see them step up in the games,” rayno said. 
after a botched punt at­tempt allowed siegfried (1-2) to get good field position and cut the manor’s lead to 19-7 early in the third quarter, the manor responded on offense with an unanswered touch­down and two unanswered field goals. after missing the team’s opening extra point, senior quarterback and kick­er ryan lindquist was able to convert field goals from 28 and 39 yards. 
“we know [lindquist has] got a boot,” rayno said. “we know when he kicks it that he’s going to have the dis­tance. we trust him.” 
For the ramblers, offensive struggles that have plagued the team over the first few weeks of the season con­tinued sunday, resulting in several three-and-outs and three interceptions. Junior captain grady schmidt said, however, that the offensive struggles were a byproduct of a poor performance on the other side of the ball. 
“our defense couldn’t get off the field,” schmidt said. “our offense was really hurt by our defense.” 
both teams will have fall break to recover before re­turning to action. morrissey will take on alumni on nov. 2, while the ramblers play duncan on the same day. both games will be at riehle Fields. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
content.” 
The wildcats (6-1-4, 1-1-2 big Ten) come into Tuesday’s match winners of two straight and un­beaten in six, thanks in part to a stout defensive unit. in 11 games this season, the northwestern defense has allowed just six goals, including two in their sole loss to ohio state. 
going up against a stout defensive unit like the one northwestern possesses, clark said his team needs to be patient in trying to break down its oppo­nent and needs to keep from get­ting beat on a counterattack. 
“we’ve got to be patient,” clark said. “it’ll be a hard game — they don’t concede a lot of goals and they’re very well-organized so we’ve got to be careful that we don’t get caught in transition. we just have to be patient all around.” 
it will be the seventh consecu­tive season in which the wildcats and irish have met — a series that as of recently, has been northwestern’s to relish. since the resumption of the series in 2008, the wildcats have not lost, recording three victories over the irish as well as three draws. 
despite its strong defensive record, northwestern has only tallied 14 goals in this season’s 11 games, with a majority of production coming from two players. Junior forward Joey calistri and junior midfielder cole missimo both have four goals to their name. senior goal­keeper Tyler miller has seven clean sheets to his name on the year. he has played every minute of the wildcat season to date and has made 41 saves. 
even though the match is a non-conference one, clark and the irish approach it just like they do an acc match. 
“we treat them exactly the same because this is a huge game as long as your rpi is concerned, this is a huge game as far as get­ting into the [ncaa] tournament is concerned,” clark said. “while it’s nice to win your conference and win your tournament, at the end of the day, all of your games are going to be taken into con­sideration to get into the ncaa tournament.” 
after a week that saw a loss at michigan and a home win over louisville, the irish dropped from third to sixth in the rpi rankings 
— a win over northwestern, who is 16th in the index — would help notre dame climb back up the ladder. 
both the irish and the wildcats will take to the pitch at alumni stadium tonight at 7 p.m., look­ing to bolster their ncaa tourna­ment credentials. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Football 
conTinued From page 16 
to overcome some of those things. This was one of those days that all those things came together.” 
Kelly said the substitu­tion and personnel prob­lems the irish had against north carolina will advise the coaches and players for future games. 
“in some of our situational substitutions, they got us a couple times when we were flipping nickel into base de­fense,” Kelly said. “That’s some coaching things that we’ll obviously improve on with limited personnel. There’s no question there will be some carryover that will help us, but i think the overriding point here is that we still have to do a better job of not putting our de­fense in vulnerable positions like we did on saturday. we don’t have the depth. we don’t have the ability to have a number of players get a breather. we were dead tired late in the game, and then when [senior linebacker] Joe schmidt has to go out and he’s missing tackles be­cause he’s playing 91 plays, that’s just not managing the game effectively … yes, we’ll learn. we’ve experienced this tempo and we’ll be bet­ter for it across the board.” 
Offensive Turnovers 
Kelly said the defense would not have been so un­organized and fatigued if the offense had taken care of the ball. 
“we gave them three touchdowns on offense,” Kelly said. “if you take the three touchdowns that we gave them off the board, it’s 50-20 whatever, and every­one is going, ‘wow, that’s a pretty nice game. wow, nice job. north carolina has got a pretty good offense.’ i think if you really critically look at it, we just gave them too many plays, and our third down was not what it has been up to this point. we just weren’t locked in defen­sively like we had been the previous weeks. it wasn’t our best effort. 
“… we’ve got to do a bet­ter job on the offensive side of the ball to protect our de­fense in these kinds of situa­tions,” Kelly said. 
notre dame’s offense had three turnovers — senior quarterback everett golson had two fumbles and a pick-six — all were in irish terri­tory, and all ended in a Tar heel touchdown. golson now has nine turnovers in the past three games. in the first three games, golson had zero. 
“every single [turnover] is analyzed, overanalyzed, and we look at them and we go back to work and find ways to secure the football and do a better job,” Kelly said. “we don’t take any of them for granted. we look at ways to improve each time and look at each one of them as opportunities to eradicate them.” 
Frozen Five 
sophomore cornerback Keivarae russell announced the outcome of his academic hearing to his team at prac­tice Thursday and to the public via instagram Friday. Kelly said none of the other four withheld players have spoken to him about their results. 
“no, the only one that ac­tually said anything to me is Keivarae, so that’s really it,” Kelly said. 
a group of players, includ­ing graduate student corner cody riggs and sophomore safety max redfield, ac­knowledged the five dur­ing saturday’s matchup by wearing towels with some the five’s numbers scrawled on them. Kelly said he did not think that this gesture was distracting. 
“i think they’re being good teammates and just recognizing their team­mates in that situation,” Kelly said. “i’m generally not big on that, but they’ve handled themselves very well through social media. They have not formed opin­ions of such, and so i did see a towel, i did not make a big deal of it because i thought that our team as a whole has handled the situation very well and felt that i was okay with it.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 




HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: This is a take-charge year. don’t wait for others to beat you to the finish line. Trust in your fundamental instincts and take a progressive, direct approach to your goals. bring about the changes necessary to turn any negative you’ve been enduring into a positive by doing what’s best for you. opportunity is present and aggressive behavior is required. your numbers are 2, 6, 16, 20, 32, 37, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Traveling or learning and exploring new people, places and pastimes will add to your knowledge and life experience. adapting to your environment will open up a window of opportunity to excel. a relationship will move in a meaningful direction. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take care of personal papers and prepare to replace equipment that is becoming obsolete. a peer will reveal information concerning your job or changes coming down the pipeline in your industry that will require you to update your skills. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): concentrate on creative endeavors that will bring in cash benefits. present and promote what you have to offer and be open to the criticism given, but don’t let it deter you from moving forward. deem suggestions made as a contribution. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t feel guilty if you want to take care of your goals instead of helping someone else. sticking close to home and working on projects that make you happy or add to your comfort will bring the best results. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): step into the spotlight and show everyone what you can accomplish. The connections you make by being a participant will lead to a positive change in the way you move forward. love is on the rise and romance highlighted. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of responsibilities and you will avoid complaints from demanding individuals looking for a fight. make changes to your personal financial papers to protect what you have worked so hard to achieve. add extra detail to any job you take on. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): study the nature of people today. your involvement in group talks or traveling to see someone in person will bring positive results. you will have a good eye for what will and what won’t work. love is highlighted. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep your money and possessions tucked away in a safe place. don’t take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. Focus on home, family, planning and making your life as convenient and comfortable as possible. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): emotions will instigate serious talks that can improve your life and open up doors of opportunity. sharing your thoughts will quickly lead to decisions that will bring you great satisfaction at home and at work. love is in the stars.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): rethink any plans you have pending. it’s better for you to slow down and see what transpires than to jump into something that has the potential to backfire. put safety first and prepare to encounter the unexpected. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): mingle with people who have just as much to offer as you. pregnancy, greater involvement with children and personal financial growth are all highlighted. an innovative career change can be successfully implemented. romance will bring you closer to the one you love. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your financial, medical and legal interests, but don’t use emotional blackmail if you want to be successful. don’t feel you have to compromise or deviate from your philosophy, but be willing to recognize and accept that others may differ. 


Birthday Baby: you are outgoing, entertaining and unique. you are versatile and productive.charismatic and creative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Composure proves key 

Kelly talks defense’s reaction to up-tempo play, offensive turnovers, ‘Frozen Five’ 
By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
Defensive Struggles 
going into the game against north carolina, the irish had the third best scor­ing defense in the country, giving up only 12 points per game. coming out of the game saturday, the irish had dropped five spots to eighth overall and were giving up 
17.2 points per game. The Tar heels were able to run 91 offensive plays and put up 43 points against notre dame. irish coach brian Kelly said that north carolina’s up-tempo offense contributed to the Tar heels success against the irish defense and the need for notre dame’s offense to win a shootout. 
“we’re inexperienced in a number of areas, and if the circumstances played out, we could be put into that kind of situation,” Kelly said. 
“here are the ingredients for that. a team that runs an up-tempo offense that can run up to 100 plays. … we’re very thin on the back end, as evidenced late in the game. we were tired and tackled poorly. That’s something that concerns us. playing very fast with some young kids, not being able to get off the field on third down with our base personnel. we weren’t able to situational substitute, so we weren’t as good on third down, another key ingredient with playing a team like north carolina. and then turning the foot­ball over on offense, which happens. 
“i knew if those things happened, there could be a day where we needed to out­score because we’re inexpe­rienced in a number of areas on defense. we’ve been able 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER FENCING | norTh american cup 
Irish to host Northwestern in top-20 showdown 
By ALEX CARSON 

sports writer  
Fresh off a 3-2 overtime win  
over no. 16 louisville on Friday,  
no. 6 notre dame will play host  
to another top-25 opponent —  
no. 20 northwestern — tonight at  
alumni stadium.  
The irish (6-3-2, 3-1-1 acc)  
posted goals from senior forward  
vince cicciarelli, graduate stu­ 
dent defender andrew o’malley  
and junior midfielder patrick  
hodan in the louisville win, and  
irish coach bobby clark said he  
was happy overall with the team’s  
performance.  
“i thought we showed good  
patience to win the ball in the  
middle third area, and i thought  
we were able to do that and create  
some pretty good chances,” clark  
said. “i rate louisville very highly  
… so i was fairly pleased.”  
The match, however, marked  
the second consecutive one in  
which notre dame conceded  
multiple goals — clark’s team  
had not done so all year before last  
Tuesday’s 3-2 loss at michigan.  
“you don’t like losing two goals  
at home,” clark said. “but as long  
as we get one more than the op­ 
position, i suppose i should be  KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer  
Irish graduate student defender Andrew O’Malley celebrates after  
see m soccer PAGE 13  his goal Friday in the 3-2 home win over Louisville on Friday.  

irish snag two individual wins 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame had 18 current or former team members in action over the weekend at the north american cup in portland, oregon. in all, the irish tallied two wins and three other top-10 finishes. 
Friday, irish alum mariel Zagunis won the division 1 women’s saber competition, while senior Francesca russo finished tied for third. That same day, three irish freshman competed in division 1 men’s saber. ian Jones, Jonathan Fitzgerald and Jonah shainberg finished 19th, 20th and 22nd, respectively. 
on the second day of the event, the irish had current or former team members com­peting in division 1 women’s epee, division 1 men’s foil and division 2 women’s foil. notre dame alums, Kelley hurley and courtney hurley finished in the top ten in division 1 women’s epee. Kelley took sec­ond, while courtney finished seventh. meanwhile, senior ashley severson finished eighth and senior nicole ameli placed 23rd. 
in the men’s foil, sophomore hazem Khazbak came in 28th place, while fellow sophomore John crumpler came in just behind at 32nd. notre dame’s lone competitor in division 2 women’s foil was freshman erin dietsche, who took seventh place. 
sunday saw four irish women in action in division 1 women’s foil. senior madison Zeiss won the division’s bracket, while junior nicole mcKee finished 25th and freshmen Zoe loh and dietsche took 49th and 72nd, respectively. 
overall, several irish team members had the opportunity to compete prior to a season that will feature individual competi­tions through november and december, along with exhibi­tions against northwestern and ohio state. 
in the weekend ahead, a few members of the irish will com­pete in the men’s Foil senior world cup in san Francisco and the women’s Foil senior world cup in cancun, mexico. Khazbak will be one of the notre dame men participating, while the irish will have Zeiss, mcKee and junior lee Keifer on the women’s side. 
both competitions will get underway Friday and conclude on saturday. 





