The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 31 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students promote ‘Irish State of Mind’ 
ND groups foster increased mental health awareness 
By MArGArET hYnDs 
news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the first installment in a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recognition of National Mental Health Awareness Week. 
irish state of mind week, the university’s manifesta­tion of national mental health awareness week, will take place this week oct. 5-10 across notre dame and saint mary’s campuses. 
notre dame student government, who partnered with the notre dame chap­ter of the national alliance on mental illness [nami-nd] this year, planned more than 10 events that will take place across campus this week. 
nami-nd president maggie skoch said the purpose of nami-nd and irish state of mind week is to “educate and make students more aware of resources and to encourage conversation.” 
see awareness PAGE 7 



Support a Belle, Love a Belle week begins at SMC 
By KELLY KOnYA 
saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s note: This is the first installment in a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recognition of National Mental Health Awareness Week. 
in order to raise awareness of mental health issues, such as add/ adhd, depression, eating disor­ders, anxiety and addiction, saint mary’s will host a series of events throughout the week deemed “support a belle, love a belle (sablab).” The week is sponsored by the saint mary’s community in collaboration with notre dame’s irish state of mind week. 
senior and co-chair of the stu­dent government association’s (sga) social concerns commit­tee chloe deranek said this year’s theme is hope, a result of the com­mittee’s finding that in most cases of mental health the factor that pushes people toward suicide is feelings of hopelessness. 
“Throughout our week, we will be promoting hope with the 
see sablab PAGE 5 


university asks supreme court to review hhs case 
By Ann MArIE JAKUBOWsKI 
editor-in-chief 
in may 2012, notre dame filed its initial lawsuit for relief from affordable care act’s contracep­tive mandate. 
Two years and four months later, after several rounds of denials and appeals, the university’s attorneys filed paperwork Friday asking the 
u.s. supreme court to review the case, citing the court’s June rul­ing in favor of hobby lobby’s de­cision not to provide certain types of birth control in its health insur­ance plan. 
“The university of notre dame 


see mandaTe PAGE 6 SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



University will not release results of inquiry 
Observer staff report 
The academic dishonesty hearings for the five players withheld from football conclud­ed Friday, but the university will not disclose the results of its inquiry, a university spokes­man said in a statement issued sunday afternoon. 
paul browne, vice president for public affairs and commu­nications, said decisions will be communicated directly to the individual student-athletes af­fected as deliberations on each case conclude. 
“as with other student aca­demic records, the results of the review are confidential, and the university will not disclose them, although affected stu­dents may if they so choose,” browne said in the statement. “if it is determined that student-athletes would have been ineli­gible during past competition, notre dame will voluntarily impose  appropriate sanctions, report our findings to the ncaa and await its independent review.” 
see honor code PAGE 6 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                          alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
news Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur sports Editor: mary green scene Editor: allie Tollaksen saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

news Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


If you were a dog, what breed would you be? 

Lauren Machado 

nicholas Furnari 
sophomore 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
siegfried hall 
“mutt.” 
“maltese.” 

Erin hayes 

Ivan Finkelstein 
freshman 
freshman 
walsh hall 
siegried hall 
“lab.” 
“chihuahua.” 

Kyra Powell 

John King 
freshman 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
Fisher hall 
“irish red and white setter.” 
“golden retriever.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds greg hadley Katie mccarty marek mazurek 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 

Photo Viewpoint 

DMV Demonstration Energy Research Notre Dame Power 14th Annual Blue Mass Pep Rally 
Karla moreno gabriela leskur 
Jordan Hall of Science Poster Session Plant Tours Basilica of the Sacred Location TBA 
1:30 p.m - 2 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science Power Plant Heart 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Open to all. 4 p.m - 6 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Pep Rally for ND vs. 


Corrections 

Cookout to follow. Free tours of the plant. Mass for those who North Carolina football The observer regards itself as work in public safety. game. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Fall Town Hall Rosary for Life Science Week: Talk “A Streetcar Named Men’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Washington Hall Basilica of the Sacred Science Desire” Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
3 p.m - 4 p.m. Heart Jordan Hall of Science DeBartolo Performing 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Campus-wide 6:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Arts Center The Irish take on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
information shared. Rosary to pray for Sciencia club hosts 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Louisville. 
we can correct our error. 
greater respect for life. discussion. Classic film. 





Students react to narrow win over Stanford 
By PETEr DUrBIn 
news writer 
in a hard-fought game that required battling both the weather and the nation’s num­ber one-ranked scoring de­fense, notre dame defeated the stanford cardinals 17-14. 
The game had major col­lege playoff implications, with the irish strengthening their resume to earn the no. 5 usa Today poll and no. 6 ap Top 25 football rankings. several espn commentators also included notre dame in their predictions for one of the final four teams included in college Football playoff at the end of the season. 
although the weather played a significant role in the game, as both teams’ offenses struggled to consistently move the ball, junior matt castellini said it did not damper the enthusiastic mood following the game. 
“yes, the weather was bad, and yes, it negatively affected my experience,” he said. “but it’s like i always say, rule no. 76: no excuses, play like a champion. we did that in the stands, and they did that on the field.” 
senior casey macdonald said the game reminded her of the 2011 notre dame game against the south Florida bulls, which was postponed multiple times due to inclement weather. 
“seniors started their foot­ball careers at notre dame with thunderstorms, two delays of game, evacuating the sta­dium and hours of wait time,” macdonald said. “notre dame fans are not strangers to adverse weather.” 
although some fans made for the exits as early as halftime, a vast majority of the student sec­tion stayed to cheer on the team. 
“i was so glad i stayed until the end,” senior claire lupo said. “it was maybe the best game i have ever seen our d-boys play.” 
The fans were raucous and aided notre dame’s defense, as a combination of strong sec­ondary play by the irish and an inability to move the ball on stanford’s part allowed senior quarterback everett golson and the offense one last opportunity to win the game. 
Junior chuckie connors said he celebrated excessively, at his own expense. 
“we dog piled in the stands,” he said. “i sprained my ankle, but it was well worth it.” 
The game was a back-and­forth affair that saw neither team establish its dominance, until everett golson’s game-winning 23-yard pass to tight end ben Koyack gave the irish the lead for good. 
senior shannon hogan said she felt the irish were always go­ing to win the game. 
“it was just proof that the irish will always pull through in the end,” she said. “i think all of us could feel that we were going to win that game, we could feel the need to win that the players were feeling.” 
notre dame fans can now turn their attention to up­coming opponents, includ­ing an away matchup in two weeks against the Florida state 


lecture begins digital week 
By JErEMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 
ceo of edX and miT pro­fessor anant agarwal kicked off the first annual nd digital week on Friday with the keynote lecture entitled “reinventing education.” 
agarwal said online educa­tion not only provides access to superb teaching where educa­tional infrastructure is weak, but it also has the potential to improve the quality of educa­tion at existing universities. 
edX, a massive open on-line course (mooc) provider, reaches a global audience and offers 300 courses to nearly 3 million learners, agarwal said. 
Featuring courses in a va­riety of disciplines taught by professors from harvard, miT and other renowned in­stitutions, edX also caters to a broad range of students, many of whom do not have access to a formal education. agarwal said in developing countries, university expenses and hyper-competitive admis­sions bar the vast majority of people from pursuing higher education. 
“one of edX’s main goals is to offer instruction to those who either can’t qualify academi­cally or financially,” he said. 
The numbers are encourag­ing, agarwal said. For edX’s first course, “on circuits and electronics” offered by miT, over 155,000 students from 152 countries signed up. agarwal said over 7,000 students passed the same course that electri­cal engineering majors at miT take. 
“These are very big numbers ... i would have to teach for 40 years to reach these many stu­dents,” he said. 
behind the large numbers are the “amazing” individual stories of the learners, agarwal said citing a student from an african village who took a course on solar energy. 
“in the village, the power kept coming and going,“ he said. ”based on what this stu­dent learned in the course, he actually set up a solar system ... because of that, the pow­er is more continuous in the village.” 
agarwal said edX imple­mented a free and publicly ac­cessible open-source version of its platform, named open edX, to further increase access. 
“open source is good for all of us because people can contribute to the platform,” he said. “Today...there are 50 open edX sites and 500 cours­es running on these sites.” 
edX also aims to integrate decades-worth of educational research into the american university system, agarwal said. 
“in many fields research has been rapidly moving into practice,” he said. “but in edu­cation, things don’t look all that different today ... we re­ally have not adapted all these ideas. 
“on the edX platform, there are no lectures as such, but learning sequences: an inter­leaved sequence of videos and activities. This form of learn­ing, where [the student] is not just listening to the lecture, but engaging with the material, is called active learning.” 
in addition to implementing educational research, agarwal said edX uses a/b testing and big data analysis to determine the most effective methods of teaching. edX groups its users into separate tracks and ex­poses them to different meth­ods of instruction. 
“The a group will continu­ally see a material, and the b group will continually see the b material,” he said. “Then you can give them a common assessment and see who does better. This way, we as educa­tors, can continually examine the engineering and improve what we do.” 
despite questions as to whether moocs like edX seek to replace traditional educa­tion, agarwal said the aim is to blend online learning with classroom interaction. in mul­tiple experiments with san Jose state university, agarwal said students who supplemented their in-class instruction with corresponding edX videos fared better than students who only took the course. 
“in the traditional sections the failure rate for the course was historically 41 percent,” he said. “but in the blended version, the failure rate was 9 percent.” 
agarwal said there is a syn­ergy between online learning and traditional instruction and hopes more schools will adopt this method of instruction. 
“whether you are a com­munity college or private uni­versity, i believe that blended learning can be used by every­body,” he said. 

Contact Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 

seminoles. glad we survived it,” he said. 
senior Kevin mcmannis said regardless of the weather, the he is confident the irish can irish continue to find ways to continue to win on their home win tight games. turf. 
“This was the last home game Contact Peter Durbin at i thought we could lose, and i’m pdurbin@nd.edu 
University prepares to build research facility 
Observer staff report 
saturday, the university broke ground on mccourtney hall, a “world-class research facility” to be located east of the hesburgh library, ac­cording to a notre dame press release. 
“mccourtney hall creates a great opportunity for the research programs in sci­ence and engineering at notre dame,” robert bernhard, vice president for research at notre dame, said in a statement. “The building is designed as a collaborative and adaptive space to encourage cross-dis­ciplinary research interaction along the entire continuum of basic and applied research. … we expect the building to be a game-changer for science and engineering research at notre dame.” 
set for completion in June 2016, the building will house the department of chemi­cal and biomolecular engi­neering from the college of engineering as well as the department of chemistry and biochemistry from the college of science. it will also feature about 100,000 square feet of laboratory and team spaces, 40,000 square feet of which will remain “unassigned to fa­cilitate new hires,” the release stated. 
“mccourtney hall is the first dedicated research build­ing to be constructed in a planned larger east campus research complex,” the re­lease stated. “The research quad will create, for the first time at notre dame, a space for highly collaborative, state-of-the-art research that cross­es the colleges of science and engineering. The building will support research space needs that are currently unmet on campus and facilitate current strategic research initiatives and the advancing our vision hiring plans within the molec­ular sciences.” 
a $35 million gift from alum­nus Ted h. mccourtney and his wife, Tracy, underwrote the construction of the build­ing. alumnus and notre dame trustee Thomas J. crotty, Jr. and his wife, shari, donated $10 million for the facility. 

paid adverTisemenT 




mental health for the rest of the grotto will also serve as list statistics and define the 
SABLAB 
the week. a sign of the community that mental health issues of add/ 
sexual 
conTinued From page 1 

For monday’s event the we have here supporting our adhd, depression, eating dis-hashtag #bellesForhope and sablab committee planned belles.” orders, anxiety and addiction, trying our very best to show glowstick Zumba on the Thursday will include a lec-deranek said. 
assault 

each and every belle that ev-library green, an activity ture given by Tom seeberg, the bavo will also host a lunch eryone here supports and loves where students will wear glow father of former saint mary’s discussion about advocation her, and maybe that fact can stick necklaces and bracelets student lizzy seeberg, titled against sexual assault, she 
bring her hope,” deranek said. as they come together for a “believe: giving witness to said. “This year’s sablab is a little healthy, stress-relieving work-hope,” Tarullo said. “This is important to us be-different in that we are trying to out, Tarullo said. “while the student panel cause as bavo says, ‘one is too branch out more and cover not Tuesday’s event is a stu-holds a special place in my many,’” deranek said. “no one 
attempt 
reported 

only mental health, but sexual dent panel called “share your heart, i am extremely excited should have to cope with sexu­violence, through collabora-story,” where eight students for Tom seeberg to speak to al assault, and we wholeheart­tions with bavo [belles against will recall their own present our students about his journey edly support advocation for 
Observer staff report 

violence office], and other and past struggles with men-after the mental health strug-talking about ways to prevent notre dame security police 
mental issues like addiction and tal health, deranek said. gles of his daughter, lizzy,” this as well as what to do in the (ndsp) emailed students sunday 
add/adhd.” “[The student panel] is a Tarullo said. “lizzy contin-aftermath. we will specifically night alerting them to a report of 
deranek said the main very important event to us,” ues to be a large inspiration focus the discussion on how to attempted sexual assault that oc­
goals of the week are to spread she said. “we really feel that it behind the events of sablab recognize that something may curred early saturday morning. 
awareness and statistics about helps to de-stigmatize mental and reminds us how real these have happened to a friend and The reported attempt took place 
mental health issues, to com-health by putting a face to the issues are on college campus-how to be a source for her.” near the lakes as the suspect and 
bat stigmas, to show the stu-issue, and it also shows girls es, especially our own. Tarullo said the preparation victim were walking back to the 
dents the available resources that they are not alone in their “as the theme of our week for this week started in June, victim’s residence hall from off 
for mental health and to bring suffering — that things can get is centered around hope, mr. and her committee members campus, and the report was made 
the college’s community to-better, for support, love and seeberg is a great source of each have personal motives to a campus administrator, the 
gether to act as a symbol of help are always here for them.” how important hope is in for helping the cause. in col-email stated. 
support and love. on wednesday at 7 p.m., persevering through mental laboration with all the belles The email quoted “du lac: a 
Kaitlyn Tarullo, a senior students will gather to deco-illnesses.” involved and the notre dame guide to student life,” notre 
and co-chair of sga’s social rate paper bag votives in deranek agreed, saying she “irish state of mind” events, dame’s official policy book, and 
concerns committee, said reignbeaux lounge, and they and the rest of the social con-she said she knows the week warned students of the risks of 
the week kicked off sunday will then line the lanterns cerns committee are honored will be a great success. sexual assault as well as the stan­
evening with a movie event down The avenue as they walk Tom seeberg accepted their “This week provides many dards of consent. 
called “sundaes on sunday,” a to the grotto for a healing invitation to speak, as he has outlets for girls who experi­“sexual assault can happen 
common gathering hosted by mass. a powerful message to share ence these issues in their own to anyone,” the email stated. 
the student activities board “The lanterns will be made with the community. individual way, and i hope this “anyone initiating any kind of sex­
(sab). attendees watched to represent those who suffer other events taking place week inspires hope to all who ual contact with another person 
“silver linings playbook,” from mental health in college throughout the week in-need it most,” Tarullo said. must seek consent and not engage 
which Tarullo said was an ex-and will be a powerful visual clude daily tables set up in in sexual contact unless consent is 
cellent choice in beginning an of the loss that can occur,” the noble Family dining hall Contact Kelly Konya at given.” 
ongoing conversation about deranek said. “The walk to during lunch. The tables will kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Mandate 
conTinued From page 1 
… asked the u.s. supreme court, in light of its decision in burwell v. hobby lobby stores, inc. to vacate an opinion of the 
u.s. court of appeals for the 7th circuit and remand our case for consideration,” paul browne, the university’s vice president for public affairs and communica­tions, said in a statement. “The 7th circuit had denied notre dame’s request for a temporary restraining order regarding gov­ernment-mandated contracep­tive services. 
“in [this] filing, notre dame continues to challenge the feder­al mandate as an infringement on our fundamental right to the free exercise of our catholic faith.” 
notre dame’s lawsuit against the department of health and human services argues that the provision of the affordable care act that orders health care plans to cover contraceptives violates its religious beliefs, even if the university isn’t paying for the coverage. The university cur­rently provides the coverage through its third-party health care administrator, meritain health, in accordance with the accommodation available to reli­gious employers. 
in the filing, attorneys matthew Kairis and noel Francisco wrote that “the lower courts declined to protect the university of notre dame du lac from being forced to violate its religious beliefs by participating in a regulatory scheme to provide its employ­ees and students with coverage for abortion-inducing products, contraceptives and sterilization.” 
The petition argues that the 7th circuit court’s decision “cannot be reconciled” with the supreme court’s ruling on hobby lobby. 
“contrary to hobby lobby’s clear command, the 7th circuit chose to conduct a lengthy anal­ysis of whether notre dame was correct in its assertion that the actions it must take to comply with the accommodation would ‘make the university an accom­plice in the provision of contra­ception, in violation of catholic doctrine,” the petition states. “The 7th circuit failed to ap­preciate that whether a particu­lar action makes the university complicit in the provision of con­traceptive coverage is a religious judgment, rooted in catholic teachings regarding the permis­sible degree of entanglement in illicit conduct.” 
The petition further argues that the accommodation allow­ing notre dame to provide the contraceptive coverage through meritain health still imposes “a substantial burden” since notre dame still has a religious objec­tion to maintaining that contrac­tual relationship. 
“The government has effec­tively ‘poisoned’ the insurance market for notre dame, making it impossible to offer health cov­erage consistent with its religious beliefs,” the attorneys wrote. “Just as a mormon might refuse to hire a caterer that insisted on serving alcohol to his wedding guests, or a Jew might refuse to hire a ca­terer determined to serve pork at his son’s bar mitzvah, it violates notre dame’s religious beliefs to hire or maintain a relationship with any third party that will provide contraceptive care to its plan beneficiaries.” 
in June, notre dame law pro­fessor rick garnett told The observer that hobby lobby was not yet technically eligible for the same accommodation as notre dame since it is a for-profit, non­religious corporation. however, “it is still an open question whether the revised mandate violates the [religious Freedom restoration] act as applied to notre dame and other religious employers.” 
however, both hobby lobby and notre dame “are both en­titled to invoke the [religious Freedom restoration act]’s pro­tections,” which was enacted by congress to provide more gener­ous accommodations to religious objectors than the constitution requires, garnett said. 
in an essay published on the scoTus blog, law professor and director of notre dame’s center the petition concurs with snead’s for ethics and culture o. carter analysis of the accommodation snead wrote that the supreme in his essay. court’s hobby lobby decision “The accommodation in this “follows from the most natu-context forces the religious em­ral and straightforward read-ployer to say ‘no’ in a manner ing of [the religious Freedom that functions as a legally opera-restoration act], given both its tive ‘yes,’” snead wrote. text and the jurisprudence in which it is situated.” Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at 
The attorneys’ argument in ajakubo1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 
Honor Code 
conTinued From page 1 
notre dame announced its in­vestigation aug. 15, and irish ju­nior cornerback Keivarae russell, senior receiver davaris daniels, senior defensive end ishaq williams, graduate student line­backer Kendall moore and senior safety eilar hardy have been held out of practice and competition during the probe into “suspected academic dishonesty.” 
The university said “evidence that students had submitted pa­pers and homework that had been written for them by others” was initially detected at the end of the summer session and referred to the compliance office in athletics July 29. notre dame said the office of general counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
browne’s statement addressed for the first time the makeup of the honesty committees involved in the investigation. 
“often, an academic honesty review involves one student and one academic department,” he said. “due to the complexity of cases involving multiple disci­plines, comprehensive honesty committees were impaneled to review memoranda and extensive exhibits compiled in connection with the general counsel’s initial inquiry, interview witnesses and the subjects of the hearings and potentially impose sanctions sub­ject to appeal. 
“a faculty reporter was also ap­pointed to review voluminous ma­terial collected during the general counsel’s investigation to iden­tify cases for the comprehensive committees’ review.” 
according to notre dame’s website, russell is in the mendoza college of business, while daniels, williams and hardy are in the college of arts and letters. moore, who is currently enrolled in graduate courses, graduated in may from the college of arts and letters. 
in the statement, browne pro­vided a link to the updated online text of the honor code, revised may 5, 2014, according to the site. before this weekend, the version available online dated back to 2011. 
“The principle purpose of the honor code process is to educate our students as to the importance of academic integrity,” browne said in the statement. “The pro­cess is time-consuming because it is thorough, as it must be to ensure integrity and fairness. 
“having said that, we recognize it can be difficult for students, re­gardless of culpability, who are subject to such reviews, especially when public scrutiny becomes so magnified for those who are stu­dent-athletes. we are working to resolve these situations as quickly as possible.” 




Awareness 
conTinued From page 1 
irish state of mind week be­gan over the weekend with the il­lumination of Touchdown Jesus in green, the “awareness color of mental illness” according to senior and student government direc­tor of residence life brent murphy. murphy said Touchdown Jesus will remain green all week. 
murphy, the principle member of student government in charge of event planning, said he inherited the event from former director of residence life stephanie Klotter. 
“once lauren [vidal] and matt [devine] asked me to be involved, we looked to partner a little bit more with nami,” he said. “[irish state of mind week] is obviously right up their alley, and it’s something they’re really passionate about. we felt that by partnering more with them, we could give them a big­ger platform for everything that they’re doing. working with them has been a big learning experience, but it’s been awesome.” 
The sponsors planned two events for monday, “let’s Talk” at 2 
p.m. in laFortune student center and a screening of the documen­tary “on the bridge” at 7:30 p.m. in debartolo 131. “let’s Talk” is an ongoing university counseling center (ucc) program described by the ucc as “a place where you can talk about concerns and receive expert suggestions about solutions and resources or just have someone who listens well and can offer support.” 
although “let’s Talk” is not spe­cific to irish state of mind week, it was publicized in conjunction with the programming “because of its relevance to the issues of mental health and mental illness,” skoch said. 
“on the bridge,” directed by notre dame professor olivier morel, explores post-traumatic stress disorder (pTsd) among u.s. veterans of the iraq war. morel and former u.s. marine vince emanuele, who appears in the documentary, are available for a Q&a session after the screening. 
“The documentary is very im­pressive,” murphy said. “and professor morel is absolutely great.” 
Tuesday night nami-nd planned what skoch described as “a night of storytelling,” titled “in our own words.” 
“we’re going to have nine stu­dents telling stories about the way that mental illness has touched their lives, either through them­selves, a family member or a friend,” skoch said. “i think every­one’s lives have been touched by mental illness. it’s terrible that it’s such a widespread issue, but there’s beauty in solidarity.” 
wednesday afternoon the university counseling center (ucc) will have an open house in the dooley room in laFortune, featuring massage chairs and sun lamps from the inner resource room. 
“i think the ucc does very good work, very necessary work,” skoch said. “They have great resources, 
and  they’re  looking  to  spread  
awareness about them.”  
murphy  said  late  night  

breakfast, an event which is new this year, is “student government’s baby.” 
“south dining hall will be open from 10 p.m. - 12 a.m. on wednesday, serving all the break­fast foods,” murphy said. “since a lot of the events are a little heavier substance-wise, it’s a little lighter to balance that out. we thought it would be a good fit thematically for the week. 
“sub has partnered with us, and acousticafe will be there. we’re re­ally hoping to drive people there to raise awareness. There will be stress relievers out on south Quad, and a banner to sign that will hope­fully go up in laFun before the unc game on saturday. it’s been fun to plan, and Food services has been very receptive to it, as well. all anyone needs to come is to save one meal swipe, and then you’re good to go.” 
other highlights of the week in­clude a lecture by Tom seeberg, fa­ther of former saint mary’s student lizzy seeberg who committed sui­cide in september 2010. The talk is entitled “believe: giving witness to hope.” 
paid adverTisemenT 

“[seeberg’s] talk will focus on the issues of mental illness and i think sexual assault as he has experience them through losing lizzy,” skoch said. 
Jamie Tworkoswki, founder of the organization “To write love on her arms” (Twloha), will be in debartolo 101 on Friday after­noon as part of the final event of the week. according to its mission statement, Twloha “exists to en­courage, inform, inspire, and also to invest directly into treatment and recovery” for those struggling with depression, addiction, self-injury and suicide.” 
“it’s incredibly exciting that he’ll be there,” murphy said. “it’s a pretty well-known group, and i’m excited that we’re going to get them on campus.” 
skoch said Twloha has a beautiful message and does great work raising awareness. 
“i hope students take away from the week that this isn’t something that needs to be hushed up,” skoch said. “people aren’t afraid to name physical ailments, but we have a very hard time naming some of these hidden issues that you can’t always see very well. if more peo­ple would say the words, i think it would get us so much farther than keeping the words bottled up.” 
A full list of events can be found on the Irish State of Mind Facebook page. 
Contact Margaret hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

put away your phone 

Wei Lin 
photo editor 

i went to china with my mother after graduating high school. we went sightsee­ing, climbed the steps of many mountains and enjoyed many performances. we took photos at every scenic view and recorded videos during every cable cart ride or chinese opera show. i was physically pres­ent at every moment, however, i felt distant from every experience. 
getting back to the states, i started real­izing how often my friends and i would take pictures of our food. i noticed how often we would stop in the middle of the street to take selfies. i realized how ri­diculous instagram is and how religiously devoted certain people are about their instagram accounts. 
put away your phones. 

in an age where technology is seem­ingly integrated in all aspects of our lives, it seems natural to have your phone every­where you go. i think that is absolutely fine. however, it becomes a problem when the phone is in the way of people enjoying their lives. don’t let the phone get in the way of enjoying the moment and being present. 
it is completely understandable when you want to capture an extraordinary moment with our phones. it’s a natural instinct to want to treasure something special or rare. however, it becomes a prob­lem when we take pictures, record videos and send snapchats of every moment of our lives. 
it prevents us from appreciating the people currently surrounding us. it dis­tances friends who are mere inches away from each other. it silences meaningful dialogues and exchanges. it prevents us from living in the present. it also becomes an annoyance for others. it hinders speedy service when waiters and waitresses are forced to reheat food when it becomes too cold because people are too busy choosing the best filters. it becomes a hazard when people attempt to take selfies on a roller-coaster, forcing the ride operators to stop the ride. it has become an issue at concerts when people cannot enjoy the perfor­mance due to the sea of smartphones re­cording the entire concert in front of them. 
sometimes, when i am on the sidelines of the football field, i take a moment to enjoy the game that i otherwise cannot behind my camera. if we really want to remember all these experiences and moments in our lives, we should put away our phones. our eyes are the best cameras, our ears are the best microphones and our mouths tell the best stories. pictures can enhance our retellings of the events, but they should not be the only medium. i implore you to put down your smartphone cameras and appreciate the moment. a picture may be worth a thousand words, but when you have a thousand pictures, people aren’t go­ing to take the time to read your novel. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘Let’s do it for the kids’ 
Brennan Lanier 
guest columnist 

This summer, immigration came to the forefront of the national psyche as we experienced an unprecedented surge of central american children arriving at our border. The flow of children fleeing has slowed significantly since the summer, but the issue underlying the mass migration of 66,000 unaccompanied minors in the past year from the countries of el salvador, honduras and guatemala remains. 
The fact of the matter is that these nations — often called the “northern Triangle” — are incredibly dangerous, espe­cially for young, impoverished boys and girls in the slums of cities like san salvador, san pedro sula and guatemala city. honduras has a world-leading homicide rate of 90 for every 100,000 people, with el salvador and guatemala in the top ten at 41.2 and 39.9 per 100,000 people. For some context, at the peak of mexico’s drug violence, its homicide rate topped out at 22.8 per 100,000. Furthermore, the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) found in a march survey of children who arrived at the u.s. border that 58 percent of children from the three countries cited violence as a key reason for leaving their homes. in fact, 72% of the children fleeing from el salvador stated this. 
my personal international summer service learning project (isslp) experience in el salvador this summer af­firms the horrific numbers i list above. The area i was in was relatively safe; notre dame would not put its students in harm’s way. however, the country as a whole is essential­ly a war zone. every day, the news was filled with stories of a bus shooting, a brutal mass rape or bodies in the streets. one man described how even the most ordinary moments could become deadly when, while at the market, he wit­nessed a child gang member shoot another kid dead in the street. 
children in the gang-infested northern Triangle are ex­periencing trauma unimaginable to most u.s. citizens. so what can we do about it? 
The big step will be comprehensive immigration reform, but since that appears to be shelved until after the mid­term elections, we can grant asylum to those who need it most. The united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) found in the aforementioned march survey that “nearly 60 percent of the unaccompanied children from el salvador, guatemala and honduras have potential claims for international protection.” with this knowledge, we need to be providing these kids fair trials when they arrive and a legitimate possibility for asylum. yesterday, president obama introduced a plan which will provide 4,000 refugee places for people from latin america and the caribbean this year. children from the northern Triangle will be screened before departing their countries and allowed ref­uge if they already have a parent legally in the states. 
This is a somewhat decent start, but as the world’s su­perpower, we can and must do more. Jacqueline bhaba, professor of the practice of health and human rights at the harvard school of public health, writes, “syrian refugees make up [close to] one-third of lebanon’s population. in Jordan, more than 600,000 syrian refugees are already reg­istered. Turkey has completely opened its border and more than a million syrians have arrived. These are countries that have already generously hosted other massive recent refugee flows from the region. The analogy between syria and central america is a valid one. living conditions for poor children in cartel- and gang-infested neighborhoods across central america have become as dangerous as those for children trapped in baghdad, homs or aleppo.” 
The united states remains the world’s superpower, with many times more capacity to take in refugees than coun­tries like Turkey or lebanon. we have the capability to pro­vide for thousands of central american children in extreme need while their home countries cannot do so; let’s do it for the kids. 
Brennan Lanier is a junior biology major in St. Edward’s Hall. He spent his summer doing an ISSLP in San Julián, El Salvador. You can contact him at blanier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
presidential procrastination 
Christopher Newton 
stepping out of the cave 

a sunday after a home-game win: as always, a time for procrastination and limited productivity. The irish won this weekend and advanced to the top five, so why worry about applications, the­ses and editorial columns?  There’s a bar rescue marathon on spike that needs your undivided attention for what some might call an excessive number of hours. 
and there’s that viewpoint column on interna­tional security affairs due at 5 p.m. 
work done at the last second tends to not be your best (unless you happen to be ben Koyak in the back of an endzone). i enjoy writing viewpoints and hate to have the byline on a sub-par piece, yet the clock ticked away. 
it is here that i arrived at a series of conclusions regarding the obama administration’s inept for­eign policy, as exemplified by recent events in the middle east. The region is a particularly useful case for examining the reactive, short-sighted and timid foreign policy of the obama administration, just as it previously was for exploring the reactive, short-sighted and arrogant foreign policy of the bush administration. 
The obama doctrine was summarized by the president himself several months ago. ever the orator, president obama, described his overriding foreign policy goal as “don’t do stupid ****” and indicated that he did not believe such a goal was too difficult to achieve. That direct quote supple­ments more public statements he has made, which describe his foreign policy as utilizing a methodi­cal, incremental and patient approach in address­ing complex issues. president obama seeks to focus on less ambitious goals over a longer-time period, achieving small to moderate successes. while this leads to the avoidance of attempts at nation-building, it also leads to presidential procrastination. 
in attempt to avoid making egregious foreign policy mistakes, the obama administration has fiddled while the middle east burns. aloof mul­tilateralism is little better than audacious unilat­eralism. Throughout the middle east, president obama has ignored or devoted insufficient time and resources to a myriad of regional issues that are slowly consuming it from within. 
in syria, the president previously limited american involvement in a conflict in which nu­merous american allies, frenemies and adversar­ies have been highly active. From naTo member Turkey to the proxy war between american fren­emy saudi arabia and rival iran, the syrian civil war has engaged every country in the middle east in some way. it seems that every actor except the united states acknowledges that civil wars do not respect national boundaries and spillover is not only common, but highly likely. The rise of the islamic state, the instability in lebanon and Jordan, the existential threat posed to iraq and the gains in iranian and al-Qaeda influence are only a few of the threats to american interests posed by the syrian civil war. yet years of inaction have resulted in a reactionary, confused and in­sufficient response that will not, by itself, destroy the islamic state. despite all that is at stake, the president avoided action in syria, moving only when all of iraq was threatened. 
yet syria is not the only issue receiving a de­layed response. ever since bombs ceased falling on the gaza strip, it seems that the president has all but forgotten the issue of israel and palestine. as the palestinian authority heads to the united nations seeking the withdrawal of the israeli military from the occupied Territories, the american public is reminded once more that an­other american president has failed to address a thorny issue: the partition of israel and palestine. i say partition and not peace process because israel cannot demographically absorb the territo­ries. partition is necessary for regional security, yet requires more than the obama administration has been capable of delivering. invariably, the is­sue will fall to the next president, likely resulting in yet further presidential procrastination. 
less often considered than either of these pre­vious cases is the story of yemen. rather than “winter is coming,” i prefer “yemen is collaps­ing.” similar to “game of Thrones,” people have been saying it for years, few have actually begun to prepare for it and their attention is fixed on larger conflicts. yemen is falling apart before our very eyes, with its capital having recently fallen to iran-backed rebels. it is predicted to run out of fresh water in a decade and the most active al-Qa­eda affiliate, al-Qaeda in the arabian peninsula, already owns sizeable areas of southern yemen. The world’s newest failed state, complete with its own al-Qaeda franchise, is on the horizon. much like the introduction to my capstone essay, obama’s yemen policy is non-existent. 
at least when i procrastinate, nations do not burn. it makes me feel slightly better about spend­ing too much time with Jon Taffer. one has to wonder how obama was with his own college homework. 
Christopher Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Handling mental health 
Shane Brandt 
The daily cougar 

exams, papers and deadlines can put an entirely different level of stress on college students. 
every bad grade can feel like wasted time, tuition and effort that pushes you much further from your dreams. 
college can also bring plenty of joy. with all the fear and stress that comes with the independence, there is also a happiness that comes with freedom. being responsible for oneself can be exciting, in­vigorating and refreshing for many. 
That joy comes easier to some than others. 
some will find themselves overwhelmed with anxiety and they will struggle with depression. however, it often feels easier to ignore than to talk about. 
For many young adults, dealing with anxiety and depression can become a serious issue as they tran­sition into college life. some learn how to deal with it quickly and on their own, some struggle for years and need help to deal with it and some will deal with even more serious mental health issues. 
according to the anxiety and depression association of america, anxiety disorders are the most common mental illness in the united states. about 18 percent of adult americans deal with anxiety disorders. Fortunately, they are one of the most easily treated mental illnesses. unfortunately, people rarely seek treatment. 
depression and anxiety often go hand-in-hand. nearly half of those diagnosed with depression are also diagnosed with some kind of anxiety disorder as well. These conditions are difficult to deal with on their own, but together they often cripple the quality of life for students and non-students alike. 
an estimate from the centers for disease control and prevention reported one tenth of adults suffer from depression. depression affects one’s mental and physical health; it ruins the ability to study for a student, it prevents students from enjoying their time in college and it is much more serious than simply “feeling down.” 
mental disorders go untreated and ignored for many different reasons, including a lack of available resources, finances and support. but a sad fact is many people choose not to address the issues they struggle with because they are afraid. 
Those who deal with mental illness often fear what people will think of them for it. They fear being judged as crazy, weak or dangerous. it seems easier to deny to one’s self that there is an issue. The issue will then likely persist with no treatment, and occa­sionally become even worse than ever necessary. 
dealing with anxiety, depression and mental ill­nesses is hard enough without treatment. with treatment, though, many issues can be resolved, and simply being able to talk about one’s issues can help. 
awareness and emotional support are some of the easiest ways to help those suffering from any num­ber of mental health issues. 
The walk for mental health awareness houston is just one group that is trying to give that support and awareness. perhaps a walk does not seem like much in the way of help. perhaps fundraising is not even the most important aspect of the organization. 
The walk does much more than just exercise and fundraising. it shows those who are afraid to seek help that there are people out there who understand what they are going through. it shows that there are people out there that are sympathetic to the crush­ing struggles that depression and anxiety bring. 
communication, sympathy and awareness let people know that it is oK to admit their issues. it gives encouragement to seek help rather than bury the symptoms and suffering. There may be people who react negatively, but there are also many, many people who care about you as well. 
if you or someone you know suffers from anxi­ety, depression or some other mental illness that it interfering with their day-to-day life, don’t let it go untreated and ignored. Talk to someone, whether it is a loved one or someone anonymous. share your feelings and fears, and make it a point to seek out help as well. 
anxiety and depression can ruin the joys of col­lege for many people. it can affect grades, health and relationships. 
it can have deep consequences, but there is help and there are people who care. if you are suffering from depression, reach out to a friend, a hotline or even the university’s depression research clinic. 
it’s often hard to reach out in depression, but there is hope and there is help. 
The Daily Cougar is the official student-run news organization of the University of Houston. Opinion columnist Shane Brandt is a petroleum engineering senior and may be reached at opinion@thedailycougar.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMMA TErhAAr 
scene writer 

notre dame is less homogenous than it once was. Two student-written, -directed and -acted plays that opened last week are a harbinger of our campus culture’s grow­ing richness. 
nd Theatre now! sponsored the production of the two one-act plays, each written by senior Film, Television and Theatre and english majors, which debuted oct. 2 and will run until oct. 12 at debartolo performing arts center. 
lucas garcia’s “out of orbit” is a new take on the coming-out-narrative told from the perspective of an overbearing, conservative mother. directed by anthony murphy, the play stars nandi mgwaba as nora, the typi­cally conservative mother, whose controlling nature caused her daughter, played by simone west, to avoid her for years and her son, played by eric ways, to hide his bi­sexual identity from her. 
The strength of the play lies in the powerful interac­tions between characters. The dialogue was very real and very poignant. certain relationships between characters produce tangible chemistry. west and mgwaba nail the quarrelsome mother-daughter pair. anthony baglini nails his character as the father, complete with dad-like voice, inflections and facial expressions. lovers Joseph and anthony, played by ways and director anthony murphy, feel like a real couple. 
“out of orbit” is short and sweet: the play portrays the social stigma and difficulties of coming out of the closet for a whole family, but is more of a snapshot of a family 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

not only was “The parent Trap” recently added to netflix, making it a pick for “weekly watch,” this week­end made it an especially appropriate time to watch the disney film: it aired on television this weekend, mak­ing it even more accessible for a “weekly watch,” while across the pond in london, lindsay lohan starred in the opening of west end play “speed-the-plow.” 
This means that as lohan made her theatrical debut in england, her big-screen debut was just a click of a but­ton away stateside, and while critics are abuzz about the david mamet play and lohan’s comeback, i’m here to instead take a look at her very first film. 
in my first installment of this “weekly watch,” i claimed that “The parent Trap” was criminally under­rated, and for that i received a lot of skeptical looks and claims that i was looking back on the 1998 film through the nostalgic, mickey mouse-shaped glasses. 
but in watching the film again, i can’t help but insist that “The parent Trap” is something special. while nos­talgia undoubtedly bleeds into my argument, i stand by the idea that the film outshines almost all other movies of my childhood and decades of disney films, including the original 1961 “parent Trap.” 
“The parent Trap” persists as an exceptionally well-made family film for two distinct reasons: its dynamic structure, which keeps a firm grip on its audience’s at­tention, and its writing, which smartly straddles genera­tional lines in a way unseen in most family comedies. 
while difficult to notice in the midst of watching the entertaining antics of 11-year-old twin lindsay lohans, than a story about being bisexual. as the title suggests, there was an overarching solar system metaphor for the dynamics of a family, reminiscent of something lorca would write. 
in one scene from “out of orbit,” nora, the mother, talks to anthony, her son’s boyfriend, as he waits to use the bathroom. in a highly relatable awkward conversa­tion-to-have-with-your-boyfriend’s-mom moment, nora asks if her son loves anthony. anthony says yes and re­veals that he doesn’t say “i love you” back. nora is offend­ed that her son doesn’t get an “i love you” in return. 
anthony is clearly torn, not knowing if he’s ready to say “i love you,” while his boyfriend is showering oblivious to the excessively inappropriate conversation occurring outside. The audience is reminded that some struggles are common to all romantic relationships no matter the sex or sexual preference of the partners. 
after intermission came the program’s second one-act, Zachary wendeln’s “beneath my skin.” directed by Joey doyle, the act centered on Thomas, played by paul Kuczynski in middle age and Jacob schrimpf in the char­acter’s youth, and his struggle to come out during the uber-conservative early 1960s and again in the aids-wrought ’80s. 
scene by scene the play flips between the ’60s and ’80s, weaving together a story about Thomas and his first ho­mosexual lover marshall, played by Kelly burgess, and his changing relationship with his sister and daughter, both played by a snarky, snappy emily schoenbauer. 
There are also two sympathetic beard characters in the play, both portrayed by caroline mcKee, and the actors’ double in roles created obvious parallels between the 
“The parent Trap” actually moves impressively through time and space in four very distinct acts. each act has its own personality, and each lies down the foundation for the next, making a wildly fast-paced and absurd story seemingly seamless. 
if “The parent Trap” were to title these acts, the first would be “The meeting: Twins at camp.” The camp portion of the movie, where the separated-at-birth twins coincidently both attend, functions as the meeting point for the girls, but it also is by far the most fun of the four acts. with parents away, the kids get to play, and lindsay lohan shines as both of her characters, hallie and annie, are established. The twins are shown as distinct­ly different, but share a competitive streak, allowing for fantastic camp antics. From the poker match to prank wars, the camp portion could be a movie all by itself. 
instead, the film moves to act ii, “The swap: Twins at home,” in which we get a look at each of the twins’ home lives. as the two secretly switch places, the film takes a turn from young and fun to family-oriented and a little sentimental. The scenes in which the twins get to know the parent they never met before are beautiful, with the film’s score and soundtrack and plenty of montages working their magic to create an image of a perfect — albeit still fragmented — family. of course, the villain is introduced and conflict established here as the twins’ father announces his plan to marry a very young, very mean gold digger. 
act iii then brings tension to a head, and the twins re­veal that they’ve switched places in an effort to get their parents to reunite. here comes into play my argument that the film intelligently entertains both adults and children in a unique way. instead of creating a strictly age-appropriate comedy for children and peppering in roles fulfilled by their characters. 
every scene begins with a song, cueing the audience into the decade. i have to applaud wendeln with his mu­sic selection — every song fit the emotion of the scene perfectly and could be considered a classic with little debate. 
The play draws a comparison between protagonist Thomas and poet w.h. auden, which is particularly pretty and tragic when auden is quoted in a scene. The dialogue in “beneath my skin” was beautifully written, flowery, pensive and highly quotable. 
The play seems to make a few references to our school’s own culture when it depicted the conservative 1960s. Thomas attends a catholic university and watches his lover “ring-by-spring” a female student. The falsity, and the forced and unwise nature of the gesture is palpable to the whole audience. 
both one-act plays, “out of orbit” and “beneath my skin,” are incredibly well acted and well written. The production was intimate and special. sitting in a small audience at dpac, it was clear how much talent was con­centrated in these performances. 
each play felt essential to the notre dame community. its actors said things that were uncomfortable, and i felt uncomfortable watching many scenes because of how much pain was expressed. both acts felt like taking the bandage off a wound and letting it greet the stinging air. 
notre dame’s lgbTQ community has come so far in just the past four or five years and the nd Theatre now! production stands as a testament to progress. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
jokes for adults that go over the heads of a kid-audience, “The parent Trap” unabashedly writes for adults and children at the same time. rather than code-switch or create double-entendres for multiple generations, the writing is sincere and unapologetic in its (sometimes very adult) humor. 
For example, the twins’ mother, played by natasha richardson, smokes a cigarette while packing a bag to see her ex-husband. clearly distraught, she gets drunk on the plane ride to the rendezvous and nurses a hang­over in the hotel lobby. meanwhile, one of the twins quips “you talking to me?” to her evil (future) stepmoth­er, who responds with “who are you, robert de niro?” 
The film is peppered with smart jokes and silly sce­narios that truly entertain rather than patronize its audience. This is continued through the final act of the film, as the girls scare away their villainous stepmother-to-be and get their parents back together after all. The end of the film also features serious conversations between the twins’ parents, emotional moments and meaningful dialogue that expertly blend the romantic-comedy and family genres to enhance the film. and, of course, children and adults alike get a happy ending. 
“The parent Trap” keeps its audience on its feet, but the dynamic movie doesn’t simply jump around to pan­der to a young and short-attention-spanned audience and their parent chaperones. by staying smart and sin­cere, “The parent Trap” avoids the pitfalls and clichés of most family films, and — paradoxically — becomes fun for the whole family. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


Notre Dame 17, StaNForD 14 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | NDSmcobServer.com 
From fourth-and-11 to 5-0 
No. 9 Notre Dame topples No. 14 Stanford on Golson’s touchdown to Koyack in waning seconds 
Everett Golson’s ability is key difference in 2014 

Mike Monaco 
Senior Sports Writer 
For 57 minutes Saturday, time stopped and Notre Dame and Stanford traveled back to 2012. 
a low-scoring slog with meager offense and defiant defense. 
a rain-soaked blustery october day, and a stadium smattered with colorful ponchos, speckled across the stands like a messy, real-life water coloring. 
a turnover-prone and incon­sistent everett Golson. 
but with 3:01 to play and the Irish trailing in the second half for the first time this season, 2012 everett Golson morphed into 2014 everett Golson. a week after completing 25 consecutive passes, Golson had completed less than 50 percent of his at­tempts. He had two turnovers. Still, he exuded nothing but confidence. 
“I was walking down there and saw ev and we both just smiled and go, ‘Hey, we score, we win,’” Irish captain Nick martin said. “We knew what was at stake.” 
an unblemished season was on the line — just as it was in 2012. but this time, Golson was ready to do the job. a mid-rota­tion starter in 2012 who would often give way to closer tommy rees, Golson is now the staff ace, ready to throw a complete game on the biggest of stages. 
“We’re not going to the bull­pen,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. 
and for the first time in his career, Golson powered the Irish through a two-minute drill. Sixty-five yards on nine plays in two minutes. 
“that’s big-boy time,” Golson said. 
Golson and the Irish picked up 43 yards to advance to the 22­yard line with less than two min­utes remaining. but Notre Dame stared into the rain and could see a game slipping away. 
third-and-7. Golson ran up in the pocket, straight into the back of Steve elmer, who was being plowed backward. Four-yard loss. 
Fourth-and-11. against the na­tion’s top-ranked defense. and, still, Golson didn’t flinch. 
see GoLSoN PAGE 3 


By ALEX CARSON 
Sports Writer 

With three minutes and 65 yards to go, No. 9 Notre Dame’s offense needed a touchdown. It got it when senior quarter­back everett Golson hit se­nior tight end ben Koyack for a 23-yard touchdown pass on fourth-and-11, giving the Irish (5-0) a 17-14 victory over No. 14 Stanford on Saturday night at Notre Dame Stadium. 
the cardinal (3-2) had just completed its longest drive of the day — a 58-yard trek capped off by an 11-yard touch­down rush by senior running back remound Wright — to surge ahead 14-10 with 3:01 to play. Notre Dame answered with a drive of its own. 
after an incompletion on first down, Golson found soph­omore receiver Will Fuller for 11 yards over the middle. on third-and-10, he hit sophomore receiver corey robinson for 17. a pass interference penalty on Stanford senior cornerback Wayne Lyons and a three-yard completion to robinson got the Irish inside the 25, but an incompletion and a four-yard loss on a Golson draw play left Notre Dame’s hopes resting on fourth down. 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
COLE LUKE 

IRISH SOPHOMORE CORNERBACK 
Luke picked off Stanford quarterback Kevin Hogan twice Saturday and earned Notre Dame’s game ball.  Luke’s first gave the Irish the ball back in the first quarter, and his second came on the first play of the fourth quarter. Luke narrowly timed his break on the pass intended for ty montgomery. 
Golson — and Koyack — delivered. Golson scrambled around and found Koyack open in the corner of the end zone. 
“I just know I had a flag route,” Koyack said. “all I saw was a safety in the middle; I didn’t see where anyone else was. I just kept running my route looking for the ball.” 
“they had, really, our routes covered,” Golson said. “I went to my first read and he wasn’t there. I began to just impro­vise a little bit and I guess they busted the coverage a little bit and I found Koyack in the back of the end zone.” 
Notre Dame coach brian Kelly praised the work of his team’s offensive line on the fi­nal drive. 
“We did a really good job in the last drive of picking up some stunts and blitzes with our offensive line,” Kelly said. “I was really pleased with that.” 
Stanford — which was held to just 205 yards of offense on 68 plays, its lowest yard-per-play output since 2006 
see vIctorY PAGE 2 
Irish stonewall Stanford, allow just 205 yards 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
the play that will be remem­bered is the fourth-and-11 touchdown pass, everett Golson connecting with ben Koyack for the 17-14 victory over Stanford. 
but it was the Irish defense that made it possible by keeping the game close enough that a last-second score would matter. 
entering the game, the cardinal (3-2, 1-1 Pac-12) had converted just 42 percent of their red-zone opportunities into touchdowns, but they had moved the ball down the field effectively, averaging 229.8 passing yards per game and 141.8 rushing yards per game. 
Notre Dame (5-0) surrendered just 205 yards of total offense to Stanford — 158 passing and a miniscule 47 rushing. 
“We’re doing it with guys that are just stepping up and being aggressive on the outside,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “We talked about the need to clamp down on the perimeter, if you’re going to play great defense you have to clamp down. that’s where we’ve really made significant im­provement over the course of the year.” 
Sophomore cornerback cole Luke was part of that perimeter defensive attack as he snagged two interceptions. 
“It is something that I knew was coming during practice when I was watching film, but it really is just all about execution and somebody making plays, so tonight I stepped up,” Luke responded when asked how he capitalized on his two intercep­tion opportunities. 
Luke and the Irish succeeded in containing cardinal senior wide receiver ty montgomery, an athletic deep threat with three touchdown receptions this year. 
“one thing that was stressed to me before the game is that you have to have no fear,” Luke said. “It does not matter what receiver you are going against or what of­fense. We knew he was a great player, but when the lights come on and you are on the field, it does not really matter. You just have to make plays and play ball.” 
Sophomore linebacker Jaylon 
see DeFeNSe PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

rain or not, everett Golson played poorly Saturday. the signal-caller threw a rough interception at the goal line and coughed up a fumble deep in Notre Dame’s own territory. Seven days after completing 25 consecutive passes against Syracuse, Golson finished 20-of-43 through the air. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Notre Dame’s running backs didn’t do much on the ground 
— a combined 24 carries for 69 yards — or through the air (just one tarean Folston catch for six yards), but they held up in pass protection and didn’t put the ball on the turf dur­ing a slippery, sloppy game. Greg bryant danced a bit too frequently in his limited action. 
RECEIVERS 

corey robinson, Will Fuller and amir carlisle were shut out completely in the first half, and only robinson really picked things up in the second half. Still, there were a few too many drops from this group despite the weather. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

the offensive line continues to adapt to the new positions in the starting unit. though it allowed two sacks and even more pressure on Golson, the unit still held up fairly well against Stanford’s top-ranked defense in the nation. ex­pect this group to improve with more snaps together. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Irish head coach brian Kelly rained praise down on the front seven following the victory, thanks in large part to the play of the defensive line and the work against the run. Stanford only tallied 47 rushing yards on 32 carries. 
LINEBACKERS 

Sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith had the career game with 14 tackles, but Joe Schmidt was around the ball plenty, too, notably chasing down ty montgomery for one of his seven tackles. James onwualu and ben councell contributed as well. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Sophomore cornerback cole Luke was the headliner with his two interceptions. Fellow sophomore cornerback Devin butler made significant contributions on the perim­eter, while cody riggs was his usual steady self. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

the kicking game has certainly seen better days, but credit holder Hunter Smith for bouncing back and cleanly setting up Kyle brindza’s fourth-quarter kick. brindza also played an important role in keeping the ball away from mont­gomery in the return game. Notre Dame barely found any return room itself. 
COACHING 

Irish defensive coordinator brian vanGorder continues to impress, as he drew the praise of Stanford head coach David Shaw following the Notre Dame victory. offensively, Kelly stayed committed to the run and positioned Notre Dame to drive down the field in the final minutes of the fourth quarter before the eventual game-winning toss from Golson to senior tight end ben Koyack. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.78 (B-) 

It wasn’t perfect, but it was a win. Notre Dame showed up — especially on the defensive side — against a top-15 team in the country. the defense was outstanding throughout the day, and the offense did move the ball against the nation’s top-ranked defense. the two turnovers proved cost­ly, but Golson won the game in the end. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
BEN KOYACK 23-YARD TOUCHDOWN CATCH TO TAKE THE LEAD 
as if there was any question here. on fourth-and-11, Golson connected with a wide-open ben Koyack in the corner of the end zone for the game-winning score. Koyack did a terrific job of staying focused, making the catch, keeping his feet in and clutching the catch to the ground. 
Victory 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
— took the initial lead, 7-0, with 
3:50 to play in the first quarter when senior quarterback Kevin Hogan ran 10 yards for a touch­down. the cardinal was grant­ed favorable field position on the drive after an exchange of turnovers — Irish sophomore cornerback cole Luke inter­cepted Hogan on the nine-yard line, but Golson gave the ball right back when he fumbled on the first play. 
early in the second quarter, the Irish had a third-and-five at the cardinal six-yard line when Stanford senior safety Jordan richards intercepted Golson 
— 
who had rolled out to the left 

—
 along the sideline, just shy of the goal line. on its next posses­sion, Notre Dame left points on the board when senior kicker Kyle brindza missed a 41-yard field goal attempt wide right af­ter a botched hold. 


but after the cardinal had a botched snap of its own on a field-goal try, the Irish finally got on the board. 
on third-and-10 from mid­field, Golson rushed 33 yards upfield on a designed quarter­back draw to put the Irish in a position to tie the game in the final few minutes of the first half. 
two plays later — on second­and-10 — Golson hit junior receiver chris brown over the middle for a 17-yard touchdown pass. brown caught the ball just a few yards past the line of scrimmage but turned upfield to scamper in for the score with 
3:06 to play in the half. 
coming out of the intermis­sion, Irish freshman safety Drue tranquill registered Notre Dame’s first blocked punt since 2010 when he got a hand on cardinal fifth-year se­nior punter ben rhyne’s kick. 
“I thought we did pretty good things in special teams,” Kelly said. “It gave us a chance to win today.” 

the Irish, however, could not capitalize, and three consecu­tive three-and-outs followed. 
Notre Dame earned its best starting field position of the game when Luke nabbed his second interception at the Stanford 29-yard line on the first play of the fourth quarter. 
“[the opportunity for inter­ceptions was] something that I knew was coming during prac­tice when I was watching film,” Luke said. “but it really is just all about execution and some­body making plays so tonight, I stepped up.” 
Despite the field position, the Irish left the red zone without points yet again when brindza missed his second field-goal at­tempt after another shaky hold by junior Hunter Smith. 
the Irish defense, however, responded with another three-and-out — the cardinal failed to record a first down or turned the ball over on 10 of their 15 drives — to give the offense an­other chance to take the lead. 
“We prepared so great this week,” sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith said. “We all knew going into the week, Stanford week, it was going to be physi­cal. they are going to try to hit you in the mouth and we just had to match that intensity — and penetration was key.” 
Golson then hit robinson for a pair of double-digit gains, and a Stanford facemask pen­alty put the Irish in position for brindza and Smith’s redemp­tion. the smooth 45-yard field goal did just that, and the Irish jumped ahead 10-7 with 7:32 to play in the fourth quarter. 
Smith attempted to hold the first two field-goal tries bare­handed before wearing gloves for the third. 
“We found a revolutionary idea that will probably be now the biggest thing in college football,” Kelly said. “We’re go­ing to put gloves on the holder and that seemed to be the way to accomplish greatness in this game. Unbelievable. I’ve been in this thing for 25 years and we’re coming up with new things every day.” 
the Irish did not hold the lead for long, though, as Hogan led Stanford on its only sub­stantial touchdown drive of the day, going 58 yards to take the lead, 14-10, with 3:01 to play. 
then it was Golson’s time. the Irish quarterback finished the game with 241 passing yards — none more important than his final 54 on the game-winning drive. 
Hogan and the cardinal had one last chance though. after a touchback, he led them into Irish territory with 11 seconds to play. but Irish defensive co­ordinator brian vanGorder brought the pressure, and the Hogan’s intentional grounding capped the Irish victory. 
“I think they’ve got an out­standing defensive coordina­tor,” Shaw said. “He mixes it up. a lot of pressure. We picked up, not as many as we’d like. our quarterback got hit a lot today.” 
the Notre Dame defense held Stanford senior receiver ty montgomery to 12 yards on four receptions, well under his aver­age of nearly 70 yards per game over the last season-and-a-half. 
“We knew he was a great player,” Luke said. “but when the lights come on and you are on the field, it does not really matter. You just have to make plays and play ball.” 
the Irish are set to host North carolina next week before a clash with No. 1 Florida State. 
Notre Dame is 5-0 for just the third time in the last 20 seasons. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 




KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish sophomore cornerback Cole Luke, senior linebacker Joe Schmidt and sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith celebrate Luke’s second interception during Saturday’s 17-14 Notre Dame win. 
Defense 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
Smith and senior linebacker Joe Schmidt anchored the middle for the Irish and led the team in tackles with 14 and seven, respectively. 
“We prepared so great this week,” Smith said. “We all knew going into the week, Stanford week, it’s going to be physical. they are going to hit you in the mouth, and we just had to match that intensity, and penetration was key.” 
the Irish were ready for Stanford’s challenging offense, 
Golson 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
“I live for moments like that, seriously,” Golson said afterward. 
confident in the huddle and with the ball hanging in his right hand, Golson was tasked with winning the game for the Irish. 
“He’s a commanding leader,” sophomore receiver corey robinson said. “He knows what he wants to do. and it re­ally brings a lot of confidence to the o-line, the receivers to know that our quarterback knows what he wants to do Schmidt said. 

“this is what you dream of as a linebacker, as a defense,” Schmidt said. “they run some fun plays: power, counter, tosses, fun stuff. this is so much fun. I stayed on the field. It was a pretty surreal feeling.” 
the Irish defense was a con­cern in the offseason as Notre Dame lost several key starters and moved to a new scheme un­der defensive coordinator brian vanGorder. but it has found a way. 
“there are a lot of people that we lost, but it is all about how you step up,” Luke said. “It does 
and knows what he’s gonna do with it and can make a big play whenever we need it.” 
Golson grooved a crisp 23­yard strike through the wintry air to a waiting — and waiting 
— Koyack. as they did in 2012, the officials reviewed a play in the North end zone. and, again, Notre Dame won. 
but this time it was differ­ent. there’s a different faith in Golson. there’s a different confidence in Notre Dame’s offense. 
“It feels pretty different, just because the way it happened,” Golson said. “this is definitely a really big moment for me.” 
not really matter how great the players were that we lost. It is all about now, and even if we can­not get them back, we cannot play with one player down, so you just have to step up.” 
those extra efforts set up the electric final-drive touchdown and powered the Irish to their fifth win. 
“I can’t tell you how good it feels,” Schmidt said. “I don’t think there’s a word in the dic­tionary to describe the feeling that I have right now.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Not just because it improved Notre Dame to 5-0. Not just because it’ll vault the Irish up the polls. No, Golson proved Notre Dame can win such close games against elite de­fenses because of its offense, not in spite of its offense. 
In only three minutes, Golson and Notre Dame showed why 2014 can be different. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Irish defense shines 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
Notre Dame limited Stanford to 205 yards of total offense — the cardinal’s lowest output since 2006. Stanford’s 47 rush­ing yards were its fewest since 2007. 
the Irish have won their first five games while holding each of their opponents to 17 points or fewer for the second time since the 1973 national champi­onship season. 
Making history 
Irish freshman safety Drue tranquill partially blocked a Stanford punt in the third quarter. Notre Dame had not blocked a punt since former Irish defensive back robert blanton got his hands on a punt against Utah in 2010. 

Irish sophomore corner­back cole Luke notched his first two career interceptions when he picked off Stanford quarterback Kevin Hogan in the first and third quarter, re­spectively. Former Irish line­backer manti te’o (against michigan in 2012) was the last Notre Dame player to grab two interceptions. 
Golson racks up scores 

Irish senior quarterback everett Golson’s two touch­down tosses give him 13 for the season. In 2012, Golson tallied 12 touchdown throws the entire season. 
Brindza ties Carney 

With his fourth-quarter field goal, Irish senior kicker Kyle brindza tied former Irish kicker John carney (1984-86) for the school record with 51 career made field goals. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 

1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  0  0  7  14  
0  7  7  10  17  




STANFORD 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
Kevin Hogan 10-yard run (Williamson kick) 

3:50 remaining 
Drive: Two plays, 12 yards, 0:44 elapsed 
STANFORD 7, NOTRE DAME 7 
chris brown 17-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

3:06 remaining 
Drive: Six plays, 62 yards, 1:20 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, STANFORD 7 
Kyle brindza 45-yard field goal 

7:32 remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 50 yards, 3:39 elapsed 
STANFORD 14, NOTRE DAME 10 
remound Wright 11-yard run (Williamson kick) 

3:01remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 58 yards, 4:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, STANFORD 14 
ben Koyack 23-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

0:13 remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 65 yards, 2:00 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS 

47 
129 
PASSING YARDS 
158 
241 

Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
29:48 
30:12 
PASSING 
Golson 20-43-241 Hogan 18-36-158 

RUSHING  
McDaniel  15-41  Wright  8-29  
Golson  7-34  Young  7-18  
Prosise  1-26  Montgomery  5-14  
Bryant  6-14  Sanders  3-14  
Folston  3-14  Seale  1-1  
RECEIVING  
Brown  4-60  Cajuste  5-68  
Robinson  4-46  Wright  2-21  
Carlisle  2-34  McCaffrey  1-18  
Koyack  2-28  Skov  1-16  
Fuller  3-27  Montgomery  4-12  
Hunter Jr.  2-24  Trojan  3-12  
Prosise  2-16  Pratt  1-6  
Folston  1-6  Rector  1-5  
TACKLES  
Smith  14  Tarpley  9  
Schmidt  7  H. Anderson  8  
Riggs  6  Richards  7  
Shumate  6  Martinez  6  
Luke  4  Lyons  5  
Farley  4  K. Anderson  4  
Day  4  Hoffpauir, Olugbode  4  
TACKLES FOR LOSS  
Smith  2.5  K. Anderson  2  
Shumate  1  Richards  1.5  
Luke  1  Hoffpauir  1  
Day  1  Parry  1  
Trumbetti  1  Tarpley  0.5  
INTERCEPTIONS  
Luke  2  Richards  1  



tHe obServer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | NDSmcobServer.com 


KARLA MORENO | The Observer 

Irish sophomore receiver Corey Robinson tumbles to the turf after snaring one of his four second-half receptions during Notre Dame’s 17-14 win over Stanford on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish improved to 5-0 with the victory over the Cardinal. 
Everett Golson drilled a 23-yard touchdown strike to Ben Koyack on 
fourth-and-11 with 1:01 to play in the fourth quarter, and Notre Dame came from behind to topple No. 14 Stanford, 17-14, on 

CUTTING DOWN 
Saturday at a rainy Notre Dame Stadium. Sloppy play from both sides translated to a 7-7 score heading into the fourth quarter when Golson 

THE CARDINAL 
brought the Irish back, supporting a stout Notre Dame defense. 






The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KELLY McGArrY 
scene writer 

whether you’re a fan of stand-up, or more of an improv type of person, there was something for you at legends last Thursday. The club was taken over by two of the fun­niest groups on campus, with performances by both the student standups and humor artists. 
The standups featured the acts of six students whose comedic styles varied to make up a show that was inter­esting, to say the least. The host was club president pat mcmanus, whose rapid-fire jokes reminded me of demetri martin’s performance on campus back in august. 
Judging by the sea of bleached hair in the crowd it was easy to guess that a carroll freshman would be perform­ing, but when marek misurek took the stage he warned us about the danger of assuming someone is from carroll by their hair. This hilarious freshman set the bar high for the 
Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

a game’s soundtrack is never the deciding factor in what makes it good, or even memorable. still there’s a pervasive­ness to some video game soundtracks that elevates the gameplay — or at least seems to from the standpoint of nostalgia — enough so to warrant compiling and celebrat­ing a handful of my favorites.  i invite you all to join in on the discussion online and share some that i’ve missed or deserve recognition. 
ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACKS 
Banjo-Kazooie 

The expansive platforming featured in banjo-Kazooie required time and brought about frustration. The bouncy, mood-setting score significantly helped soothe these frus­trations. based on the each levels’ theme, the accompany­ing piece would perfectly capture the tone in a childlike blend of wonder and exploration. 
Kingdom Hearts 

Kingdom heart’s unique universe combines the worlds of disney, Final Fantasy and original characters created specifically for the game. in a similar fashion, the game’s soundtrack mixes disney staples — often adapting them — with original music that organically mesh in a completely cohesive soundtrack. 
The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 
you can take your pick among the legend of Zelda se­ries and find a superb soundtrack in any of them. still, the masterpiece of the franchise lies within ocarina of Time, understandably so considering the central function of music in the game.  The popularity of “saria’s Theme” and “song of storms” alone are testaments to the soundtrack’s achievement. 
rest of the performers. 
an outrageous group of comics reached a level of raunchiness that no one could have guess notre dame students to be capable of. The show’s closer was crowd fa­vorite, junior dayton Flannery. Those who had seen him perform before knew enough to cheer at his introduction. This veteran comic’s story-telling style kept the audience on the edge of our seats. it was a strong finish to the show that left the audience satisfied. 
after the standups, notre dame’s improv and sketch comedy group the humor artists took the stage with a miley montage, sporting her array of styles that is quickly becoming classic joke material. Their ridiculous dance moves brought up the energy to prepare the audience for the show and set the tone for the improv games for Team hannah vs. Team miley. 
ha (an abbreviation i’d like to emphasize) showed off their improvisation skills by taking prompts from the 
Mass Effect 
maybe it’s because it plays like a one-off boards of canada album, or maybe it’s because of the sheer amount of time you have to spend playing the game, but mass effect’s futurist, ambient soundtrack has always stuck out. soft electronic scores aid in setting the sprawling, spacy backdrop — accompanying you when it feels like nothing else is. 
Spyro: Year of the Dragon 
stewart copeland, drummer for The police, composed the first three spyro game’s soundtracks. over the course of this work, he absolutely honed the craft by the third game.  copeland’s fun, dynamic themes match and tran­scend the atmospheres of the many portals strewn across spyro’s universe, incorporating well-placed sound effects with traditional instrumentation. 
Super Mario 64 
The slightly haunting undercurrents of the theme for super mario 64’s main hub “inside the castle walls” per­fectly encapsulate the complexities of the game’s entire soundtrack. listening to the track years later — which i find myself doing time to time — machinates those tiny echoing footsteps from our beloved hero rushing, jumping through the castle’s corridors. 
CURATED SOUNDTRACKS 

MVP Baseball series 
From 2003 - 2005, ea sports had the proper licensing to make mlb video games.  in this time, they also procured a large mass of indie sleeper hits and modern alternative rock hits.  The three iterations of mvp baseball crushed the sports game soundtrack business.  at the time, nba live and madden focused too much on radio hip-hop, FiFa wasn’t what it is now, ncaa games required too many (read: any at all) fight songs and fight song remixes, nhl was close, but was also frequently not a sport, and tertiary sports like Tiger woods pga Tour and nascar were games about golf and car racing. mvp baseball hit audience, braving controversial topics (read: ebola) and creating refreshing mix of less common improv games and classic favorites. The comedy varied between ri­diculous moments of roaring laughter and subtle, clever one-liners. 
you may be under the impression that improv com­edy takes less preparation than a pre-written stand-up show, but these comics have clearly put their time in. it takes countless hours of practice and mental preparation to be able to come up with jokes on the spot. The comics have built up an impressive level of creativity and quick thinking. 
if you missed the show on Thursday, there will be plen­ty of opportunities to see these groups on campus, and if this show was any indication, you should be sure to check them out. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
the sweet spot of matching the sport’s feel with standalone great songs. 
Skate & Skate 2 
any game that can feature sister nancy’s “bam bam” on a soundtrack with public enemy, deep0-cut black sabbath, and elo deserves high praise.  in the franchise’s first two endeavors, the soundtracks genre-hopped from punk to classic rock to reggae seamlessly: never jarring, always flowing. in fact, skate may very well be the only game i return to based solely on the aspect of listening to the soundtrack. 
Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 3 -Tony Hawk’s Underground 2 
From Tony hawk’s pro skater 3 to Tony hawk’s underground 2, the series hit a groove not only in the se­ries’ gameplay, but also in its soundtracks.  release after release, the Tony hawk games’ soundtracks expanded and diversified, while never abandoning the culture of skating. by the time Tony hawk’s underground 2 rolled out, Frank sinatra was bookended by the mixing of handsome boy modeling school and Joy divison’s early punk phase.  yet, i maintain and will vehemently contend that the slimmer Tony hawk’s pro skater 3 remains both the best game of the series and the series’ finest soundtrack. 
Rock Band series 
sure, this is a cop-out.  The games are built specifically around featuring songs to which people would want to play along.  however, the team at harmonix behind cultivating such a strong assortment demands that this be a serious inclusion. The developers clearly love music, and used their games to honor artists from all respects. even the lesser-known songs — some from bands the employees were involved in — stood out, rounding out three games with impeccable taste. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SARA SHOEMAKE and MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bulls, Rose aim to get back on top 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
Football has been domi­nating the sports world for the last couple of months, but with the nba starting its preseason schedule, it won’t long before lebron James takes over espn’s highlight reel. 
The upcoming season is loaded with great storylines, starting with James’ return to the cleveland cavaliers. derek Fisher has the pres­sure of coaching the new york Knicks, which is now run by phil Jackson. will the brooklyn nets be able get their way back into the playoffs without paul pierce and former head coach Jason Kidd? will the miami heat remain relevant with­out lebron? how will Kobe bryant fare on a rebuilding los angeles lakers team? are the oklahoma city Thunder ever going to get the monkey off their back and win their first title? and most importantly, will derrick rose return to mvp­form to help a chicago bulls team with high expectations finally win their first nba title since the Jordan era? 
unfortunately, i only have time to answer one of those questions, but here it goes. i predict derrick rose will come back to full strength this season and will lead the bulls to a eastern conference championship. 
i know very well how much of a struggle it has been for the bulls to push back into the nba title conversation. as an avid bulls fan, i have gone through the disap­pointing seasons and medio­cre records year after year, but ever since the arrival of the home-town hero derrick rose, chicago has never felt closer to hoisting another championship. The former rookie of the year and mvp has been the heart and soul of the bulls, leading chicago to two division titles and a no. 1 seed. 
That success was abruptly cut short when rose tore his acl in 2012 and then his meniscus the following season. in his absence, the bulls have proven that they can still make the playoffs, but without their star player, they have failed to make any deep runs. 
This season will be dif­ferent. rose is back, and although he didn’t play so well in the Fiba world championships, i am con­fident he’ll be able to take advantage of his strong supporting cast and play better than ever. The bulls made a big splash this off­season, starting with the ac­quisition of college phenom doug mcdermott. in the summer league, mcdermott displayed his ability to play well in the paint and shoot from the three-point line, which was an issue for the bulls who ended last season as the seventh-worst team in the nba from long-range. 
chicago was also able to beef up their front court, signing pau gasol and nikola mirotic. gasol gives the bulls a better scoring option than carlos boozer, scor­ing over 17 points per game last season. he’s also a much better rebounder and passer. 
mirotic will not see much playing time behind gasol and Taj gibson, but his abil­ity to stretch the court with his shooting makes him a serious threat at any point of a game. The rest of the sup­porting cast includes Jimmy butler, Tony snell, mike dunleavy, Kirk hinrich, aaron brooks and last year’s defensive player of the year, Joakim noah. The last time the bulls had a team this deep in talent, rose won the mvp, head coach Tom Thibodeau won coach of the year and the team won a league-high 62 games. 
There’s no doubt in my mind that rose will flour­ish this season with all the help he has available. last season, the pressure was all on noah to make the offense run, but rose’s presence alone will help his team­mates get open and contrib­ute to the offense. i’m also not concerned about his knee injuries. Thibodeau will limit rose’s minutes so that he is not overworked and the depth at point guard will help keep the offense afloat without rose on the court. 
no other team in the league has the depth chicago has, and because of that, they are one of the best teams in the nba. best case scenario, the bulls win 60 games, earn the no. 1 seed in the east and find a way to beat the western conference champs to win the nba title. worst case, they are plagued by the injury bug and make the playoffs as a four seed, losing the division title to the cavaliers. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB | dodgers 3, cardinals 2 
Dodgers even series against Cardinals 
Associated Press 
los angeles — matt Kemp skipped down the first base line, watching his drive fly while calling out to the ball, trying to coax it to stay fair. 
once it sailed inside the foul pole and landed in the lower left field seats, he had salvaged a victory for the los angeles dodgers after their bullpen almost gave it away. 
Kemp hit a go-ahead home run leading off the eighth in­ning, lifting the dodgers to a 3-2 win over the st. louis cardinals on saturday night and evening their nl division series at a game apiece. 
“This was big for us,” he said. “i feel like we definitely do have the momentum. we got continue to go, though.” 
The crowd of 54,599 erupt­ed in cheers as Kemp rounded the bases. bubbles percolated into the hot night air from a machine in the dugout the dodgers turn on to celebrate homers. 
“it seemed like a mistake pitch to matt and he’s been hot, as everyone knows, and that was exciting,” dodgers starter Zack greinke said. 
no one looked happier greeting Kemp in the dugout than a once-distraught J.p. howell, who had served up a tying, two-run homer to matt carpenter in the top of the in­ning after relieving greinke. Kemp hugged howell, who pointed skyward in relief. 
“it was incredible, man,” howell said. “To me it was al­most religious because i was praying so hard and it hap­pened pretty quickly. i was pretty thankful.”w 
Kemp connected against pat neshek for his fifth hit in the best-of-five series. 
“he tried to get me with a couple of sliders,” Kemp said. “i laid off some tough ones that were close on the plate, but he left one just out on the plate that i could do some­thing with and i put a good swing on it.” 
game 3 is monday night in st. louis, with John lackey starting for the cardinals against hyun-Jin ryu of the dodgers. 
“it was there for us and we 

FOR RENT 
2222 Rockne Dr. Less than a mile from campus. 2 or 3 BR, base­ment and garage. Very good con­dition. Nice neighborhood near shopping and restaurants. $975/ mo Call John Brady 574-274-5692 
let it slip away,” cardinals manager mike matheny said. 
brandon league got his first career postseason win with a scoreless inning of re­lief. Kenley Jansen retired the side, striking out two, in the ninth to earn the save. 
“now we just got to get our rest in and try to beat the cardinals at their place, just like they did here in the first game,” Jansen said. “got to go there and steal one.” 
greinke  pitched  two-hit  
ball  over  seven  scoreless  
innings  a  night  after  ace  

clayton Kershaw gave up carpenter’s go-ahead three-run double in the seventh that helped the cardinals win 10-9. 
The low-key greinke, who has pitched in Kershaw’s shadow the last few years, tried not to put any extra pressure on himself to deliver a win. 
“any time personally i try to do more than i feel i’m ca­pable of, it backfires,” he said. “my game plan is always to try to lower my expectations and not try to do too much.” 
greinke belatedly took the mound in the eighth after his teammates had already tak­en their positions. manager don mattingly came out to get him, and greinke left to a standing ovation. 
“we’re seeing two teams that don’t really want to go home and that are fighting for every game and every out and every pitch,” mattingly said. “it’s what everybody wants to see at this time of year.” 
howell took over and promptly gave up a single to pinch-hitter oscar Tavares before carpenter tied it at 
2. carpenter is 4 for 8 in the series, with two homers, two doubles and six rbis. 
“i’m just trying to be ag­gressive,” carpenter said. “i’m getting some good pitch­es to hit, putting some good swings on it. i don’t think there’s any rhyme or reason to it.” 
greinke struck out seven, walked two and didn’t allow a runner past second base. he didn’t give up a hit until the fifth, when Kolten wong doubled down the right-field line before greinke struck out the next two batters to end the inning. 
greinke was pretty nifty at the plate, too. he went 2 for 3 for his first career postseason multihit game, and even slid headfirst into third on dee gordon’s single in the fifth that eluded wong’s dive at second base. 
“it’s really important field­ing your position and hitting, not being an absolute out,” greinke said. 
cardinals starter lance lynn gave up two runs and seven hits in six innings, struck out eight and walked two. 
The dodgers took a 2-0 lead in the third. gordon’s groundout to second base scored a.J. ellis, who doubled leading off for his fifth hit of the series. adrian gonzalez’s 
two-out  rbi  single  made  it  
2-0,  with  greinke  scoring  
from second.  

mattingly had earlier chal­lenged a call that greinke was tagged out going to sec­ond. after a review, the um­pires ruled him safe when wong tagged greinke with his empty glove after wong had already moved the ball to his throwing hand to try for a double play. 
The teams that share a combustible history in the playoffs were under con­trol, even after greinke hit cardinals center fielder Jon Jay with a pitch in the first in­ning. unlike a night earlier, when yasiel puig’s plunking by adam wainwright trig­gered a benches-clearing scrum, everyone stayed put in their dugouts. 
puig, who drew attention with his neon-green batting gloves, struck out on a high fastball from lynn in his first at-bat. catcher yadier molina appeared to say something to puig, who reacted and had to be walked part way back to the dugout by umpire rob drake. puig struck out four times. 
molina and gonzalez yelled in each other’s faces in game 1 as both benches and bullpens emptied without punches being thrown. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Dog goes woof, cat goes meow. Bird know you loved it. I’m just trying to bring goes tweet, and mouse goes squeak. it back. It just reminds me of a sim-Cow goes moo. Frog goes croak, and pler time when music was just about the elephant goes toot. Ducks say animals and their respective sounds. quack and fish go blub, and the seal Sigh, alas and alack how times have goes OW OW OW. But there’s one changed since 2013. Maybe I’m just sound that no one knows... WHAT getting old. Anyway, I just like this song DOES THE FOX SAY? ! Yeah I know and I hope you do too because I spent you’ve heard this one before, and I a lot of time writing it out. 



NFL | broncos 41, cardinals 20 
Manning tosses 500th TD as Broncos best Cards 
Associated Press 
denver — The best part of peyton manning’s big day was getting to share the spotlight with some of his best friends. 
manning joined brett Favre in the nFl’s most exclusive of clubs with his 500th touch­down toss sunday when the denver broncos handed the arizona cardinals their first loss, 41-20. 
“Football is the ultimate team game, and so i guess one man has to accept it and i really accept it on behalf of a lot of coaches and team­mates,” manning said. 
manning threw for 479 yards and four Tds, moving him within five of Favre’s re­cord 508. 
after  getting  his  touch­ 
stone  touchdown  —  a  
7-yard  dart  to  tight  end  

Julius Thomas — out of the way early, manning helped demaryius Thomas and wes welker make history, too. 
demaryius Thomas set a franchise record with 226 yards on eight catches, beat­ing shannon sharpe’s mark of 214 yards set against Kansas city in 2002. 
welker’s seven receptions moved him past rod smith for the most catches in nFl history by an undraft­ed player. he has 854, five more than smith caught for denver between 1995-2006. 
“i still can’t believe he was undrafted because that man can play some ball,” demaryius Thomas said. 
welker’s record-breaker came on the last play on the first half, something manning called “kind of a ha-ha moment for scout­ing, for not drafting him. so, whoever was a general manager in 2004, those guys ought to send him an apol­ogy letter.” 
demaryius Thomas caught touchdown passes of 31 and 86 yards, and his 77-yard Td was nullified on a chop block by Julius Thomas that sent defensive end calais campbell from the game with a right knee injury. 
left tackle ryan clady was engaged with campbell and was whistled for the flag. but it was the pro bowl tight end who crashed low into campbell and drew the wrath of arizona coach bruce arians. 
“i’ve been coaching for 37 years, it’s the dirtiest play i’ve seen,” arians fumed. “it was a flat chop block and put him out of the game. i know John Fox, great coach and great guy. somebody has got to answer to that. a fine isn’t going to do it, when he’s going to miss three or four weeks, on a blatant chop block.” 
campbell’s strained mcl added to a miserable after­noon in which the cardinals (3-1) surrendered 568 yards, the most they’ve allowed since 1973, and saw fill-in quarterback drew stanton leave with a concussion. 
The broncos’ offensive output was their best in franchise history. They had 567 yards against atlanta in 2004. 
manning’s 500th Td throw came in his 244th career reg­ular season game, 49 fewer games than it took Favre. it came against two of his mentors: arians, who was 
paid adverTisemenT 
his first Qb coach in 1998, and cardinals assistant head coach Tom moore, who was his offensive coordina­tor during his 13 seasons in indy. 
“i give both of those men a lot of credit for helping me improve as a quarterback,” manning said. 
Footballs from manning’s milestone Tds usually end up in his receiver’s trophy cases, but he kept this one. “i’ll probably keep it in a bag somewhere,” said manning, adding that he’s sure his 3-year-old boy will get to it soon and play with it in the mud. 
among manning’s two interceptions was one by campbell, the 300-pound defensive end who snatched his screen pass to a wide-open montee ball and rum­bled to the 5 before manning tripped him up. 
“don’t give me a full tack­le for that,” manning said. “give me like a half. i barely grazed his leg.” 
ellington took it in from there to pull arizona to 14-13. 
manning saw cornerback antonio cromartie lined up 1 on 1 on demaryius Thomas and hit his big receiver in stride at the 40. cromartie crumpled to the grass and Thomas sped into the end zone with an 86-yard score that gave denver a 21-13 halftime lead. 
although only six of the 14 passes manning threw at cromartie were completed, those half dozen grabs cov­ered 199 yards. 
“it’s by far the worst game of my career,” cromartie said. “but it’s one game out of the season. we’ve got 12 more games.” 
stanton was 11 for 26 for 118 yards before being knocked from the game on a hard hit by von miller in the third quarter. 
on his third series, logan Thomas threaded a pass through linebacker nate irving’s grasp and into the arms of running back andre ellington for a stunning 81­yard score that made it 24-20. 
That ended up being Thomas’ only completion in eight attempts. 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S TENNIS | iTa all-american championships 
Irish doubles team advances to quarterfinals 
Observer staff report 
over the weekend, notre dame made deep runs in both singles and doubles competi­tion at the iTa all-american championships in Tulsa, oklahoma. 
Junior Quentin monaghan advanced to the round of 32 in the singles main draw, go­ing 4-1 at the tournament. ranked no. 88 nationally, monaghan won all three of his qualifying matches to make the main draw. 
in his first match of the tournament, monaghan de­feated dartmouth senior chris Kipouras, 6-3, 6-2. he followed this up with an­other victory in straight sets, against oklahoma sophomore alex ghilea, 7-6, 7-6. in the final match of the qualifying draw, he won once again in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4, against no. 89 georgia junior nick wood. 
monaghan advanced to the 64-player main draw by going 3-0 in qualifiers. in his first-round matchup, monaghan faced no. 33 usc senior roberto Quiroz. 
Quiroz and the national champion Trojan squad faced notre dame in 2013, routing the irish, 7-0 
monaghan dominated the first set, 6-0, and toughed out the second, 7-5, to take the match. 
The win against Quiroz set monaghan up to play in the round of 32 against no. 12 junior austin smith from georgia. 
monaghan lost the first set 6-3, came back to win the sec­ond set 6-3, but dropped the final set, 6-4, ending his tour­nament run. 
so far in the fall season, monaghan is 5-1 in singles play, including three wins over ranked opponents. 
sophomore Josh hagar and junior Kenneth sabacinski also competed in singles play, coming away with a combined 2-2 record. hagar competed in the qualifying round, while sabacinski played in the pre­qualifying round. 
senior billy pecor and ju­nior alex lawson combined to advance to the quarterfinals of the doubles draw. The duo, ranked no. 27 in the nation, began its run against the Texas a&m combo of fresh­man aJ catanzariti and soph­omore max lukin. pecor and lawson came away with the win in straight sets, 6-4, 6-4. 
in the round of 16, pecor and lawson took on the twelfth-ranked south Florida pair of junior roberto cid and sopho­more sasha gozun. in a much closer quarterfinals match, pecor and lawson went to tiebreakers in both sets but came away with the win, 7-6 (5), 7-6 (5). 
in the quarterfinals, pecor and lawson faced the third-ranked squad in the coun­try, sophomore arjun Kadhe and senior Jakob sude of oklahoma state. The cowboys sprinted past the irish, 6-1, 6-4. 
overall, the irish came away from the iTa all-american championships with eight wins in singles and doubles play. 
notre dame takes a break from competition this weekend, and begins play at the midwest regional championships on oct. 16 in ann arbor, michigan. 
paid adverTisemenT 





ND CROSS COUNTRY | noTre dame inviTaTional 
Women rise, men falter at Notre Dame Invitational 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF | schooner Fall classic 
campbell leads nd to record day 


By GrEG hADLEY 
associate sports editor 
on a soggy and windy Friday, the irish women rolled through the mud and the water at notre dame golf course to a third-place finish at the 59th annual notre dame invitational. 
leading the way for notre dame, junior molly seidel followed up her vic­tory at the national catholic championships two weeks ago with a fifth-place finish Friday, traversing the five-kilometer course in 16:19.9. 
“molly’s been the leader for our group all fall,” irish coach matt sparks said. “she’s gained a lot of confidence as the weeks have gone by, and molly’s con­fidence has kind of been reso­nating with the whole team at this point. we saw that from our second down to our sev­enth runner. everybody had their best performance of the year.” 
Junior danielle aragon fol­lowed close behind seidel, placing 11th while cutting her time from last year’s notre dame invitational by two and a half minutes, from 19:02.9 to 16:29.9. 
sophomore Taylor driscoll and senior emily Frydrych brought up the middle sec­tion of the irish pack, placing 33th and 35th, respectively. Frydrych, the first of three se­niors for notre dame, has emerged as a leader for the irish as she has moved into the top five, sparks said. 
“The glue for the … women’s team this season has been emily Frydrych,” he said. “she finished fourth on Friday, and she has been a great leader for our team all season. it’s nice to see your seniors come out and carry a lot of the weight. she’s done a lot of the work as far as veteran leadership and talking to the girls, but she’s also car­rying the weight on the course as well. 
“That middle group was a little bit of a question mark, and she helped keep [them] together.” 
Facing two ranked squads as well as five other teams that received votes in the coaches poll, the irish packed all five of their scoring runners in the top 65 of 165 athletes. 
no. 12 new mexico cruised to the team title with a com­bined score of 49 points, 74 ahead of runner-up north carolina state, which was, un­til recently, ranked 29th in the nation. The wolfpack were just 24 points ahead of the irish. 
after matching up so well against some of the nation’s top teams, sparks said the team has begun to think big­ger in terms of what it can ac­complish this season. 
“our goal has always been to be at the national champi­onship meet,” he said. “i think that just gives them a more solid belief that that’s where we should end the season. i also think it’s giving us some perspective on where we can finish at the national level.” 
while the women exceeded sparks’s expectations, the men struggled to compete against a field that included 10 ranked squads, including the team champion, no. 19 michigan, and no. 10 byu. led by junior Timothy ball in his first meet of the season, the irish fin­ished in 14th place out of 24 teams. 
“it was a tough day,” sparks said. “we brought back Tim ball, who missed the first few meets … and he came out and made up for it. we basically have three veteran runners, but you need a seven-man team to be successful. The younger freshmen and sopho­mores just haven’t been in a race of that magnitude since coming to college. 
“we need those guys to re­ally step up and learn quick­ly. we talked about what we wanted to do, and they un­derstood what they needed to do, but putting it into practice was harder to do. it was a good learning experience for them.” 
sophomores Jacob dumford and chris marco, who com­bined for four top-10 finishes in the first two meets of the year, finished in 115th and 198th place, respectively, after starting out slowly and get­ting caught in the mud behind stronger runners, sparks said. 
although the result was dis­couraging for the team, sparks also said notre dame will have a chance to redeem itself and challenge more top competi­tion at the wisconsin adidas invitational in two weeks. 
“we’ll see a lot more tal­ented teams, more nation­ally-ranked programs, at wisconsin,” sparks said. “That will give us a real telling sign of where we can be region­ally, nationally and even at the conference level.” 
The irish women look to continue their recent run of success and the men will try to rebound at the wisconsin adi­das invitational in madison, wisconsin, on oct. 17. 
Contact Greg hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 
By AnDrEW rOBInsOn 
sports writer 
with two rounds of play under their belts and one still left to play, the irish currently sit in seventh place in the schooner Fall classic at seven-over par, due in part to a record-breaking team perfor­mance sunday. 
notre dame teed off its first round saturday morn­ing, and after 18 holes the team held a share of sev­enth place with a 10-over­par 290. 
senior Kelli oride set the pace on day one with a one­under-par 69, tallying four birdies and tying for fifth place to end the day. 
Freshman Kari bellville followed closely behind, notching a one-over par 71 in her second collegiate tournament to tie for 22nd. 
“it’s so important having different people step up ev­ery day and having a good team effort all around,” irish coach susan holt said. 
The irish continued this trend sunday, led by junior Talia campbell, when they posted the lowest single-round team score in the program’s 27-year exis­tence with a three-under­par 277. 
individually, campbell shot a four-under-par 66 for the day, claiming a share of lowest single-round indi­vidual score in notre dame history and beating her 
first-round  score  by eight  
strokes.  
“Talia  is  playing  really  

solid golf,” holt said. “she’s been so consistent with her ball-striking and has given herself lots of opportuni­ties to make birdies.” 
oride, who played well again and was on pace to match her score from saturday, bogeyed her last two holes and finished the day with a 71. campbell and oride are currently tied for 11th place at even par out of 91 golfers. 
senior captain ashley armstrong bounced back from a 78 over her first 18 holes and posted a one-un­der-par 69 on sunday, while bellville showed off her consistency with another 71 on sunday. 
even with the historic scores, holt said she and the team both know they could have performed even better and can cut down on mistakes, which gives her optimism heading into the final day. 
“when you play really well and know you could have played even better, that’s a good place to be,” she said. 
with the combined per­formances, the irish held onto their seventh-place spot, just one stroke be­
hind  california and smu  
and  four  strokes  ahead  
of  eighth-place  lsu.  

mississippi state sits atop the leader board and holds a sizable 11-stroke lead over second-place Kent state – however, just a six-stroke range separates sec­ond through seventh place in the standings. 
“we’ll be in a good place to make up some ground tomorrow,” holt said. “it should be good conditions, and we just need to go in with the mindset to make birdies because we know that’s what the other pro­grams will be doing.” 
The irish will play the fi­nal round of the schooner Fall classic on monday, starting at 9:30 a.m. 
Contact Andrew robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 




ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, syracuse 1; duKe 3, nd 1 
Notre Dame claims first conference victory 
By hEnrY hILLIArD 
sports writer 
it was a weekend of mixed results for the irish in two home matches against acc opponents at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (4-11, 1-3 acc) bested syracuse, 3-1, on Friday for its first conference win of the 2014 campaign but lost to no. 25 duke, 3-1, on sunday. 
offensive productivity led the irish to a victory Friday. notre dame hit .309 and re­corded 19 blocks and 63 digs. playing in front of more than 1,500 fans at purcell pavilion, notre dame won three of four games, 25-11, 24-26, 25­21, 25-18. 
“we always love playing at home,” irish coach debbie brown said. “coming off of three weeks of playing on the road, it is great to be back in your own routine and having the energy of your fans.” 
Freshman outside hitter sydney Kuhn, senior mid­dle blocker Jeni houser and sophomore middle blocker Katie higgins led the irish to victory against the orange (7-9, 0-4). each of the three players recorded more than 10 kills. Freshman middle blocker sam Fry added eight kills and led the team with six blocks. as a team, the irish bested syracuse with 19 more kills, 14 more assists and 16 more digs. 
against a blue devils team that is undefeated in confer­ence play, notre dame was less successful, losing the match in four sets, 25-18, 25­21, 20-25, 25-23. The tight match featured 22 ties and eight lead changes. 
“our goal this weekend was to be more competi­tive in terms of our sets and serves,” brown said. “That is how we are going to be more competitive in terms of win­ning more games, especially in acc play. as a team, that is definitely where our focus is.” 
The blue devils (12-3, 4-0) hit .260 on sunday and racked up 65 kills. notre dame hung around on the defensive side of the net, col­lecting 11 blocks, but could not compete offensively. The irish recorded 49 kills and hit just .228. 
graduate student outside hitter nicole smith was the leader for the irish with 11 kills. houser and higgins turned in eight and nine kills, respectively. 
in the final set of the match, notre dame hung tight with the defending conference champions. The irish cut duke’s advantage to 23-21, forcing the blue devils to use a time out, but lost, 25-23. 
notre dame is back on the road this weekend as it con­tinues acc play. The team faces pittsburgh at 7 p.m. Friday and louisville at 2 
p.m. sunday. 
Contact henry hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 







Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
and senior defenseman robbie russo. 
The visitors from canada (2-0 cis) got one back at the 11:56 mark of the period, however, when fourth-year forward Justin larson finished a two-on-one two-goal lead. russo also picked up his second assist of the night in his return to the irish af­ter missing the second half of last season due to academic ineligibility. 
“i thought Jordan gross [whose shot provided the rebound op­portunity for hinostroza] did a nice job for his first game,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “i liked his game at the point.” 
after a change in goalies for both teams just before the mid­way point of the second period — third-year chris hurry entered for waterloo while freshman cal petersen replaced Katunar for the irish — the visitors gained a foothold in the game and used it to score four unanswered goals to take a 5-3 lead. 
larson got his second score of the game with 1:39 to play in the second period when he fired home a rebound after a sequence of petersen saves, assisted again by chappell and mackie. The warriors knotted the game up 18 seconds later when first-year forward mitch eliot put one past the irish freshman goalie. assists were credited to fourth-year de­fenseman Joe underwood and first-year forward phillip Fife. both goals came during the final five minutes of the period, when notre dame took two penal­ties and saw momentum swing against them. 
“we weren’t working quite as hard [at the end of the second period], and we were cheating a little bit,” Jackson said. “They got a couple of odd-man rushes that way, and they scored on both of them. That changed the whole game going into the third period.” 
The warriors — and larson — picked up where they left off as the third period got underway when the forward completed his hat trick just 2:05 into the final period. First-year defenseman adam bignell and fourth-year defenseman Jeff einhorn had as­sists on the goal as larson beat petersen and put a shot through the five hole to take a 4-3 lead. 
Two minutes later — on just its tenth shot against petersen — waterloo went two goals ahead when third-year forward matt amadio fired another one home on a goal, assisted by fifth-year forward Kain allicock and first-year defenseman mike moffat. petersen finished with just nine saves on 13 shots in almost 30 minutes of work 
“i’m not going to evaluate [petersen’s performance] too strongly,” Jackson said. “it’s hard to go in cold so i’m not go­ing to evaluate that. i know he’s much better than that. 
notre dame’s best chance in the next 10 minutes came when senior forward peter schneider had a shot denied with just fewer than 10 minutes to play by a sprawling stick save from hurry. The waterloo goaltender recorded 23 saves on 24 shots. 
with 42 seconds to go, the irish, already on the power play, got one back when schneider finally beat hurry with 42 sec­onds to play. hinostroza’s initial shot was saved and schneider put the puck in the back of the net on the goal also assisted by dipauli. however, the irish were unable to test hurry the rest of the way and succumbed to their first exhibition loss in 10 years. 
Jackson said that junior winger mario lucia and fresh­man center connor hurley were scratches due to “day-to-day” injuries while senior winger garrett peterson was on “aca­demic sabbatical.” 
Jackson cautioned that with a young team — there are 11 newcomers to the program — things will have to be different for the veterans this year. 
“The big thing is that the vet­eran guys have to understand is that it’s not like where you have a veteran team when you can just respond like that,” Jackson said. “you’ve got a lot of new guys trying to figure it out.” 
notre dame will open the reg­ular season Friday when it takes on rensselaer at the ice breaker Tournament — also featuring minnesota and minnesota­duluth — at the compton Family ice arena at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at               acarson1@nd.edu 

past irish sophomore goaltender chad Katunar. waterloo fourth-year forward chris chappell carried the puck into the zone and fed the puck to larson, who slid it under Katunar for the visi­tors’ first goal. Third-year for­ward brett mackie also picked up an assist on the goal. The irish goaltender, meanwhile, finished with four saves on five 
paid adverTisemenT 
shots in 30 minutes of work. 
hinostroza found the back of the net again with 4:19 to play in the first period when he con­verted a tight angle off of a re­bound. Freshman defenseman Jordan gross put a shot on goal from the blue line was turned aside by morrison, but the puck fell right to hinostroza, who put it away to restore notre dame’s 



W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
the u.s. senior women’s nation­al team, blew by the remain­ing defenders and beat little to score the unassisted goal and give virginia the 1-0 lead. 
“Kaela played tremendously,” romagnolo said. “we need to do a better job in front of her. [we need to start] just limiting our opponent’s chances. … we al­lowed way too many shots.” 
little shrugged off the goal and set a season-high in saves on the day, with eight stops on 18 shots. in addition to the cavalier attack, little also had to battle swirling gusts of wind that affected play throughout the game. 
For the next thirty minutes of play, the irish were still unable to generate any sustained offen­sive attack. 
“[we] didn’t have the ball too much today,” romagnolo said. “we had to do a lot of defend­ing. … overall, we’re a very good possession team. we usually press a team well but not today.” 
only two notre dame play­ers managed to get off a shot through the first 83 minutes of play — junior midfielder glory williams and senior forward Karin simonian. simonian led the team with four shots, two of which were on goal. 
“she’s very skillful,” romagnolo said. “she makes a lot happen for us. [she’s] a great passer and she gets to the goal very well.” 
it was roccaro, however, who gave the irish a chance to force overtime late in the game. in the 84th minute, from 30 yards out, the junior collected a loose ball on the right and uncorked a shot that beat virginia sophomore goalkeeper morgan stearns to the left, tying the game up. 
“it was a great goal,” romagnolo said. “we put her at the attacking midfielder po­sition, and i guess she found a hole, and she took the space and made the finish.” 
with the game seemingly headed for overtime, virginia made one last push down the left side of the field. Junior for­ward makenzy doniak made a run into the penalty area and took a shot just outside the six-yard box. little made a diving stop and deflected the ball out in front of the goal but ratcliffe collected the rebound and banged it home to secure the win. 
The irish aim to get back on track this Thursday on the road at pittsburgh. notre dame will face off against the panthers at 7 p.m., at ambrose urbanic Field. 
Contact Greg hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
just outside the penalty box that struck the far post. 
“some games you just aren’t hot,” o’malley said. “you’ve seen this kind of thing a thou­sand times, and sometimes you just can’t find the back of the net.  our goals come from everywhere on the field, and the whole team needs to step it up in our next game against michigan.” 
o’malley focused on the large number of scoring oppor­tunities the irish were able to create as an encouraging sign. 
“There are a lot of positives amongst the negatives in that game, and most importantly was the ability of the team to create shots,” o’malley said. “we obviously got a lot off in the game, but just need to hit the target a bit more.  i think our crossing, especially from our [senior defenders] luke mishu and max lachowecki, was also a strong point for us in the game. 
“in the future, we just need to keep our focus.  This is a team that not only has the talent to win a national championship, but also the right work ethic and attitude. we will keep fo­cused, and we will win that championship, trust me.” 
The irish have a quick turnaround to prepare for a matchup with michigan (2-5­2, 1-1-2 big Ten) on Tuesday. The wolverines are coming off of a 2-1 overtime victory over wisconsin last saturday. 
The last time the irish played the wolverines, they cruised to a comfortable 3-0 victory sept. 17, 2013. overall, notre dame owns the series edge, 7-1-2. 
o’malley said he is confident in his team’s chances against the wolverines. 
“michigan is a tough game,” o’malley said. “They have a lot of good players and will definitely provide a good envi­ronment to play in at their sta­dium. we look forward to the game and are going in to get a good result.” 


The top-ranked irish take a break from acc play with a match against michigan on Tuesday. game time is sched­uled for 7:30 p.m. in ann arbor, michigan. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group 
happy Birthday: communication, education and transportation are highlighted. Trips that encourage learning or adventure will spark your imagination, but being realistic about the choices you make will be the determining factor when it comes to getting the results you want. don’t let uncertainty cloud your vision or slow you down. putting the pieces of your life puzzle together should not be too complicated. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 23, 29, 36, 41. 
ArIEs (March 21-April 19): communication will lead to solutions, earning more money or developing a closer bond to someone you have a future with. Travel plans can be made, but be reasonable regarding your destination. a safe, secure location is essential. 

TAUrUs (April 20-May 20): a fast-talker will try to get between you and your cash. refrain from taking on any more responsibilities until you take care of the ones you already have. picking up knowledge or taking short and informative trips is advised. 

GEMInI (May 21-June 20): emotional matters will surface. stick to the truth even if it causes a scene. express your opinions so you can move on without delay or regret. greater opportunities await you. love is highlighted. 

CAnCEr (June 21-July 22): Troubles at home are best avoided if possible. wait for a better time to find workable solutions. put your energy into expanding your horizons, making new contacts and sharing your thoughts with like-minded people. Trust your intuition. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get out and experience life. idle time will work against you. Take care of your chores and responsibilities to avoid complaints before you go on vacation. back away from joint financial ventures. you will not be given accurate figures and are likely to encounter loss. 

VIrGO (Aug. 23-sept. 22): don’t let your emotions lead you down a precarious path. Focus on trust, honesty and hard work. a practical approach will help you avoid a costly error. impulse is the enemy, so slow down. refuse to give in to emotional blackmail. 

LIBrA (sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take part in community or family events. share your thoughts and expand your interests. a creative idea you have can lead to good fortune. pleasure trips are highlighted along with romance and updating your appearance and image. 

sCOrPIO (Oct. 23-nov. 21): a guarded approach to what you are doing will help you avoid interference. Follow your gut feeling when dealing with personal matters. emotional deception is apparent, making it essential to trust in you and you alone. 

sAGITTArIUs (nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes that will improve your standard of living. apply for a better position or make a residential move that will help you build your assets. Take a passionate approach to relationships. let go of the past and initiate positive change. 

CAPrICOrn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emotional disillusionment will lead you down the wrong path. you cannot save everyone and must refrain from giving too much in an attempt to make an impression. an unexpected change in your relationship with a friend, colleague or relative will be costly. 

AQUArIUs (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can get what you want if you approach your goals with integrity and innovation and are able to offer something that is impossible to refuse. use your intelligence, and you will come up with the perfect plan to get ahead. 

PIsCEs (Feb. 19-March 20): pay close attention to what’s going on around you. a creative idea you have will pay off financially. be careful when dealing with sensitive issues. someone is likely to start an argument if you take sides or voice your opinion. 

Birthday Baby: you are inventive, unique and resourceful. you are quick, sensitive and generous. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | bosTon college 1, nd 0 
By MIKE GInOCChIO 
sports writer 
after a strong start to the sea­son, the no. 1 irish hit a road bump Friday when they took on boston college. despite play­ing an aggressive game, notre dame lost to the eagles, 1-0, at alumni stadium. 
althought the irish were frus­trated with the end result, grad­uate student defender andrew o’malley said the team was not too discouraged. 
“The general vibe was a lot of frustration, but at the same time, we knew it was a fluke-type game, and these things happen in soccer,” o’malley said. “it’s a rough sport in that regard, and it’s the kind of thing you need to learn from and move past.” 
The irish (5-2-2, 2-1-1 acc) generated far more offensive chances than the eagles (4-4-1, 1-3-0 acc) with a 19-3 shot ad­vantage throughout the game. however, the irish were unable to convert on any of these op­portunities, taking only three shots on goal. 
The lone goal of the night came in the 15th minute, when 

Early Eagles goal sinks Irish 
eagles sophomore forward isaac normesinu intercepted a pass and floated a shot just over irish graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall. The goal was the first the irish had allowed in 256 minutes, coming off two straight shutouts against north carolina and vcu. The last goal the irish had allowed came in a 1-1 overtime tie against virginia on sept. 21. 
one of notre dame’s few good chances came early in the 39th minute of the first half. Freshman forward Jeffrey Farina beat the eagles defense and fired a shot, only for it to miss wide of the near post. 

in the second half, the irish dominated the eagles in shots, 11-0. however, boston college junior goalkeeper alex Kapp stopped a shot in the 52nd min­ute from irish junior midfielder patrick hodan and the rebound shot attempt from irish se­nior forward vince cicciarelli. Kapp ended the game with three saves. in the 74th min­ute, irish senior defender max lachoweski fired a shot from ALARISSE LAM | The Observer 
Irish freshman forward Jon Gallagher races to the ball in Notre Dame’s 1-0, double-overtime victory see m soccer PAGE 18 against VCU on Tuesday at Alumni Stadium. Gallagher recorded one shot in Friday’s loss to Boston College. 


HOCKEY | waTerloo 5, nd 4 ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | virginia 2, nd 1 
Notre Dame loses lead, drops exhibition to Waterloo 
By ALEX CArsOn 
sports writer 
a hat trick from fourth-year forward Justin larson powered visiting waterloo to a 5-4 victo­ry in an exhibition contest over no. 10 notre dame on sunday night at the compton Family ice arena. 
it took the irish just over four minutes to get on the score­board as junior center Thomas dipauli fired a shot past waterloo second-year goalten­der mike morrison with 15:58 to play in the first period. dipauli carried in the puck from the blue line and slotted it past morrison with assists on the play going to freshman defenseman luke ripley and sophomore winger ali Thomas. 

sophomore center vince hinostroza — notre dame’s leading returning point-scor­er — put the irish 2-0 ahead fewer than three minutes later. hinostroza wristed the puck past morrison’s glove side with the goal assisted by freshman defenseman Tony bretzman CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Irish sophomore center Vince Hinostroza stretches towards the puck see hocKey PAGE 17 during Notre Dame’s 5-4 exhibition loss to Waterloo on Sunday. 

cavs top nd on final-minute score 
By GrEG hADLEY 
associate sports editor 
with just 22 seconds left in regulation and the momentum starting to swing in no. 14 notre dame’s favor, no. 4 virginia ral­lied for one more offensive op­portunity, and junior forward brittany ratcliffe pounced on it, giving the cavaliers the 2-1 vic­tory sunday. 
The loss dropped the irish (7­4-1, 2-2-0 acc) to 3-4 at alumni stadium on the season, already their most losses at home since 2002. 
“we play a tough schedule at home,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “virginia is one of the best teams that we’ve seen this year, so it gave us a great taste of what a Final Four game would be like. i think we learned some good lessons.” 
before the game-winning goal, the cavaliers (11-1-0, 3-1-0) had dominated time of posses­sion for most of the game and had several near-chances on goal. 
in the first half alone, virginia took six corner kicks and 11 shots and forced sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little to make five saves. 
despite the pressure, the irish defense held strong, shutting out the cavaliers through the first 45 minutes. on offense, however, the irish failed to gen­erate many chances, produc­ing one shot-on-goal and three shots in total. 
“we need to get tougher,” romagnolo said. “[if we do that] it means we’re not giving up so much time off the ball. it means we’re playing tighter. it means we’re winning more 50-50 bat­tles, which means that we have more possession. we usually do that to most teams and i think it was the first time someone has done that to us.” 
The second half began in a similar way, with virginia dominating possession but the irish defensive live holding on. Then, in the 53rd minute, ju­nior cari roccaro attempted a pass across the middle in the defensive third, which virginia senior midfielder morgan brian intercepted. 
brian, who has played with 
see w soccer PAGE 18 





