The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 54 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Fans leave cold, disappointed after OT loss 
Irish fall to Northwestern 43-40 in first home loss of the season, exit with 7-3 record 
By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer 
The disappointment of notre dame fans was palpable fol­lowing the first home loss of the season against northwestern on saturday, a suspenseful 43­40 overtime defeat at the hands of the wildcats. 
The euphoric rallies of “go irish” and other spontaneous cheers that typically fill the stadium’s ramps following the previous home victories were replaced by more somber tones as fans exited the stadium. 
many fans were frustrated because they stayed for the unusually long game despite the cold weather in hopes that an irish win would be make the harsh weather conditions worth the pain. 
“i stayed the whole time even though it was freezing because i thought it would be worth watching the team win,” freshman sofia daboub said. “it stinks that we lost against a team everyone thought we would beat.” 
sophomore david Krohn echoed daboub’s frustration. 
“i support the team, but sit­ting through a game that went over four hours and ended in a loss to a mediocre team was rough,” Krohn said. 
Krohn’s frustration with the game stemmed from a disap­pointment in the overall per­formance of the team as well, he said. 
“i was pretty disappoint­ed because until last week i 
see FooTball PAGE 5 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Quenton Nelson, Austin Collinsworth, Drue Tranquill and Leprechaun John Doran sing the Alma Mater after the football team lost to Northwestern 43-40. Saturday’s game was the first home loss of the season. 


Roemer defines ‘civility’ ‘Mike & Mike’ 
how he defines civility and said. “i couldn’t disagree 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 

news writer how the public often misper-more. 



tapes on campus 
ceives it. “civility is not the same on Friday afternoon in “There’s a perception that thing as compromise. it’s 
By MARY GREEN 

the hesburgh center audito-civil people are afraid to treating your opponents news writer maters. rium, former congressman 
with a measure of respect.” “we’ve been com-
and ambassador to india 
Timothy roemer spoke 
about the current state of po­
litical discourse in a talk en­
titled “civility in the public 
square: a strong leadership 
principle.” 
roemer, a south bend na-Quoting president John The espn talk radio and ing for years,” greenberg, 


F. Kennedy’s inaugural ad-Tv program “mike & mike,” northwestern class of 1989, 
dress, roemer reminded the featuring notre dame said. “we’ve probably done 
audience “civility is not a  alumnus  mike  golic  and  — i want to say we’ve done a  
sign of weakness.”  northwestern graduate mike  half a dozen shows at least on  
roemer then listed strong  greenberg, filmed its Friday  this campus over the years,  
historical leaders who em- morning show at  heritage  maybe more. it’s always fun.”  
bodied civility. he said the  hall in the Joyce center in  The show kicked off at 6  

tive with masters and doc-

efforts president abraham front of a full crowd in ad-a.m., with golic, notre dame torate degrees from notre speak their minds and stand vance of saturday’s game dame, began by explaining on their principles,” roemer see roemer PAGE 5 between the two hosts’ alma see miKe & miKe PAGE 5 

smc events promote awareness of global affairs 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
This week, saint mary’s students don’t have to take a 12-hour flight to gain a better understanding of life in other parts of the world and grow as people while immersing themselves in the traditions of other cultures. a five-minute walk to the student center will take students to international education week, an annual event that promotes increased knowledge of global events and cultures. 
The center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) designed this year’s events, and assistant direc­tor for global education alice siqin yang said the week will encourage students both to grow personally and develop leadership skills. 
“The international edu­cation offered here will en­able students to be more 
see inTernaTional PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Which team are you looking most forward to seeing this upcoming season? 


Nick Munsen 
sophomore 
alumni hall 

“men’s hockey, for them to show off their new players.” 
Greg Gentile 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“men’s hockey.” 
Dan Anderson 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“houston rockets.” 

Mylan Jefferson 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“The dodgers.” 
Devlin Anes 
senior 
off-campus 
“manchester united.” 
Monica Gorman 
junior 
lyons hall 
“women’s rugby.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jack rooney mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Katie mccarty christine mayuga 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

STEM Workshop Mammograms on Notre Dame GIS Day Men’s Hockey Women’s Basketball 
michael yu gabriela leskur 
Brownson Hall Campus Hesburgh Library Compton Family Ice Purcell Pavilion 4 p.m - 5 p.m. Hesburgh Library 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Arena 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Learn how to apply to a 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Workshops and 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. Notre Dame versus 
Corrections 

summer STEM program. Must be at least 40 sessions throughout The Irish take on Chattanooga. 
The observer regards itself as years old. the day. UMass Lowell. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ACMS Colloquium Careers That Matter International Taste Remembrance Vigil Pep Rally 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hayes-Healy Center Geddes Hall of South Bend The Grotto TBA 
however, recognize that we will make 
4:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 8 p.m.- 9 p.m. 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Professor Paul M. Discussion of post-6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Vigil for the 43 missing Pep rally for Notre 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Kulesa will speak. graduate service Free and open to the students in Mexico. Dame versus Louisville 
we can correct our error. 

opportunities. public. football game. 


Historian explores holy art 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
in this year’s final lecture of the saturday with the saints series, organized through the institute for church life (icl), art historian dianne phillips discussed the changing artistic portrayals of the holy Family throughout church history. 
phillips said artistic depictions of the holy Family have theologi­cal implications, and a certain “theological subtlety and com­plexity … underlies many of these pictures despite their superficial veneer of simplicity.” 
she said artistic representa­tion of the holy Family did not emerge until late in the first mil­lennium when the church began to discuss the theology of the holy Family. 
“The imagery of the holy Family and its development de­pends on the development of the cult of st. Joseph, and very little at­tention was paid to him in the ear­ly church because its intellectual energies were focused on refining theological doctrines of the trin­ity and the incarnation,” phillips said. “Joseph, since he’s not the biological father of Jesus, is not re­ally relevant to those concerns.” 
in the first depictions of the holy Family, she said, artists often portrayed Joseph as old and weak to emphasize that he could not have been Jesus’ biological father. 
“The reality was that by viewers, medieval no less than modern, he came to be seen as a pathetic figure and even comic,” she said. “his figure presents a challenge to the representation of the holy Family.” 
phillips said the depiction of Joseph underwent a positive change in 12th century bologna when bernard of clairvaux de­livered a series of sermons em­phasizing Joseph’s importance in the life of the holy Family and his close and affectionate relation­ship with Jesus. she said Josep’s representation in religious art took on a new identity as a just and dignified man. 
portrayals of the holy Family continued to evolve, phillips said, and during the european renaissance the “high style of renaissance art” often promi­nently displayed the christ child’s body. 
“The eucharistic meaning is obvious in the display of the body of christ,” she said. 
Then in the 17th century, artists again redefined Joseph’s role in the holy Family, she said. 
“by the 17th century, there develops a genre of pictures where st. Joseph takes the lead,” she said. “literally, instead of madonna and child, it’s st. Joseph and child.” 
however, mary continued to be represented in a very positive light, phillips said. a body of works accompanying the 1854 doctrine of the immaculate conception, in which mary and child had white, luminous skin that indicated their purity and holiness, she said. 
phillips said depictions of the holy Family today are more ab­stract than previous religious artwork owing to “the impact of the huge stylistic changes in art throughout the 20th century.” 
still, she said, there are defi­nite allusions to earlier repre­sentations of the holy Family in present-day artwork. a painting of the holy Family unveiled in september for next year’s world meeting of Families mirrors the high art of the renaissance, phillips said. 
she said images of the holy Family are so dynamic, due to theological and scriptural influ­ences, but the common goal of displaying the holy Family as a model of virtue unites the vastly different works. 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 

dinner spotlights chinese culture 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 

student diversity board and chinese cultural club held its second diversity dinner for over 50 people in regina south on Friday evening in an event that focused on cultural diversity and featured three speakers and small-group discussions. 
senior catherine sullivan, in­ternational co-chair of student government, started off the night by welcoming everyone to the second saint mary’s diversity dinner, this time hosted by the chinese cultural club. 
lanzhen li, one of saint mary’s visiting Fulbright scholars, gave a cultural presentation on the im­portance of food in china. 
“The chinese eat everything with four legs besides a table, and anything with wings besides a plane,” li said. 
senior nicole weaver said she also appreciates the chinese food, both for its cultural signifi­cance and taste. 
“i came tonight because i thought it was a great opportu­nity to try chinese food,” weaver said. 
Junior veronica mcdowell, the secretary of the chinese cultural club, introduced the evening’s meal, which was a collaborative effort. 
“half of the chinese cuisine was cooked by members of the club, while the other half was donated by the ho ping house in south bend,” she said. 
sophomore yaqi song, co-president of the chinese cultural club, said, “To have this dinner was a great opportunity to give students the ability to learn out­side of their classes. 
“i think that this chance was a delicious and fun one. eating this food reminds me of being home, which is in chengdu, sichuan province, china,” she said. 
The assistant director of global education, alice yang, said the dinner could also lead to a deep­er engagement with chinese culture. 
“chinese classes are offered to us on saint mary’s campus, so it is important to take advantage of learning more about other coun­tries, like china,” yang said. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

International 
conTinued From page 1 
successful in a globally com­petitive society while they make contributions to world 
“It showcases a variety of ethnic presentations by international students and culture clubs. It is a chance for our international students to share with everyone where they are from.” 
Alice Siqin Yang 
assistant director for global 
education 
SMC 
peace,” yang said.  “it pro­vides students with the per­spectives they need to meet challenges.” 
monday’s “henna on my hands” activity from 12-1 
p.m. will demonstrate the arabic tradition of henna art, a practice typically per­formed at weddings. later monday night, several students will discuss the benefits of studying abroad in countries such as austria, 
china,  ecuador,  england,  
ireland,  italy  and  uganda  
during  the  “intercultural  

learning showcase” from 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
“recent returnees will share their experiences and interactions with local peo­ple in different cultural con­texts,” yang said. “They will talk about their re-entry ad­justment and skills they have learned.” 
The purpose of international education week is not necessarily to convince people to travel across the world, though the speeches and events may im­pact students in such a way that they choose to. rather, the week’s main intention is to inform the saint mary’s community and to maintain a welcoming environment that embraces other cultures. 
Tuesday’s “writing across the world - els program” showcase from 12-1 p.m. involves Japanese, indian, Korean, Kuwaiti and saudi arabian students writing dif­ferent sayings in different languages on keepsake cards. 
“This is a good opportunity to know more about differ­ent languages throughout the world, including Japanese, Korean, arabic, hindi and chinese,” yang said. 
a panel discussion on wednesday from 6-7 p.m. will examine the consequences of the unprecedented result of the 2014 indian election, which resulted in a surpris­
“It recognizes the contributions that international students and scholars make in internationalizing the campus.” 
Alice Siqin Yang 
assistant director for global 
education 
SMC 
ing victory for the bharatiya Janata party and its prime minister candidate narendra modi. 
Thursday night’s international cultural Festival from 5-7 p.m. will include music, dancing and performances from interna­tional students and will end the week on a positive note, yang said. 
“it showcases a variety of ethnic presentations by in­ternational students and cultural clubs,” yang said. “it is a chance for our inter­national students to share with everyone where they are from.” 

cwil members have gone to great lengths to organize this instructive and fun-filled week, which yang calls a celebration of cultures. 
“it is an opportunity to learn from international students, study abroad experiences, guest speakers on interna­tional politics, movies and arts,” yang said. “it recog­nizes the contributions that international students and scholars make in internation­alizing the campus.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 




Mike & Mike 
conTinued From page 1 
class of 1985, and greenberg discussing saturday’s game and wagering on the out­come of saturday’s game. in the end, the co-hosts decided greenberg would wear one of golic’s old notre dame jer­seys on a show next week if the irish won, and golic would mimic the now-infamous Kim Kardashian photo from paper magazine if the wildcats won. 
golic and greenberg de­bated the terms of the bet throughout the four-hour show while also covering the top stories in the sports world from Friday morning, in­cluding an injury to chicago bulls guard derrick rose and los angeles dodgers pitcher clayton Kershaw’s recently-awarded national league mvp. 
during the show, irish head coach brian Kelly and nbc sports and nFl network com­mentator mike mayock vis­ited the set for interviews, and northwestern head coach pat Fitzgerald and former irish quarterback brady Quinn called in for interviews. 
greenberg said incorporat­ing information from several different sports, along with current events, is just another part of the job for him. 
“as i’ve always said, we’re on the air for four hours, and the other 20 hours are show prep,” greenberg said. “so i mean, our whole lives are show prep. … as far as the ac­tual sports news, that’s been made a lot easier by things like social media. it’s so easy, even on a day when i was traveling pretty much the whole day [Thursday], i was never out of touch with what was going on in the sports world or beyond because, with Twitter and ev­erything else, i knew.” 
mike & mike producer ray necci said traveling away from the show’s normal studio at espn headquarters in bristol, connecticut, made the broad­cast more complicated than usual. 
“it all kind of gets worked on here and has to go through bristol, where they still have to run it through the normal paths that we would if we were doing a show in the studio,” necci said. “They still had a director back in bristol; they still had a producer on the Tv end back in bristol, so you have extra staff when you’re here for the remote stuff, but it’s all still gotta go through the same way.” 

necci said the travel sched­ule of mike & mike goes in spurts, depending on what the sports schedule is like. For ex­ample, the crew will usually stage remote shows during the college football regular and bowl seasons and the nFl playoffs throughout January. 
despite what can sometimes be a restrictive travel sched­ule, necci said hitting the road has its benefits as well. 
“i’d never been to notre dame, so for me, i’m going to the game [saturday], so that’s a perk,” he said. “That’s pret­ty good. but sometimes, it’s a get-in and get-out. sometimes it’s straight business, no perk to it. but it’s nice to go places that you don’t normally get to go, whether it’s different schools or different champi­onships or anything like that.” 
greenberg added that there were benefits to airing the show away from bristol from his and golic’s perspectives as well. 
“The energy you get from the crowd is unmatched,” he said. “we’re accustomed to doing the show in a room that is otherwise completely silent, and the only thing you’re real­ly looking at are cameras, who are not reacting to anything that you say. so having that instant reaction, having that enthusiasm from the crowd — there’s no question that that brings an energy.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Football 
conTinued From page 1 
thought this team was different from last year’s,” Krohn said. “i am not really surprised by the loss though. somehow we always manage to play down to the level of our competition.” 
The irish entered the second half of the game three points ahead of the wildcats and did not surrender the lead until the final seconds of the fourth quar­ter, when northwestern’s Jack mitchell kicked a 45-yard goal to tie the game at 40. 
Freshmen parker mathes said losing the lead in the last minute was the hardest part of the game to watch. 
“The game against northwestern was a tough one to watch,” mathes said. “we just got so close to winning, and then in the last couple minutes we just let it go.” 
For freshman erin callaghan it was the game’s technical mis­takes that made her cringe. 
“There were mistakes made like turnovers, missed field goals and perhaps poor judgment calls like going for a two-point conver­sion instead of the extra point af­ter a touchdown,” callaghan said. 
callaghan also said she thinks the irish players took their lead for granted and underestimated northwestern’s ability to make a comeback. 

“it was a tough loss. i was up­set,” she said. 
notre dame fans now turn their attention to the final home game of the season. Junior ryan rizzuto said he hoped the irish will win for the seniors. 
“we always want to see the seniors out with a win,” rizutto said. 
Fans hope to celebrate the con­clusion of the home season with a victory when the irish take on louisville next saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 

Roemer 
conTinued From page 1 

lincoln and general ulysses 
s. grant made to treat the south with respect after the civil war showed the tremendous power of civil­ity. he also said dr. martin luther King Jr. exemplified the same virtue in his actions of peace and restraint toward those who viciously attacked him. 
roemer said the current lack of civility in public dis­course stems from a few fac­tors. The first, roemer said, is “political apathy and in­difference,” shown by re­cord-low voter turnout and overall decreasing participa­
“No one is going to come along and make politics work for you.” 
Timothy Roemer 
former ambassador to India 

tion in the democratic pro­cess. roemer said this allows more extreme voices on both sides of the spectrum to gain power while moderate voters stay home on election day. voter disenchantment with political polarization fuels even lower voter turnout and the vicious cycle perpetuates itself. 
“no one is going to come along and make politics work for you,” he said. 
The influence of “big mon­ey” also leads increased inci­vility, roemer said. after the citizens united v. Federal elections commission supreme court decision, the 
“the price of reaching vot­ers skyrocketed,” he said. 
“Outlets like Fox News and MSNBC need to have a pre­packaged cast of good guys versus bad guys in order to attract viewers.” 
Timothy Roemer 
former ambassador to India 
roemer noted that the cost of an average congressional campaign today is 300 per­cent greater than it was in 1990. 
roemer said the media also contributes to the brutal po­litical discourse. 
“outlets like Fox news and msnbc need to have a pre­packaged cast of good guys versus bad guys in order to attract viewers,” he said. 
addressing the power of newer forms of media, roemer said “people are able to say things online they would never dream of doing in person.” 
roemer concluded with a few more examples of civil­ity he sees in the world today, including malala yousafzai, the winner of the 2014 nobel peace prize for her advoca­cy for educational rights of women in the face of violent oppression, the democratic protesters in hong Kong, who take great pains to clean up after themselves while being attacked by the police, and pope Francis, who has spread the message of the church effectively without changing fundamental doctrine. 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 




The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

more for veterans 

Mike Ginocchio 
sports writer 

This past week, we celebrated veteran’s day. it is a stark reminder to the tried and true mantra that the freedoms that we appreciate and take for granted in a country like ours are not really free, and are instead upheld on the backs of brave men and women who willingly put themselves in harm’s way for the sake of others, millions of whom they will never meet. it goes without saying that the display by the notre dame roTc, standing guard around the stonehenge memorial in a resilient display of strength while the rest of us scurried inside to avoid the cold, is one such sacrifice that deserves praise. 
it is a shame, then, that the sacrifice that they make overseas will be felt long after they return, even in a place where they would never expect it. 
despite the department of veteran affairs secretary robert mcdonald praising the improvements made in his department and how it reaches out to injured veterans, a recent report obtained by usa Today reveals that one in 10 patients have to wait for at least a month before receiving an appointment. 
That’s not a month’s wait time for a surgi­cal procedure. it’s not even a month’s wait time for physical therapy. That’s a month’s wait time for an appointment, period. 
There are an estimated 600,000 veterans sitting and waiting to be treated for the in­juries, both physical and mental, that they have suffered for our right to say the things we say, do the things we do, and care about the things we care about. 
and do we really care about them? 
The last secretary of the va was forced to retire earlier this year amidst reports of horrible negligence towards waiting vet­erans, and more than 100 investigations have been launched by the u.s. government and the department of Justice into how the va is treating the soldiers under its care. considering the profession that these men and women are entering, where they can come home completely crippled physically or emotionally, it is fair to say that that is more than 100 investigations too many. 
how did we allow this to happen? True support of veterans isn’t something that you limit to mere platitudes one day of the year. it’s not just about walking up to one and say­ing, “Thank you for your service.” it’s about recognizing that they are giving so much of themselves in order to protect us, and in turn fighting tooth and nail to make sure that they get some reward for that service. like adequate healthcare. or at least a sense of peace, knowing that people have not forgot­ten them. 
This is not a partisan issue, something to be volleyed back and forth in an effort to score political points. it’s a matter of human decency. 
They, and that means every single one of them, deserve more than just our words.. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at      mginocch@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

To be a real photographer 
Tyler Meuter 
Technique 

computers, cell phones, televisions, and many other “tech toys” rely on the latest technology. companies then over-market these technologies to the point that consum­ers fall into believing it is a must-have item. The average Joe falls into this marketing trick and thinks, “i need this. if i buy the latest gear with the best technology, my output will become substantially better. i have to have this to make a name for myself in my profession.” 
This is simply not true; you do not need the most expen­sive device to be the best or become a professional. 
The photography industry is no different.  even with a collection worth more than $15,000 of gear, christian david Turner, a photographer for v3 magazine, claims that one of his favorite pictures is one that he took with an iphone 4. but being a photographer requires more than just gear. on a daily basis, billions of photographs all around the world are taken. so what makes a good photographer? 
To be a good photographer, we often think that every­thing relies on the technical side of shooting. 
by reading the manual that came with your camera, you can figure out how to take a picture. so now you’re a pho­tographer, right? not quite. doing so makes you a photog­rapher just as much as me knowing how to use a hammer makes me a carpenter. 
you are going to need to know important things about how an image is captured. mastering aperture, shut­ter speed and iso are all major components to taking a picture and it turning out well. These skills are best learned through a combination of trial and error. This will put you one step closer to becoming a real photographer. 
however, it is only a matter of time before the technical side of photography will become obsolete with advances in technology. current cameras already set the right expo­sure and focus automatically for you. 
Technology can have its own approach to creating im­ages. This can come in the form of an algorithm but now offers creative insight to the final outcome. all cameras would be using the same process and result in all images having that same feel and appeal to them. 
behind every great photo, the photographer had to make a series of decisions to arrive at the final production. Technology can’t replace this ability to make creative deci­sions. choices range from what should be in focus to what composition and which angle should be used in a given situation. also, what lighting is most appropriate, and which moment or expression best captures the situation. 
The photographer is what drives these important de­cisions. every photographer has a different vision and creative process. only those who recognize that being a good photographer is about knowing the right decisions to make — in the physical world outside of the cameras’ equipment — will succeed. 
Tyler Meuter is a writer for Technique. The purpose of the Technique is to serve the Georgia Tech campus community by providing information, analysis and opinions that reflect the needs and interests of the student body at Georgia Tech. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The case for net neutrality 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to Farce 

Editor’s Note: This is the first column of a two-part column series that examines the current debate sur­rounding “net neutrality.” The second column of this series, which will be published later this week, will ex­amine the case against net neutrality. 
earlier this week, president obama released a statement and accompanying video that called on the Federal communications committee (Fcc) to “implement the strongest possible rules to protect net neutrality.” This sentiment was echoed by near­ly four million others who commented on an Fcc open forum dedicated to discourse related to net neutrality. but what is net neutrality and how does it affect americans? 
net neutrality is the principle that internet ser­vice providers (isps), such as comcast, verizon, Timewarner, etc., should not be able to determine the price or speed at which you receive your in­ternet service based upon any characteristics or features of this internet data you are attempting to access. in other words, all internet data should be treated equally. it is important to note that this con­cept only extends over legal internet content and does not include pirated music or anything else of the sort. 
before further developing the case for net neutral­ity, it is important to describe the way the internet actually works and how it is relevant to this debate. when you access a website or download content online, websites or applications send the neces­sary data across the internet to your computer, mobile device or tablet. however, before this data makes it way to you, it passes through your isp. 
net neutrality holds that isps cannot prioritize the massive tons of data it processes based upon the content or source of the data. since the origin of the internet, net neutrality has generally served as the norm. 
however, a January federal appellate court deci­sion struck down Fcc-imposed net neutrality rules. many pointed to the potentially dangerous impli­cations of such a ruling, protesting that this ruling would lead to service fees for prioritized internet service. large tech companies like netflix and google expressed concern that the ruling would allow isps to dish out large fees for better internet service, cornering these companies into dishing out exorbitant prices in order to ensure continued qual­ity for their customers. 
others expressed concern that striking down net neutrality would provide isps a way by which they could filter and control information on the internet. For example, a republican leaning board of direc­tors at comcast would have the power to slow down internet access to liberal leaning websites. isps could also use such power to drive out competi­tors. many point to comcast’s acquisition of nbc universal as a legitimate threat in this regard. if comcast has the potential to slow up or speed down certain internet content, it could slow down abc content while boosting the speed of nbc content. if you were looking for a new show to binge watch, would you rather a quick loading parenthood or a grey’s anatomy episode that takes 10 minutes to get started and then pauses every five minutes? 
The above described outcomes appear to give isps dangerous and unfair control over the internet, es­pecially considering the role of the internet in our daily lives. consider the internet as the u.s. inter­state highway system. would it seem fair if high­ways were able to subject certain cars to restricted lanes because of the make or model? Further, would it seem fair if gas stations were cornered into pay­ing for maintenance of the roads that led to their stations in exchange for an “express lane?” such an example points to the vast impact a non-net neutral internet could have on daily internet use. 
in addition, a non-net neutral internet appears to decrease innovation in and investment in internet technology. if companies like google or amazon pay a large fee for enhanced internet access, po­tential competitors will face increased barriers to entry. established companies will have access to a better product through better internet speed and any attempt by competitors to gain equal internet access will come with a steep price tag. 
as a result, supporters of net neutrality are calling for the Fcc to classify the internet as a public util­ity. when comparing the internet to a public utility, like the highway example above, it seems clear that the internet fits the description of a public utility. if the Fcc were to do so, internet service providers would be subject to a broader range of regulation and would not be allowed to manipulate internet speed or access unfairly. The Fcc plans to rule on its classification of the internet in early 2015. 
Further, it seems obvious that the internet pro­vides a greater purpose to the general public than an average industry. The access and connectiv­ity that the internet offers to americans furthers democratic ends, including free speech, equal op­portunity and a capitalistic economy. allowing isps to yield near limitless control over internet content inherently damages these ends. From this perspec­tive, net neutrality appears to be an imperative in sustaining the internet as we know it. 
JC Sullivan is a junior living in Keenan Hall. He can be reached at jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why it’s time to stop fearing Iran 
Christopher Newton 
stepping out of The cave 

“Those crazy ayatollahs in iran want to acquire nuclear weapons, use them to obliterate the state of israel, and die in a retaliatory mushroom cloud of glory. or maybe those crafty persians want to acquire nuclear weapons to prevent american or israeli strikes against them while they support the likes of assad, hezbollah, and other such madmen, simultaneously safeguarding the regime from hos­tile western powers and destabilizing the region. 
“iran, previously placed upon the ‘axis of evil’ by former president george w. bush, is hell-bent on death and destruction with a theocratic twist. american-iranian relations are most aptly char­acterized as manichean, a struggle of good vs. evil where the good guys have aircraft carriers and the bad guys want nuclear weapons.” 
does this narrative sound familiar? is it one you perchance buy into? perhaps you’ve never bothered considering why the united states and iran are not as cozy as the united states and, say, the united Kingdom. if hollywood is any source of truth, the move “300” taught us that persians are at least a little evil, right? 
if you had not guessed as much already, the previous paragraphs are filled with nonsense and characterize american foreign policy towards iran since 1979. before we discuss why this needs to rapidly change, first indulge me in a brief historical tour. 
iran and the united states have a long and com­plex history, but suffice it to say that neither side has played particularly nice. after world war ii (wwii), colonies and imperialism largely fell out of fashion. while iran had resisted full colonization, large portions of its territory had fallen in and out of russian and british control from roughly 1800 through wwii. 
after the war, it took some time for the soviets and british to fully withdraw. iranians agitated for their own sovereign nation and the last foreign forces withdrew by 1947. The united states gave assurances that iran would have full control over its natural resources, principally its vast oil re­serves. while this encouraged the iranians to de­cline a deal with the ussr regarding oil, the united Kingdom retained oil rights extremely disadvanta­geous for iran. 
in 1951, mohammad mossadegh was elected prime minister of iran and moved to nationalize oil production. The british found this move offen­sive and kindly requested that the cia intervene. The united states obliged, fomenting a coup that deposed mossadegh and firmly secured the in­creasingly autocratic rule of the shah, the iranian monarch. The united states began supporting a nuclear power program in iran. 
Fast forward to 1979 and the shah is overthrown in the iranian revolution, a religio-nationalist up­rising. The staff of the american embassy are taken hostage for the remainder of then president Jimmy carter’s term. a shia theocracy is established and relations between the us and iran become hostile, with the us backing saddam hussein’s iraq against iran throughout the iran-iraq war of the 1980’s. 
Jump again to the present day, where iran has elected a moderate president, “The economist” has declared the revolution dead, and the burgeoning middle class of iran seeks business opportunities with american companies rather than an escha­tological showdown. The year is 2014, not 1979. it is time to acknowledge that not only has iran changed, but that our unquestioned fear of the country is not only unwarranted, but dangerous to american interests. 
has iran provided support to terrorists and dic­tators, pursued at best a nuclear breakout capa­bility and made threats to american allies? yes, it certainly has. ignoring for a moment american support for terrorists and dictators that oppose iran’s terrorists and dictators and american allies’ threats to bomb iran back into the stone age, this does not mean that iran is not in a position to as­sist the united states in ways that other countries cannot. 
indeed, iran is uniquely positioned to assist the united states across the middle east and central asia. we need iran to fight the islamic state. we need iran to restructure the iraqi government. we need iran to strengthen a fragile regime in afghanistan as we withdraw. we need iran to com­bat al-Qaeda, a sunni extremist group iran has no love for. we need iran to restrain hezbollah. we need iran to bring assad to the negotiating table. 
Face it, america, we need iran. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

There have been many films about finding love and connection in a digital age, and there certainly will be many more, but perhaps no film takes as a diverse and creative approach to the theme as “me and you and everyone we Know.” 
The 2005 film was the writing and directorial debut of artist and filmmaker miranda July, and with its rela­tively unknown cast and microbudget, “me and you and everyone we Know” did surprisingly well with critics and the box office. rogert ebert even named it among the top five films of the decade, and it won awards at both sundance and cannes. 
“me and you and everyone we Know” centers on christine, an eccentric visual artist who works as a driver for elderly people to pay the bills. The story begins as she meets richard, a newly-single shoe salesman with two children, but rather than simply be a love story between the two curious characters, the film incorpo­rates subplots involving richard’s sons and the family’s neighbors, co-workers, clients and classmates. 
The lives of these characters, who range in age from five to 70, become intertwined in unconventional, inap­propriate and sometimes alarming ways. still, these 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

with the recent release of chelsea peretti’s stand-up spe­cial “one of the greats,” netflix has been consistently com­missioning and rolling out great taped performances from many familiar faces in the current comedy scene. here are a few notable recent specials available from netflix featur­ing some recognizable comedians: 
Chelsea Peretti: “One of the Greats” 
Former “parks and recreation” writer and current “brooklyn nine-nine” cast member chelsea peretti recent­ly debuted her new stand-up special “one of the greats” on netflix. with the benefit of experimentation from netflix’s looser-than-cable structure, peretti begins the special with an extended intro mocking the many veins of one-note characters into which many stand-up performers devolve. her established brand of humor thrives on these norm-tackling observations, and is wholly on display throughout her set. intermittent random cutaways to surreal audience members punctuate peretti’s odd but accurate readings on up-to-the-minute social constructs. “one of the greats” is never better than when peretti can simultaneously knock 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

characters have one thing in common — a desire to con­nect with someone, anyone else. 
The ways in which they connect is as interesting as the cast itself. rather than simply be a criticism of the remoteness technology provides — which the film could have easily been — July instead explores all the ways in which people reach out, successfully and unsuccess­fully, in the search for love or friendship. 
July incorporates conflicting messages about email and digital messaging, making the story rich and thought provoking. in one subplot, a small boy and grown woman engage in strange and sometimes X-rated anonymous messaging. meanwhile, another subplot follows a grown man who knows he cannot engage with the two teenage girls who pass by his apartment, so in­stead he leaves “anonymous” X-rated messages to them via hand-written signs in his window. 
This juxtaposition shows that the desire for intimacy and the ability to communicate those desires remotely can exist without the internet. instead, the digital age is just another symptom of the conflicting desires of all people: the fear of others — of contamination and consequences — and the need for genuine human connection. 
in the last 10 years, July has expanded on these themes of connection in the digital age. her email project, “we Think alone,” was a weekly email newsletter composed 
down any of the very specific issues she takes with a pin­pointed concept while making it laughable and relatable. 
Eddie Pepitone: “In Ruins” 
Following 2012’s highly-regarded documentary “The bitter buddha,” taking a look into the great alt-comedy resident eddie pepitone’s long, consistent stand-up career, netflix released the 56-year-old pepitone’s first taped spe­cial. some may recognize pepitone from his frequent guest roles on critical darling Tv shows such as “Flight of the conchords,” “community,” “bob’s burgers” and “conan,” to name a few. The longtime comedian has seen a recent surge in his career, often sought upon for his no-nonsense, curmudgeon persona. here fans and newcomers alike fi­nally get a glimpse to see him in his natural state, on stage behind a microphone. 
Wyatt Cenac: “Brooklyn” 
similar to sarah silverman’s most recent, excellent “we are miracles,” wyatt cenac chose to film his sophomore hour-long special in a small brooklyn venue named union hall. performing in his home state for an intimate crowd lends cenac a level of comfort and closeness, which allows him to delve into personal and sometimes serious material. 
of emails from the depths of various celebrities’ and art­ists’ inboxes, all centered on a certain theme each week. The result was a blending of the public and the private, the intimate and the remote, allowing readers to see how these public figures interact in their private lives, all whilst keeping in the email medium. 
another recent project of July’s is the creation of a phone app that allows people to communicate with each other, but only through face-to-face interaction of a nearby neighbor. That means that if you want to send someone a text message, for example, it is instead sent to someone nearby using the app. Then, the recipient is expected to pass on the message in real life to its final, intended destination. 
while July’s first film only begins to touch on these themes of isolation and connection in the 21st century, the film is a unique, bizarre and oddly charming take on contemporary love and friendship. a precursor to the boom of Facebook, Twitter and smartphones, “me and you and everyone we Know” takes a quirky and creative look at how emerging technology does (and, maybe more importantly, doesn’t) change the way we feel about and interact with each other. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The set has a more intimate feel than most grandiose come­dy specials that aim to reach a larger audience, and cenac’s decisions — including puppet reenactments that should be familiar to those who know his correspondent position on “The daily show” — offer a tone not only more akin to him­self, but also to that of going to a comedy club. 
Moshe Kasher: “Live in Oakland” 
released in 2012, moshe Kasher’s “live in oakland” is a bit older than the three previous specials. still, with his re­cent rise in popularity from experimental, alternative spots on “@midnight,” “The meltdown with Jonah and Kumail,” “brooklyn nine-nine,” and “The league,” Kasher’s first, and currently only, taped hour-long stand-up special should be cited along side the aforementioned. Kasher’s self-aware, off-kilter personality and viewpoints are fully on display as he performs in the self-described weird The new parish nightclub in his hometown. his experimental bits and detached writing offer a look into the new kind of stand-up that is steadily gaining momentum and promi­nence in the alternative — and even now mainstream — comedy world. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 


NoRTHWESTERN 43, NoTRE DAME 40 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | NDSMcobSERvER.coM 
All two familiar 
ND’s “critical errors” continue, two-point decision backfires as Northwestern stuns Irish, 43-40 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish freshman linebacker Nyles Morgan, left, and junior defensive lineman Jarron Jones stand on the field while Northwestern celebrates its 43-40 overtime victory over Notre 
Dame on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
What’s the cause of all these mistakes by Notre Dame? 

Isaac Lorton 
Assistant Managing Editor 
The highest-paid member of the Notre Dame football program next year should be a new team psychologist. 
Despite the apparent talent of the Irish, they continue to make “critical mistakes” that cost them games. And yet, no one seems to know exactly why. 
According to Irish head coach brian Kelly these prob­lems come from the Irish being “inexperienced on de­fense” and “prone to making mistakes on offense” and not “eliminat[ing] those things on Saturdays.” 
Kelly said, “We’re giving ballgames away, and that ob­viously is why we’re ending up on the wrong end of the win-loss column. What I like is that everybody is accountable, coaches and players alike. We all have to understand that we’ve got to coach better and play better. but it’s pretty clear what our problems are. It’s not like it’s a mystery.” 
Yes, Notre Dame is making turnovers on offense and get­ting gashed on defense, but 
see MENTAL PAGE 2 
By ALEX CARSON 
Sports Writer 

When senior quarterback Everett Golson hit sophomore receiver Will Fuller on an 11­yard touchdown pass early in the fourth quarter that put Notre Dame up by two scores, it looked as if the Irish had found a way to win the game. 
Instead, they found a way to lose it, dropping a 43-40 over­time decision to Northwestern (4-6, 2-4 big Ten). 
The touchdown pass — which followed sophomore cornerback cole Luke’s interception deep in Wildcat territory — put the Irish (7-3) up 40-29. Irish head coach brian Kelly decided to go for the 2-point conversion to stretch the lead to 13, but Golson’s pass fell short in the end zone. 
“In retrospect — there’s no advantage in retrospect,” Kelly said. “We felt that ... we would have a good opportunity in the two-point play that we picked, and we felt very confident that we would be successful.” 
The Wildcats capitalized two possessions later with a six-yard rushing touchdown by senior quarterback Trevor Siemian to pull within five. 
“[Me being healthy and mo­bile] just helps our offense,” Siemian said. “It makes the de­fense think about another thing to defend.” 
Wildcats sophomore running back Warren Long pounded the two-point conversion into the end zone right after, and the Irish lead was cut to 40-37. 
With less than two min­utes left, it seemed all Notre Dame had to do to earn the win was avoid the turnover bug. However, senior running back cam McDaniel fumbled, and the ball was recovered by Wildcats senior linebacker Jimmy Hall. 
“cam has generally been in the game — he’s our senior,” Kelly said. “Always been in late for us. We counted on him to be the guy that gets us our tough yardage late in the game and sure-handed and tough and physical, and it just didn’t work out that way today.” 
Siemian and the Wildcats quickly moved into field goal range, and after being iced, redshirt sophomore kicker Jack Mitchell made the 45-yard kick with 25 seconds to play to tie the game. 
In the ensuing overtime pe­riod, Notre Dame started on offense but failed to gain a sin­gle yard. Golson threw three incompletions and left senior kicker Kyle brindza with a 42­yard field-goal attempt that missed wide left. 
Needing just a field goal to win the game, Northwestern brought out Mitchell on fourth 
see STUNNED PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME QUOTE OF THE GAME 
Miscues doom Irish against Wildcats 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Editor 
For the most part, Saturday was a statistically even match-up between Notre Dame and Northwestern. 
only 49 yards separated the two teams’ total offensive out­put, with the Wildcats (4-6, 2-4 big Ten) taking the slight edge at 547 over 498 for the Irish (7-3). 
Each team picked up 28 first downs. 
Northwestern ruled time of possession, but by only three­and-a-half minutes. 
And of course, both teams ended regulation with the same number of points, 40, to force overtime. 
What separated them, though, was that Northwestern capitalized on late scoring op­portunities and Notre Dame did not. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly said there were so many mis­cues on either side that “it’s hard to put them all in per­spective,” but he did point to one crucial play that turned the tide late Saturday: senior running back cam McDaniel’s fumble with 1:28 left in the game. 
see MISTAKES PAGE 3 
JACK MITCHELL 

WILDCATS REDSHIRT SOPHOMORE KICKER 
Mitchell entered Saturday’s contest with a ca-reer-long field goal of 29 yards. Against the Irish, Mitchell connected from 31, 46, 45 and 41 yards. He tied the game at 40-40 with 19 seconds re­maining in regulation and won it in overtime. 
“There’s no advantage, in retrospect.” 
Irish head coach brian Kelly on the decision to at­tempt a two-point conversion in the fourth quarter with Notre Dame leading 40-29 after Will Fuller’s 11-yard touchdown. The Irish attempt failed, and Northwestern eventually forced overtime. 


REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

Everett Golson has looked like a different quarterback than he did in his nearly flawless start, and his struggles contin­ued into Saturday’s game. A interception and lost fumble both stopped deep Irish drives short of the end zone, and Golson could not pick up a completion in overtime to ad­vance the ball. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Tarean Folston shined, no doubt about it. The sophomore picked 106 rushing yards and one touchdown, and even Golson added 78 yards on the ground. However, cam McDaniel’s costly fumble with less than two minutes to play proved decisive. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller continued his outstanding season with three touchdowns, and the unit extended Irish drives with big grabs throughout the game. but chris brown’s goal-line fumble prevented the receivers from almost being ex­empted from any of the day’s blame. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The offensive line cleaned up its performance last week, limiting Golson’s scrambles and not allowing any sacks. It also opened up the way for Folston’s big game, one of the positives Notre Dame was able to take away. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Northwestern rushed for 263 yards, with 149 coming from Justin Jackson. However, the line did register two sacks and seven tackles for 22 lost yards to partially make up for that. 
LINEBACKERS 

Jackson tore through the Irish defense, and the lineback­ers were barely able to contain him and his bursts. Jaylon Smith and Nyles Morgan each registered 10 tackles, but neither were good enough to limit the consequences of Joe Schmidt’s absence. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Interceptions by Austin collinsworth and cole Luke were two of the game’s bright spots, but plenty of dropped passes by Northwestern receivers also made Irish defensive backs look a lot better on the stat sheet than they actually were. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

The only thing keeping special teams from scoring an F was Mike McGlinchey’s blocked field goal in the fourth quarter. otherwise, the new battery of long snapper Scott Daly and holder Malik Zaire didn’t help Kyle brindza turn around his recent struggles, with the senior missing two field goals and having an extra-point attempt blocked and returned for a defensive PAT. 
COACHING 

It’s no secret that brian Kelly messed up in his play-calling Saturday, and he messed up big time. The decision to go for two points after a fourth-quarter touchdown was the game’s fatal error, and even Kelly himself admitting after­ward that there was no advantage to leading by 13, which would have been the Irish lead had they converted, instead of 12. That kind of mental lapse is never acceptable. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.03 (C) 

Errors by the coaching staff and poor execution by special teams were difficult enough to overcome. Add in untimely fumbles, either in the red zone or while the Irish were trying to close out the game, and the task was impossible for Notre Dame to overcome. Had it not been for the struggles of Northwestern receivers to hold on to the ball, Trevor Siemian and the Wildcats would have made a joke of Notre Dame. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
CAM MCDANIEL’S FUMBLE WITH 1:28 LEFT IN THE GAME 
If McDaniel doesn’t fumble, Notre Dame can easily begin to take a knee and escape with a 40-37 win. However, the turnover gave Northwestern another chance to put points on the board, and the Wildcats capitalized with a field goal to send the game into overtime. 

Stunned 
coNTINUED FRoM PAGE 1 

down, and he sent the 41­yard kick straight through the uprights. 
Four quarters, four turnovers, a blocked extra point (returned for a defensive PAT) and a field goal later, the Irish fell for the first time at home since September 2013. 
“We’re not making small errors 
— we’re making critical errors,” Kelly said. “We’ve got to coach better, we’ve got to play better, and we’re going to regroup and look to do that on Monday.” 
The game started out brightly for the Irish, and for the second time in three games, Notre Dame scored a touchdown in the first minute of the game. 
Golson kept the ball on a read-option play and scampered 61 yards for the touchdown — the longest rush of his career — to put Notre Dame up a touchdown just 44 seconds in. 
on their first drive, however, the Wildcats answered. After a 44-yard rush from midfield by freshman running back Justin Jackson, redshirt freshman quar­terback Matt Alviti ran it in from two yards out to tie the game. 
Notre Dame went back ahead midway through the first quar­ter when graduate student safety Austin collinsworth recovered a fumble and ran it back 32 yards for the touchdown, the first of his collegiate career and in his sec­ond play back from injury. 
The euphoria was short-lived, however, as brindza’s extra point attempt was blocked and returned for a defensive PAT by Northwestern, cutting the Irish advantage to 13-9. 
After a pair of long passes from Golson to Fuller, sophomore run­ning back Tarean Folston — who finished the day with 106 yards on the ground — rushed in a touchdown to put Notre Dame ahead, 20-9, at the end of the first quarter. 
In the next three quarters, the game got progressively sloppier for the Irish. Wildcat freshman linebacker Anthony Walker inter­cepted Golson after his pass hit graduate student offensive line­man christian Lombard’s helmet in the second quarter. Walker took it back to the Irish four-yard line, and Jackson ran it in to give Northwestern its first lead of the game. 
Notre Dame went back ahead 27-23 on its next possession, which ended in Golson and Fuller’s first of three touchdown connections of the day. 
Senior cornerback Matthias Farley kept the Wildcats out of the end zone when he intercepted a pass on the goal line, but the Irish were unable to convert when brindza missed his first of two field goals on the day right before halftime. 
A Mitchell 31-yard field goal on the opening drive of the sec­ond half cut Notre Dame’s lead to 27-26. Then Golson fumbled on the next drive, this time at the Northwestern five-yard line. The turnover was Golson’s 19th in the last six games. 
The Irish would, however, stretch their lead to 34-26 when Fuller turned a screen pass into a 23-yard touchdown — his sec­ond of three on the day — and with 3:36 to play in the third, Notre Dame held an eight-point advantage. 
In the fourth quarter, Mitchell knocked in another of his five field goals to make it a five-point game, but it looked like the Irish were still safe. 
Notre Dame drove down the field looking to extend its lead right after, but junior receiver chris brown fumbled into the end zone, and the ball was re­covered by Northwestern for a touchback. 
Two plays later, Siemian was intercepted by Luke, setting up the crazy end to the game that saw the Wildcats pull off the 43­40 upset. 
“We can’t give up 40 points,” collinsworth said. “I don’t care what the offense does. We can’t give up 40 points.” 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
Mental 
coNTINUED FRoM PAGE 1 

why are these things hap­pening? It does not seem as clear to me, and it definitely does not seem like it isn’t a mystery to the Irish or their coaching staff because they have been consistently bad in the past five games and would have made the changes to fix these mistakes. It seems like this is a recent mental block the Irish can’t seem to move past. 
Through the first three games, Everett Golson did not have a turnover and Notre Dame was undefeated. The offense was clean and like it knew what it was do­ing, and the coaches were calling good games. Since then, it seems as if the ball is slathered in grease when the Irish run it and is on a string straight into opponents’ hands when they pass. The Irish have 23 turnovers on the year now. 
Through the first five games, Notre Dame was still undefeated, and the story up to that point was the young defense playing beyond its years. Notre Dame’s defense was giving up only 12 points per game. Even after the 50­43 Notre Dame victory over 
see MENTAL PAGE 3 

efficient. People were prais­ing Golson for his calm de­meanor and good decision making. Since then, Golson has thrown 12 interceptions and lost seven fumbles, and people are asking when Malik Zaire is going to take over. 
Through the first six games, there was no way cam McDaniel would ever fumble a ball late in the game, or at any point in the game. 
Kelly said, “I mean cam McDaniel doesn’t fumble the football, especially when we’re closing out games.” 
At the beginning of the season, receivers were mak­ing the catches they needed to, the kicking team looked 




Mistakes 
coNTINUED FRoM PAGE 1 
That turnover at the Northwestern 31-yard line set up the Wildcats’ game-tying field goal, which forced overtime. 
“I think the thing that stands out is, we have the game pret­ty much in our hands, and we turn the ball over,” Kelly said. 
In overtime, Irish senior kicker Kyle brindza missed a field-goal attempt wide left, and Northwestern responded on its next possession with a made field goal for the upset victory. 
brindza’s miss was his sec­ond of the game after his first came near the close of the first half. 
Though the new battery of junior long snapper Scott Daly and sophomore holder Malik Zaire might have got brindza “thinking a little too much” on the first kick, Kelly said, that did not explain the sec­ond one. 
“No, I think it was behind him at that point,” Kelly said. “I think he just missed it.” 
The Irish struggled in the red zone, collecting touch­downs on just two of their four trips inside the Northwestern 20-yard line. The Wildcats, on the other hand, came away with points on five of their six trips. 
Mental 
coNTINUED FRoM PAGE 2 
UNc, the Irish were giving up only 17.2 points per game. Kelly talked about how the young guys were playing well and had enough experience to compete. What happened? In the past five games, in­cluding UNc, Notre Dame has given up 42.2 points per game. Now all Kelly can talk about is how the inexperience is hurting the Irish. 
“There’s a lot to [our struggles on defense],” Kelly said. “I mean, you know, 
on one of Notre Dame’s drives in the third quarter, the Irish offense could not take advantage of a Northwestern fumble, and senior quarter­back Everett Golson turned the ball back over two plays later at the Wildcats’ seven-yard line. 
In the fourth quarter, junior receiver chris brown lost pos­session at the Northwestern one-yard line, and Wildcats senior linebacker Jimmy Hall recovered it in the end zone for a touchback. 
“We’ve had too many oppor­tunities to score points that, you know, fumbled it on the goal line, fumble it on the sev­en-yard line, turn it over when you’re trying to close out the game,” Kelly said. “Those are critical errors.” 
However, perhaps the day’s two most glaring errors came after touchdowns instead of on plays that should have led to touchdowns. 
brindza’s extra-point at­tempt after Irish gradu­ate student safety Austin collinsworth’s fumble re­covery for a touchdown was blocked in the first quarter. Wildcats junior cornerback Nick vanHoose ran it back to the other end zone to bring the score to 13-9 in favor of Notre Dame when it easily could have been 14-7. 
on a highly criticized call 
we’re obviously playing a lot of young guys that, you know, that are struggling and they’re doing their best but, you know, too many young guys on the field. That’s probably the biggest issue right now that we’re just try­ing to fight through, and we can still win games if we weren’t as sloppy as we are offensively. 
“We’ve just got to elimi­nate the mental mistakes on defense, and that’s the hard part with a bunch of young guys,” he said. 
So, ultimately it seems to be the mental game of the Irish later in the game, Kelly decid­ed to go for two points after a fourth-quarter touchdown re­ception by junior receiver Will Fuller, but Golson could not find anyone open and failed to convert the attempt. 

That decision — which Kelly called a “coin toss” in going for one point or two — and result­ing miscue made it possible for Northwestern to claw back from a 40-29 deficit and tie the game with a touchdown, suc­cessful two-point conversion and field goal, all within the game’s last five minutes. 
“our chart tells us in that situation to go for one, but we were up, I think, 11 at the time, and we felt like given the circumstances, our kicking game situation, that we were going to try to extend it with a two-point play,” Kelly said. 
With nine turnovers and a six-for-10 success in the red zone the last two games, both losses, Kelly said the Irish have hurt themselves more than they’ve helped themselves. 
“Again, it’s the critical errors through the game,” he said. “I mean, we just don’t play clean enough … as a football team, and those are the things that prevent us from winning. 
“You can’t start winning un­til you stop losing.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
that is holding them back. The quarterback has 82.6 per­cent of the team’s turnovers, veteran guys are fumbling in the worst moments, the line can’t seem to get it together, the defense isn’t wrapping up or finishing tackles, and the secondary is getting burnt. 
So if the coaches can’t seem to fix all of these problems, maybe a psychologist could. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  OT  TOTAL  
9  14  3  14  3  43  
20  7  7  6  0  40  






NOTRE DAME 7, NORTHWESTERN 0 
Everett Golson 61-yard run (brindza kick) 

14:16 remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 75 yards, 0:44 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, NORTHWESTERN 7 
Matt Alviti two-yard run (Mitchell kick) 

11:28 remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 75 yards, 0:44 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, NORTHWESTERN 7 
Austin collinsworth 32-yard fumble return (kick blocked) 

7:15 remaining 

NOTRE DAME 13, NORTHWESTERN 9 
Nick vanHoose PAT return 

7:15remaining 

NOTRE DAME 20, NORTHWESTERN 9 
Tarean Folston six-yard run (brindza kick) 

2:26remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 64 yards, 1:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, NORTHWESTERN 16 
Kyle Prater four-yard pass from Siemian (Mitchell kick) 

14:54 remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 75 yards, 2:32 elapsed 
NORTHWESTERN 23, NOTRE DAME 20 
Justin Jackson four-yard run (Mitchell kick) 

9:12remaining 

Drive: One play, four yards, 0:06 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, NORTHWESTERN 23 
Will Fuller 23-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

3:36remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 55 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, NORTHWESTERN 26 
Jack Mitchell 31-yard field goal 

11:11remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 60 yards, 3:49 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 34, NORTHWESTERN 26 
Will Fuller 23-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

3:36 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 55 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 34, NORTHWESTERN 29 
Jack Mitchell 46-yard field goal 

14:18remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 46 yards, 4:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 40, NORTHWESTERN 29 
Will Fuller 11-yard pass from Golson (conversion failed) 

10:34remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 13 yards, 0:49 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 40, NORTHWESTERN 37 
Trevor Siemian six-yard run (Long rush) 

4:10remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 73 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 40, NORTHWESTERN 40 
Jack Mitchell 45-yard field goal 

0:19remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 44 yards, 1:09 elapsed 
NORTHWESTERN 43, NOTRE DAME 40 
Jack Mitchell 41-yard field goal 

15:00remaining 

Drive: Four plays, one yard, 0:00 elapsed 


THE obSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | NDSMcobSERvER.coM 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish sophomore receiver Will Fuller scoots into the end zone with one of his three touchdowns during Notre Dame’s 43-40 overtime loss to Northwestern on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish led by three with 1:28 remaining in regulation. 
With the clock winding and the Irish 88 seconds away from a victory, 
Irish senior running back Cam McDaniel fumbled, and Northwest­ern drove down the field goal for a game-tying field goal to force over-
KNOCKED OFF BY 
time. The Wildcats took down the Irish in the extra period, winning 43-40 at Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. Notre Dame has lost 
NORTHWESTERN 
three out of four games for the second time in Brian Kelly’s tenure. 





The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Thom Behrens 
scene writer 

on nov. 11, scene published the article “why Taylor swift’s spotify power move is the worst.” The closing paragraph read “Taylor swift, then, has given up the possibility of introducing her­self to new legions of zealous, lifelong fans and markets who would attend her shows, buy her merchandise and support her in many other ways, in favor of short term fans in a market that has become irrelevant.” 
but what wasn’t touched upon is the naivety, ignorance and insensitivity towards struggling artists making music in the age of cheap, fast, digital media. 
let me start first by saying that i do not think Taylor swift is a struggling artist. in fact, i think that it is exactly because she is not a struggling artist that she has been able to take her music off of spotify. 
author of the article, Jimmy Kemper, claims that in taking her music off spotify, swift has given up the possibility of introducing herself to new fans, but does anyone honestly believe that she is worried about getting more fans? 
as her record sales point out, she has become a household name in america, even before the release “1989.” swift is taking advantage of an opportunity that few other artists share — she has finally made enough of a name for herself, and enough money, where she can escape from the most toxic, unfair musical outlet in the his­tory of the music industry: digital streaming. 
music streaming is essentially the sweat shop of the music industry. For one, artists and labels are forced to participate in it because it is the only way in which people are willing to consume their music — if they don’t, people will simply opt for something cheaper: listening to artists who are streaming, or simply pirating the artist’s music online, which deprives the artist of even that eighth of a cent per stream. artists are forced into this oppressive business because, yes, it is the best way to gain exposure (which helps gain them money during live touring) and because the other option is being totally robbed (via torrent, for example). 
yes, record sales are an important part of the equation, but for most artists, trying to sell one’s records either in the form of a physical lp, cassette or cd now has the comparative incon­venience to streaming music due to the tie to the physical need of not only the object through which you own the music, but the need for a cd player, cassette player, or turntable. 
digital media sales, too, are worth a mention, but as stated in last week’s article, pop music consumers only spend enough money to buy one album per year. This way, we are left with an industry where the bulk of consumption comes from services like spotify and where an artist is left with only a tiny fraction of what they deserve — or “what they demand.” 
For context, consider the revenue for an artist who has been less lucky than Taylor swift. david lowery, front man of virginia-based alternative rock group “cracker,” posted a picture to the web of their compensation from spotify. The band received $12.05 for a song streamed over 160,000 times. 
now, even assuming that the number of streams is a 10th of the number of people who heard the song (e.g. every person streamed it 10 times), and even assuming that only a 100th of those people would have been willing to buy the song on iTunes had it not been available on iTunes, the band would still have made $1,500 from the 1,162 people who would have bought it — over 100 times more. 
it should also be pointed out that the money artists are making from live shows is not an issue related to digital sales; the bottom line is that artists are being robbed and victimized by the current industry. while artists like u2 and run the Jewels have chosen recently to release their albums for free, saying that “these artists are focusing more on the inherent value of the album and the potential for it to create new fans by breaking down monetary barriers and shar­ing their art with everyone.” although i appreci­ate the sentiment of “breaking down monetary barriers” for the sake of sharing art, a distinction needs to be made between music made for the sake of art, music made for the sake of making money and artists who need to pay their bills. 
although lucrative and well known acts like u2 and underground breakout groups like run the Jewels may have the ability to break down a monetary barrier and release albums for free in order to pad an already successful career, many artists are more concerned with the monetary barriers of being able to pay for an apartment and pay the bills, which keep them from making music in the first place. 
while it’s fairly clear to see that spotify is op­pressing and keeping countless less successful artists from making enough money as they can, they are giving artists exposure. To go back to the sweat shop analogy: spotify isn’t the fair­est way of doing things, but it’s better than not having any exposure at all. The answer isn’t for spotify to simply go away — this would be pull­ing the rug out from many artists who would be left with fewer, less popular outlets for their mu­sic. spotify instead needs to adopt a more ethi­cal model of business. They need to find a happy medium between optimizing their profits and making sure artists are making enough profit to keep them from flipping burgers as a side job. 
Taylor swift has made a wonderful statement by removing her music from spotify. she has told the world and the music industry that she does not agree with the victimization and ex­ploitation of artists who are forced to take part in an unfair industry. she has become lucky enough to have the kind of success that has al­lowed her to keep her music off spotify — much like beyoncé’s choice with her 2013 album, which also went platinum. 
until services like spotify decide to take a more ethical approach to music distribution, i advocate that consumers start buying fair-trade; if you don’t want to buy physical copies of art­ist’s work, buy music on iTunes or bandcamp, a music sharing platform run by artists who can choose their price or allow consumers to choose what they want to pay. 
This may seem like an impractical way to upkeep the amount of music that the american 20-something consumes on a daily or weekly basis, but it’s the only practical way to keep the non-Taylor swifts in business if you truly do like their music. as annoying as the reminder al­ways is coming from your parents, they made by without all the music saturation we have every day. The end game isn’t to simply consume less music, but to force streaming services to find a more sustainable way to do their business. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sports craze plays with emotions 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
To be a sports fan is to live on an emotional roller coaster. The sadness of a loss, the frustration of poor coaching or obvi­ous mistakes, the joy of a rivalry win, the elation of a last-second victory and everything in between. it’s a whirlwind of emotion, one without a predictable pattern. 
while the tumultuous emotional adventure of an nFl season has no formula, there is one thing you can count on: the melancholic apathy of a bye week. 
To some extent, that’s almost an oxymoron, to be both melancholic and apathetic. yet, that’s the only way to describe it. watching other games and other teams leave you feel­ing hollow. you try to root against your team’s rivals, but cheering for a team’s failure does not bring about the same energy as cheer­ing for a team’s success. you feel a sense of emptiness, and you’re left struggling to make it through sunday. 
sundays seem longer without the three-hour commitment you bank on each week. you don’t know what to do with your time and sometimes find yourself staring at the wall, hoping for it to do something excit­ing. apathy is the only way to describe these feelings of emptiness and boredom. 
simultaneously, you expe­rience intense longing and sadness as you watch your friends ride the emotional roller coaster of their team’s sunday matchup. you want those feelings, and it hurts knowing that you can’t ex­perience them. you want the excitement but are left to wallow in a lonely sorrow that can only be described as true melancholy. 
This brings about the question: what is worse? would you rather live the emotional roller coaster and end the day in a loss or suf­fer through the desert of a bye week? 
logically, it’s an easy question. The bye week helps the team improve. The bye week doesn’t hurt your team’s chances at claiming a super bowl. why would you ever prefer a loss to anything neutral? 
as the wise alfred lord Tennyson famously said, “Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.” 
i would rather feel. i would rather hurt. To not feel at all, the emptiness, it cuts to the core much worse than a loss ever could. 
with a loss, a fan can break down the mistakes and argue for what changes should be made. There is passion; there is emotion; there is fire. during the game, there is the excite­ment. The never-ending hope until the clock hits zero, the rollercoaster, the energy. give me that. give me humanity. 
it’s the secondary and tertiary effects as well. The week leading up to the bye week is empty. with noth­ing to look forward to on the weekend, every hour of work seems much longer. it is truly a bye week, not an empty sunday. The melan­cholic apathy of the bye is felt throughout that week. 
most people will disagree. most people would prefer the rational outcome. most people would prefer to avoid a loss. 
let’s be honest: most people will think i’m crazy. no, not because i prefer the emotions of a loss to the emptiness of a bye. They will think i’m crazy because i care this much, because i can talk about being a sports fan this way. 
you know what? i abso­lutely am. This represents so much of what is disturb­ing about american society and the psychotic nature of being a sports fan. still, i’ll take pride in my passion, my love for a team that could care less about me. 
it’s better to feel. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL | buccaneers 27, redsKins 7 
Rookie Mike Evans leads Bucs past Redskins 
Associated Press 

landover, md. — so here is this rookie, going in motion and telling a 35-year-old quarterback what to do. 
The way mike evans is playing, no one’s going to argue. The big receiver streaked down the left sideline and was open for the 36­yard touchdown pass from Josh mccown. it was part of a mile­stone, 209-yard game sunday for the no. 7 overall draft pick in the Tampa bay buccaneers’ 27-7 win over the washington redskins. 
“i was motioning over. i said, ‘Josh, just throw it up.’ he said, ‘yeah, yeah,’” evans said. “we got the good coverage we want­ed, and he threw a great ball.” 
The 6-foot-5, 231-pound re­ceiver caught seven passes and scored two touchdowns as the buccaneers (2-8) snapped a five-game losing streak. The second Td went for 56 yards when the redskins had a linebacker trail him down the middle of the field in the fourth quarter, the biggest no-contest in a game that turned into, well, a no-contest. 
“when i have a game like that 
— i had a couple of those in col­lege — it feels like getting hot in basketball,” evans said. 
evans said he watched the randy moss “30 for 30” espn special saturday night, so it was only fitting that he is now the first rookie to post three con­secutive 100-yard games with at least one touchdown in each since moss in 1998. according to sTaTs, he’s also the first rookie with 200 yards receiving and two touchdowns since anquan boldin in 2003. evans finished seven yards shy of vincent Jackson’s franchise record of 216. 
“i have been around the league for a while,” Tampa bay coach lovie smith said, “and i just know that i haven’t been with (a rookie) that’s been able to do some of the things he’s done.” 
evans accounted for 73 per­cent of mccown’s 288 yards passing. after the previous week’s loss, mccown broke down at his postgame news conference. This time, when he saw reporters making room for him to get to the dais, he dead­panned: “last week, y’all get wet?” 
“it’s a way different feeing, al­though (the tears) could come out right now, too,” mccown said. “i’m very, very pleased with what happened today.” 
by the way, mccown said that evans really did make a route change while in motion on the first touchdown pass. 
“i’m telling him while he’s in motion, ‘yeah, do that, do that.’ ... it was truly a last-second ad­justment,” mccown said. 
Tampa bay’s defense also showed up, forcing three turn­overs and sacking robert griffin iii six times on the latest em­barrassing day for the redskins (3-7), who were booed early and often. 
washington also lost two-time pro bowl left tackle Trent williams to knee and ankle injuries and left guard shawn lauvao to a concussion. Kai Forbath — who had made 15 of 16 field goal attempts coming in 
— was wide right from 47 and 50 yards. 
“it was a travesty out there today,” said griffin, who threw two first-quarter interceptions. “we didn’t play well. i didn’t see the field as well as i would have liked to.” 
The buccaneers had forced only 12 turnovers in their first nine games. 
NFL | rams 22, broncos 7 

Rams surprise Manning, 
Associated Press 

sT. louis — shaun hill got his job back, finally. Then he got the best of peyton manning. 
after eight weeks on the bench, the journeyman was ready. 
“obviously, we were facing one of the best teams in the league,” hill said after the rams sur­prised denver 22-7 on sunday. “everybody stepped up, for sure.” 
The 34-year-old hill got a game ball from coach Jeff Fisher after the rams (4-6) beat an elite team for the third time this season. hill kept it clean with a turnover-free outing that complemented a de­fense that had two interceptions and made the stops that counted. 
critical mistakes landed austin davis a spot on the bench. hill needed two weeks to recover from a thigh injury that sidelined him in the opener, but after that he needed lots of patience. 
“it’s a constant process to stay up, especially as a backup, it’s tough,” hill said. “but it’s some­thing you’ve got to do.” 
The rams had already 
Broncos  
beaten the past two nFc champs  to lean on injuries that sidelined  
— seattle and san Francisco. and  Julius Thomas, montee ball and  
they had blown big leads at home  sanders.  
against the cowboys and the first  “we didn’t execute very well  
time they played the 49ers.  and i just think i didn’t play very  
This time, they finished the job  well,” manning said. “no excuses.  
against the nFl’s no. 2 offense,  i have to play better and we have  
which hadn’t scored fewer than 21  to score more points than seven.”  
points and had scored 30 or more  demaryius Thomas had seven  
five of the previous six.  receptions for 103 yards, his sev­ 
“it’s not too bad to beat a guy  enth consecutive 100-yard game  
who can put up 40 points in  to match the cowboys’ michael  
no time,” defensive end robert  irvin (1995) for second-longest  
Quinn said. “he’s a future hall of  single-season streak in nFl his- 
Famer.”  tory. calvin Johnson holds the re- 
rookie Tre mason had 29 car- cord with eight straight.  
ries for 113 yards, the most against  The broncos (7-3) failed twice  
the broncos’ top-ranked run  on fourth down deep in st. louis  
defense.  territory. manning threw incom- 
Kenny britt had four catches for  plete from the 37 in the first quar- 
128 yards with a 63-yard score and  ter and rookie aaron donald’s  
greg Zuerlein was a career-best 5  sack helped end a drive in the  
for 5 on field goals for the rams  fourth quarter on fourth-and-4  
(4-6).  from the 28.  
manning was 34 for 54 for 389  Quinn spun manning around  
yards with two interceptions,  before donald took the quarter- 
but was held to a 42-yard touch- back down.  
down pass to emmanuel sanders,  “i got the opportunity to clean  
ending a streak of 15 consecu­ him up,” donald said. “you’ve got  
tive games with at least two  to take a big quarterback down  
touchdown passes. he refused  when you can.”  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


HOCKEY | nd 3, merrimacK 2 (oT); merrimacK 4, nd 1 
Irish split Hockey East road trip to Merrimack 
as he beat senior goalten-
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

der rasmus Tirronen off a rebound of his own shot. The irish finished their Freshman right wing Jake weekend series against evans got the puck over the merrimack with a split. merrimack blue line and gave notre dame (6-5-1, 2-1-1 it to hurley, who then got past hockey east) opened the se-Tirronen on his rebound for ries with a 3-2 overtime win his second goal of the season. Friday night, but the warriors ryan and sophomore cen­(7-3-1, 3-2-0) responded saturday ter vince hinostroza posted with a 4-1 win over the irish at the other two irish goals. 
sports writer 

J. Thom lawler rink in north hinostroza’s goal came near andover, massachusetts. the end of the first period to saturday’s decision marked give the irish a 1-0 lead. Junior notre dame’s first conference center Thomas dipauli pump loss for the irish this season. faked a warrior defender and 
“overall, i did not think the then fired a shot at Tirronen, team played very well, espe-who made the save and sent cially saturday, considering the puck to the left side. the score,” junior defenseman hinostroza was there for the andy ryan said. “we had a lot rebound and netted his sec-of trouble breaking the puck ond goal of the season. out of our own zone and com-ryan’s goal resulted from mitted way too many turn-a drive led by freshman left overs all over the ice. wing anders bjork. bjork car­
“This did not allow us to ried the puck to the left corner have enough possession time of the ice, where senior right in their zone or generate wing and alternate captain enough scoring chances.” peter schneider tried to place 
an overtime goal from it in the short side behind freshman center connor Tirronen. The puck went un­hurley moved the irish past der Tirronen’s pads, and ryan merrimack on Friday night, pushed into the net for his first goal of the season. 
“we definitely played better Friday night, and it was im­portant that we played with the lead for most of the game,” ryan said. “i thought we out­played them as the game went on, especially after they tied it up in the third. we had a ton of scoring chances toward the end of the game and finally managed to capitalize on one of them in overtime. 
“Their system is built to get a lead, then sit back and pro­tect it, so the nature of the game allowed us to attack more on Friday. so saturday night, we were unable to do that because they scored first.” 
on saturday, the warriors outshot the irish, 10-2, in the opening period alone. Freshman forward mathieu Tibbet posted the first warrior goal of the night as the first period came to a close. Freshman forward brett seney went down the left wing and sent a pass across the front of the goal, and Tibbet was there to place the puck inside the right post. 

The warriors went up by two just over two minutes into the second period. Junior for­ward John gustafsson trav­eled down the right side to the goal and lifted a backhander over irish freshman goal­tender cal petersen’s stick hand. sophomore forward hamphus gustafsson netted the warrior’s third goal four minutes into the third pe­riod, while Tibbet recorded merrimack’s fourth goal with a two-on-one chance midway through the period off a re­directed feed from freshman forward Jace hennig. 
“The challenge was adjust­ing to their style of forecheck, which was the reason we struggled with breaking the puck out of the zone,” ryan said. “it was a system not many other teams play, and we didn’t adjust to it very well. 
“it allowed them to keep the puck in our zone for extended periods of time, and we were not able to generate enough speed and possession coming through the neutral zone if we did get the puck out.” 
senior defender robbie russo put the irish on the board for the team’s lone goal with five minutes left in the third period. russo scored off the rebound of hinostroza’s shot for his fifth goal of the season. 
The irish will move on to their next hockey east op­ponent, umass lowell, and look to improve deficiencies they experienced against merrimack. 
“we need to improve fast if we want to have success against one of the best teams in the country in umass lowell,” ryan said. “They are a much tougher team to play against than merrimack. 
“having said that, we be­lieve we can improve fast be­cause we have done very well at those things in flashes this season. it is just a matter of doing it for 60 minutes.” 
notre dame hosts umass lowell on Thursday and Friday at compton Family ice arena. both games are sched­uled for 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr6@nd.edu 


NHL | blacKhawKs 6, sTars 2 
blackhawks net four goals in third to defeat stars 
Associated Press 
chicago — patrick Kane and Kris versteeg each had a goal and two assists, and the chicago blackhawks rallied with four goals in the third pe­riod to defeat the dallas stars 6-2 on sunday night. 
Kane connected from a sharp angle early in the third peri­od to snap a 2-2 tie. Jonathan Toews, versteeg, and brandon saad scored in a 2:55 span later in the period to put the game away. 
defensemen duncan Keith and brent seabrook scored in the first period as chicago won for the third time in four games. 
dallas’ curtis mcKenzie re­corded his first nhl goal and shawn horcoff also scored for the stars, who have dropped two straight and won just two of their last 11 (2-7-2). 
chicago’s corey crawford made 22 saves and dallas’ Kari lehtonen finished with 41 as chicago fired 23 shots in the third. 

blackhawks center brad richards had two assists in his 1,000th game and was honored in a pre-game ceremony. The 34-year-old played 220 of those games with the stars from 2008 to 2011 at the peak of his career. 
The blackhawks are richards’ fourth team in a 15­year career. he signed a one-year, $2 million free-agent deal with chicago last July and was envisioned as a no. 2 center, but has start slowly and aver­aged just under 13 minutes of ice time entering sunday’s game. 
The blackhawks start a six-game road trip on Thursday in calgary and don’t play again at the united center until dec. 3. 
The game was tied 2-2 follow­ing a wide-open first period. 
Keith opened the scoring on the blackhawks’ first shot when he completed a 2-on-1 break with patrick Kane at 1:18 into the game. 
mcKenzie and horcoff then connected 39 seconds apart to put dallas ahead 2-1. 
mcKenzie’s goal at 4:49 was a perfect tip-in from the left side of the net, and set up by erik cole’s pinpoint cross-ice pass through seabrook’s legs. horcoff was wide open on the left side when he fired in a re­bound of vernon Fiddler’s shot from the right circle. 
seabrook tied it 2-2 during a power play with 8:02 left in the period when his drive from the blue line deflected off dallas’ Jamie benn. 
The pace slowed in the score­less second period. 
Kane swept in a rising shot from the low edge of the right circle at 4:49 of the third to put chicago ahead 3-2. he beat lehtonen through a narrow space on the short side 
Toews made it 4-2 when he wrapped in a rebound of marian hossa’s shot with 7:26 left. versteeg built the lead to 5-2 on a 20-foot one-timer for the slot 1:45 later. 
saad capped the rally by completing a 2-on-1 break with Toews with 4:31 to play. 





ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 105, umass lowell 51 
Irish open with dominating win 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
it was notre dame’s game from the earliest seconds Friday in a 105-51 win over umass lowell at purcell pavilion. 
The irish (1-0) and river hawks (0-1) were tied 0-0 for 51 seconds before the irish scored their first points and took the lead for good. The irish scored 14 points before the river hawks  got on the board. 
notre dame built a 61-24 half­time lead and hit the 100-mark with just more than five minutes remaining in the game. Freshman forward brianna Turner impressed with a game-high 29 points in her debut, including several layups off fast breaks. 
“i think bri runs the floor as well as anybody in the country,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “ithink she’s a tough matchup because she can get down the floor so quickly. i feel like you don’t even see her from free-throw line to free-throw line, and all of a sudden, she’s open for a layup at the other end, and we’re doing a really nice job of looking up and finding her.” 
“i just ran the floor, and they just saw me, and they were able to get it up to me quick, and i was able to finish the layups,” Turner said. 
notre dame outshot umass lowell 56.9 percent to 28.8 per­cent from the field. in all, 10 irish players scored, and four achieved double figures. 
Junior guard Jewell loyd poured in 20 points as the second-leading irish scorer. after the game, she complimented the forward play of Turner and sophomore forward Taya reimer, who scored 10 points. 
“Their ability to handle the ball, it’s awesome and takes a little stress off the guards,” loyd said. “The inside-outside game from both players — it’s great hav­ing them, and i love playing with them.” 
Junior guard michaela mabrey drained three of four 3-point at­tempts for all of her nine points, and senior guard madison cable was two-for-two behind the arc as part of her 10 points. 
Turner and loyd dominated the first half, with Turner posting 22 points and five rebounds and loyd tallying 18 points and four rebounds. 
loyd got off to a brisk start. she was fouled scoring notre dame’s first two points, sank the free throw for the third, then tossed in a layup off a steal to make it five. 
“we were definitely excited to get out here and show our fans and ourselves and our coaches that we’re ready to go and have that at­tack mindset,” loyd said. “For me personally, i think i just wanted to get aggressive and set the tone.” 
umass lowell senior guard shannon samuels attacked the rim and led the river hawks with 16 total points. 
“i thought shannon had a really nice game, being able to score 16 points for us, and she was essen­tially able to get to the rim at will against one of the best teams … in the country, so i was really im­pressed with her,” umass lowell coach Jenerrie harris said. 
The game flowed smoothly for notre dame with a few exceptions such as giving up a coast-to-coast layup play to samuels in the fi­nal minute of the first half and a miscommunication in the final minutes that sent a fast-break pass flying out of bounds. 
The irish committed several early turnovers but appeared to grow more comfortable as the game went on. 
“a lot of nerves in the begin­ning,” mcgraw said. “i think we had four turnovers in the first four minutes. our goal was 15; we had 18, so i thought we settled down. we had a few people that got a lot, and i think that was just nerves be­cause you see three of them were freshmen, so i think that’s just go­ing to get better.” 
Those freshmen now have one collegiate game under their belts as they prepare with the rest of the irish to take on michigan state on wednesday at breslin center in east lansing, michigan, at 7 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 

everybody gets to get the ball in their hands.” 
behind a double-double from connaughton and a 14-point effort from grant, notre dame rolled to an 82-39 win over the bearcats (0-1) on Friday. 
after falling behind 3-2 in the game’s opening minute, notre dame scored the next 18 points, jumping out to a 20-3 lead with 
12:20 remaining in the first half. 
The irish, starting four guards and one forward, pressured binghamton at the top of the key early and scored 12 first-half points off nine turnovers to take a 41-23 lead into the break. 
notre dame forced 19 turn­overs altogether, including 14 steals, five of which came from grant. 
brey said notre dame’s de­fense is structured to put such pressure on opponents. 
“one thing you say we can do is we can pressure the ball and contest,” he said. “our defense will pick it up and look further out, and it’s not as much stay in front; we’re getting out at people.” 
The irish showed few signs of slowing down to start the sec­ond half, as they opened it on a 13-3 run. notre dame took its biggest lead with 2:17 remain­ing in the game, when a jumper from freshman forward bonzie colson gave the irish a 44-point cushion. 
auguste finished with 19 points, while connaughton had 17 points and 10 rebounds. 
brey said notre dame’s four-guard offense allows the irish to better distribute the ball. 
“our best years have been when we’ve been able to spread that floor in four around one and have some drivers and one guy in the post. … right now, Zach has done a great job, [knowing] when to kick it out, when to score,” brey said. 
connaughton achieved a per­sonal milestone in the second half Friday night, scoring his 1,000th career point on a 3-point shot with 16:09 left in the game. connaughton became the 56th player in notre dame history to join the 1,000-point club. 
brey added a personal milestone of his own against 
paid adverTisemenT 
binghamton, earning his 400th collegiate win. his first came as head coach of delaware in 1995. 
“i’ve had a heck of a lot of good players [at delaware and notre dame], and i’ve read really good coaches ” he said. “i’ve been lucky.” 
all 13 players on notre dame’s roster suited up for the irish over the weekend. Four freshmen 
— forward martinas geben, guard matt Farrell, forward matt gregory and colson — all made their collegiate debuts Friday. 
notre dame will return to ac­tion wednesday night when the irish host coppin state at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 




Daniels 
conTinued From page 16 
is one of several factors that make it difficult to watch from the side­lines, daniels said. 
“it’s tough just watching and not being able to help the guys out at all, knowing that there’s plays on the field that you know you could have made, that might have been the difference in the game,” he said. “… it’s tough, but we believe in them.” 
in addition to watching saturday’s loss, daniels, moore and the rest of pasquerilla east’s coaching staff watched the pyros drop their first game of the season sunday. pasquerilla east, the no. 
2 seed in the women’s interhall bracket, lost to no. 3 pangborn, coached by irish graduate student defensive lineman Justin utupo. The loss left the pyros one game short of an appearance in notre dame stadium for the women’s in­terhall championship game. 
coaching let them stay connect­ed to competition and provided a welcome distraction from the off-field attention, moore said. 
“with everything going on, the whirlwind, [coaching] just kind of gave us the chance to get out and do something else other than just sitting around and moping,” he said. 
moore joined the pasquerilla east coaching staff in time to coach one game alongside former irish defensive lineman louis nix last season. moore said his short stint with the pyros last season inspired him to return as a coach this year. 
“we were kind of midseason ad­ditions, me and louis nix,” he said. “so we got to know a lot of girls and told them that if we got the oppor­tunity, next year we would come back and coach.” 
daniels said moore approached him about coaching after the two found they would be indefinitely held out of football activities. 
“Kendall recruited me,” daniels said. “i had a lot of free time. i didn’t have anything going on, so i fig­ured, you know, if i’m going to be around, i might as well have some obligation, and i made it this team.” 
daniels jokingly added that he was responsible for the team’s of­fensive success — the pyros had averaged 27 points per game head­ing into sunday’s matchup. but the receiver also said he and moore worked together closely and tried to accomplish much preparation in the team’s bi-weekly practices. 

“we put together a pretty good scheme,” daniels said. “we got some talented girls; we just had to figure out a way to utilize them all.” 
moore said pasquerilla east’s practices went beyond the usual fundamental drills and included an emphasis on the tempo of the game. 
“we worked a lot on the tempo to try to speed up or go slower, just be able to control the game, so we did that for most of the season,” moore said. “if we needed to go fast and put up 40, we did that. if we needed to just get out of the game, putting up 21, we were ok with that too.” 
with his coaching season over, daniels said he was grateful for the opportunity to get his shot at running a team. 
“i put a lot of time into [coach­ing] these girls, and they were pretty tolerant of us, being real football players … and it was just a lot of fun,” he said. “Thank you to the girls for giving me some­thing to be happy about, some­thing to look forward to every week.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
goal, it was just so much … 

W Soccer 
so much relief … joy … anxi­conTinued From page 16 
ety just lifting off you.” 

valparaiso entered the middle of the goal, so i just match having not lost since shot it as hard as i could.” its season opener against 
The game-winning goal, belmont on aug. 22. in the the latest ncaa tourna-18 matches after that, the ment score in program his-crusader defense allowed tory, capped a chilly night just six goals. sophomore at alumni stadium in which goalkeeper sydney galvez­the irish fired 25 shots, daley ranks fifth in the na­compared to just one for tion in save percentage, and the crusaders (14-2-4, 8-0 the crusaders entered the horizon). match ranked fifth in goals 
“i mean, we had so many against average. chances,” olmsted said. against the irish, “we just relentlessly went at valparaiso struggled to them and at them, and it was keep the ball in the mid-just unlucky time and time field and spent most of the again. so, when we got that game in its defensive third, 
paid adverTisemenT 

warding off an irish attack led by senior forward Karin simonian, who recorded six shots, two of which were on goal. sophomore midfielder morgan andrews and junior midfielder cari roccaro also added five shots apiece. before the contest, the crusaders allowed 8.1 shots per game. 
“anytime we’re creating that many opportunities for ourselves, we’re doing some­thing right,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “we moved the ball pretty well. The movement off the ball was pretty good. we just needed to finish a chance and at the end of the day, i think anna maria stepped up huge and created the goa l.” 
despite the plethora of shots, notre dame struggled to finish its opportunities all game. andrews and roccaro both had two headers that they sent over the crossbar, and simonian saw one of her shots bounce off the frame of the goal. overall, the irish recorded nine shots on net, for a shots-on-goal average of 0.36, well below their sea­son average of .454 entering the match. 
“There was definitely some frustration [as there always is] anytime you can’t smack the ball in the back of the net,” romagnolo said. “we were missing even the target so there was definitely that frustration, but just keeping them positive and keeping them focused was just what our focus was on. 


“That’s the game. some games it’s just harder to score, and you just have to keep persevering and find a way.” 
even while the irish failed to score, their defense held strong, shutting down the horizon league’s mvp and offensive player of the year, junior midfielder rita craven. 
“defensively, we remained very strong and found a way,” romagnolo said. 
The crusaders’ lone shot of the night came in the 25th minute from sophomore for­ward april cronin and sailed wide. after that chance, irish sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little had little to do, mostly serving the ball back into the midfield while recording no saves. she did collect her 12th shutout of the year. 
offensively, the irish were missing one of their key weapons against the crusaders. simonian started in place of senior forward lauren bohaboy, who was sidelined by illness. notre dame’s top goal-scorer on the season, bohaboy also missed the team’s acc semi­final against Florida state but should be healthy in time for the second round of the tour­nament next weekend, a team official said. 
with the win, the irish ad­vance to the round of 32 in the ncaa championship. The top-seeded team in notre dame’s bracket, no. 1 Texas a&m, will host the next two rounds of play in college station, Texas. The irish will face unranked Texas on Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Golic 
conTinued From page 16 
irish captain and longtime espn personality back at his alma mater. he’s on campus, surrounded by his family and hosting one of the most popular sports talk shows in the country. The tough­est part about coming back, though, is actually the first thing he does when making a trip to south bend — bal­ancing all his different hats to satisfy notre dame’s com­pliance office. 
he’s the father of two former irish football play­ers — offensive lineman mike Jr. and tight end Jake 
— and current junior swim­mer sydney golic. he’s the younger brother of two for­mer irish football players, including all-american bob. golic himself was a stand­out defensive end and out­side linebacker from 1981 through 1984. he’s also, of course, a co-host of “mike and mike” since 1998. 
“it’s the dad, it’s the me­dia, there’s a pre-existing relationship, there’s so many hats to wear,” golic said af­ter Friday’s show. “but i don’t want to do anything wrong, so i make sure i cover my bases.” 
golic learned the hard way. when former irish quarter­back Jimmy clausen was still in high school and visiting campus for a spring game, golic was there watching as well. he approached the na­tion’s top prep quarterback, said hello and started chat­ting with him about notre dame. 
For the lack of a better term, golic said he was “rep­rimanded” for it. 
“so i made sure after that anything from going out to dinner and taking people out to dinner, anything like that, i make sure it’s all cool,” golic said. 
golic said he has a few very good friends in notre dame’s compliance office, including assistant athletics director Jen vining-smith, whom he consults. 
“i talk to Jen and say, ‘can i do this? can i do that? am i allowed to take these kids here and take them out to have a meal?’” golic said. “i do what she says. because if i don’t, that’s trouble for me from her.” 
outside of compliance, however, golic’s multiple personas and roles — father, player, celebrity — weave together naturally at notre dame. 
“The beauty of us is they can mesh into one,” said mike greenberg, golic’s co-host. “unlike other many broadcasters and broadcasts, through no fault of theirs but through sort of the vibe we have created with our show, he doesn’t have to come here and pretend he’s not a dad and pretend he’s not an alum and pretend he doesn’t have a closeness to the university. That’s not part of it. … unlike many other shows, he doesn’t really have to change hats. 
“he’s got one hat, and he can wear it any time he wants.” 
golic has been making trips to notre dame since he was an 11-year-old ohio native watching his brother bob star for the irish, be­ginning in 1975. with aca­
demic-minded  parents,  bob  
shunned  ohio  state  and  
pledged to notre dame.  

“once bob came here, we’re an all-in family, just like my family is now as well,” golic said. “we’re behind every­body. once we saw notre dame and the type of place it was, it was on my mind to go there. my wife and i kind of had a notre dame household growing up, so i guess that inadvertently brainwashed our kids, because that’s where they wanted to go.” 
in turn, golic has become one of the most recogniz­able people associated with notre dame, at least on the athletics side. 
“he’s about as connected to notre dame as anyone i know is connected to their alma mater,” greenberg said. “i mean, literally, anyone in my life.” 
golic has returned to cam­pus for three or four shows, in addition to his countless other trips back to south bend since his playing days some 30 years ago. “mike and mike” broadcast live from the linebacker lounge in 2006 and from the library quad in 2012 before the stanford­notre dame matchup. 
“people are just great, i just love re-living [it],” golic said. 
golic said hopefully they’ll broadcast more shows from campus in the future. asked if there was a new location from which he’d enjoy doing the show, golic suggested the hammes bookstore (“it’s beautiful in there”), assum­ing the weather during foot­ball season will necessitate shelter and warmth. 
The best part of the shows at notre dame, golic said, is bringing together his entire family. golic’s three children and his wife, chris, were all on set for part of Friday’s show. right when the show 
concluded,  golic  started  
chatting with them.  
“That’s  the  best  — my  

wife and my three kids — that’s what it’s all about,” golic said. “That’s one of the things that we noticed from my brother bob when he first got here, everybody is kind of treated like a family. so that was one of the great selling points for us. now my whole family’s involved, so what’s better?” 
“This is home to us. it al­ways will be,” golic added. “There will be a lot of people that come and go, but notre dame will always hold a spe­cial place in our heart, and we will always be back here.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

the box. The goal marked brown’s seventh goal of the season and his fourth in the past three games. 
The irish had a few other attempts at goal to go up by two goals. during the 41st minute, panken passed the ball to senior defender max lachowecki, whose shot from 10 yards out went just wide of the post. Junior midfielder patrick hodan had an opportunity in the second half, when he fired a shot wide from seven yards out in the 74th min­ute. Freshman forward Jon gallagher had a look at goal minutes later, but his shot from 12 yards out went wide of the far post. 
Then, clemson’s late goal off belair’s header in the 88th minute sent the game to overtime. The Tigers (11­6-3, 5-2-1) dominated of­fensively during the first overtime period, but grad­uate student goalkeeper patrick wall and the irish defense held them score­less during the extra period. wall thwarted a clemson breakaway in the beginning of overtime, while clemson freshman forward diego campos managed to hit the near post from close range just two minutes later. 
panken and freshman forward Jeffrey Farina had notre dame’s two oppor­tunities to score in over­time. clemson sophomore goalkeeper andrew Tarbell saved panken’s shot in the 102th minute. Farina had a chance during the second overtime, but his shot de­flected high off the crossbar. 
“They were a very hard pressing team, especially in the first half. … i don’t think we found our rhythm as fast as i would have liked,” clark said. “in the last 20 minutes, we looked very comfortable. … we had good composure and were confident, and it was just that final corner kick that caused a problem.” 
in penalty kicks, hodan, brown, senior midfielder nick besler and sophomore defender brandon aubrey made their shots, but misses from gallagher, Farina and senior midfielder brendan lesch were not enough to overcome clemson’s five makes. 
notre dame’s acc tour­nament appearance mirrors its finish in last season’s tournament, when the irish fell in the semifinals to virginia in penalty kicks, 4-3, after the cavaliers tied the game, 3-3, late in the second half. 
The irish now prepare for the ncaa tournament. notre dame will find out its bracket today, and given the team’s current no. 2 rank­ing, will look to compete sunday. 
“The game [against clemson] was a good test for us,” clark said. “it’s good preparation for us, and there are a few lessons to be learned that will hope­fully help us for the ncaas. all games in the tourna­ment are going to be tough games. 
“but there’s a confidence in this group. last year, we were eliminated in acc semifinals, and we moved on nicely into the tourna­ment, so we will put in a really good week of train­ing and will look forward to playing next sunday night.” 
The irish head into the ncaa tournament later this week as they await their tournament bid. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr6@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
63 Ultimatum words 64 “There’s nothing ___!” 65 12 oz. and others 66 Special Forces caps 67 Some Dadaist pieces 
DOWN 1 Eight-time 
N.B.A. All-Star ___ Ming 
2 Upbraid 3 Old TV’s Captain 
4 Smile that’s not a warm smile 5 Fell off the wagon, say 6 “Don’t Bring Me Down” grp. 7 Fruit to bob for 8 Plumbing, largely 9 “Orinoco Flow” singer 10 Hi-___ image 11 Early toddlerhood 12 Gorgon with venomous locks 13 Keep bothering 
19 Demanding immediate attention 
21 Help-wanted letters 24 Calif. air hub 25 It makes bread rise 26 Learning by recitation 29 Mom’s mate 31 Shaved ice treat 
33 W.W. II command area: Abbr. 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

PUZZLE BY JEAN O’CONOR 
34 Opposite of 43 Moon jumper, 52 Nimble urban in “Hey Diddle Diddle” 53 Important blood
36 Magnetite and 
line testimony 37 “Totally 55 Unadorned 
others 44 Take back, as 
45 Scents 

awesome!” 47 Smears with 
38 Hidden exit 58 ___ blind
gunk 39 Lose forward 48 Purchase from 59 W.W. II vessel traction 
the iTunes Store 42 Spoil 51 Cracker 61 Sgts.’ superiors 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 

234 


SOLUTION TO SATURDAY’S PUZZLE 9/24/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: expressing the way you feel will be the turning point in all your negotiations. stand tall and state your case with conviction, and you will not be denied the opportunity to receive what you deserve and gain respect for your honesty. This is the year to make the necessary adjustments to live life your way. don’t back down. your numbers are 2, 14, 22, 24, 31, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): home improvement will help your productivity and your state of mind. making a move or just rearranging your place to suit upcoming projects will help. altering your living arrangements can help you cut costs. don’t let your current professional position get you down. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help colleagues, and you will build a strong alliance that will help you advance in your chosen field. being a participant will lead to opportunities and greater expertise. sign up for courses that will help hone your skills. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The larger activities going on at your home or workplace will help you see the pros and cons of your personal situation. look at your alternatives and consider past experiences and financial costs in order to make a practical domestic decision. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): strive for perfection and stay within your budget. set limitations that will ensure you head down a practical path. a long­term partnership will add to your stability. love is highlighted, and simple pleasures will be your ticket to a solid future. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen carefully, but don’t share your thoughts or feelings. do your own thing and make a point to learn something that will help you advance. Taking a course or practicing and honing a skill you want to develop will bring the highest rewards. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions may flare up if you haven’t discussed your plans with someone affected by what you do. your practical outlook will win out in the end if you are honest. a partnership with a friend, lover or relative will lead to a prosperous future. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): sign up for a short trip or a course that will explore concepts or information that can help you advance. don’t let someone at home dictate what you can and cannot do. Jealousy is apparent and must not be allowed to disrupt your plans. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): evaluate your financial, emotional and domestic situations and you will come up with a solution that is innovative, cost effective and stabilizing. make a commitment to follow through with your plans, and don’t look back. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): help others, but make sure you get what you want in return. if you spell out your agenda, a partnership will develop that will bring continuous benefits to everyone concerned. honesty will be a must to make this coalition work. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t mix business with pleasure. Focus on what’s at stake, and take a route that ensures your success. it’s oK to be different and to pave the path for those less innovative. don’t let last-minute changes get in your way. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put discipline into play and you will be able to make the changes necessary to ensure your safety and your progress. not everyone will be happy with your plans, so be discreet and diplomatic regarding your every move. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): open the door to friends, relatives and peers. share your thoughts, and you will discover you are not alone. plans that can lead to a prosperous venture should be discussed. home improvements can be put into play. 


Birthday Baby: you are intense, passionate and expressive. you are original, creative and interesting. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

ACROSS 1 Gabs, gabs, gabs 5 One jumping to conclusions, say 11 Piece of gig 
gear 14 Eve’s mate 15 Like Swiss 
mountains 16 “___ whillikers!” 17 Prefix with 
potent 18 Tiny bagel 
flavorers 20 Fairy tale bullies 22 Pasture 23 Delete with a 
cross 24 Two in craps 26 Cycle after wash 27 Christmas tree 28 Laudatory poem 29 Makeshift 
bookmark 30 Spanish bears 32 Put bubbles in 35 Ones getting all 
A’s 
40 Keynote address presenter 
41 Adjust, as sails 
43 Like stencils and missing persons 
46 Happy ___ clam 
49 Org. on a toothpaste box 
50 12-inch sandwiches 
51 Room decoration with a pattern 

54 Subj. concerned with booms, crashes and panics 
55 Sack 
56 Music devices with earbuds 
57 Obsolescent Kodak product 
60 See 62-Across 
62 With 60-Across, doing great … or where to find 18-, 24-, 35-, 51- and 57-Across? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 




make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES FOOTBALL 
Golic: ‘This is home to us. It always will be.’ 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
mike golic stands up out of his chair, squats below some roping and saunters around heritage hall less than an hour into the four-hour “mike and mike” show on espn radio and espn2 on Friday morning. 
coffee mug firmly in hand, golic strolls over to­ward a wall and spends a few minutes of the commer­cial break reading one of the many exhibits of notre dame athletics affixed neat­ly throughout this section of the Joyce center. 
students and fans approach for photos — ranging from quick selfies to shots with professional-grade cameras — and golic smiles in between bites of a donut. 
life is good for the former 
see golic PAGE 14 


Daniels undecided on future 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 

davaris daniels said sunday he is still unsure of whether he will return to notre dame for his final year of eligibility next season. 
“i’ve changed my mind at least six times so far, and it’s still going,” he said. “i’ve still got a while before i’ve got to decide anything, so i’m not trying to rush.” 
daniels added that he would make a decision regarding his plans for next season “probably by January.” 
as notre dame’s season winds down, another season came to a close sunday, this one for a team coached by daniels and fellow sus­pended players linebacker Kendall moore and defensive lineman ishaq williams. 
The trio, along with irish senior safety eilar hardy, senior corner­back Jalen brown and senior brad carrico, a former irish offensive lineman, spent the fall coach­ing the pasquerilla east interhall flag football team, which fell to pangborn, 34-20, in the interhall semifinals at loftus sports center on sunday. 
despite the loss, moore said coaching the team made for an en­joyable escape during a semester in which he, daniels and williams have not played following an inves­tigation into “suspected academic dishonesty.” hardy was also held out, but he returned to the team in late october. 
For moore and daniels, the game marked a close to their time on campus this semester, as they plan to move to chicago in the next week-and-a-half to two weeks, moore said. 
“[we’re going to] hopefully start working out, get back on the fitness train and figure out the next step from there,” moore said. 
moore’s college eligibility has run out. 
notre dame’s 43-40 overtime loss to northwestern on saturday 
see daniels PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, valparaiso 0 
olmsted’s late goal lifts notre dame past valparaiso 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 82, bing. 39; nd 92, navy 53 
Irish open season with pair of wins 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
notre dame showed few signs of a slow start in its regular-sea­son opening weekend at purcell pavilion, as the irish cruised to an 82-39 win over binghamton on Friday and a 92-53 victory over navy on sunday. 
notre dame (2-0) won its first two matchups behind an offense that shot more than 55 percent from the field, a defense that held its opponents to less than 30 percent combined and a bal­anced attack that saw four play­ers scored in the double digits in each game. 
“we can move the ball and we have a lot of guys that can score it, and we passed it unselfishly, so i told them, ‘i think we got bet­ter in a 48-hour window,’” irish coach mike brey said sunday. 
notre dame had its lowest-scoring half of the weekend in the first half sunday, when the irish shot 48 percent from the field and held an eight-point lead over navy (0-2) at the break. but the irish broke open the game in a second half during which they outscored navy, 56-25. 
“For us to methodically defend [navy] and then put 56 on them to get it there, that’s one heck of a 20 minutes for us,” brey said. “i didn’t think we could do that to this team, just score that much against them.” 
Junior forward Zach auguste scored 20 points, his collegiate career-high, in 19 minutes. 
“i want to be the main guy in the middle,” auguste said. “i think i have a great impact on the game, but i’ve got to give a lot of credit to my teammates. They’ve been finding me. i’ve just been hanging around the hoop, and they’ve been finding me. They’re great distributors.” 
senior guard Jerian grant added 17 points and 10 assists for a double-double. senior guard/ forward pat connaughton and sophomore forward v.J. beachem rounded out the dou­ble-digit scoring, totaling 13 and 10 points, respectively. 
“we’re just moving the ball,” grant said. “nobody cares who’s getting the points, who’s get­ting the assists, who’s getting the rebounds — we’re just all spreading it out, and that’s a fun way to play. we’re running a lot more, we’re getting the ball in the post, and it’s coming out, so 
see m basKeTball PAGE 12 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 

in the first round of the ncaa championship, fourth-seeded notre dame dominated possession, shots on goal and almost every other statistical cat­egory against valparaiso on Friday night. but with less than a minute left in regulation, the irish and the crusaders appeared fat­ed for overtime, deadlocked in a scoreless tie. 
Then, with 50 sec­onds left, a cross from ju­nior forward anna maria gilbertson found the foot of sophomore forward Kaleigh olmsted in the six-yard box, and the irish (13-5-2, 7-2­1 acc) eked out a 1-0 win over one of the stingiest de­fenses in the country. 
“honestly, i don’t remem­ber why i was in the box,” olmsted said. “i don’t really remember what happened. i just know anna hit it in, i think it ricocheted off someone’s foot, and i knew i was just dead-square in the 
see w soccer PAGE 13 

MEN’S SOCCER | clemson 1, nd 1 (clemson 5, nd 4 pKs) 
nd eliminated in acc semifinals on penalty kicks 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

The no. 2 irish lost in pen­alty kicks after a 1-1 regula­tion period against no. 14 clemson in the acc tour­nament semifinal Friday at wakemed soccer park in cary, north carolina. 
notre dame (11-4-4, 6-1-1 acc) entered the tourna­ment as the top seed, but a late clemson header by graduate student midfielder bobby belair off junior mid­fielder paul clowes’ corner kick pushed the match to overtime. 
“we did a lot of good things, [and] it was really just at the last stages of the game when they had the corner kick that was a disappointment,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we had defended clemson very well, so this was the only one that got a way from us.” 
graduate student forward leon brown put the irish up 1-0 during the 26th minute. senior defender luke mishu passed the ball down the right side to junior midfield­er evan panken, and panken crossed it to brown, who then put it away from inside 
see m soccer PAGE 14 




