The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 76 | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Winter weather warning shuts down all non-essential activity at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s  
open during their normal operat-dining hall staffs to maintain st. Joseph county authorities state statute that says ignoring a 
Observer Staff Report 
ing hours. services. declared monday prompted the city’s emergency declaration is a 
notre dame and saint mary’s according to a campuswide “The staff has been doing a re-university’s closure, according to misdemeanor. closed due to inclement weather email from university spokesman ally good job. … it’s an all-hands-a message sent to students via nd lt. matt blank of the st. Joseph monday and will remain closed dennis brown, notre dame’s din-on-deck situation,” poklinkowski alert, the university’s emergency county police department told until Tuesday evening. ing halls will operate on a limited said. “we were getting killed messaging service. the Tribune that drivers are more 
only essential employees are re-schedule Tuesday. brunch will today. some student staff are under the weather warning, likely to be cited under a county quired to remain on the college’s be served from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. staying from the breakfast shift drivers on the roads after 7 p.m. ordinance violation, which car-campus, according to its emer-dinner will be served from 4 p.m. [to help with] the dinner shift monday, except for those with ries a fine of up to 2,500 dollars. gency announcement. in notre to 6 p.m. The laFortune student tonight. emergency reasons, will be tick-a representative from the south dame’s emergency notification center and limited eateries will “There’s been a lot of confu-eted and fined. bend police department said, email, the university instructed be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. for sion with the university closing. according to a Jan. 7 report in however, that south bend police snow-essential personnel to con-students seeking shelter and food. it doesn’t mean we don’t have to The south bend Tribune, south officers plan to work off of the city tact their supervisors. south dining hall manager come in. we are emergency staff bend police capt. phil Trent said ordinance regarding emergency 
as of press time, the dining marc poklinkowski said the members.” this fine might total 500 dollars declarations, which would levy a halls at saint mary’s will remain university’s closure challenged The weather emergency that if individuals are cited under the 25 dollar fine against drivers. 


SMC alumnae volunteer in Ghana 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
listening to people’s stories is one of the best gifts saint mary’s alumna monica murphy said she has received through the college’s post-graduate ser­vice program. 
murphy, a social work major, said she arrived in ghana last august and will teach at our lady of holy cross school in kasoa until mid-June. 
murphy said she decided to spend the year in ghana because she has always been a service-oriented person. 
“serving in africa has been a dream for years, as the stories of the children touched me in a personal way,” murphy said. 
The program in ghana allows murphy to gain ex­perience in many different aspects of school life, she said.“i am teaching a few english classes to the ‘basic one’ students, another term for first grade,” murphy said. “[i] am also doing so­cial work, which involves meeting with students in­dividually and sometimes their parents.” 
murphy said she also serves as the school’s librar­ian, with the help of anoth­er volunteer. she and other volunteers brought suitcas­es full of books when they arrived in august to replace the old, torn copies current­ly in the school’s posses­sion, she said. 
“in the library, i am reading to students and am helping them expand their reading vocabulary,” murphy said. ”The students love when i read to them.” 
see ghana PAGE 3 


‘purple week’ raises relay for life funds, awareness 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 
This week, notre dame’s club for the american cancer society will host purple week, a series of events to raise funds and awareness for the march 28 relay for life at the compton Family ice arena. 
The relay for life is an event designed to honor cancer victims and sur­vivors and to raise funds for research projects in the pursuit of a cure for cancer, according to the event’s website. 
student organizer Jack szigety said one goal for purple week, named after the signature color of the american cancer society, is to increase the number of student teams signed up for the race. 
“purple week is like our pump up for relay for life,” at each dorm, but we only szigety said. “right now we have 11 registered so far, so have 23 teams. … we’re trying to have a captain see purpleweek PAGE 3 



viewpoinT PAGE 5 scene PAGE 7 scene PAGE 6 m. baskeTball PAGE 12 hockey PAGE 12 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are you going to do on your snow day? 

Tony Villano 

Aniekeme Ukpong 
junior 
freshman 
duncan hall 
morrissey manor 
“watching ‘Frozen.’” 
“studying.” 
Patrick Krach 
junior 
alumni hall 
“Flood the courtyard of alumni so we can go ice skating.” 

Alex Vega 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“playing video games and staying warm.” 
Ryan Lopez 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“exploring the secret steam tunnels.” 

Saad Khan 
senior 
off-campus 
“having an existential crisis/ stopping genocide.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski mike monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Tori roeck 
Scene 
kelly konya kevin noonan 

Graphics 

Viewpoint Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
steph wulz austin Taliaferro 

Photo 
Dining Hall Hours of Physics Colloquium Christianity Prayer Lecture Writing Workshop 
John ning 
Operation Nieuwland Science Service 424 Flanner Hall Coleman-Morse North and South Hall Keenan Hall 3 to 4:30 p.m. Center Dining Halls 4 to 5 p.m. 6 to 7 p.m. “Ireland Among 10:30 a.m. to 
Corrections 
10 a.m. to 1 p.m., Talk on Probing In honor of Christian Others.” 12:30 p.m. 

The observer regards itself as 4 to 6 p.m. Nuclear Structure. Unity Week. RSVP at grc.nd.edu a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
LaFortune Student Valerie Sayers W. Basketball game Curling Clinic M. Basketball 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Center Hours of Reading Purcell Pavilion Compton Family Ice Arena Purcell Pavilion 

however, recognize that we will make 
Operation Hammes Notre Dame 7 to 9 p.m. 5:30 to 7:30 12 to 2 p.m. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Bookstore Notre Dame vs. Learn fundamentals of Notre Dame vs. Boston 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7:30 to 8:30 p.m. Virginia Tech. Curling. College. 
we can correct our error. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2014 | The observer 


Purple Week 
conTinued From page 1 
we’re going to work on that this week.” 
events for purple week will run from monday through Friday, szigety said. a campus-wide “pur­ple-out” decorating contest was scheduled for monday, when The observer spoke with szigety early monday afternoon he said he thought it was probably go­ing to be cancelled due to the university closure. 
if the university reopens as scheduled tonight at 6:00 p.m., however, stu­dent organizers for the relay will be recognized at the coaches vs. cancer men’s basketball game at 


9:00 p.m. against virginia, szigety said. irish coach mike brey will also be hon­ored for his involvement in cancer fundraising re­search, he said. 
“This is something that happens across the ncaa every year,” szigety said. “we’re also hoping to sell the t-shirts during the game, but we haven’t got­ten the okay on that yet.” 
T-shirts for the notre 
paid adverTisemenT 
Ghana 
conTinued From page 1 
working with the nurs­ery class is also a part of murphy’s service, she said. 
“in nursery, i sing songs with the kids, play with them on the playground, and assist in creative art activities,” murphy said. “i sometimes feed them dur­ing lunch. They are so cute, i cannot help [but] baby them.” 
but by far, murphy said her most treasured experi­ence has been watching the children grow and interact with each other. 
“The children here appre­ciate the smallest things, like bubbles. [They] serve as a reminder of what is truly important in life,” murphy said. “having the opportu­nity to capture some of their dreams, hopes, challenges and fears has allowed me to live through their eyes. it is beyond gratifying.” 
helping the school’s chil­dren take control of their futures has been rewarding for her, murphy said. 
“They are born leaders and can tackle their dreams, 
“They are born leaders and can tackle their dreams despite any obstacle.” 
Monica Murphy 
Saint Mary’s alumna 
despite any obstacle,” she said. “when we show chil­dren love, they are more motivated to reach for their dreams, to think differently about their lives, believe with a can-do attitude, have boundless courage and in a way are more inspired to re­capture their goals.” 
murphy said her experi­ence in ghana has helped her to live a more mean­ingful life and inspired her to maintain and build relationships. 
“relationships are one of the greatest gifts of all,” she said. “i see many people living with empty souls, fo­cused on the wrong things in life. i love the stories people tell, especially here in ghana, and have been in­spired by their wisdom.” 
most of all, murphy said her time thus far in ghana has guided her spirituality, as well. 
“in life, we are called to respond to the gospel — for me that was traveling across the world, into the unfamil­iar,” murphy said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
dame relay for life are $10 and will be on sale, in addition to various baked goods, in laFortune on Friday from noon until 3 p.m. 
szigety said the dining halls also will make “as much purple [food] as pos­sible” on Thursday night. This will be the third year in a row that the dining halls participate in fun­draising for the relay for life, south dining hall manager mike poklikowski said. 
“it will be similar to what we did last year,” poklikowski said. “we’ll have cake and cookies with purple icing and rumble-berry crisp.” 
in addition, rolfs sports recreation center will host a blood drive from 
11:00 a.m. until 5:30 p.m wednesday. purple hair ex­tensions will also be on sale from 12 until 4 p.m. in the coleman-morse center. all proceeds from the events of purple week will be direct­ed to the american cancer society, the website said. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Snow day fun 
Emily McConville 
news writer 

i’m actually pretty excited about these snow days. The campus is pretty. i don’t have classes. i can sleep in. most of all, i can finally sit down and catch up on all those new Zimbio.com quizzes. 
personality quizzes have always been my guilty pleasure. during my teen years i would tear through girl’s life and seventeen, looking for those pages that would tell me what my friends thought of me, where i should live or which disney channel star would make the best boy­friend for my unique disposition. later i found whole databases of online personal­ity quizzes, ranging from the somewhat-normal (“what kind of wedding should you have?”), to the strange (“are you a born kingpin?”), to the this-really­shouldn’t-be-in-quiz-form (“which voice part are you?”). There’s just something reassuring about having someone else, albeit someone of dubious credibility, explain your identity to you. 
That said, some personality quizzes are better than others. some, like the ubiqui­tous meyers-briggs Test, are so profession­al and thorough that you actually have to think hard about the answers, which is no fun at all. others have answer choices so obvious that you know the results of the quiz before it’s over, taking away all the mystery (for example: “what do you do in your free time? (a) roam the halls of hogwarts as a cat, (b) hang out with my two best friends in the slytherin common room or (c) what free time? i have to use a time-turner just to get to all my classes.” please.) 
The perfect personality quiz is intel­ligent. its questions are inclusive and pointed but not overly telling. it is well formatted. The font is clean, the ques­tions are varied and, if it’s online, the page doesn’t reload every time you click an answer. it is relevant. my favorites are the ones that tell me which book, movie or Tv show character i am. 
That’s why i’m pumped about all these Zimbio pop-culture quizzes. The design is slick, the questions are unexpected and i don’t have to sacrifice my individuality to find out which disney princess i am. after just a few minutes, i can say with perfect certainty, i am ned stark — hon­orable, hardworking and “an inspiration to us lesser mortals.” i am princess leia 
— bold, diplomatic and confident. i am hermione granger — intelligent and loyal. The quizzes are more than just a fun way to procrastinate during a snow day. They play a crucial role in shaping identities, in helping young people realize their full potentials and…. 
wait a minute. i’m haymitch abernathy? That old drunk who barely got katniss and peeta through the first hunger games? how embarrassing. These quiz things are total scams. i’m out. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A response to Johnny Whichard 
This morning, i stumbled across Johnny whichard’s re­sponse to katrina linden’s article (“’post-racial america’ isn’t a thing,” Jan. 23) on the topic of racial inequality. in his re­sponse, mr. whichard claims “you, and i, will succeed, or fail, not because of our skin tone or ‘ethnic-sounding’ names.” i would invite mr. whichard to read an article published in 2003 in “american Journal of sociology,” entitled “The mark of a criminal record,” by devah pager. using an audit study, ms. pager finds that “even whites with criminal records received more favorable treatment (17 percent received call­backs from employers) than blacks without criminal records (14 percent). in other words, white male criminals have a better chance of getting a job than black male non-criminals, all else being equal. i hope that, upon realizing his claims do not stand up to scientific evidence, mr. whichard will con­sider the ways many individuals, including himself, unknow­ingly and perniciously perpetuate racism in america. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Nick Bloom 
alumnus class of 2010 Jan. 28 
EDITORIAL CARTOONS 





The State of our Union is ... 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

let me start by saying this was never a fair fight. 
it takes up to three months or lon­ger for the president and his speech­writers to complete the annual state of the union address. last year’s speech ran close to 7,000 words in length. 
The president will deliver his fin­ished product to 535 members of congress, dozens of distinguished guests and millions of americans watching at home. The address likely will last for more than an hour, all inside the historic house chamber beneath the brilliantly lit capitol rotunda. 
i’ve been given a few days and no more than 800 words (about 600 of which, i learned, will actually be read) to write this column. my re­marks will be delivered on a less-bril­liantly lit webpage or on newspapers spread out over lunch tables through­out campus today. 
it’s not that i’m complaining; all writers crave any platform. you’ll just have to forgive this particular writer if his prose lacks the pomp and 
UWIRE 
is the war on drugs over? 
Jeffrey A. Miron 
guest columnist 

in december 2013, uruguay le­galized marijuana, earlier, in 2012, colorado and washington legalized marijuana under the laws of their states, and 21 additional states and the district of columbia have now decriminalized or allowed medi­cal use of marijuana. portugal de­criminalized all drugs in 2001, and the netherlands has practiced de facto legalization for marijuana for decades. more broadly, many coun­tries have de-escalated their “wars on drugs.” indeed, president obama hinted strongly in a recent inter­view that he supports marijuana legalization. 
legalization advocates, therefore, are feeling optimistic: many expect full legalization, at least for mari­juana, within a few years. 
This euphoria is understandable, but premature. 
legalizers are correct that prohibi­tion is a terrible approach to balanc­ing the costs of drug abuse against the costs of policies that attempt to reduce drug abuse. 
prohibition drives drug markets underground, thereby generating vi­olence and corruption. participants in black markets cannot resolve their disputes with courts and lawyers, so they resort to violence instead. 
prohibition makes quality control difficult, so the incidence of acci­dental poisonings and overdoses is higher than in a legal market. people eloquence we are likely to see from that of the commander in chief this evening. 
The state of our union is, nonethe­less, the topic of the day. and what a topic it is. 
ask some and they’ll tell you our union is, politically speaking, divid­ed and in a state of disaster. 
what used to be the most mun­dane legislative tasks in congress are now too often knock-down, drag-out fights that leave a trail of black and blue egos and burned bridges scat­tered across washington. in a place that depends so heavily on working relationships among the oversized yet delicate egos that call it home, there’s no denying this is a problem. 
The state of our union is unequal. it is unequal in income, as president obama will address, but the inequal­ities run much deeper than the dif­ferences in figures on paychecks. our union remains a place where your family history or zip code, among other uncontrollable circumstances, are a disturbingly accurate predic­tor of the type of education you will receive and the success you will see in life. 
The state of our union is uneasy. gun violence tears apart many of america’s inner cities, and mental illness is a problem that we are still trying to find the best way to address. meanwhile, terrorism remains as real a threat as ever, and america’s proper role in checking the nuclear weap­ons capabilities of other countries is uncertain. 
The state of our union is slow, un­fortunately. we are a country with our share of problems, be it poverty on the streets, a broken immigration system or inadequate management of our schools. our response to these problems often lacks the sense of ur­gency the issues deserve. and yet, for all the reasons for cynicism that cast their dark shadows on america each day, our union is illuminated, today as ever before, by rays of hope. 
our country remains a land of suc­cess stories. be it the first-generation college graduates or the ex-convicts who have turned their lives around for the better, our country is one of individuals who achieved more than was expected of them, whose will­power alone allowed them to over­come their negative circumstances and enjoy real success through hard work. 
it is a country that comes together when it is needed the most. The way 
who purchase alcohol know what purity they are getting; people who purchase cocaine or heroin do not. 
prohibition spreads hiv. elevated drug prices incentivize injection (users get a big bang for the buck), while fostering restrictions on clean needles. users therefore share dirty needles, which accounts for a large fraction of new hiv infections in the united states. 
prohibition harms those who use drugs despite prohibition, since they risk arrest and imprisonment in ad­dition to the negatives of drug use itself. 
prohibition encourages racial profiling and other infringements on civil liberties. neither party to a drug transaction wants to notify the police, who therefore use more intru­sive tactics in the attempt to enforce the law. 
prohibition wastes criminal justice resources and prevents collection of taxes on the production or purchase of drugs, thus adversely impacting government budgets. 
and abundant evidence from america’s experiment with prohibition, from state decrimi­nalizations, and medicaliziations; from comparisons across countries with weak versus strong prohibition regimes; and from experience with other prohibited commodities sug­gests that prohibitions generates only moderate reductions in drug use. some of that reduction, moreover, is a cost of prohibition, not a benefit— since many people consume drugs without ill effects on themselves or others. 
prohibition is therefore a terrible policy, even if one endorses govern­ment attempts to reduce drug use. prohibition has large costs with minimal “benefits” at best in terms of lower use. 
so legalizers are right on the mer­its, and recent opinion polls show increasing public supportfor legal­ization (at least for marijuana). but the negatives of prohibitions have been widely understood at least since the 1933 repeal of alcohol prohibi­tion, yet this has not stopped the u.s. from pushing drug prohibition both at home and abroad. 
in addition, further progress to­ward legalization faces serious impediments. 
The first is that recent de-esca­lation of the drug war addresses marijuana only. yet much prohi­bition-induced harm results from prohibitions of cocaine, heroin, and methamphetamine. public opinion is less open to legalizing these drugs. 
even worse, drug warriors might respond to marijuana legalization by ramping up hysteria toward still-prohibited drugs, increasing prohi­bition-induced ills in those markets. The public would then observe increased drug-market violence in the wake of marijuana legalization, which would appear to show that legalization causes violence. 
a different worry is that while public opinion currently swings to­ward legalizations, public opinion can change. and marijuana remains illegal under federal law, so a new the american people united behind the city of boston in the wake of the marathon bombings last year is just the latest in a long list of reminders of how americans remain united in the face of great challenges. 
The state of our union is innova­tive, with bright minds and new com­panies springing up each day from coast to coast. 
The state of our union is connect­ed. we are a texting, tweeting, shar­ing and updating mass of individuals with the potential to share informa­tion more quickly and the capac­ity do more good with the power of communication than any generation before. 
The state of our union is aware — aware that we must do better, that we can do better. 
The state of our union is imperfect, to be sure. yet it is capable, as well. 
indeed, as the president will re­mind us this evening, the state of our union is strong. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
president could undo president obama’s “hands off” approach. 
perhaps the greatest threat to le­galization is that many people—in­cluding some legalizers—believe policy can eliminate the black mar­ket and its negatives while main­taining strict control over legalized drugs. That is why recent legaliza­tions include restrictions on produc­tion and purchase amounts, retail locations, exports, sales to tourists, high taxes, and more. 
if these restrictions are so weak that they rarely constrain the legal market, they do little harm. but if these restrictions are serious, they re-create black markets. 
legalizers must accept that, under legalization, drug use will be more open and some people will misuse. The incidence of use and abuse might be no higher than now; in­deed, outcomes like accidental over­doses should decline. but legalizers should not oversell, since that risks a backlash when negative outcomes occur. 
none of this is meant to deny that recent policy changes constitute real progress. but these gains will evapo­rate unless the case for legalization includes all drugs and is up front about the negatives as well as the positives. 
The Harvard Crimson is the independent student newspaper serving Harvard University 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 
The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


John Darr 
scene writer 

since their establishment, major grammy awards have gone to solely popular artists. For this reason, a shockwave went through the music community when the 2011grammy for album of the year went to arcade Fire, a canadian indie-rock band.  although musical hipsters (myself included) nationwide rejoiced, most americans responded with dismay and confusion. 
Twitter blew up with so many “who the **** is arcade Fire?” tweets that the phrase became a meme. The arcade Fire win seemed a symptom of a systemic change for the awards. perhaps, hoped music enthu­siasts, the grammys were adapting to two new forces in music: the independent label and music blog-based criticism. 
however, the next year saw indie music disappear from the album of the year nominations. Then, in 2013, mumford & sons’ “babel” won the award over several albums with far greater critical acclaim. in this context, arcade Fire’s win seemed like a fluke. The grammys seemed to be fading back into a mere extension of the billboard 200. 
one would have thought the 2014 grammy awards would either open or close the door to grammy-seeking indie acts. instead, it was left propped between the two. in almost every situation, the grammy awards compro­mised, awarding the major prizes to acts that toed the line between mainstream and independent music. Daft Punk 
daft punk was the darling of critics worldwide, gath­ering acclaim for their first studio album in eight years well as their contributions to kanye west’s yeezus. “random access memories” found immense commer­cial success as well, earning the duo record of the year as well. The combination of critical and commercial success allowed “random access memories” to triumph over Taylor swift’s “red” (more commercially success­ful) and kendrick lamar’s “good kid, m.a.a.d. city” (greater critical acclaim). in this way, daft punk’s domi­nance demonstrated a compromise between critical acclaim and commercial success. Macklemore & Ryan Lewis 
macklemore & ryan lewis, despite achieving im­mense fame and commercial success, remain inde­pendent artists with a strong following. The unrivaled prominence of singles from “The heist” lead them to received several awards in the rap category even against several artists whose work gathered far more critical acclaim (kanye west, kendrick lamar) and are more well-known (Jay-Z, eminem). again, the duo’s success at the show represents a compromise between critical acclaim and commercial success (although drake also fits that mold). 
Lorde 
Filling a similar role as macklemore and ryan lewis in the pop category, lorde was an artist who worked within the indie r&b style (see also grimes, purity ring, the weeknd) and earned hype on independent blogs until breaking into the mainstream. This independent edge wasn’t shared by any of the artists she beat out for song of the year and pop solo performance (ignoring macklemore. maybe they thought four grammys were enough for the guys). 
overall, the grammy awards this year seemed eager to please everyone, critics and casual listeners alike. as a national T.v. event, it’s probably for the best that the awards were essentially another great compromise. music on, america. music on. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

vanessa hudgens, brendan Fraser and rosario dawson all star in “gimme shelter,” a film featuring hudgens as a pregnant, homeless teen runaway. 
hudgens’ character, apple bailey, runs away after discovering her father said she cannot stay with him unless she gets an abortion. she runs away from the clinic and eventually finds herself in a hospital where a minster (James earl Jones) intro­duces her to a shelter run by a christian woman for pregnant, homeless teenag­ers. in an almost clichéd manner, apple finds a home there for her and her baby. 
both hudgens and dawson (playing apple’s mother) give fairly incredible per­formances in the film, which is based on a true story. The power of their characters comes through in a scene between the two of them in the hospital, as apple si­lently refuses to go along with her mother as her mother rants about how she can’t give her baby up, and the welfare money that comes with it. 
The movie had some fairly strong points — with that scene in the hospital being one of the most poignant. That be­ing said, in spite of it being based on a true story, the plot line was almost too cliché at points — with hudgens almost magi­cally transitioning from a troubled teen runaway to a happy trusting teen mother once she finds the shelter. something tells me that the real apple bailey’s tran­sition was not quite this smooth. 
This movie clearly argues that abor­tion is not the recommended path of ac­tion but i think the stronger message in the movie is women in bailey’s situation are put in a position where they have to make a choice, but is not a choice that can or should be forced on anyone. The true problem with the prospect of apple’s abortion is that it is nearly forced upon her by her father and her stepmother, even though apple is clearly hesitant from the beginning to get one. 
it is never clear why apple chooses to keep her child. as a character, she is never fully developed — never giving the audience a clear vision of her motives and certainly never explaining the tran­sitions she undergoes. 
This is perhaps the weakest part of the movie. For all that apple goes through, it is never clear when or how she under­takes the transition that is obvious by the end of the movie. 
director ron krauss, in an interview with the national review online, ex­pressed his happiness that the film was even released, calling it a miracle given the heavily pro-choice parts of hollywood. as it is, the movie delivers a powerful message about the ability to make it through tough times — even if the pro-life message didn’t come out as clearly to me as it may have been meant to. 
 That being said, the movie is still well worth seeing. The scenes where hudgens silently wanders the city streets, seek­ing shelter in unlocked cars and eating food straight from the dumpsters will tug anyone’s heartstrings and certainly the number of babies in the end of the movie will make anybody smile. while it may not be a cinematic masterpiece, “gimme shelter” is worth seeing. 
“Gimme Shelter” 
Director: Ronald Krauss 
Studio: Roadside Attractions 
Starring: Vanessa Hudgens, Brendan Fraser, James Earl Jones, Rosario Dawson 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


Summerhays 
earned just nine points in 11 con­conTinued From page 12 ference games. a series split with 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Fútbol foes turn violent over years 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the seventh in a 10-part series discussing the best rivalry in sports. In this installment, Vicky Jacobsen argues for Argentina-Brazil soccer. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #BestRivalry. 
don’t get me wrong. i love a good, old-fashioned american rivalry. as a dedicated red sox fan, i was raised to believe that “yankee” was a dirty word. i have no personal loyalty to north carolina, but i will drop every­thing to cheer for the Tar heels when they play the dastardly duke blue devils. and i attended high school with enough rabid redskins fans to know that there are plenty of people — especially around our nation’s capital — who vehemently deny that the cowboys are “america’s team.” 
but if we are being honest, declaring any singular intercolle­giate or regional rivalry the best in sports is rather provincial. To find truly fitting recipients of this title, we must look to the world’s most popular sport, played by two of the game’s most successful na­tional sides, represented by two of the greatest players of all time. we should look south — way south. 
we should look to brazil and argentina. 
To date, there have been 95 meetings in the “battle of the south americans” (the soccer version, that is), and the results have been remarkably even — 36 wins for the argentines, 35 for the brazilians, and 24 draws (or something like that. The exact fig­ures vary depending on whether you ask the argentine or brazilian governing bodies.) This year will mark the 100th anniversary of their first meeting on the pitch, and since then the two south american superpowers have col­lected a combined seven world cup titles (two for argentina, five for brazil), two olympic gold medals (both by argentina) and 22 copa américa trophies (14 for the argentinians, eight for the brazilians.) 
it is natural for two competitors with such distinguished histories to develop a professional, respect­ful rivalry — for an american parallel, just take a look at Tom brady and peyton manning. but the relationship between the two south american giants has been decidedly more adversarial. as the story goes, during the 1937 iteration of the tournament now called the copa américa (then the south american championship), verbal confron­tations on the field escalated, and the crowd in buenos aires began to taunt brazilian players with racial epithets. brazilian players decided to leave the “jogo da vergonha” (the “shame game”) before the match was officially over. 

Two years later, the argentines returned the favor during a game in rio de Janeiro. a referee awarded the brazilians a penalty, and argentina’s arcadio lopez verbally attacked the official and had to be hauled away by police. The brazilians made the penalty kick and won the game, possibly because the entire argentine team, including the goalie, left the pitch with lopez. 
in 1945 and 1946, succes­sive incidents of rough play and broken legs led to an on-pitch brawl with police in the south american championship final (noticing a pattern here?), and the crowd spilled onto the field be­fore the matter could be settled. argentina went on to win, 2-0, and the two teams did not play for the next 10 years. 
The accusations continue to fly to this day. in the 1982 world cup, argentine legend diego maradona received a straight red card when he kicked brazil’s João batista, presumably out of pure frustration (brazil won, 3-1, in their meeting in the group stage.) The last time the two teams met in the world cup, in 1990, brazil’s branco accused the argentine training staff of giving him a water bottle spiked with tranquilizers. (argentina coach carlos bilardo says the “holy water scandal” never took place, and branco’s main evidence was that he was suddenly drowsy and had trouble keeping up with maradona.) 
Football fans around the world —and in brazil and argentina in particular — like to debate the merits of brazilian great pelé and the aforementioned maradona. pelé, whose career stretched from the 1950s into the 1970s, was a part of three world cup-winning squads and scored 1,281 goals, 77 for his national side. he played 1,363 games, more than twice as many as maradona’s 589. about 20 years later, against a more advanced field of competitors, maradona scored 34 goals for his national team, winning one world cup. 
but what more could you ex­pect from two next-door neigh­bors who happen to be home to some of the world’s most dedi­cated soccer fans? and with the world cup headed to brazil this summer, we could be in for some more fireworks.  let’s just hope they stay on the pitch. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Freshmen 
conTinued From page 9 
other two runners are returning all-american seniors pat Feeney and chris giesting, smith said they see last season’s success as inspiration. 
“we have two all-american sprinters on the team, and they really help push us,” smith said. “i don’t want to let them down. our goal is to do better than what they did last year.” 
similarly, dumford said he measures himself against his teammates, especially marco and graduate student Jeremy rae. 
“in my first three races i’ve raced against … chris marco in all three of those,” dumford said. “we kind of had our little rivalry and trash talk. There is a little fun banter back and forth.” 
while the irish teammates try their best to defeat each other on the track, little animosity survives once the race is over. according to stapleton, the freshmen have relied on each other throughout the tough tran­sition to college track. 
“i think the freshmen are re­ally, really close,” stapleton said. “it’s a good friendly, competitive 
paid adverTisemenT 
how they are. so to be able to end the homestretch with a win before we go on the road next weekend is definitely big for us, and hopefully we can build on it going forward.” 
summerhays and the irish square off with new hampshire on Friday and saturday at the whittemore center in durham, n.h. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
and that it’d be a different game. 
“he challenged me and i was able to respond to that, which is always good.” 
going forward, notre dame (15-9-1, 4-6-1 hockey east) will need the senior to continue an­choring the team from the crease. The irish currently sit in eighth place in hockey east and have second-place northeastern (15-8­3, 8-5-1) was a step in the right di­rection, but summerhays said the team needs to continue to build towards the postseason. 
“To turn around and shut them out is great for our confidence in the league,” he said. “i’m sure they’re going to be there at the hockey east playoffs at the end of the year if they continue to play atmosphere; same with the up­perclassmen, too. every practice is really competitive and we al­ways try to push each other to be better.” 
Fellow sprinter smith agreed. 
“we’re all one big family,” smith said. “it’s just nice to have a bunch of people that can help you succeed and push you.” 
The freshmen and the rest of the irish will return to action saturday at the indiana relays and the new mexico Team invitational. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 



FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588-5520 
Major Blizzard in U.S. History 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
March 11-14, 1888 January 27-28, 1922 February 5-7, 1978 March 12-15, 1993  January 6-10, 1996 February 2010 December 26-27, 2010 Stay warm!  




ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2014 | The observer 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Freshmen adjust and excel in early going 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
Freshman sprinter and hur­dler conner stapleton is only a few meets into his college career, but he’s already noticed a huge change from high school. 
between the daily practices, weekend meets and other re­sponsibilities of the student-ath­lete, he said he’s had to search for an extra gear to keep pace with the higher expectations. 
“we have a meet every weekend, and you’re always ex­pected to perform, whether you’re ready or not,” stapleton said. “you really have to pre­pare yourself every way to run 100 percent and give it the best, whereas in high school, i remem­ber being fresh all the time.” 
Thus far, however, stapleton and the rest of the freshman class seem to have adjusted quite easily to the increased responsi­bility. stapleton notched a top-five finish in both the 400-meter dash at the simmons-harvey invitational in ann arbor, mich., on Jan. 18 and the 500-meter dash at the notre dame invitational last weekend. 



Two pairs of freshmen finished first and second in their events in ann arbor, with alex groesch 
(49.55) edging harvey smith 
(49.81) in the 400-meter dash, and Jacob dumford (1:53.78) squeaking by teammate chris marco (1:54.13) in the 800-me­ter run. dumford followed up that performance with a second-place finish last weekend in the 1,000-meter run. 
irish coach Joe piane said he sees great potential for dumford and marco for the mile run. 
“i think their future is defi­nitely in the mile,” piane said. “it’ll be interesting to see how well they could do this year, but they are the next two really good notre dame milers.” 
piane also singled out patrick o’connell, who won the 800-me­ter race last weekend, as another freshman off to a great start. 
o’connell, marco and dumford all competed for the irish cross country team this fall, and dumford said that experi­ence was great preparation for the track season. 

paid adverTisemenT 
“i’m probably running 15 to 20 miles more a week [this spring] than i was in high school,” dumford said. “but cross coun­try was really helpful in the tran­sition for me because … i was able to use most of the fall to put in a lot of miles and get really fit.” 
smith said there was also a lot of work the freshmen had to put in off the track. 
“They put me on an eating plan, so i can’t eat stuff like chocolate,” smith said. “i was 
paid adverTisemenT 
on a strict protein diet earlier in the year, but it’s not as bad now. i don’t get as much sleep as i prob­ably should, but … i try to get my homework done early so i can get a full night.” 
smith and groesch also run two legs of the irish 400-meter relay. while some might feel pressure about joining a team that competed in the ncaa meet last season, especially when the 
see Freshmen PAGE 8 



Monardo 
conTinued From page 12 
connaughton form about as steady a backbone as any coach could hope for. 
and while the team’s successes and failures understandably lie most immediately on those three players, it is hard to point to areas in which they have been deficient. sherman is putting up 15.2 points and 8.3 rebounds per game. atkins is scoring 14.2 and dishing out 5.0 assists per game, and connaughton is doing it all with averages of 13.6 points, 7.5 rebounds and 2.8 assists. and they have all performed even better in conference play. 
but a large part of those in­creases is due to the departure of grant. notre dame’s veterans have stepped up their play, but it clearly has not been enough to fill the void. The team’s scoring average is a pal­try 69.4 in acc games, well below the overall average of 76.3 points per game. 
grant’s suspension has not been the only impediment to notre dame’s success this season. injuries have chased graduate student forward Tom knight and sophomore forwards Zach auguste and austin burgett at various times. 
Freshmen have found them­selves logging huge minutes against tough matchups and in crunch time. what irish coach mike brey had referred to before the season as one of his deepest squads in mem­ory has often had nowhere to turn. notre dame has not been able to figure out a consistent starting five due to injuries and underwhelming performances. 
and yet brey persists in touting the merits of his team. For every close loss he endures, brey deliv­ers at least one rendition of “i love my team” in the postgame press conference. and that is not to say he is wrong, or that he should not express the sentiment. 
The truth is, despite their 11th­place standing in the conference rankings the irish still have a few bright spots. sherman, atkins and connaughton all rank in the top 17 of the acc in scoring. sherman is second in rebounding in the conference and leads the league in field-goal percent­age, connaughton is sixth in rebounding and atkins has the third-most assists of anyone in the acc. 
For a number of reasons, notre dame is about as far away from the team it was five weeks ago, the team poised to improve to 9-3 with a marquee win over ohio state. Just like in each of notre dame’s most recent five losses, if things had gone slightly different the team could be looking at different results. There is still plenty of season left to play, but for the irish every loss from here on out is another step away from the promising team they were and another step closer to the bottom of their new conference. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
M Basketball 
conTinued From page 12 
“different guys have done it at different times for them,” brey said. “That’s the most difficult kind of team to prepare for that’s coming at you with a lot of different guys, and it can be anybody on any given night.” 
The cavaliers enter with the nation’s no. 3 scoring defense, surrendering just 
56.2 points per game, trail­ing only clemson and san diego state, who both allow 
56.1points. 
“They’re just really effi­cient offensively and rock-solid defensively,” brey said. “They’re doing it at both ends and they’re a confident basketball team, especially after that stretch at home when they won three convincingly.” 
notre dame is averaging 76.3 points per game, good for a tie for second in the acc. but the irish give up 
70.9 points per game, which ranks second-to-last in the conference. 
notre dame will again be without sophomore forward austin burgett, who will undergo a heart procedure Tuesday. burgett missed the loss to wake Forest and will be out at least seven to 10 days after the procedure. 
graduate student forward Tom knight returned to the rotation against wake Forest after missing four consecutive games with an ankle injury and an illness. he had eight points and three rebounds in 17 min­utes saturday. 
notre dame will host boston college on saturday and travel to syracuse next monday as it tries to avoid falling too far in the acc standings. 
paid adverTisemenT 



“we knew it was going to on the personnel front.” be tough,” brey said. “we The cavaliers and irish came from a very tough are scheduled to tip at 9 league and we knew it was p.m. at purcell pavilion. going to be a tough league. we have not been as lucky Contact Matthew DeFranks at as i would have liked to be mdefrank@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2014 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: a positive change will help you put the past behind you. greater opportunity will come as you explore your talents and use your knowledge to help you gain the confidence of others. This is a year to flourish, be your best and reach your goals. don’t let insecurity hold you back. your numbers are 7, 13, 19, 22, 25, 31, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take pride in what you do and aim to be proactive when it comes to making decisions and doing your best to help others. Take charge and use persuasive tactics to ensure that you get what you want and prosper emotionally and financially. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put greater emphasis on who you are and what you can do for others. learn from past encounters and mistakes and you will reach whatever destination you choose with fewer obstacles. put love, romance and personal matters first. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): discuss your goals or options with colleagues or someone who may be able to help you advance. good fortune will be yours if you show greater interest in a project. charm coupled with a heart-to-heart talk will bring good results. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): relationships are featured. do your best to share your feelings and to secure your personal connection to someone special. make personal changes that will encourage compliments and boost your confidence. romance is on the rise and plans should be initiated. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): be upfront about your intentions and plans. check out your options and ask questions. clear up any confusion that may be standing between you and a decision you are expected to make. don’t let someone’s lack of support sway you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you are overdue for a little fun, pampering or anything else that will add to your comfort and pleasure. love is in the stars, and making plans with someone special will help you make an important personal decision. avoid impulsive spending.   

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): protect your home, family and future. listen carefully and observe how others react. use your head and think matters through. look for a unique way to handle any difficult matter that arises and you will bypass a setback. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): react cautiously. let your intuition guide and protect you from anyone trying to manipulate a conversation or situation. use the experience you have gained in the past. a trip will prove to be beneficial and enhance your personal life. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a quick reaction will help you maneuver into a prime position. using the element of surprise will help you avert a deceptive ploy to take advantage of you. keep your emotions in check and stay in front of the competition. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on your goals, not on what others are up to. Feeling pressured or trying to keep up with someone who is unpredictable is a waste of time. base your actions on facts and reason. common sense will win out in the end. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put your intuition to the test. make changes based on the way you feel and you will find a way to get ahead emotionally and financially. a good idea must not be allowed to expand too quickly. what you do must be durable. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): it’s what you do to make amends or help others that will make a difference to the outcome of a situation you face. good things come to those who wait. bide your time and do things properly the first time around. 

Birthday Baby: you are confident, innovative and challenging. you are quick, curious and playful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Clash with the Cavaliers 
Squad looks for much-needed ‘W’ vs. surging UVa 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
virginia will bring its recent hot streak into frigid south bend for a matchup with notre dame on Tuesday night at 9 p.m. 
even with the university’s closure effective until Tuesday at 6 p.m., the game is still on as scheduled, according to a notre dame spokesperson. 
The cavaliers (15-5, 6-1 acc) have won six of their last seven games, including their last three. virginia’s lone blemish in 2014 was a four-point loss at duke on Jan. 13. The irish (11-9, 2-5), meanwhile, have lost five of their last six games. 
“sometimes one good win can jumpstart you,” irish coach mike brey said during a teleconfer­ence monday. “right now, we’re a group that’s searching for that.” 
since the loss to the blue devils, virginia has won each game by an average of 15.7 points. For the first time in school history, all of virginia’s acc wins have come by double digits. 
virginia’s 6-1 start is the team’s best start in conference since the 1982-83 season when ralph sampson led the cavaliers to a 7-1 start in acc play. 
senior guard Joe harris leads the cavaliers with 11.6 points per game, while red-shirt sophomore malcolm brogdon adds 11.4 points and 5.3 rebounds. 
see m baskeTball PAGE 10 

Season has quickly gotten away from Notre Dame 

Joseph Monardo 
associate sports editor 
at about 9 p.m. on dec. 21, things were looking pretty good for the irish. by 9:30 on the same night, however, the outlook was decid­edly less rosy. after blowing an eight-point lead in the final minute against then-no. 3 ohio state in madison square garden, things have only continued to get worse for the irish. 
one day after the defeat at the hands of the buckeyes, the team announced the suspension of se­nior guard Jerian grant due to an “academic matter.” soon thereafter, news broke that sophomore for­ward cam biedscheid intended to transfer. 
notre dame held things together for an overtime win over canisius the following week at purcell pavilion and even pulled off a home upset of then-no. 7 duke in its inaugural acc contest to begin the new year. 
but the wheels fell off after that. 
The irish have lost five of their last six outings, none by more than eight points and most being decid­ed in the final minute. The irish had six wins within reach and came away with only one of them. 
That is an especially shocking figure for a team with a core of ex­perienced leaders as strong as notre dame’s. senior center garrick sherman, senior guard eric atkins and junior forward pat 
see monardo PAGE 10 
HOCKEY 

irish go as goaltender summerhays goes 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
coming down the stretch of its schedule with nine games left to play, no. 14 notre dame will need to finish the regular season off strong if it wants to improve its postseason prospects. 
and lately, as senior goaltender steven summerhays has gone, the irish have gone, as well. 
This weekend’s series against no. 10 northeastern was a mod­el of summerhays’ impact. on Friday night, summerhays al­lowed four goals on seven shots (albeit several from high-scoring areas) and was pulled by irish coach Jeff Jackson in the second period to shake the team up. Freshman chad katunar came in to make seven saves and stop the bleeding, but the irish came up well short in a 4-0 loss. 
“i think if you’re a goaltender, you’re gonna have those games,” summerhays said following the loss. “even the pro guys get pulled quite often, so it’s something that comes with the position. sometimes you’re not playing the best you can and sometimes it’s to shake the team up. it’s one of those things that does wake you up and get you out of your com­fort zone, but then, at the same time, you’ve got to turn the page and move forward.” 
despite Friday’s perfor­mance, Jackson chose to stick with his two-year starter, put­ting summerhays back in net on saturday night. summerhays responded to that trust with fly­ing colors, following up his three-save showing with a 36-save masterpiece to lead the irish to a 3-0 victory. The shutout was summerhays’ fifth of the season, which leads all ncaa goalies. 
after saturday’s turnaround, summerhays said he needed a re­sponse following his showing on Friday. 
“yeah, it was definitely a chal­lenge. [Jackson] was showing he had the confidence in me to play me again tonight,” summerhays said. “he asked me how i thought the game went and obviously not the ideal way i wanted it to go, but i said i was ready to go [saturday], 
see summerhays PAGE 8 


ND Women’s Basketball at Maryland  Late ND Women’s Basketball vs. Virginia Tech  Wed., 7 p.m.  Men’s Swimming/Diving, Shamrock Invit.  Fri.-Sat.  
Hockey at New Hampshire  Fri., 7 p.m.  Women’s Swim./Diving, Shamrock Invit.  Fri.-Sat.  
ND Women’s Tennis vs. Illinois  Fri., 3:30 p.m.  Hockey at New Hampshire  Sat., 4 p.m.  
Men’s Basketball vs. Virginia         9 p.m.  Track and Field at Indiana Relays  Fri.-Sat.  Fencing at Northwestern Duals  Sat.  
Track and Field at New Mexico Invitational Fri.-Sat.  Men’s Basketball vs. Boston College  Sat., noon  






