The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 35 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students speak on Honor Code impact 
In light of recent investigations involving football players, students contextualize controversy 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI, ISAAC LORTON and SAMANTHA ZUBA 
editor-in-chief and assistant managing editors 
in many cases, the honor code is at most a peripheral part of many students’ aca­demic experiences at notre dame. 
on their syllabi, many pro­fessors include the standard honor code pledge that reads “as a member of the notre dame community, i will not participate in or tolerate aca­demic dishonesty.” 
before registering for their freshman year classes, stu­dents must pass an online quiz about what does or does not constitute a violation of the honor code. 
and to upload an assign­ment to the sakai online learn­ing platform, many professors require that students check a box stating, “i have neither giv­en nor received aid on this as­signment” before the site will accept the submission. 
since aug. 15, notre dame’s honor code – and the investi­gation process for suspected violations – have become the 
see honor code PAGE 9 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish junior cornerback KeiVarae Russell prepares for the next play during the Blue-Gold Game on April 12. Russell is one of five football players involved in a recent academic investigation. 
FOOTBALL FRIDAY FEATURE 



clarinetist leads fans in song 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
The band of the Fighting irish features 380 members, but for a few minutes every football weekend, all eyes focus on just one clarinetist. 

before the start of the fourth quarter of the first two home football games, sophomore michelle mann temporarily abandoned her instrument and took to the end zone to perform “ooh poo pah doo,” a jazzy 1960 record originally performed MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Sophomore clarinetist Michelle Mann sings ‘Ooh Poo Pah Doo,’ at see clarineTisT PAGE 8 the football game against Rice on Aug. 30. 




$10M donation to augment mental health services 
this summer, alumnus mark 

By LESLEY STEVENSON 

news editor gallogly and his wife, lise strickler, announced their 
Editor’s Note: These are the intent to donate $10 million final installments in a five-day to notre dame in support of series discussing mental health mental health services. at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s “we wanted to make the gift in recognition of Mental Illness to recognize our great friend Awareness Week. Fr. Jim mcdonald and to fo­
cus on an issue that we think at the 35th reunion for the notre dame class of 1979 see donaTion PAGE 8 

lizzy seeberg’s father spreads message of hope 
“believe – giving witness to senior and co-chair of the Tom seeberg began his Though he has no profes-
By KELLY KONYA 

saint mary’s editor hope,” in carroll auditorium student government associa-talk by reflecting on the saint sional credentials in speaking 
on Thursday evening. tion’s (sga) social concerns mary’s campus, which he said on mental health, sexual as­
Editor’s Note: These are the seeberg was a first-year saint committee Kaitlyn Tarullo remains a positive place for sault or spirituality, seeberg final installments in a five-day mary’s student when she com-said sablab started in 2011 him and his family. said he does have the creden­series discussing mental health mitted suicide following an on-partly as response to seeberg’s “it is always awesome to tials of being a dad. at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s going battle with anxiety and suicide. come to this campus, and you “i’m Tom seeberg, but i real-in recognition of Mental Illness depression. her death came “her story is extremely im-might think it wouldn’t be … ly love being known as lizzy’s Awareness Week. 10 days after allegations of an portant, and we felt like it was [but] in the days that, if you dad. it’s one of the proudest 
aug. 31, 2010 sexual assault an appropriate time to invite will, followed lizzy’s death, so things anyone could call me,” 
as the capstone event of involving former notre dame mr. seeberg back to reflect on many wonderful things hap-he said. “and i can assure support a belle, love a belle linebacker prince shembo. his journey a few years later,” pened for us,” seeberg said. “i you that what i tell you about (sablab) week at saint students said the college com-Tarullo said. “hope is an atti-am honored that you think i my journey here is not manu­mary’s, Tom seeberg, the fa-munity remembers seeberg as tude that can start with a daily can deliver some message of factured; the foundation of it ther of elizabeth “lizzy” an outgoing, smiling, caring struggle but then eventually, hope to you all … [for] this is came in the immediate days seeberg, addressed the college student who loved saint mary’s over time, transforms into a such a great and spiritual place community in a lecture titled and her fellow belles. lifestyle.” for us.” see seeberg PAGE 9 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 12 IRISH INSIDER 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                          alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite internet meme? 

Annelise Steele 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“Troll Face.” 
Ashley Rios 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 

“nicholas cage, ‘you don’t say.’” 
Emily Sullivan 
sophomore 
le mans hall 

“boromir, ‘one does not simply.’” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Ernesto Aveledo 
junior 
morrissey hall 
“insanity wolf.” 
Jasmine Salazar 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“Kermit the Frog ‘but that’s none of my business.’” 
Maddie Maher 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“grumpy cat.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jack rooney mary green Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers greg hadley madison Jaros 

Scene Graphics miko malabute 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu 

Viewpoint Photo mary Kate luft 
Pep Rally Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica “Translation, ND Men’s Soccer 
micahel yu 

Joyce Center Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Criticism and Alumni Stadium 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Interpretation” 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Pep rally for UNC Irish take on the North 11:45 p.m. - 12:45 p.m. DeBartolo Hall Notre Dame takes on 
Corrections 

football game. Carolina Tar Heels. Music by Folk Choir. 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Northwestern. The article “diversity council trains First in 3-part series. student senators,” which appeared online oct. 9, incorrectly identified 
Eid Festival Dinner Saturday Vigil Mass ND Women’s Soccer Founder’s Day Mass “All Quiet on the 
matthew devine. he is the student 
Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Western Front” 
body vice president. The observer 
Student Lounge Heart 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Heart DeBartolo Performing 
regrets this error. 

7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Notre Dame versus 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Arts Center Featuring Dean Hugh Music by the Women’s Miami. Music by Women’s 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Page. Liturgical Choir. Liturgical Choir. Free for students. 


student government hosts farmer’s market on quad 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
north Quad will look like a farmer’s market Friday after­noon as part of a new student government initiative, Quad markets, which brings locally-grown produce, fresh pastries, handcrafted accessories and more to campus. 
“This is a great opportunity for notre dame as a whole to better connect with the south bend community,” ju­nior lindsay huth, student government communications director, said. “we’re hoping that through this, people will find interesting south bend shops and restaurants that they’ll visit in the future and that they’ll discover all of the things the city has to offer. 
The markets will take place from 12 p.m. until 5 p.m. Quad markets, sponsored by student government, is the realiza­tion of an idea student body president lauren vidal and vice president matt devine, both seniors, introduced in their election platform last spring. sophomore and director of community relations Jamie grzybowski has been responsi­ble for planning and executing the event and has worked close­ly with student government. 

“Quad markets will feature 18 different vendors from the local south bend area, includ­ing a number of vendors from the south bend farmer’s mar­ket,” grzybowski said. “we also engaged in a partnership with whole Foods market, who re­cruited additional local ven­dors and who will have its own booth at the market.” 
grzybowski said the variety of products on sale will include locally-made jams, salsas, fla­vored honeys, gourmet pop­corn, coffee, juices, produce and handmade goods such as scarves and jewelry that respect a student budget. 
“students, undergrads spe­cifically, are our primary tar­get,” huth said. “but it’s also a football weekend, and we’re hoping to promote it to all of the visitors on campus as well.” 
grzybowski said shopping bags filled with information cards about the vendors will be available to the first 500 shoppers. shoppers can take their purchases to-go or sit and enjoy them at an inside seat­ing area within the market. she also said shoppers should bring cash, as a limited number of vendors accept debit or credit cards. 
“students can stock up on dorm groceries, buy an after­noon snack or treat themselves to a handcrafted good all from one convenient location,” grzybowski said. 
huth said the event is about more than just food and is part of student government’s hope to integrate notre dame and the greater south bend community. 
“south bend isn’t just a place for students to perform service projects,” she said. “it’s a great community with awesome resources and culture. our thought was that if we bring some of the city’s great shops to the students, they’ll realize how great they are and want to visit in the future or even explore other south bend options.” 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 
nd, smc extend benefits to same-sex spouses 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame and saint mary’s will extend benefits to all legally married spouses of employees, including same-sex spouses, now that same-sex marriage is recognized under indiana law. 
The office of human resources sent an email an­nouncing the change to ben­efit-eligible faculty and staff wednesday. 
“on monday, the u.s. supreme court declined to hear appeals from decisions striking down bans on same-sex marriage in several states, including indiana,” the email stated. “This means that the law in indiana now recognizes same-sex marriages and the university will extend benefits to all legally married spouses, including same-sex spouses. 
“notre dame is a catholic uni­versity and endorses a catholic view of marriage. however, it will follow the relevant civil law and begin to implement this change immediately.” 
saint mary’s director of media relations gwen o’brien said in an email Thursday: “same-sex marriage is legal in indiana. saint mary’s college will follow the law.” 
notre dame vice president for public affairs and communications paul browne said the number of employee families that will be covered under the expanded policy won’t be known until employ­ees begin signing up for the benefits, according to a south bend Tribune report Thursday. 


paid adverTisemenT 




Blue Mass honors public service officers 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
veterans, servicemen and women, notre dame students and community residents gath­ered at the basilica of the sacred heart on Thursday for the 14th annual blue mass to honor po­lice officers, firefighters, first responders and all those who serve to protect others. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins presided at the mass, at which Fr. charles Kohlerman, superior of our lady of Fatima house delivered the homily, and robert Tracy, chief of the chicago police crime control strategy unit, offered closing remarks. 
The blue mass is “a time to honor police, fire[fighters], ems, rescue workers and their families … to pray for those we have lost and to pray for strength for all those who serve,” phil Johnson, notre dame security police (ndsp) chief, said. 
“i hope the men and women in public safety recognize the great outpouring of support and prayer from the community and the gratitude that our commu­nity has for all those who make sacrifices,” Johnson said. 
The first blue mass was held one month after the 9/11 terror­ist attacks to remember all those servicemen and women who lost their lives that day, Johnson said. since then, the mass has become an annual tradition in the notre dame community. 
“we continue that tradition each year to remember police and firefighters and ems work­ers, those men and women who really dedicate themselves and make sacrifices,” Johnson said. “while most people are run­ning away from bad things that happen, the men and women in blue are running toward the emergency and are there to re­store peace and order.” 
Kohlerman’s homily focused on the deep sense of compas­sion that servicemen and wom­en have for the community and emphasized the importance of family. 
“you are members of larger families — families of firefight­ers and police officers who have deep concern for each other and those you serve. … we raise you up and ask almighty god to look after you,” he said, address­ing all active and retired public service officers in attendance. in concluding the homily, he re­minded all those in attendance of the importance to “love one another.” 
in the closing remarks of the mass, Tracy recounted his expe­rience as an nypd officer on the day that the attacks on the Twin Towers occurred. 
“i was strengthened by the 

university explains commencement change 
bravery i witnessed that day,” illuminates a true notre dame Tracy said. tradition, Johnson said. 
Tracy also offered remarks “we are catholic, and we pray about assistant new carlisle fire together,” he said. “it is only chief Jamie middlebrook, a st. fitting that we gather in grati-Joseph county firefighter who tude and come together to give lost his life aug. 5 in the line of thanks at a mass. duty. “That’s what we do at notre 
“he was a hero, and we honor dame.” him for his greatness and his sacrifice he made,” Tracy said. Contact Alyssa Lyon at 
The spirit of the blue mass alyon@nd.edu 

Observer Staff Report 
Following a wednesday email from the office of the registrar with information on ticketing for the 2015 commencement ceremony in the purcell pavilion at the Joyce center, notre dame vice president for public affairs and communications paul browne elaborated on the deci­sion to relocate the ceremony from the stadium. 
he acknowledged that “some seniors are understandably disappointed that commence­ment must be moved from the stadium.” 
“when all is said and done, the forthcoming campus crossroads project will be a tremendously positive addition to the notre dame campus – for scholarship and teaching, student services, the perform­ing arts, athletics, hospitality, recreation and more,” he said in an email to The observer on Thursday. “it is a big project and virtually everyone on campus will have to make sacrifice, be it an inconvenience associated with the large construction zone around the stadium, a reduction in some parking lots or limited access to the stadium. 
“it is the latter factor that has led the university to relocate the 2015 commencement cer­emony from the stadium back to the Joyce center, where it was held for four decades prior to 2009. we recognize and ap­preciate the sacrifice the cur­rent senior class will be making due to the limited number of tickets that will be available for the university commencement ceremony.” 
The registrar’s email said undergraduate students will be able to obtain three guest tick­ets for the may 17 ceremony. students from the law school, graduate school or graduate business school who will be participating in the ceremony will have access to one guest ticket and can enter a lottery for a second. 
guests without tickets will be able to watch the ceremony live from the Joyce center north dome, debartolo hall and Jordan hall, and the event will be streamed live on the web, the email stated. 
browne said it would not be practical to discontinue campus crossroads con­struction for commencement weekend. 
“The closure of the stadium from the end of november un­til next august is necessary be­cause there will be no safe way to enter the facility due to the placement of massive cranes and other equipment needed to erect the structural frames of the west and east building,” he said. “in other words, the four main gates will be inaccessible. The cranes will be gone and pave­ment in place by the time of next football season. construction, however, will, in fact, continue next fall on the skins and interi­ors of the buildings.” 





Alum reflects on experience as gay Catholic 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
christopher damian, a graduate of the university of notre dame class of 2013, discussed the intersection of homosexuality, catholicism and theology in his presenta­tion “gay and catholic,” host­ed Thursday evening by the gender relations center and the institute for church life. 
damian spoke about his journey toward reconcil­ing his sexual identity with the teachings of the catholic church. damian recounted his struggle to understand his identity throughout his un­dergraduate years. 
“how could i see my stud­ies through a unified lens, if i couldn’t see myself as a uni­fied person?” he said. 
damian said one of the most difficult aspects he en­countered while accepting his sexuality was how to under­stand the church’s teachings regarding homosexuality and intimacy. damian said he fre­quently questioned whether or not he would be able to fully engage in relationships with others, a question which poses a significant prob­lem for lgbTQ-identifying catholics. 
“i was worried that i couldn’t have friendship with anyone,” damian said. “i wondered if my life as a catholic was doomed to failure.” 
damian said the language and rhetoric of the catechism regarding homosexual­ity tends to be misrepre­sented and misunderstood by catholics, specifically passages that refer to homo­sexuality as an intrinsic dis­order. damian said the focus on condemning the iden­tity of lgbTQ individuals often leads to unnecessary rejection. 
“we should be careful about the things we say about sexual-minority students,” he said. “if christians make claims about these people that seem blatantly untrue, this will cause others to question these issues and christianity as a whole.” 

damian said there is a need to define adequately the na­ture of the celibate vocation established for gay catholics as well as address the defini­tions of friendship and inti­macy for lgbTQ catholics. he said celibacy allows others to engage in a life of self-giving love and reflect on the true nature of desire for intimacy. 
“The church’s limitations are not meant to close us off, but rather, to open us up,” damian said. “The church places limitations so that we may be drawn deeper into re­flection on where our intima­cies and desires can lead us.” 
damian said the defini­tion of homosexuality can be highly misunderstood within the broader cultural context. 
although sexuality and sexu­al orientation are frequently understood to be rigid and 
“We should be careful about the things we say about sexual-minority students. If Christians make claims about these people that seem blatantly untrue, this will cause others to question these issues and Christianity as a whole. ” 
Christopher Damian 
class of 2013 
focused purely on sexual in­timacy, “sexual attraction is very fluid and contextual,” he said. 
“i’m going to argue that the way in which the catechism treats homosexuality is actu­ally quite different for how it’s understood in the broader culture,” damian said. “The more i’ve thought about it, it seems to me that while the desire for sexual intimacy with a person of the same sex is a significant part of the gay experience, it is only one as­pect of it.” 
damian said understand­ing homosexuality and iden­tity requires understanding the transformative nature of the church. 
“catholicism never leaves things as they are,” he said. “it deepens, purifies and transforms all things it comes into contact with. so history becomes more than just his­tory. For the church, it can be deepened into salvation history.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

saint mary’s develops master plan for campus 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s college is in the process of developing a new initiative called the master plan, aimed at realizing the college’s mission and vision, short-term decisions about which director of facilities specific elements — from benjamin bowman said will building locations to streets be completed over the course and even the placement of of the academic year. a bench or sign — so they 

“a master plan for saint contribute to, and achieve, mary’s college will guide the desired vision for a 
paid adverTisemenT 


functional and beautiful cam­pus,” bowen said. “we have just started the master plan and have not yet defined goals for the project. more concrete ideas will be developed later in the process, most likely by mid-spring semester.” 
bowman said these specific elements will likely focus on three main ideas. 
“The master plan is still in the first phases of planning and has not yet developed any concrete proposals,” he said. “however, we anticipate that some of the proposals will most likely focus on: how to efficiently use the existing space on campus, how to en­hance the campus experience with planned investments in the facilities and grounds and how to adjust social spaces on campus to be more welcom­ing. ” 
he said the college hosted two open forums for faculty and staff last week, allow­ing them to hear from a wide variety of people within the community. 
“attendees were asked what their vision is for the college and what aspects of the college currently work well and need to be preserved,” bowman said.  “as you might expect, after three days of meetings, we started to hear some consistent things, both successes and challenges, from the group. a summary of these consistent themes and findings will be pre­sented to campus in another open forum at a workshop in november.” 
bowman said students and community members also can get involved in the development process. 
“we have been happy to see that many students are add­ing comments to the website,” bowman said.  “… The web­site will have new informa­tion added to it periodically throughout the process. in addition to the website, open forums will be held when the consultant team is on cam­pus. we encourage students to attend these open forums and share their reactions to the ideas being considered. in november, the open forum will be a summary of what was heard in the october open fo­rums. later open forums will present conceptual plans and design ideas to the campus community.” 
senior Katie stare, student government vice president of external affairs, said stu­dents’ and community mem­bers’ voices are important, and she is excited to see what the master plan does for the college’s future. 
“i think that it is great that saint mary’s is planning into the future to benefit in the long run,” stare said. “i espe­cially think that the impor­tance they are putting on the perspectives of all those who utilize the campus, whether it be the students, faculty, staff or administrators, al­lows to have multiple voices be heard on different aspects of the college. being able to have our, the students’, voices be heard makes our opinions and concerns have the poten­tial to be a part of the master plan.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 



Expert advocates for American prison reform 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news wrtiter 
martin F. horn, executive director of the new york state sentencing commission, deliv­ered the fourth annual human dignity lecture sponsored by the institute for church life on wednesday. 
horn’s lecture, entitled “prison reform: problematic necessity,” explored the evo­lution of the modern prison system, the effects of prison on both prisoners and regular citizens and his opinions on how the american prison sys­tem could be improved. 
“We must build within our prisons a culture of integrity. The goal of prisons should be to release better citizens, not better criminals.” 
Martin F. Horn 
executive director 
New York State 
Sentencing Comission 
“i have visited and worked in many prisons throughout my career and have come to the conclusion that the prison, by its very nature, is a flawed in­stitution, destructive of human dignity,” horn said. 
“i would like to share with you some of my personal ex­periences and observations gained over a career of 40 years working with the imprisoned, the about-to-be-imprisoned and persons released from prison,” horn said. 
“imprisonment is the pub­lic imposition of involuntary physical confinement, treating lawbreakers in ways that would be legally and morally wrong to treat those who have not bro­ken the law,” he said. “it is pun­ishment carried out by the state in our name. and because it is, each of us should be concerned with how it is accomplished.” 
horn discussed a report re­leased by a committee of na­tional research chaired by John Jay college president Jeremy Travis entitled “The growth of incarceration in the united states: exploring causes and consequences.” The report challenges the united states to reconsider a justice system based that has flooded prisons. 
“how should we respond to the mass incarceration of over two million people in our country?” horn asked. 
horn said the answer to this question requires a close look at prison populations. 
“prisoners in every jurisdic­tion come from just a small number of communities, most­ly concentrated in the poorest neighborhoods with the least resources and the most prob­lems of health, housing and nutrition,” he said. 
“one cannot divorce the dis­cussion of imprisonment from the discussion of race in our country. as a result of federal census rules and federal fund­ing schemes, we redirect mon­ey away from communities in need to prison communi­ties, and through discrimina­tory voting laws, diminish the electoral power of the most poor and disenfranchised communities.” 
according to horn, however, race and socioeconomic status are just two of several issues that need be discussed. 
“as a civilized society, how can we explain the fact that by some estimates, over 30 per­cent of the persons in prisons are persons with mental ill­ness?” he said. “how can we al­low that? […] prisons and jails are the wrong places for our mentally ill.” 
horn said the american penal system has been inun­dated with the largest number of inmates in its history, and prisons have not been able to accommodate such a large population. For example, dor­mitory-style barracks have replaced traditional cells, leading to increased violence, difficulties controlling prison populations and challenges re­habilitating prisoners. 
many prisoners are released without the tools to stay out of prison, horn said. 
“when a man or woman leaves prison, they need three things to succeed,” horn said. “They must remain sober; they need a place to live, and they need a job. and they need all three simultaneously. 
“Typically parole agencies don’t invest in providing re­sources to assist their charges to stay sober. … They don’t in­vest money in helping people on parole find and keep work. 

… They don’t provide any as­sistance in finding a place to live. why, then, should we be surprised when [the prisoners] are returned to prison?” 
because of this, horn said prisons serve society but with a heavy cost to inmates. 
“prison and punishment have important normative functions, but at a price,” he said. 
horn ended his lecture by offering suggestions on how to improve american prisons, including encouraging trans­parency, mental health care reform, eradicating drug use from prisons and a larger fo­cus on rehabilitation in prisons and jails. 
“prisons should be places where prisoners learn that re­spect for the law and for others is how people in civil society be­have,” horn said. “This means that the staff must respect the law and each other as well as their charges. we must build within our prisons a culture of integrity. The goal of prisons should be to release better citi­zens, not better criminals.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 





The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Donation 
conTinued From page 1 
is important, which is mental health of students,” gallogly said. “Jim’s 30th anniversary as a priest was the opportuni­ty to both recognize him and the work that he’s done and at the same time provide re­sources to something that we feel strongly about.” 
The donation will endow the newly-established rev. James e. mcdonald, c.s.c., center for student well-being in honor of mcdonald, a for­mer associate vice president and counselor to university president Fr. John Jenkins. 
“That whole program is a key priority for us over the next three to five years,” bill stackman, associate vice president for student services said. “it’s going to change the way we work and how we take care of our students.” 
strickler said the gift resulted from conversa­tions between gallogly and mcdonald, who were class­mates in the program of liberal studies — then called the general program — at notre dame. gallogly said he and strickler initially identi­fied mental health as the tar­get for their donation after observing the effects mental illnesses had had on people they knew. 
“college is a time of great exploration, growth and learning,” gallogly said. “at the same time, students move away from friends and fam­ily, have newfound freedom and face intense academic pressure. This combination can lead to a variety of mental health issues. 
“some of our extended fam­ily and friends, a number of good friends and the children of friends have experienced real mental health issues while in college. it seemed like it is a really important thing and an area of great need.” 
Though gallogly and mcdonald approached notre dame on their own initia­tive with the desire to sup­port mental well-bring, the university already had plans for the additional mental health services it wanted to offer if it had the funding, gallogly said. 
“when we first raised this with Fr. Jim, he was excited about the idea,” gallogly said. “and then when we together raised it with the university, they immediately embraced it.” 
“we hope this can increase the speed with which the university can provide sub­stantial mental health ser­vices, increase the effort to prevent mental health issues and decrease the stigma as­sociated with mental health problems,” he said. 
stackman said he and his team in the office of student affairs developed a strate­gic plan that includes four priorities for mental health services: creating “holistic and integrated health and wellness unit,” “enhancing the care that we provide to athletes,” establishing the mcdonald center for student well-being and increasing awareness of “students with emotional challenges.” 

“so to strengthen our abil­ity to identify and support the needs of individual students with emotional challenges, including but not limited to anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, suicide ideation, self-harm and eating disor­ders,” stackman said. “That by itself is one of our core priorities.” 
strickler said the university’s plans reflected a response to national trends of college students suffering from mental illness and of universities attempting to ad­dress those concerns. 
“i think there is also a sense nationwide that this is an area that is underfunded at many universities,” she said. “we were excited because when we approached notre dame it was clear they were also thinking deeply about men­tal health. They had already identified this as an area where they wanted to be best in class.” 
The university appointed Kelly hogan stewart as direc­tor of the mcdonald center on aug. 25. hogan stewart said the center has incorporated both the staff and the mission of the former office of alcohol and drug education (oade) into its broader plans for sup­porting preventative work for students’ mental wellness. 
“[The oade’s] role was to do early intervention and educa­tion surrounding choices of alcohol and drugs,” hogan stewart said. “There was a little bit of a prevention com­ponent to it, but there was also an intervention component. we are shifting that, making it more comprehensive as far as addressing overall well-being, overall wellness, health pro­motion and also focusing a lot more on prevention as op­posed to intervention, which is a totally different approach.” 
hogan stewart said “the sky’s the limit” for how the center will enact preventa­tive measures with a “public health approach.” The overall strategy will focus primarily on education campaigns and tactics to increase visibility and awareness of issues that most critically impact the stu­dent body, she said. currently, there are no set plans for spe­cific programs. 
“Things drive the areas that a health-promotion unit actu­ally addresses will be driven by data, long-standing tradi­tion and things that campus partners, students, deans, other administrators may tell us that are important here on this college campus,” hogan stewart said. 
“what i’ve been doing most recently is digging into data and finding out, what really are our hot-topic areas?” she said. “is it sleep? is it anxiety? alcohol and drug choices? i don’t know; i’m still digging into the data, but that will drive what our focus will be.” 
hogan stewart said inter­vention-based services like counseling remain avail­able to students through the university counseling center (ucc), but her staff will focus on shifting attitudes to pre­vent mental illness and sup­port those who suffer from it. 
“when you look at it sys­tematically, the rectors are doing one-on-one interven­tions, [and so are] your fac­ulty members, so when you look at that environmental approach there still are those one-on-one conversations or interactions, ” hogan stewart said. “we will continue to do that, but how it looks with­in the center, it’s still to be determined.” 
hogan stewart said the notre dame community should keep “being patient and managing expectations” as the center begins to make plans to initiate programs. 
“we’re being strategic in how we develop the center, so it’s something that we’re actually recrafting, rebrand­ing and starting from the ground up in some ways,” she said. “To go through that change model on a campus sometimes will take over a year, so hopefully by this time next year, students will say, ‘oh, yeah, there’s the center for student well-being,’ and they’ll have benefitted from some of those services that we provide, or resources or education.” 
gallogly said his and strickler’s ultimate hope was to offer services both to stu­dents grappling with men­tal illness and to those who aren’t sure how to support their friends who suffer. he said he hopes the center will give students the “context” and “confidence” to confront mental health issues. 
“as a friend when you see someone struggling in school, do you know what to do?” gallogly said. “… and then as a person who’s struggling with mental health issues, do you think your friends, the university and others will help you get through the issue?” 
“whether you’ve left the university temporarily or whether you’ve stayed at the university … if you don’t have the right resources, what happens? you may get into a deeper hole,” he said. “The quality and speed of the professional resources, a real focus on prevention, … on educating the community, this combination can result in a decrease in the stigma of mental health problems — those are the goals we hope for.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
Clarinetist 
conTinued From page 1 
by Jesse hill. since then, she has performed the call-and­response tune during the pep rallies before the games against purdue in indianapolis and against stanford at home. 
“i was terrified because the day before [the first game, di­rector of bands] dr. [Ken] dye is like, ‘There are 80,000 people in this stadium.’ and i’m like, ‘oh, okay no pressure,’” mann said. “and 8,000 of them i have to go to school with … so, you know, better be impressive.” 
mann won the spot as fea­tured soloist through an audi­tion process during the summer. The band directors ultimately selected her to replace Terron phillips, a 2014 graduate of holy cross and former trumpet play­
“This is my service 
to the band; some 
people serve as 
drum major or 
officers, and this 
is how I can serve. 
It’s a provilege and 
an honor; it’s not a 
right.” 
Michelle Mann 
band member 
er, who frequently sang the song during the 2013 football season, mann said. 
“They held auditions over the summer, so i sent in a video of me singing ‘ooh pooh pah doo,’” she said. “i had my sister do the responses to my call, and it worked out. it was a little more competitive than i was expect­ing because a lot of people tried out; i didn’t realize that, but i’m really happy. 
“it’s such a blessing, and it’s so fun to get to do it so often.” 
The band directors’ choice to have mann perform the number throughout the season came as a shock, mann said. 
“a few days before we prac­ticed it in band, one of the di­rectors found me and said, ‘we think you’re great, and your last step will just be practicing it with the band,’” she said. “i was pretty shocked and also so ter­rified, but i definitely couldn’t contain my excitement.” 
practicing with the band it­self proved to be the steepest personal challenge for mann, partly because of the group’s expert knowledge of music and its familiarity with the song. 
“The first time i did in front of the band was almost actually more nerve-wracking because they all know the song, and they know the guy who did it last year,” mann said. “it was actu­ally scarier then than it was with the rest of the audience because at a certain point you don’t even see anyone, you just see a giant group of people. it’s still scary every time, but i get more free­dom every time i do it.” 
Though ‘ooh poo pah doo’ gives mann an opportunity to showcase her own vocal prowess as the only individual vocalist during the game, she said she sees her role as a way to help the band rather than herself. 
“while this is something i do, it’s still being a part of the band,” mann said. “i don’t con­sider myself separated or any kind of greater-than-thou. 
“This is my service to the band; some people serve as drum major or as officers, and this is how i can serve. it’s a privilege and an honor; it’s not a right.” 
dye said mann exemplifies the enthusiasm needed of a marcher to promote the notre dame game day experience. 
“michelle is a wonderful tal­ent among the ranks of the nd clarinet section,” he said. “… she is always prepared and in great spirit to entertain the nd fans at pep rallies and games.” 
sophomore clarinetist emily Foernssler, who also lives next door to mann in breen-phillips hall, praised mann’s spirit and ability to connect with the fans. 
“she is the perfect face for the band and exactly what we need to get the crowd excited about the band,” Foernssler said. 
marching with the band and participating in mentorship programs, jazz bands and brass bands have fundamentally shaped mann’s time at notre dame, she said. mann boasts nine total years of practice with the clarinet and calls that sec­tion of the marching band her “family.” 
“it’s really been the biggest portion of my experience, with the exception of class, because it’s where i spend a good chunk of my time,” she said. “… it gives you stability and it gives you structure and it definitely teaches you about commitment and about time management.” 
mann said the energy of the band as they perform enhances and complements the energy of the hundreds of thousands of fans who come to cheer for the irish. 
“it’s this mixture of pure adrenaline-based excitement and there’s a little bit of fear, es­pecially the first couple of times, but there’s also this heartwarm­ing, amazing sense of love,” she said. “… you can feel an energy that is just unspoken and you can see it in people’s eyes and every single person who’s here on campus can feel it; there’s a connection that doesn’t have to be spoken.” 
“my favorite moment really is when we’re playing ‘america the beautiful,’” she said. “… every time we’re playing it, i recog­nize it’s not just about the notre dame band or me, it’s about this band at this school, this amaz­ing university in this amazing country. … it totally makes you recognize what a huge blessing this is, and it’s undeniable. 
“you cannot doubt the fact that this is an amazing oppor­tunity that not everybody gets, and i’m reminded of that every time i step out of the tunnel.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 



Seeberg 
conTinued From page 1 
following lizzy’s death, and the power of those days has never left me.” 
he said hope, for the seeberg family, coincides per­fectly with the mission of the holy cross order, the meaning of spes unica and the realiza­tion of the difference between little hope and what he called “capital-h hope.” before dis­cussing how he found hope, though, seeberg painted a picture of his loving daughter and belle, lizzy. 
“she was very, very outgo­ing – you would have to meet her several times before you understood she suffered from an anxiety disorder,” he said. “we became soulmates [and] closer through her struggle. we participated in some ther­apy together; we became real good buds. 
“she told us everything. There was never any holding back. Through her bouts of depression, she was always very good at raising the white flag and saying she needed a time-out.” 
he and his wife, mary, first began dealing with signs of lizzy’s anxiety and depres­sion issues when she was in the eighth grade, seeberg said. 
“she was going to be deal­ing with anxiety and depres­sion for the rest of her life,” he said. “difficult situations for everybody were always going to be more difficult for her … but the thing about lizzy was, she wanted to get up every day and punch life in the face. she wasn’t going to be denied hav­ing a normal life, and [going to] college was an important part of that.” 
however, after a difficult first semester at the university of dayton, the seeberg family decided there must be another alternative for lizzy to better support her mental health, he said. The alternative was saint mary’s, where lizzy wanted to enroll as a first-year and have a fresh start in college. 
“she felt she knew more about herself, and she felt very confident [at saint mary’s],” he said. “some of her doctors are on record saying she was as strong and determined as they’d ever seen her. she was very committed to us in say­ing ‘i’m going to use all my tools and all my resources,’ meaning diet and exercise, the counselors here, her friends [and] us.” 
however, in the final days of her life, lizzy seeberg faced challenges that were beyond her capacity, her father said. 
“[on september 9th], she went to a sexual assault aware­ness event, and for whatever reason, i think it hit her, and it all began to unravel and close in,” he said. 
Following his daughter’s death, Tom seeberg said there came moments of grace that began to build “capital-h hope.” 
“as we were walking the dog [that sunday], we were talk­ing and saying, ‘let’s be real about this, something has hit us here that’s the worst pos­sible thing that can happen, and it became this prayer – a simple prayer of ‘god, show us the way. we need this to be our finest hour. we need these next several days to be our finest hour,’” he said. 
For the seebergs, the fu­neral and burial process were dark, but also beautiful, as the “lizzy spirit” pulled the entire family together, he said. 
“over that next week, we saw our faith; we saw hope and love carry us,” seeberg said. “i was the only one able to make it to the memorial here, [and though] i’ve nev­er been a touchy-feely faith guy, i’ve never been an evan­gelizer or anything like that … when caroline bacchus’ [lizzy’s former roommate] mom embraced me, it was just incredible. and when we were about ready to walk into the chapel, and there were some 400 folks in there, it was in­credibly moving. 

“and when carol mooney handed me lizzy’s class ring … and said, ‘once a belle, al­ways a belle,’ i just about col­lapsed. i have to say, it was about the first time in my life i’ve been touched like that.” 
For Tom seeberg, this build­up of spiritual moments led him to what he called “getting it.” 
“The reason why we are here on earth, we can know it intel­lectually, but i didn’t really get it until then,” he said. “it’s this ability to go beyond ourselves, to cry tears of happiness or tears of grief … it’s to experi­ence love that is transforming. 
“That’s the big capital-h hope, and all other hope rests upon that. light does con­quer darkness; life will con­quer death, and we will see lizzy again. and therefore, get about acting as a witness to that belief, and that means doing something. … For us, it meant moving forward, not moving on. wear the scar – it’ll fade, but wear it for all it means. and do something positive with it. 
“That’s the spirit in which we’ve been living,” he said. “The reality of lizzy never leaves me … so hope is where we live. our prayer in desper­ation was answered.” 
in the conclusion of the talk, seeberg discussed the issues of mental illness and sexual assault on college campuses, wishing for lizzy to be a sym­bol of hope in such challenges. 
with respect to mental ill­ness, seeberg said he is grate­ful for an increased awareness of mental health and a de­creased stigma compared to 10 years ago. 
“There’s hope in your ef­forts in support a belle, love a belle and irish state of mind initiatives. There’s hope in to believe that lizzy’s name just talking about it,” he said. adds to that hope.” “There’s hope when people senior chloe deranek, co-get a little edgy about it. … chair of sga’s social concerns There’s hope in asking for committee, said seeberg’s help. you have to believe that talk perfectly underscored help is available for you if you sablab’s message of hope need it, and there’s hope in for the community in rais­the help that’s available.” ing awareness of both mental 
in regard to sexual assault, health and sexual assault. 
“There’s hope in your efforts in Support a Belle, Love a Belle and Irish State of Mind initiatives. There’s hope in just talking about it. There’s hope when people get a little edgy about it. ... There’s hope in asking for help. You have to believe that help is available for you if you need it, and there’s hope in the help that’s 
available.” 
Tom Seeberg father of Lizzy Seeberg 
seeberg said from his fam­ily’s experience and their ap­proach in prayer, he wishes for an increased awareness of sexual assault support. 
“we just pray that we serve lizzy’s memory well with our message and her wishes 
– which were to help the next woman,” he said. “… being a gentleman works. and i think in a place where there’s world-class education and academ­ics … world-class facilities and even world-class athletic pro­grams, that we should know and demand for a world-class response to sexual assault.” 
seeberg said he believes there is a lot of promise in de­veloping attitudes to the is­sue of sexual assault, and we are starting to see more of a culture of commitment, but student activism needs to be behind it for it to be fully successful. 
“you’re not going to change the world by complying with federal regulations, you’re going to change it when stu­dents demand better of their institutions,” he said. “i’d like 
“mr. seeberg’s message showed students how valu­able hope is to have and hold onto and more than that, how to find hope when you are lost without it,” deranek said. “i think his talk underlined the power of the saint mary’s sis­terhood and how it extended beyond his daughter to his family as well.” 
Tarullo said she hopes lizzy’s story continues to inspire a con­versation about mental health issues, for lizzy is a symbol on campus for continued aware­ness and support. 
“lizzy was, is and will for­ever be a belle,” Tarullo said. “you may not know the story behind everyone on campus, but you should know that ev­eryone has a story to tell. 
“it is my personal hope that people listen to lizzy’s and Tom’s stories and reflect on their own. do i model hope in my thoughts, words and ac­tions? do i seek to bring hope to others in need?” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Honor Code 
conTinued From page 1 
subject of national attention. The university announced five irish football players would be held out of practice and competition as investi­gations into possible honor code violations played out, and no resolution to their cases has come to light yet. 
The time frame for develop­ments remains unclear since players could appeal any de­cisions, but for now, many students expressed concern about the toll the investiga­tions have taken on the cam­pus community. 
“[The academic investiga­tion] wouldn’t have happened this seriously if it were other students who were non-ath­letes,” freshman adrianna duggan said. “if they didn’t treat the athletes the same way as they would treat any other kid who went through the process, obviously that’s not fair.” 
given the high stakes and heavy publicity involved, some students said the pro­cess actually should be dif­ferent for the players. 
“it’s been kind of a kan­garoo court,” senior eddie Flood said. “Just the idea that [the players] would go into all these meetings without an at­torney, but notre dame can call their own shots. 
“The speed of the process too has been pretty alarm­ing because these kids lose sleep every night not know­ing what’s going to happen to them.” 
Freshman stephanie reuter said she has only a general understanding of what an honor code violation would entail or how the investiga­tion process would unfold. 
“my brother went to [the university of virginia], and a huge thing was the honor code. … he talked about it all of the time. it’s not quite talked about as much here,” she said. “everyone knows about it, but i think it’s more you know about it in principle and not as much in practice and how it operates. 

“once the situation became public, i think it changed the [process].” 
Junior Jon wiese said he has an idea on how the investiga­tion process works, but “not 100 percent.” 
“There was definitely an issue in the very beginning when they obviously had trouble keeping things pri­vate because everyone knew before the university ever said anything,” he said. “i think that was the biggest problem.” 
several students said the ambiguity made them ap­prehensive of what it would be like to be involved in an investigation themselves as either witnesses, accusers or accused. 
“you know what you are not supposed to do, but you don’t know what happens,” duggan said. “i just don’t know how this whole situation was handled.” 
“it’s nice that [the admin­istration] is respecting their privacy and treating them like every other student,” ju­nior connor Judson said. “but … it should be innocent until proven guilty, and they have been treated like they are guilty, hence why they have missed five weeks.” 
Freshman meghan Freeman went through the online honor code training just a few months ago and said, “nobody really talks about it, you just sign it.” 
“There was an honor code thing you read, but you don’t really actually talk about the honor code,” she said. “we had so many talks when we came in for our orientation, but they never really talked about the honor code. i think they just assumed that every­thing we signed our names to over the summer, automati­cally you read it and under­stood it.” 
while the students involved were more high-profile than an average case, Freeman said it’s important to remem­ber “they’re still students.” 
“i feel like that’s not ev­eryone’s business,” she said. “They’re still students of the university, and they still have some right to privacy. 
“Just because they are on the sports team doesn’t mean that if they are in trouble that they should be broadcasted.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu, Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu and Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


The four-letter word 
Kate Kulwicki 
news writer 

a four-letter word has plagued the lives of women since their entry into junior high. The usage of the term “slut” has been in­tended to discredit women, lessen their self-worth and hurt them. 
at a young age, we are taught to iden­tify “sluts.” as a result, we often observe a woman’s neckline rather than how she treats others. we care more about her sex life than her opinion. we hear how she said “yes” to a drink instead of how she said “no” to her abuser. we look at her bruises and see only the outfit she was wearing. we shame her for something that was out of her control and blame anything but the person who committed the act against her. slut-shaming leads to victim-blaming, and both reinforce rape culture. 
rape, by definition, is the “unlawful com­pelling of a person through physical force or duress to have sexual intercourse.” sexual assaults are not always reported, but when they are, the victim often receives backlash from society, which places the blame on the victim rather than her attacker. one of the most common methods of blame used is the victim’s choice of dress. 
in italy in the 1990s, a young girl was raped by her driving instructor. The case made it all the way to the italian supreme court where the perpetrator was released based on the argument that, due to the tightness of the victim’s jeans, she would have had to help remove them to have sex; therefore, it was consensual. 
The disappearance of uva student hannah graham recently has been circulat­ing in the news. one of the most publicized pictures is of her outfit on the night of her disappearance. graham is pictured in a crop top, leading some in our society to comment, “she was dressed like a slut, so she was basi­cally asking for it.” 
in an attempt to address campus rape prevention in 2011, Toronto police constable michael sanguinetti said, “i’ve been told i’m not supposed to say; however, women should avoid dressing like sluts in order not to be victimized,” sparking the first of many protest marches titled slutwalk. 
when thinking about rape on college campuses, the all-too-scary statistic “one in four” comes to mind. one in four college women report being victims of attempted rape or survivors of rape. i will never forget the first sexual assault report i received via email from campus security, and i have not forgotten the others that followed. These emails made me aware that the campuses of both notre dame and saint mary’s are not as safe as i thought they were. it needs to be known that the clothes on a woman’s body are not an invitation for rape and the oppres­sion caused by slut-shaming needs to stop. we need to work together to spread sexual assault awareness so we can protect the places that we have come to call home and the people we have learned to call family. 
Contact Kate Kulwicki at kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
it would be difficult for anyone to walk by the south façade of the hesburgh library this week without no­ticing the green hue illuminating the entirety of the monumental Jesus mural. but at other times and in other places, we often walk right past the signs of men­tal illness. 
The green light provides a necessary visual reminder of the ongoing irish state of mind and support a belle, love a belle weeks. coinciding with national mental health awareness week, events on both campuses have been encouraging awareness, solidarity and dialogue about mental illness. 
The week of programming reinforces the crucial im­portance of creating a safe, supportive environment for open discussion and reflection on mental illness. both literally and symbolically, organizers strove to bring mental health issues out of the dark and shed light on the experiences of our fellow students. when we re­spond to these efforts, we can work toward ending the stigmatization of mental illness. 
This week is just one of the initial steps the university has taken toward progress in dealing with the chal­lenges of mental illness. The recently announced $10-million grant for the mcdonald center for student well-being is a vital step. we hope that going forward, we can all educate ourselves on mental illness and this generous funding will be applied to the development of more preventative and supportive health resources on campus. 
we applaud these recent efforts for setting a strong and essential foundation for mental health awareness — it is necessary that our schools are willing and able to provide adequate and sustainable mental health resources to their students. while counseling options do exist for students seeking therapy, we’ve been told many students encounter waitlists when attempting to schedule appointments and express concern that the university counseling center is under-staffed. 
Furthermore, some students are hesitant to seek help, fearing the stigma associated with therapy. To make more resources available, notre dame and saint mary’s  could develop other types of support systems for students, such as student-led support groups, stu­dent ambassadors in dorms or more options for classes and individual educational opportunities about mental health. This way, students could better understand men­tal illness and find the support that they need from their peers. 
Just as mental illness is not confined to a specific week, our efforts at both notre dame and saint mary’s should not be finite. it is our responsibility to ensure this issue does not remain in the dark when it should be a priority in our hearts and minds. we all must make our desire for a healthier future a reality. we all deserve the opportunity to fight for ourselves. 
as the irish state of mind and support a belle, love a belle weeks come to a close, we must remind ourselves that these should not be seen as a collection of isolated events. rather, they are the beginning of an ongoing discussion. we must ensure that awareness becomes action. 
so don’t ignore the green light on the word of life mu­ral. ask more of notre dame and saint mary’s in terms of mental health care and find ways every day to support the continued well-being of our entire community. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“when you feel in your gut what you are and then dynamically pursue it — don’t back down and don’t give up — then you’re going to mystify a lot of folks.” 
Bob Dylan Singer-songwriter 




The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Change is in the air’ 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

change is in the air. i see the signs of fall begin­ning to speckle the horizon. The wind and the air feel different, crisp in the mornings and softer in the eve­nings. i love this air. it danced playfully over my face as i drove with the windows down just an evening ago. 
The stickiness of summer is fading away. The humid summer days are now distant memories, re­placed by the knowledge that i will be able to re-sort the top drawer of my dresser for easy sweater access. 
above all, i enjoy seeing the leaves on the trees change. They remind me of some of my fondest memories, those times when i would drive with my parents down the main street by our house in the fall. The reds, oranges and yellows of oak and maple leaves would dance and flurry to the ground around us. and my imagination always danced along with them as i couldn’t help but wonder to myself how much fun it must be to dance on the wind. 
but then i would wonder why the trees had to lose their leaves. although i loved the sight, i could not imagine why the trees would let them go, especially since they were so pretty. why did things have to change? why couldn’t the weather be like this all the time? 
change is in the air. This is a concept i thought about again just today as one of my high school stu­dents stopped by my office. The flow of the year had not afforded us the opportunity to chat, and i was eager to hear about her year, especially now that the first quarter already was drawing to a close. 
although i didn’t expect it, change was in the air with her too. something was different. she looked about the same as she did her sophomore year, but as the conversation went on, it became clear that not much else remained of the silly, goofy sophomore girl that i now saw sitting before me as a junior. 
as she sat in my office, she seemed not only more relaxed but also more serious and introspective. i wondered to myself if i had changed this much in be­tween my sophomore and junior year of high school. she updated me on her family life, her soccer season and her life at school. 
all of a sudden, however, the topic switched to the future. she mentioned to me that she wanted to go to purdue. Then, she dove into the deep end: “i don’t know what to do with my life!” 
and i responded not with an answer, but another question: “what do you want to make a commitment to?” 
i thought more about her statement later. was she talking about a specific job? i’ve realized that my life cannot be defined by any titles i’ve earned or jobs i’ve held. i’ve learned that a title or a job can be given to anybody, but it’s what i do with it that really defines me and makes a difference. 
right now, i am a campus minister. To be the best campus minister i can be, i spend time with my stu­dents. i make the time when they step into my office to put down what i am doing to talk to them. after all, they are my work. 
but i’m their work too. The gift of their stories and vulnerability has shaped me and changed me. 
it has made me realize that i’ve found what i want to do. what i do doesn’t hinge on a place, but on a commitment — to give and receive love. 
change is always in the air. Jobs may come and go, and our locations may change, but it is god’s loving hand that steadies us and shows us the way. Think about what gets you excited to get out of bed in the morning. That’s probably god’s compass speaking to you. 
god’s compass for me lies in knowing that when i am able to give and receive love, i am most who god wants me to be. 
and i’m willing to bet the excitement and joy of that commitment may help you to weather stormy chang­es too. excitement and joy never have to be limited by job descriptions, only by the extent of our imagina­tions and willingness to give ourselves to love. 
i never could have imagined that i would land at a high school, but, sure enough, god has led me to a community that helps me see love each and every day. 
commit to love, and you’ll have found the path of your life. of course, there are no immediate answers, only the promise that with love we are always ori­ented toward our final destination, beatitude and the Kingdom of heaven. 
what could be better than that? 
Scott Boyle graduated in May of 2012 with a degree in Theology and a minor in Medieval Studies.  He cur­rently lives and works as a Campus and Youth Minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

embrace the men’s rights movement 
This is a response to annie Kuster’s viewpoint oct. 9 viewpoint, “a personal invitation to embrace feminism.” 
i remember first hearing about emma watson’s un address, initially thinking to myself this was probably just another popularity boost for the feminist move­ment. i was impressed to learn watson claimed to be inviting men to participate in the gender equality movement. she discussed how her male friends at 18 were unable to express themselves emotionally and how she had witnessed her father’s role as a parent being valued less. she mentioned the suicide epidemic in the u.K., the greatest killer among men ages 20 to 
49. as i read through the transcript, it finally seemed like feminism would take some interest in men’s prob­lems. motivated by watson’s speech, i immediately proceeded to the heForshe campaign’s official web­site (heForshe.org), the reason watson had given her address. There i found the heForshe commitment, which reinforced my initial speculation and the overarching reason for the men’s rights movement: Feminism is not interested in men’s problems. 
The heForshe commitment states, “gender equality is not only a women’s issue, it is a human rights issue that requires my participation. i commit to take action against all forms of violence and discrimination faced by women and girls.” although watson has spoken about how men have gender issues and their issues should be recognized, the heForshe campaign fails to include this in its pledge. Feminism is not interested in the problems men face in today’s society, and thus i refuse to support a movement that claims to promote gender equality but in actuality is concerned with the elevation of women at the expense of men. The idea that men enjoy a privileged life in today’s american society is far from accurate. we have real problems, and it is time they be recognized. 
as college men, every night we go out we must be ex­ceptionally careful of our actions. we can do our best to try and attain consent, but from a legal standpoint, any level of intoxication is enough to void any consent we thought we had received. laws and policies such as the april 4, 2011, “dear colleague” letter issued by the office for civil rights, the Federal rule of evidence 413 and the rape shield law leave college men nearly defenseless against an accusation. when convicted, a man is more often than not expelled from university and will face legal charges. he often is labeled as a sex offender — a lifelong and public punishment — and may face time in federal prison. This is the case in a world where studies, such as one by eugene Kanin, have demonstrated that 50 percent of rape allegations could be false and have estimated that 56 percent of those false accusations are filed as some sort of alibi. 
The rape epidemic is certainly not the only prob­lem men face. let’s not fail to mention the immense troubles our young males and boys face growing up. collegestats.org has collected statistics on the prob­lems facing young boys. boys are twice as likely to be diagnosed with adhd as girls. boys represent 70 percent of d and F students. on average, 11th-grade boys write at the same level as eighth-grade girls. boys commit suicide at four times the rate girls do. boys are five times more likely to end up in juvenile detention and by 2020, young men are projected to represent 
41.4 percent of college enrollment, down from 57.7 percent in 1970. despite these statistics, females enjoy women-only scholarships, gender-specific grant pro­grams through Title iX and benefits from the women’s educational equity act. 
men’s issues don’t stop there. For the same crime under similar circumstances — robbing with knife or at gunpoint, for example — females face an 18.51 months sentence compared to 51.52 months for men on average. women receive custody of their children in 84 percent of custody cases. additionally, the save organization estimates that 50 percent of restraining orders are given without any allegation of physical abuse and that 70 percent of all restraining orders are false. men are nearly 80 percent of suicide victims and make up 62 percent of the homeless in the u.s. 
Feminism claims to be a movement rooted in the idea of equal rights for men and women. women say they don’t understand why more men aren’t feminists or why feminism is often viewed as an anti-man cam­paign. well ladies, this is why. 
Matthew D’Emic 
sophomore Knott oct. 10 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

shonda rhimes has a way of making me rethink my entire life. Two summers ago while the rest of my generation was preparing for college, readying them­selves for the greatest years of their lives, i was marathon-ing all nine seasons of “grey’s anatomy.” That’s 196 episodes. roughly 147 hours. i watched 18 epi­sodes in one day once, leaving my room only for the toilet and meals (i will add that i have an adjoining bathroom and those meals were eaten while concur­rently watching). 
amidst this grand display of a healthy lifestyle, i seriously contemplated en­during years of medical school and residency in order to become a surgeon, despite that fact that i hate science and blood makes me queasy. rhimes made those details seem pretty unimportant. 
“scandal,” another shondaland pro­duction, had a similar effect. it had me questioning everything. maybe politi­cal crisis management is a viable career 
By MADDIE DALY 
scene writer 

“we lived in the murder house; we escaped the asylum; we protected the coven, and we will attend the Freak show.” 
“american horror story” fans ev­erywhere eagerly have awaited the premier of the show’s fourth season, titled “Freak show,” by following ev­ery newly-released trailer, posting countdowns on Twitter with #ahs and taking buzzfeed quizzes to find out “which ‘american horror story’ char­acter are you?” Finally, the wait is over. ladies and gentlemen, i present to you “american horror story: Freak show.” 
set in 1952 Florida, the show opened with a victorian-style house, reminis­cent of the haunted house from season one, and then moved to a hospital — a reference to the second season, set in an asylum. The episode took a bit too long to reveal the inevitable — if 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 

option? is being the mistress for the leader of the free world really that mor­ally wrong? 
when “how to get away with murder” premiered on abc on sept. 25, i didn’t think ms. rhimes could do it again. i had heard enough of my father’s horror stories from nd law school to stop the sleek new legal drama series from influ­encing me into signing up for the next lsaT. 
i was researching law school applica­tions by the time i finished watching the pilot. 
The show managed to dramatize and glamorize the cutthroat dynamics of a law school lecture hall, criminal court­room proceedings and the dizzying after-effects of committing murder, cap­tivating an incredible 20 million viewers when it premiered. 
First, this show would be utterly watchable if it had nothing else go­ing for it other than viola davis. The oscar-nominee shined in the lead role as professor annalise Keating, a de­fense attorney with a teaching method 
you have been paying attention to the media in the past two months, you know the main character of this sea­son is the two-headed sarah paulson. Therefore, when the dramatic curtain was ripped away, no one was surprised to see the “twins” lying on the hospital bed. also unsurprising is that the only brave soul to enter the “freak room” was Jessica lange. For first-time “ahs” viewers, lange has been steal­ing the show since season one. she is indisputably the main character of the show, dominating each scene with her attitude and over-the-top sass. 
This season, she plays the role of the “ring master” elsa mars (thanks for the inspiration, “Frozen”). when the “freak show” circus arrives in a new town, she seeks out the anomalies of society to add to her cast of perform­ers. after mars steals the “siamese sisters” from the hospital in order to make them her headliners, the scene moves to the tent where we are that only can be described as extremely hands-on. she’s smart, strong, sexy and 
— best of all — complicated. From the beginning, it is clear mrs. Keating will live in a moral grey area, never truly declaring herself as simply good or bad, but ultimately making us love her through all of it. 
adding just as much to its watchabil­ity, the show’s diversity — a staple of a rhimes creation — does not disappoint. The pilot featured interracial couples, gay characters and strong women and men of color. it’s dismaying to think of this as a selling point of the show be­cause these features should be the norm rather than the rare. still, i can think of no better way to promote this ideal than to tune in to a show that portrays the characters and relationships so brilliantly. 
The show’s format is unique and constantly engaging with its use of fre­quent flashbacks. The audience is led seamlessly through two timelines, one outlining the beginning of the interac­tions between Keating and her current 
introduced to the cast of freaks. 
The writers made sure to inter­sperse a healthy dose of terror in be­tween scenes of the freak show. a nightmare-inducing clown rudely interrupts an innocent couple (we all knew it was coming), causing every­one in my viewing party to cover their eyes for the first time in the episode. The Joker-esque character makes sev­eral unwelcome and horrifying ap­pearances, each reminding me of my childhood fear and making me want to sleep with the lights on. other than him though, the episode is pretty low on the horror scale compared to previ­ous seasons. 
although the freak show characters are meant to be creepy and possibly scary, i couldn’t help but feel for them 
— especially knowing that there is a pair of “siamese sisters” living in the united states and that the tiny wom­an in the show is actually the small­est woman in the world. The rest of students and the other portraying those same students actually attempting to “get away with murder.” The dichot­omy between the students’ personas in the two situations provides some of the show’s most compelling character development. Those who seemed quiet and non-threatening in the classroom take charge in the murderous, high-pressure situations, giving the audience layers without being cliché. 
“how to get away with murder” is well-acted, well-written and mysteri­ous, making it the next perfect rhimes concoction to get addicted to. all i can complain about is that there isn’t more of it. with only three episodes to its name, however, there is no excuse for not catching up, absolutely no “binge­watching” required. 
basically, the show is less of a guide on “how to get away with murder” and more of one on how to get away with a seriously good Tv show. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at             alowery1@nd.edu 
the men and women who complete the classic lineup of circus freaks: the bearded woman, contortionists, an amazon woman, a legless woman and of course the two-headed woman. 
“ahs” veteran evan peters is a mem­ber of the circus as well with deformed, star Trek-like fingers. he pulls off the 50s persona with a danny Zuko hairdo and a black leather jacket. The circus theme also fits in with the 50s era be­cause there were few left at that time, and mars is trying to salvage her show. 
The draw of the show is in the fact that each season begins in a com­pletely different setting and era with a brand new cast of characters (other than the few loyal actors). This season has promise, with its subtle scariness and realistic, historical aspect. watch the freak flags fly next Thursday on FX at 10 p.m. 
Contact Maddie Daly at                           mdaly6@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

parents are a wonderful, inherent cultural resource. They naturally come from a differ­ent generation of modes and art from their children. They were once — believe it or not 
— as wide-eyed and bushy-tailed as their children (if they aren’t still now), excited and eager about new cultural experiences. Therefore, they probably know a thing or two about some things you may not. sure parents can act lame or like out-of-style media, but there is certainly a justifiable reason for it, as much so as for anything their children like. 
my parents met because my dad, 17 at the time, noticed that my mom, at an unimagi­nable 14 years old, knew valuable informa­tion regarding the band buffalo springfield. she attributes her musical knowledge to her gaining the attention of my dad, perhaps impossibly against the odds of her admit­tedly “prettier” (read: more buxom) friend, who also was present. That may seem rather trivial, but it does help explain a tell­ing amount about the two of them. That meeting definitely informs my own life and upbringing as well, especially in terms of cultural tastes. 
during family vacations growing up, long car rides were made more manageable by my family’s mostly fair splitting of radio time. my mom would play stereotypically “mom” songs, and this description is by no means a devaluation of her choices; they were all beautiful songs. i would fight for airtime with hip-hop and pop gathered from the popular radio stations and “now” 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

el-p and Killer mike, collectively known as run the Jewels, previously had announced they would be giving away “rTJ2,” as a free download, just as they did with last year’s awesome and totally recommended “run The Jewels.” but as they did with that “run the Jewels,” el-p and Killer mike offered a va­riety of ways to pay money for the record, if that’s your thing. 
These deluxe editions of “rTJ2” range from the awesome to the ridiculous and awesome. For instance, $10 will get you the preorder for the wav/Flac digital package, but if you’re enticed to chip in just a little bit more, $5,000 will get you the one-of-a-kind, super-duper collector’s deluxe edition, which includes four lps of master discs, both the master and instrumental versions, as well as a rare test pressing, a four-lp teal and rare compilations, interspersed with old-timey radio shows on cassette. and my sister com­manded ‘50s and ‘60s pop rock and the same era’s radio commercial jingles and Tv show themes. not to be outdone by what now understandably reads like the most annoying driving experience ever faced by a dad, my dad would expose us to unappreci­ated bouts of pink Floyd, crosby, stills and nash and — worst of all — neil young. 
as young kids, my sister and i grew to loathe neil young as a result of my dad’s championing of him. his strained, off-kilter voice, only matched by his sometimes-shrieking, persistent guitar tones, became the sort of joke between the two of us that managed only to bring about our hearing it more. it didn’t help that at home my dad also would constantly play and sing neil’s songs on his own — something we saw as added torture but now recognize as an important hobby to him. 
still, dad always would have the last laugh on those long car trips. with the “last song warning,” usually given by my mom as a way to ensure equal radio control, he would — without fail — turn on neil young’s ten-minute jam “down by The river.” as he milked his turn for all it could be worth, we grew to expect this and complained the entire duration of the song, ostensibly harmonizing with the affected crooner. our dad was lame because he liked this old, weird music, and we wouldn’t dare consider its importance to him or even its importance on a cultural level because parents’ tastes can’t possibly be current or cool. 
luckily, my parents exposed me while growing up to a wide variety of popular 
vinyl version, a cd, a T-shirt, a signed poster and a vinyl insert poster and sticker sheet. This would seem like the best package some­one would actually be willing to buy, but run The Jewels is offering even more ludicrous options. 
For instance, $50,000 will get you “The Jewels candygram package,” which prom­ises that el-p and Killer mike will show up to your door “dressed in clothing made of candy to rap both albums to you personally over the beats of your choice and wish you a happy birthday (or any other occasion). we will then spend the day playing contact ul­timate frisbee with your family and friends, ending at dusk where we will build a small, possibly illegal bonfire and drink until one of us urinates where we are sitting.” 
other more expensive (and more awe­some) packages include the offer to start a private detective agency with you, bully your enemies and teach their pets to love you, cultural elements from their own time — many to which my sister and i were much more receptive and agreeing. nevertheless, neil yong remained a point of conten­tion for a majority of our childhoods. The grandfather of grunge was forced in my brain through my ears, and even as i dis­covered nirvana, shared soundgardern’s “superunknown” with my mom on subse­quent car rides and taught my parents about Temple of the dog, i could not appreciate the icon these artists idolized and from which they derived their own sound — until a slight but pivotal moment during a family vacation when i was a teenager. 
on this trip, we went to a rolling stones cover-band concert (who knew they had so many hits that all sound the same before they were all compiled together and played by other people?) that was somewhat enjoy­able and, in the moment, made me suscep­tible to examining classic folk rock. a visit to the venue’s acoustically-endowed restroom struck me with the heartbreaking neil young track “heart of gold” playing over the speakers. maybe it wasn’t the most appropri­ate place to connect with a song, but some­thing about my combined predisposition for music from the concert and my growth as a musical appreciator brought about a higher understanding of neil young — one my dad had been trying to get across, or at least that he himself had since his childhood. 
over the rest of the trip, i consistently listened to neil young’s greatest hits, ever at the ready in my dad’s car, and crosby, stills & nash, which i — reasonably — closely related to neil young because of my dad. it seemed as though i was listening to 
and the chance for run The Jewels to pre­tend to care about whatever cause you care about. These insane packages run all the way up to a $10,000,000 package, for which run The Jewels offers to “retire from music, making only one song a year for you person­ally.” unfortunately though, run the Jewels reserves “the right to take your money and not fulfill any of its obligations as outlined in any package priced at 35k or more,” so these might be risky investments. 
one offer in particular, the $40,000 “meow the Jewels” package, has been getting more attention than the others. The deal is a prom­ise from el-p that he will re-record the entire “rTJ2” album using nothing but cat noises for the beats. a Kickstarter was announced shortly after the deal went online and so far has raised over $30,000 to purchase and dis­tribute the “meow The Jewels” album among backers. 
This Kickstarter has its own slew of something completely different. it was still the music i had been known as a child but in a newly transparent light. i don’t know if it was because of the dissociation of the music from my dad — my previous stubbornness barred me from really listening to it — or if it was a result of my musical “coming-to,” but everything my dad had described this music as finally revealed itself and made sense. 
it’s a tragedy to discount the taste of your parents or of anyone from a distant genera­tion, especially based solely on the fact that they like it. These people were immersed in their own generational music, movies, television and art. They have a connection to it that, although it may not translate to your own experiences, has a certain last­ing significance, and they can justify them through pathos as well as logos. There will come a time when i will slow down or stag­nate in my cultural leanings, a time when my children may view my interests as lame, old or uncool. i hope they will be open to my delirious enthusiasm for my own tastes, and i hope that they will reciprocate by sharing their own tastes with me. after all, i would not have the awareness or taste for early soul and r&b without the genre cds my dad used to put together, and one of my mom’s favorite songs and favorite television shows would not be “hunger strike” and “louie,” respectively, without my persistent advocating. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ridiculous backer rewards, including “meow the Jewels” catnip for those giving $50 or more to the project and the ability to sub­mit your own cat’s noises to be part of the album. el-p initially had said he would fol­low through on the promise (and donate all the money to the families of eric garner and mike brown, who both died during alterca­tions with police) should the Kickstarter ac­tually get funded, and as of a few days ago, he has announced an amazing lineup of artists who have agreed to produce tracks for “meow the Jewels.” portishead’s geoff barrow, Just blaze, Zola Jesus, dan the automator, The alchemist, baauer, prince paul, boots, nick hook, skywlkr and solidified sun have agreed to contribute to the record. hopefully the Kickstarter reaches its funding goals, and we all get a chance to listen to cat-based rap. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                    jkemper2@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Cheese and bulls: extreme sports? 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
are you tired of ceaseless conver­sation about the nFl? do you feel left out when your friends talk about the heisman race? was your team bounced from the mlb postseason all too soon? 
if so, then espn is not the place for you, sports fan. probably not sports illustrated either. mainstream sports journalists can’t take their eyes off the pennant race and the college Football playoff. 
but, hey, just because you don’t want to talk about america’s two favorite pastimes doesn’t mean you don’t want to talk sports. so let’s talk. let’s talk about something weird, something offbeat and completely outside the box. not the four major north american sports, not soccer, not golf or tennis or rugby or au­toracing. all of that is entirely mun­dane and thoroughly ordinary. let’s talk about running with the bulls and rolling after the cheese. 
almost everyone knows about the famous running of the bulls in pamplona, spain that takes place in July every year during the fes­tival of san Fermin. hundreds of thrill-seekers — or insane individu­als, depending on how you look at it 
— decide to bet their lives and race about half a mile against massive animals with sharp horns in a con­fined space. 
but what the heck is cheese rolling? 
For the woefully uninitiated, cheese rolling is an annual tradition in gloucester, scotland. a 9-pound wheel of cheese is rolled down a hill, and a group of men race down after it. First to the bottom of the hill wins the cheese. sounds simple right? 
however, this is not your average hill. it is so steep, rough and uneven that no one stays on his or her feet. basically, people throw themselves down a cliff and pray for dear life. and good luck actually catching the cheese. Thanks to gravity, that wheel comes flying down at absurd speeds. it was once knocked off course and hit a spectator, who had to be rushed to the hospital. 
part of the appeal of sports is an element of danger, and running with the bulls and cheese rolling certainly have more than their fair share of that. They also have cen­turies of tradition between them. Thousands of people continue to travel to gloucester and pamplona year after year to participate. 
so, say you — the thrill-seeking, adrenaline junkie — could com­pete only in one. which one is worth your time, and potentially, your health? let’s break it down. 
Element of Danger and Excitement 
For some people, this might be a good reason to stay home. i would say, though, that if you are crazy enough to do one, you probably want as much danger and excitement as possible. if so, pamplona is for you. with all due re­spect to the good chasers of cheese, there is simply nothing like trying to out-run 15 bulls that weigh between 600 and 700 pounds in a crowd of hundreds. in gloucester, there is less unpredictability. you know you will not catch the cheese, and you will wipe out in spectacular fashion. That may be fun, but there’s no thrill of imminent danger. 
Athletic Ability Required 
both events require an enor­mous amount of courage that bor­ders on recklessness, but the one that requires physical strength and speed should be the one the sports fan is drawn to. and once again, that’s pamplona. a half-mile of sprinting for your life is no joke. meanwhile, youTube videos of the cheese roll clearly show that half the race is just throwing your­self down a hill and hoping your body is aerodynamic and pliable enough. To be fair, there is also a need for toughness and balance, but whereas running with the bulls is a purely physical challenge, cheese rolling takes a fair bit of luck. 
Competition 
any good sports fan is not simply satisfied with a rush of excitement. we want the thrill of competition, and that’s where cheese rolling comes in. even if there is luck in­volved, it’s still a race. pamplona, on the other hand, doesn’t really have a winner and a loser unless you count getting injured as los­ing. still, i prefer a clear result. First down the hill wins. no one cares who out-runs the bulls the most. 
Prize 
all great sporting events have a great prize. The stanley cup. The lombardi Trophy. The claret Jug. The commissioner’s Trophy. gloucester continues this proud tra­dition by presenting the winner of each race with the cheese they just chased. while this may not seem like a proper reward for risking health and happiness, think about all the practical uses. your sand­wiches will be cheesy for weeks. you could host a wine and cheese party. if your car breaks down, you have a spare wheel right there. or you can just leave it be and let it age nicely. if none of these options appeal to you, consider this: There is no reward for finishing the run with the bulls. 
of course, in terms of being com­pletely bonkers, you can’t go wrong with either event. personally, i prefer chasing to being chased, especially when that means pursuing a mas­sive hunk of curdled milk and not being pursued by a lumbering, glo­rified cow. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NHL | penguins 6, ducKs 4 
crosby’s two goals propel penguins to win over ducks 
Associated Press 

piTTsburgh — The pittsburgh penguins spent the offseason revamping the front office, replacing the coaching staff and tin­kering with a roster that went five straight springs falling to lower-seeded op­ponents in the playoffs. 
yet some things remained constant. well, one thing mostly: sidney crosby. 
The two-time mvp scored twice and added an assist as the penguins beat the anaheim ducks 6-4 on Thursday night to make mike Johnston a winner in his nhl head coaching debut. 
“we have a lot of new faces,” crosby said. “you’re always excited to play the first one but especially with so many new faces i think we used that energy to our adva ntage.” 
pascal dupuis added a goal and three assists in his return from knee surgery. patrick hornqvist, blake comeau and brandon sutter also scored for pittsburgh while olli maatta chipped in three assists in his first game of any kind after sit­ting out the preseason to recuperate from shoulder surgery. marc-andre Fleury made 25 saves. 
corey perry had the sixth hat trick of his career for the ducks, who collapsed after erasing an early three-goal deficit. ryan Kesler added a goal in his debut with anaheim. John gibson struggled while making his first start in his hometown, stopping 33 of 39 shots. 
“we want to play better,” anaheim defenseman ben lovejoy said. “There were far too many things that went wrong. we need to fig­ure this out because that was embarrassing.” 
The 21-year-old gibson earned the starting job 

FOR SALE 
2007 Toyota RAV 4, 44,000 miles VERY clean asking $12,000 Call 574-261-5021 
3615 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 46628 - Great opportunity to own or rent to own or land contract! Newness can be found everywhere! New Kitchen Kraft cabinets, new floor­ing, and appliances. Beautiful refin­ished hardwood flooring on 1st floor. Brand new 3rd bedroom upstairs. Full 

following a stellar play­off in which he took over for Jonas hiller. coach bruce boudreau wanted to give gibson the nod in the opener so the pittsburgh native could play in front of friends and family. he also had to play in front of the penguins, who pounced early and never trailed. 
“we’ve got to do a better job helping out our goalten­der,” anaheim center ryan getzlaf said. “we kind of hung him out tonight and tried to play a run-and-gun game against a team that scores goals that well.” 
That part won’t change under Johnston, hired to replace dan bylsma in June and tasked with mak­ing sure crosby and evgeni malkin’s primes don’t go to waste. 
The early returns were promising. 
hornqvist, acquired from nashville in a draft-day trade that sent talented but turbulent forward James neal to the predators, needed all of 5:16 to make an impression. playing alongside crosby helped. crosby won a faceoff at the right dot and slipped a pass to hornqvist at the top of the circle. The wrist shot deflected off gibson’s arm and into the net and the penguins seemed to exhale. 
“we hadn’t had that line together in preseason, only once,” Johnston said. “you’re always hoping that those combinations would work as you expect. i thought patrick hornqvist added a lot to that line tonight.” 
crosby doubled the lead just over two minutes lat­er, streaking down the left side and firing a shot that gibson couldn’t get a handle on. The goal was the seventh in the 10 home openers during crosby’s now decade-long career. 
dupuis, nine months re­moved from surgery to re­pair a torn acl in his right knee, tapped in a perfect setup from maatta to make it 3-0 before the season was 15 minutes old. 
The ducks, however, quickly erased all the good vibes. 
anaheim underwent sig­nificant tweaks over the summer, when the best regular season in franchise history ended with another early postseason flameout. The ducks acquired Kesler, a two-way forward and add­ed center nate Thompson, defenseman clayton stoner and veteran scorer dany heatley while Teemu selanne retired and hiller walked in free agency. 
The moves were made with making the ducks more suited to the rough­and-tumble postseason. There are six long months to get there. The initial steps were wobbly, but anaheim’s offense remains explosive. 
The ducks rallied to tie the game at three, with the penguins doing their best to help anaheim get back in it. Kesler scored his first for anaheim with an easy pow­er-play goal 14:22 into the first. perry then pumped in two, including arguably the easiest goal he’ll score all year when Fleury ventured far from the net and patrick maroon stole the goalten­der’s pass and sent it to perry in front of an empty net. 
Facing the first signifi­cant test in what will be a season full of them as they search for a new identity, the penguins responded behind their captain. 
crosby finished off a 3-on-2 break by snapping a show low over gibson’s blocker with 2:26 left in the second to put pittsburgh back in front for good. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
finished basement. Breezeway attach­es garage. Additional garage sized building on property. Priced at only $69,900. Call or text for more informa­tion - Heidi G. May (574) 310-4663 ­or your private tour! 
Move in ready- south side South Bend very safe neighborhood with great schools. 3 bedroom, 2 bath, big fenced in yard with a storage shed. All appliances plus a generator. 1281 sq. ft. All exterior updated plus newer windows. Low taxes, asking $79,500. Call 574-261-5021 to see. 
I threw a wish in the well/Don’t ask me, I’ll never tell/I looked to you as it fell/ And now you’re in my way/I’d trade my soul for a wish/Pennies and dimes for a kiss/I wasn’t looking for this/But now you’re in my way/Your stare was hold-in’/Ripped jeans, skin was showin’/Hot night, wind was blowin’/Where do you think you’re going, baby?/Hey, I just met you/And this is crazy/But here’s my number/So call me, maybe!/It’s hard to look right/At you baby/But here’s my number/So call me, maybe!/Hey, I just met you/And this is crazy/But here’s my number/So call me, maybe! 



NFL | colTs 33, TeXans 28 

Colts hold on, beat Texans 
Associated Press 
housTon — when indianapolis raced to a big lead over the houston Texans in the first quarter, colts coach chuck pagano was worried they’d let up. 
They did, but that early lead was so big that they were still able to hold on for a 33-28 vic­tory Thursday night. 
“you’re going up and down on the sideline screaming at ev­erybody: ‘don’t take your foot off the gas,’” pagano said. “next thing you know, just like that (it’s close). it’s never over in this league.” 
The colts (4-2) led 24-0 after one quarter, but allowed houston (3-3) to cut it to 33-28 early in the fourth quarter on 

J.J. watt’s fumble return for a touchdown. 
“you give a team a 24-point lead right out the gate, you’re going to have a difficult time,” watt said. 
The Texans had two oppor­tunities to take the lead late, but the colts recovered fum­bles by andre Johnson and ryan Fitzpatrick in the last five minutes. 
“you can finally start to see the type of defense that we en­visioned a long time ago to go out there and do that week in and week out,” pagano said. 
NHL | predaTors 3, senaTors 2 
Nashville defeats Ottawa 
Associated Press 
nashville, Tenn. — craig smith, shea weber and eric nystrom all scored in the third period, and the predators beat the ottawa senators 3-2 Thursday night, giving coach peter laviolette a win in his nashville debut. 
smith tied it at 1 with his goal 1:36 into the third of the season opener for both teams. Then weber, the three-time norris Trophy finalist, skated around the net before flipping a backhander over a diving craig anderson for the lead. nystrom scored at 10:20. Filip Forsberg and paul gaustad each had two assists. 
Kyle Turris and alex chiasson each scored for ottawa. 
chiasson’s power-play goal gave the senators a chance to rally within the final two minutes. nashville goaltender pekka rinne stopped a flurry in front of the net with about 30 seconds left to preserve the win. 
The predators let coach barry Trotz go after missing the playoffs in april for a second straight season, and general manager david poile brought in laviolette as the second coach in the franchise’s history to rev up the offense. The predators also brought in James neal, mike ribeiro, olli Jokinen and derek roy to help. 
nashville outshot ottawa 37­20 overall but remained score­less until roy helped get the predators started with an assist on smith’s goal to get the sell­out crowd going. 
Fans even gave david legwand — the first draft pick in nashville history — a standing ovation when a video honoring his predators’ ca­reer played in the first period. Traded to detroit late last sea­son, legwand now is with the senators and was preparing to take the faceoff when the video played. 
The senators are used to opening on the road with this their fourth straight season away from ottawa at the start, and this is the first of a three-game road swing. 
craig anderson stopped 23 shots through the first two pe­riods and was protecting a 1-0 lead into the third. 

paid adverTisemenT 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles aim to build winning streak at Kalamazoo 
from senior defender  mary  
Kate  hussey  in  the  33rd  
minute.  



Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s will look to build on its recent dramat­ic victory over Trine when it travels up to Kalamazoo, michigan on Friday for a matchup against the hornets. 
The belles (4-7-1) will begin the second half of their miaa season this weekend, having played against each of their conference opponents once so far. in the first half of the conference season, the belles have enjoyed some success but also have room for im­provement, going 2-5-1 in conference play. 
in their first matchup with the hornets (8-3-1, 5-3-1 miaa), the belles lost 2-1, with their lone score coming 
since matchup between saint mary’s and the hornets that opened conference play on sept. 11, Kalamazoo has enjoyed more success against conference opponents, with wins over olivet, adrian and hope. The hornets also are coming off a strong showing against Trine with a 2-0 vic­tory wednesday. 
saint mary’s will hope for a different result this time around against the hornets, as senior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum is coming off her 17th career shutout in the belles’ game against Trine when an 89th minute goal off the foot of sophomore forward liza Felix secured the belles victory. 
at the halfway point of the season, the belles find them­selves in the bottom half of miaa standings but within striking distance of the four-team conference champion­ship tournament to be held at the end of the season. 
This matchup with Kalamazoo will give saint mary’s another opportuni­ty to earn three points and climb the miaa ladder while also serving as a measuring stick of how the team has improved through its first month of conference play. 
The belles and hornets will kick off Friday at 7 
p.m. at macKenzie Field in Kalamazoo, michigan. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, albion 1 
saint mary’s grabs 3-1 win 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
saint mary’s won its sec­ond conference match in a row as it claimed a 3-1 win over albion on wednesday. 
The belles (9-8, 6-5 miaa) opened the match with two dominating wins, taking the first set, 25-14, and the sec­ond, 25-20. 
saint mary’s struggled in the third set of the match, falling into an early 10-3 hole. The belles bounced back against the britons (3­17, 1-10) and roared back to a 21-20 lead before ultimately losing the set, 27-29. 
The belles wasted no time in establishing their pres­ence in the fourth and final set. They quickly established a 17-7 advantage over a falter­ing albion squad, ultimately clinching the match with a 25-14 victory in the set. 
Junior outside hitter Katie hecklinski powered her team to victory with a match-high 16 kills, and the team at­tacked by committee while racking up 48 total assists in the four sets. 
“[hecklinski is] very con­sistent, defensively and of­fensively,” belles coach Toni elyea said. “[she’s] brought a lot of fire to the last couple of matches we’ve had.” 
The team now heads to elmhurst, illinois, for the elmhurst Tournament, fol­lowed by a series of away games before finally return­ing home oct. 28. 
elyea said the time spent away from the belles’ home court has been beneficial for the team and the staff. 
“we’ve been doing well on the road,” elyea said. “we have more time to get home­work done on the bus, and it has helped us to get closer to­gether as a team.” 
The belles begin play in the elmhurst Tournament against st. olaf on Friday. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 



NFL | blacKhawKs 3, sTars 2 

Blackhawks win in shootout 
Associated Press 
dallas — patrick sharp scored the tying goal in the third period, patrick Kane had the only goal in the shootout and the chicago blackhawks beat the dallas stars 3-2 Thursday night. 
The stars had turned away several good scoring chances for the high-scoring duo of Kane and Jonathan Toews before sharp, who had 10 points in five games against dallas last season, beat Kari lehtonen 11:10 into the third. 
Kane beat lehtonen high on the glove side in the shoot­out. corey crawford stopped dallas tries from Tyler seguin and newcomers Jason spezza and ales hemsky. 
The stars opened on the same ice where last season ended in a first-round play­off series against anaheim. chicago lost game 7 of the western conference finals to the los angeles Kings. 
dallas forced overtime by killing Jordie benn’s de­lay-of-game penalty in the final 2 minutes of regula­tion. vernon Fiddler was stopped by crawford on a good short-handed chance early in the penalty, and the two got tangled up while play continued at the other end. The blackhawks didn’t get a great scoring chance in what amounted to a 5-on-3 opportunity. 
The stars outshot chicago 24-11 through two peri­ods before the blackhawks controlled the pace in the third period and overtime. 
chicago had only one shot in the extra period but had the puck in the dallas end throughout. Kane just missed on a spinning attempt as sent the puck through an emp­ty crease after some nifty stick-handling. 
Toews and Kane played their first regular-season game since twin contract ex­tensions signed over the sum­mer that kick in next season and will pay them $84 million apiece over eight years. 
spezza and hemsky assisted on a tying goal by Trevor daley in their dallas debuts after playing part of last season to­gether in ottawa. spezza was acquired in a trade just before hemsky signed a free-agent deal with the stars. 
The stars scored again for a 2-1 lead in the second when cody eakin slipped a shot from just above the crease past crawford, who stopped 32 of 34 shots. 
The young high-scoring dallas pairing of Jamie benn and seguin had a quiet night, combining for three shots. 
chicago’s duncan Keith, coming off his second norris Trophy as the league’s top de­fenseman, opened the scoring with a shot from deep in the right circle that found its way between lehtonen’s legs. 
daley’s goal came dur­ing a 4-minute high-stick­ing penalty against niklas hjalmarsson, who caught patrick eaves in the face. 
NHL | wild 5, avalanche 0 

wild rout colorado 
Associated Press 
sT. paul, minn. (ap) — Zach parise scored one of minnesota’s four goals in the second period and assisted on two others, helping the wild overwhelm semyon varlamov and the colorado avalanche 5-0 in the season opener Thursday night. 
Jason pominville scored in the first period on one of mikael granlund’s two assists and helped set up a goal by Jared spurgeon in the second. nino niederreiter and ryan suter scored, too, prompting chants of “sieve! sieve! sieve!” from the fired-up overflow crowd. varlamov, who gave up five goals on 38 shots, was replaced by reto berra for the third period. 
The wild finished with 48 shots on goal, setting a team record for the 14-year-old fran­chise. They had 47 in a loss at colorado on dec. 21, 2002. 
darcy Kuemper made 16 saves for the wild in his fourth career shutout, including one in the playoffs last spring against the avalanche. 
For the defending central division champion avalanche, coming off a franchise-re­cord 52 wins, this was a stun­ningly flat start. or maybe the wild were just that good. They squelched all four power plays, holding the avalanche without a single shot on net. 
The end-to-end dominance was reminiscent of games 3 and 4 of their western conference quarterfinal in april, when the wild outshot the avalanche 78-34 to even the best-of-seven matchup they went on to win in overtime at colorado in the de­cisive game. 
except this time, the wild turned those scoring chances into flashing red lights behind the net. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame looks to drop times at home relays 

By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 

coming off a season-opening, 182-118 victory against michigan state, notre dame looks to con­tinue its success in the 50th annual dennis stark relays on Friday. 
last weekend’s head-to head meet against the spartans marked the start of season for the irish. 
“we were really pleased with our performance against michigan state,” irish interim coach Tim welsh said. “The focus was good; the energy was good; the camaraderie was good, and times were solid from start to finish. i thought it was a nice, strong, fresh start to the season.” 
but welsh said he knows this weekend’s relays are a totally different game. 
“last week was a duel meet with a lot of emphasis on different events,” welsh said. “but Friday is all re­lays, so we’re really look­ing for a chance to build, demonstrate and show off against our opponents.” 
notre dame will try to beat the clock against swimmers from ohio state, illinois state and olivet nazarene. 
“The clock is always the main challenge,” welsh said. “whatever we’re do­ing, we are always racing the clock. There’s a beauty to fast times, and there’s a beauty to fast places, but there’s a special beauty to fast times and fast places.” 
illinois state has been a regular at this meet, but ohio state and olivet nazarene are newcom­ers this year. welsh said each team will challenge the irish, but ohio state will be a particularly tough competitor. 
“They have always had a strong performance in the big Ten and are a team filled with fast swimmers who are very well coached, so i wouldn’t be surprised see­ing them compete hard,” he said. 
Twelve relays are scheduled, providing opportunities for many swimmers to compete and post strong times. 
“we’re really looking to define our depth this year and put swimmers in events where they did not com­pete last weekend,” welsh said. “we’re just trying to see where our flexibility is so that we can evaluate our swimmers early on in the season.” 
in last year’s dennis stark relays, the irish earned wins in four events, finish­ing second overall at the meet. notre dame picked up a victory in the 800-yard freestyle relay, and senior emma reaney took the lead in the 300-yard breaststroke relay to give the irish their second win. notre dame also captured wins in both the 1-meter diving relay and the 3-meter synchronized dive. 
The dennis stark relays start at 5 p.m. on Friday at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogask@nd.edu 




WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Pyros and Phoxes clash in battle of unbeatens 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
pasquerilla east and pangborn will clash sunday in a contest between two of this season’s strongest teams. 
The pyros (5-0) have with­stood the test of time on of­fense this season, sitting tied atop the division despite allowing 45 points on the season. 
by contrast, the phoxes (4­
0) have employed a stout and stalwart defense en route to their unblemished record, al­lowing only 13 points thus far this season. 
with the end of the regu­lar season approaching, pasquerilla east senior quar­terback and captain macy mulhall said she is confi­dent in her teammates and has a positive outlook on the games to come. she admitted, however, to a bit of a rivalry brewing between the two un­defeated squads. 
“one of our coaches coached them last year,” mulhall said. “so there’s a lit­tle more impetus to win.” 
The younger players on the team have contributed to the success of the team, sopho­more wide receiver and cap­tain noelle gooding said. 
“we’ve had a record num­ber of girls sign up for inter-hall flag football,” gooding said. 
pangborn junior receiver 

gracie gallagher said her 
team was mentally prepared for the game as well. 
“we’re really excited to play p.e.,” gallagher said. “There has been a lot of hype around this game since we are the only two undefeated teams left. The p.e. coaches know us, and it’s kind of a big deal for them.” 
gallagher added that there was also an air of novelty to the upcoming match. 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Ramblers look to knock off Manor 

“it’s been a while since we played them,” gallagher said. “it should be an intense and exciting game.” 
with playoff seedings on the line, only one of these teams will retain its unde­feated status when the phoxes and pyros match up at labar practice Fields on sunday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 

morrissey will look to ex­tend its undefeated start to the season sunday after­noon at riehle Fields against division foe siegfried. 
The manor (2-0) are com­ing off of a blowout vic­tory over duncan last week when they shut out the highlanders, 28-0. 
“we were firing on all cyl­inders,” junior captain and running back erik rayno said of his team’s per­formance. “we only gave up three first downs and moved the ball efficiently on offense.” 
The manor hope to con­tinue their success on both sides of the ball sunday, something siegfried (1-1) has struggled to do. prior to having a bye week last week, the ramblers offense failed to score in a 9-0 loss to alumni. however, junior captain and receiver grady schmidt said part of the dis­appointing offensive effort could have been a result of the ramblers not being at full strength. 
“[against alumni] we were missing a lot players,” schmidt said. “so i’m kind of blaming the loss on that.” 
although the ramblers have yet to get the offen­sive production they have wanted, they have been successful on the other side of the ball. 
“The strength of our team is definitely our defense and how we stop the run,” schmidt said. “we are going to look to continue that on sunday.” 
The ramblers are led by schmidt, junior quarterback spencer Judd, sophomore running back dan verzuh and sophomore receiver darren Quinn. 
Key contributors for the manor include rayno, senior quarterback ryan lindquist and junior running back hunter white. 
The result of the matchup sunday could be significant for the division standings and the playoff hopes of both squads. For the manor, a win sunday would secure their place in the playoffs. as for the ramblers, a win would tie them with morrissey and give them the tiebreaker should both teams finish with identical records at the end of the season. 
The game’s implications are not changing the strate­gy for undefeated morrissey, however. 
“our game plan is not too much different [than in pre­vious games],” rayno said. “[siegfried] always plays tough.” 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seek to build momentum 

paid adverTisemenT 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
The beginning of the season has been a work in progress for the irish, and just how far they have progressed will be tested once again this week­end when they go on the road and face conference rivals pittsburgh and louisville. 
pittsburgh (13-2, 1-1 acc) got off to a strong start, win­ning 13 of its first 14 games and dropping just two sets combined in those wins. The panthers’ only losses so far have against to colorado ear­ly in the season and no. 12 north carolina in their most recent matchup. 
senior outside hitter Jessica wynn leads pittsburgh with 176 kills, and sophomore middle blocker Jenna potts leads all of the the acc with 
0.9 blocks per set. like the panthers, louisville (10-6, 2-2) is coming off a loss, fall­ing 3-1 at virginia to drop to .500 in the conference. in the last tournament of the cardinals’ non-conference schedule, they won the rice invitational without dropping a single set. 
“we think [pitt and louisville] are maybe not top-three [in the conference], but they’re in that next group,” irish associate head coach robin davis said. “we see them as somewhere in be­tween duke and syracuse, the teams we played last week, so we’re pretty excited to see where we stand.” 
notre dame picked up its first acc win last weekend against syracuse (7-9, 0-4) in a strong performance, hitting .309 with four players record­ing 10 kills or more. later in the weekend, they lost to no. 22 duke (12-3, 4-0), 3-1, in a hard-fought match that fea­tured 22 ties and eight lead changes. 
“we’re excited about the win over syracuse, we played pretty steady,” davis said. “even though we lost, we felt good about [sets] three and four against duke.” 
notre dame (4-11, 1-3 acc) has improved statistically since starting the season 0-6, and davis said he attributes much of that to keeping a pos­itive attitude. 
“i think they’ve been re­ally mature about [the slow start],” he said. “They’re a really strong group; they bring it into the locker room; they bring it into the gym. There are still a lot of girls out there early every practice get­ting extra touches, so the at­titude has been really good.” 

The irish have gone 4-5 following the shaky start, improving in nearly every sta­tistical category over the most recent stretch. in those nine games, they boosted their at­tack percentage from .154 to .219 and improved their aces per set from 0.75 to 1.24. 
although youth has been a theme for the irish, with four freshmen getting significant time, the veteran presence of senior middle blocker Jeni houser and graduate student outside hitter nicole smith has been crucial – they lead the team with 2.78 and 2.93 kills per set, respectively. over the past three games against no. 6 Florida state, syracuse and no. 25 duke, houser has hit .314 with 31 kills on her at­tacks, and smith has posted a .354 mark with 36 kills. 
“[The team is] getting more hungry after the losses we’ve had,” davis said. “i think they feel good about their progress overall, and we’re still pre­pared to do something differ­ent and something special in the acc.” 
notre dame travels to pittsburgh for a Friday-night matchup at 7 p.m. in the Fitzgerald Fieldhouse and will proceed to louisville for a game sunday in the cardinal arena at 2 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 24 
even with the 0-2 record in the last week, clark said his team has played well, especial­ly against boston college. 
“it’s funny, we get all of our games analyzed, and against boston college, possibly that’s the most we’ve outplayed one team,” clark said. “i don’t know — maybe from several, quite a few years, but we don’t win. so you do play well, but you don’t win. 
“That’s the hard thing about soccer sometimes. but i think if you play well, you’ve got a much better chance of win­ning. … you’ve got to take your chances also. we had several good opportunities in the boston college game that we didn’t take.” 
of all the games notre dame has played this season, includ­ing six matches against ranked teams, the match against michigan on Tuesday night was the first time all season the irish did not outshoot their opposition. michigan (3-5-2, 1-1-2 big Ten) tied the irish in shots at 18, and led in shots on goal, 7-5. 
“i though the michigan game was a much more even game,” clark said. “They got the momentum after they got two quick goals to open the first half, then i think we stemmed that nicely. but then we got the momentum when we scored our two goals, and then we kind of let them back into it again because at that time we were kind of dominat­ing again.” 
The michigan loss was a very similar game to the tie against virginia on sept. 21, clark said. notre dame took the lead after a penalty kick goal by ju­nior midfielder patrick hodan. however, the irish let in a goal minutes afterward and had to settle for a tie. 
“it’s a little bit when you are down, you put tremendous amount of effort into the game and then when things level up you say, ‘phew! we’ve done it,’ but you’ve not done it, it’s only level,” clark said. 
“it should be a great game, and it should be a great crowd too because the weather is go­ing to be beautiful. … you’ve got two wounded animals coming in head-on-head — scratch and claw. it’s going to [be] an exciting match.” 
The irish will look to re­discover their winning ways tonight when they host louisville at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Freshmen 
conTinued From page 24 
Jackson said. 
Four years later, with a 10­man freshmen class, Jackson won his first of two national titles as a head coach. 
This year’s freshman class 
—
 including center connor hurley, a 2013 buffalo sabres second-round pick — fea­tures four players selected by nhl teams in entry drafts over the past few years. 

For hurley — who averaged nearly a point per game last year in the junior-level united states hockey league with the muskegon lumberjacks and the green bay gamblers 

—
 coming to notre dame was an easy decision. 


“i kind of knew about notre dame and what it was all about, but ever since i went on my visit, it was a no-brain­er,” hurley said. 
hurley said consistency will be key to his ability to contribute during his first year at the collegiate level. 
“i think i just need to bring my skills game,” hurley said. “coach Jackson has talked to me about being consistent, and definitely, coming in as a freshman, you have to be consistent to stay in the line­up. i think that is a big part of it. i think i just have to have high expectations for myself and do everything i can to make plays and score goals.” 
like hurley, freshman goaltender cal petersen is a buffalo sabres prospect. a fifth-round selection in the 2013 draft, peterson is fresh off the heels of a sea­son that saw him named as usa hockey’s goaltender of the year. petersen’s regular season save percentage for the waterloo black hawks of the ushl last year was .915 with a goals-against aver­age of 2.50. Those numbers improved during the black hawks’ run to within one game of a championship as he posted a .928 save percent­age with a 2.37 gaa during 12 playoff starts. 
The irish lost starting goal­tender steven summerhays to graduation this offseason, so petersen said he knows he will be competing with soph­omore chad Katunar for the starting job this year. 
“i think it is a very healthy, competitive relationship,” petersen said. “obviously, we’re both battling. it’s a unique situation with goal­tenders where only one guy can play on a given night. i think we’re handling it well 
— we’re both competitive guys; we’re both friends; we don’t have anything between each other. he’s a great guy; he’s supportive, and i hope i am being the same for him.” 
Jackson indicated both goaltenders will have a chance to prove their merits early in the season. 
“i expect that early on, both of them will play,” Jackson said. “it’s a matter of if one of them steps up. if both of them step up, that’d be great. i’ll play two guys. some schools have had success with that, and we’ve got two qualified guys.” 
on defense, the irish have just three returning players with significant game expe­rience, creating a teaching opportunity for Jackson, his staff and the veteran players. 
“none of them are shut out — they’re coming to us, to me, to robbie, to andy ryan, for advice on how they can get better and help the team,” senior defenseman eric Johnson said. “us being willing to help them on and off the ice, we’ve been going out of our way to do that, and i think that’s helped them a lot.” 
in terms of the front line, Jackson said the return of hurley — who missed sunday’s exhibition and is “day-to-day” — will shuffle things a bit. 


“up front, i’m anxious to get connor hurley back in the mix,” Jackson said. “There was a little chemistry with the speed of guys like [junior center Thomas] dipauli with [freshman left wing] anders bjork, even [freshman right wing] Jake evans — skill but maybe a little too high risk at times — but we try to recruit offensive guys, and i want them to be creative when they get on the attack.” 
en route to a Frozen Four berth in 2011, former notre dame center T.J. Tynan tal­lied 54 points to lead all division-i freshmen. 
This year’s irish will see if they can get a similarly strong season out of their newcomers. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Hockey 
conTinued From page 24 
The last time the irish and engineers met was oct. 21, 2011 — the first game ever played at compton Family ice arena. notre dame pro­tected its new home rink with a 5-2 victory over rpi. 
now in 2014, the irish look to defend their rink once again. The team opened the 2014 exhibition season with a 5-4 loss to waterloo on sunday. notre dame led 3-1 in the first period, but waterloo rallied with two goals late in the second period to tie the game. The warriors went on to score two more goals in the third period to clinch the win. a young squad, the irish said they have taken their preseason setback with a grain of salt and look forward to the start of their regular season. 
“we are going to be facing much higher-quality teams and that’s going to expose any deficiencies we may have,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “The only saving grace for me is that [sunday’s game] was an exhibition game and maybe it wasn’t taken as seri­ously as it should have been. 
“it was meant to be a warm-up game, but we had 
paid adverTisemenT 
expectations to win, so in that regard, it was disappointing.” 
The irish lead the overall series with rpi, 4-3-0, and lead 2-1-0 at home. with the hopes of making the series record 5-3-1, notre dame will face the winner of the minnesota and minnesota duluth game sunday at 3:35 p.m. 
all time, the irish lead minnesota duluth, 21-14-4, but stand behind minnesota, 24-14-3. The irish have fos­tered strong rivalries with both out-of-conference minnesota teams, and Jackson said they look to car­ry that spirit of competition through the weekend. 
“we recruit in minnesota, so we want to continue to play minnesota teams,” Jackson said. “we like the way they play the game, so that always impacts who we play in that conference, so we want to play similar style teams that will challenge us, and hopefully we will chal­lenge them. 
“we have good relationship with duluth, so we hope to continue that.” 
notre dame graduated 11 seniors last season and enter its first regular-season game boasting one of the youngest rosters in the nation. The 10 freshman nearly outnumber the 12 upperclassmen, made up of six seniors and six juniors. continuing the process from sunday’s ex­hibition game, the irish will look to sync pairings on the ice, Jackson said. 


“we are trying to get com­bos with the defensemen,” Jackson said. “i’m just trying to get that level of confidence [in the freshmen] by play­ing them with the return­ing guys. i actually like that [senior] robbie russo played with [freshman] Jordan gross, [and] i like [freshman] luke ripley with [junior] andy ryan. 
“and right now it’s a mat­ter of who’s going to play with [senior] eric [Johnson] on a consistent basis — it’s between two freshmen and [sophomore] Justin wade, probably on a rotating basis until we see what we’ve got.” 
The irish look to mature their young squad as they open regular-season play against rensselaer at the ice breaker Tournament tonight at the compton Family ice arena. The puck drops at 
7:35 p.m. The irish will then play minnesota or minnesota duluth on sunday at 3:35 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



W Soccer 
conTinued From page 24 
the virginia game,” romagnolo said. “we only had one day of training this week ... and we were excited to get back out there and take advantage of this opportunity.” 
The panthers entered the match on a two-match win­ning streak, both of which came on the road. like the irish, the panthers have played better away from their home field, sporting just a 2-5 mark on their own turf. on the road, notre dame is unbeaten with a record of 5-0-1. 
“we were playing on turf, and we haven’t played on turf this season,” romagnolo said. “it was a little different ... but we did a good job of settling the ball down.” 
leading the way offensively for notre dame, sophomore midfielder morgan andrews fired seven shots and collected her team-leading fifth assist of the season in the 42nd minute when she connected with se­nior forward lauren bohaboy on a cross into the box. 
in the second half, andrews added to her point total and her team-leading goal total when she struck from 25 yards out into the lower right corner of the net, beating panthers sophomore goalkeeper Taylor Francis. Francis ended the game with eight saves. 
“i thought morgan andrew was ... exceptional tonight,” romagnolo said. “her ability to take the ball through the mid­field and run at their back four and create offensive opportu­nities and then to get a goal of her own was fantastic.” 
bohaboy’s goal was her first since august, when she scored three times in three games. she is second on the team in goals and points. 
“i thought [lauren] played an exceptional game,” romagnolo said. “she made a lot happen. she made good decisions on the ball in deciding when to pass and good decisions when to go at them. she scored a great ball from the top of the box.” 
Junior forward anna maria gilbertson also made a mark on the scoresheet, recording the second assist of her career. 
entering the matchup, the irish and the panthers were tied in the middle of the con­ference standings. 
“we had the same record, so they had some belief at the beginning of the game,” romagnolo said. “but i really thought from the whistle, we had this attitude about us. i don’t know if it came from the virginia game, but we stepped on the field, and we were ready to get after them.” 
The victory preserves notre dame’s unbeaten record against pittsburgh (12-0-1) and also gives the irish momen­tum heading back to alumni stadium, where they will face acc foe miami on sunday. romagnolo said the team has continued to improve through the season but still has room for more improvement. 
“with every game, for the most part, i feel that we get bet­ter,” she said. “it’s about build­ing against every opponent that we have. so we’ll continue to build. one thing i looked at this game and saw, we could have finished more opportunities. we were creating lots of chanc­es, but we want to be more pre­cise with our finishes.” 
The irish and the hurricanes face off sunday at noon at alumni stadium. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 


Football 
conTinued From page 24 

into “suspected academic dishonesty.” 
irish illustrated, citing two unnamed sources, reported wednesday evening the five players “are all unlikely to play for notre dame this season.” The chicago Tribune, citing a source with knowledge of the situation, reported Thursday the five players are “unlikely to play the rest of the season.” 
asked if he expects to have any of the players back with the football team at any point this season, Kelly said he is “not certain on all of them.” 
“i couldn’t comment on all five,” Kelly said. “and i don’t have anything specific to tell you one way or the other.” 
Kelly said Tuesday that he was told monday “a decision or decisions [on the players’ fates] were imminent.” Kelly said Thursday it’s possible the appeals process is one reason for the lack of shared information. 
“i don’t have any concrete fi­nality on any of the five,” Kelly said. 
notre dame released a statement sunday saying the university will not publicly disclose decisions from the hearings and investigation. 
“i don’t believe it’s my role to come before you and tell you where they are in the process,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said he expects there to be a range of outcomes among the five players. 

notre dame announced its investigation aug. 15. The university said “evidence that students had submitted pa­pers and homework that had been written for them by oth­ers” was initially detected at the end of the summer session and referred to the compli­ance office in athletics July 29. notre dame said the office of 
paid adverTisemenT 
general counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
notre dame confirmed Thursday evening the five players are still enrolled at the university. 
The irish square off with north carolina on saturday at 
3:30p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: put the past behind you and head for the doorway that leads to a brighter future. Follow through with projects or pursuits that allow you to take on a new interest that can bring in extra cash. step into an influential position even if it requires you to take on more responsibilities. you will reap the unexpected rewards. your numbers are 4, 11, 17, 27, 34, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): put your head down and finish whatever job you are given. The less fuss you make, the better. set your mind on physical activity, having fun and enjoying the moment, not complaining. romance will improve your personal life. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you will experience difficulties getting along with people you meet today. Keep your socializing to a minimum and focus on what you can do to improve your community, your home and your relationship with family and friends. control your emotions. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look for opportunities that allow you to advance your creative endeavors, but not at the expense of finishing jobs that pay the bills. gauge your time wisely and keep your plans a secret to avoid interference until your presentation is flawless. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): be careful how you approach others. use your intelligence and express your thoughts. be mindful of those around you and you will avoid discord. don’t be frazzled by a last-minute change of plans. move forward without concern. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you can make positive changes at home and at work. Focus on having fun with friends, peers or your lover. explore what’s offered in your community and you will meet someone who has something to offer. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make changes to your personal papers, but don’t be too vocal about your plans, intentions or what your assets are. making home improvements will keep you out of trouble as long as you get the go-ahead from anyone your plans will affect. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make love, not war. concentrate on partnerships and doing the most to help the ones you love and the causes that concern you. Take an active role in your community and you will reap the rewards. romance is in the stars. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put your heart into whatever job you are given. it’s what you do and how productive you are that will bring you the accolades you desire. your creative imagination is highlighted and should be used to get ahead personally and professionally. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Find an outlet for your energy and strive to excel. Travel, making a residential move or improving your surroundings will all pay off. a problem with the way you earn your living will lead to a positive change. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let your emotions interfere with your integrity. disappointment must not deter you from reaching your goals. don’t count on anyone but yourself and you will excel. resolve an emotional situation in an unusual but prompt way and you will gain respect. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look for a good deal. an unexpected change must be embraced wholeheartedly if you want to give it a positive spin. stay in control and you can get ahead personally. an investment will pay off with an interesting job offer. love is highlighted. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): creative accounting or putting your money into a sound investment will help stabilize your financial position. don’t let a colleague goad you into an argument. it’s what you accomplish that will bring satisfaction and greater job security. 


Birthday Baby: you are dedicated and loyal. you are trendy, innovative and free-spirited. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
‘Five’ still out saturday 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
irish head coach brian Kelly said Thursday evening none of the team’s five withheld players practiced, and they will all be unavailable this weekend. 
Kelly said he did not have any specific information to share with reporters. 
“i’m hearing some things, but i’m going to let them share any information they have with you,” Kelly said. 
irish junior cornerback Keivarae russell, senior re­ceiver davaris daniels, senior defensive end ishaq williams, graduate student linebacker Kendall moore and senior safety eilar hardy have been held out of practice and com­petition during the probe 
see FooTball PAGE 22 
HOCKEY 

Irish open season with 10 freshmen 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
notre dame opens its regular season as host of the 18th annual ice breaker Tournament this week­end at compton Family ice arena. 
The ice breaker Tournament officially com­mences the college hockey season. Four teams across four different conferences will compete today and sunday for the tournament title. no. 12 notre dame of hockey east welcomes ri­vals no. 1 minnesota of the big Ten, minnesota duluth of the national collegiate hockey conference and rensselaer (rpi) of ecac hockey. 
notre dame plays rpi in the first round today at 
7:35 p.m., while top-ranked minnesota battles in-state rival minnesota duluth earlier today at 2:05 p.m. 
see hocKey PAGE 21 


By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
when no. 12 notre dame opens its season tonight at the compton Family ice arena, it will do so with 10 freshmen on its roster. 
Then again, this is not the first time irish coach Jeff Jackson has been in this position. 
“oh, we’ve done it here,” Jackson said. “we did it here four years ago. we had 12 freshmen four years ago, and they did pretty well for themselves.” 
Jackson was, of course, re­ferring to the 2010-11 irish team that made the ncaa Frozen Four. and as for fresh­men-heavy teams Jackson had as an assistant and later a head coach at lake superior state? even better results. 
“The other experience i’ve had [as an assistant], in 1988, we won the national cham­pionship with 12 freshmen,” 
see Freshmen PAGE 20 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, piTTsburgh 0 MEN’S SOCCER 
Notre Dame tops Panthers 
By GREG HADLEY 

associate sports editor  
still frustrated from a devas­ 
tating loss to no. 4 virginia on  
sunday, no. 14 notre dame trav­ 
eled to pittsburgh and unleashed  
an offensive barrage, burying the  
panthers, 2-0, Thursday night.  
in the win, the irish (8-4-1, 3-2­ 
0 acc) outshot the panthers (6-7- 
0, 2-3-0) 32-7 on the evening and  
led 10-4 in shots on goal. The 32  
chances were a season high for  
the squad. pittsburgh allows an  
average of 14.2 shots per game  
and 1.08 goals per contest.  
“we dominated possession,”  
irish coach Theresa romagnolo  
said. “we created a lot of chances  
for ourselves, and we never let up.  
it was a great effort. we asserted  
our will on them.”  
The victory came after a 2-1  
sunday afternoon home loss to  
virginia in which romagnolo  
said the irish allowed the  
cavaliers to push them around.  
after trailing 1-0 for most of the  
second half, junior midfielder  
cari roccaro unleashed a strike  
from the top of the penalty area  
to tie the game with less than five  
minutes to go. Then, with 21 sec­ 
onds remaining, the cavaliers  
rallied to stun the irish and the  
alumni stadium crowd.  
“we were disappointed with  WEI LIN | The Observer  
Irish senior forward Lauren Bohaboy dribbles around a Baylor       
see w soccer PAGE 22  defender in Notre Dame’s 1-0 win over the Bears on Sept. 12.  

nd looks to bounce back against cards 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 

after dropping two consec­utive regular season matches for the first time in five years, no. 6 notre dame takes to the pitch Friday night in a return to acc conference ac­tion when it welcomes no. 18 louisville to alumni stadium. 
both teams come into the matchup on a slump. The irish (5-3-2, 2-1-1 acc) have lost at home to boston college, 1-0, and then at michigan, 3-2, in the past week. The cardinals (5-4-1, 3-1-0) are also mired in a three-match losing streak. 
none of the players on the notre dame roster were in col­lege the last time the team lost two regular season games in a row, so they now find them­selves in unfamiliar territory. 
“it’s the same just now [as it was five years ago]. you’re playing a lot of tough games,” irish coach bobby clark said. “obviously, responding is the sign of a great team. let’s just say we it’s not something we’ve done very often. i’m not used to it, neither are the play­ers, this is a new experience. but i think it’s an experience we’ll — there’s a lot of pride in this team.” 
even though louisville has lost its last three games, clark said the team is still dangerous. 
“They’re a very good team,” clark said. “They’re a team i think that was maybe a high as fourth in the rank­ings and have dropped a little bit. They’re still a team that i think could be a Final Four team.” 
clark praised the cardinals as a “rhythm team” that thrives off winning the pos­session battle during its games. 
“They keep the ball very well,” clark said of the cardinals. “They play attrac­tively. They’ll get the ball, and their players can han­dle the ball well. They’ll get some dangerous people in the wide areas up front. They’ve got one very dangerous lad, no. 7 [sophomore midfielder andrew brody]. 
“They’re just a good all-around team. They’ve got good depth, and it’ll be a tough match.” 
see m soccer PAGE 19 





