The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 122 | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Coulter delivers Lincoln Day address 
Columnist and author speaks on health care reform, gun control and immigration 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
conservative political pundit ann coulter ad­dressed a standing-room only crowd at the carey auditorium of the hesburgh library on Thursday night as part of notre dame college republicans’ lincoln day event in a speech centered on health care reform, gun con­trol and immigration. 
coulter said the affordable care act, commonly known as “obamacare,” made the familiar american concept of health insurance illegal in the united states and instead instituted a welfare pro­gram funded by insurance premiums. 
“obamacare has made ac­tual insurance illegal,” she said. “insurance is … when a lot of people pay a small amount to a program, and then if catastrophe strikes, that will be paid for by the program. 
“hopefully you will lose your premium, hopefully you will not have a catastrophe 
see coulTer PAGE 5 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Political commentator Ann Coulter speaks Thursday evening in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. Coulter’s speech concluded the Notre Dame College Republicans’ Lincoln Day celebration. 


students meet policymakers 


Committee to 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
student body president lauren vidal and vice pres­ident matthew devine, both juniors, traveled to washington earlier this week to discuss the interests of the notre dame student body with policymakers as part of their involvement in this year’s atlantic coast conference (acc) student advocacy Trip. 
The trip, which drew representatives from 11 acc universities, focused pri­marily on the importance of federal funding to support undergraduate research and financial aid, devine said. 

“collectively, students were advocating the contin­ued support of research and filling what they referred to as the ‘innovation gap,’ in terms of developing coun­tries and looking at con­tinuing federal support of … research opportunities,” he said. 

event examines religion, 
WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish head coach Brian Kelly stands before a crowd at the unveiling of The Shirt 2013. He will reveal The Shirt 2014 at a ceremony Friday. 

spirituality and well-being 
The topic of federal fund­ing is one that is important 

unveil The Shirt to notre dame not only be­cause of the importance of research and financial aid to the university, but also because of notre dame’s sta­tus as a private university as well, vidal said. 
“notre dame has a lot of institutional funding from our endowment, especially when we’re dealing with stu­dent financial aid — a lot of 
see advocacy PAGE 6 


By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
This week’s explorato­ry spirituality session, spirituality monday, took place Thursday and exam­ined faith in the context of aging populations. 
senior biology major haley Koth shared her senior com­position project research findings at the saint mary’s center for spirituality-sponsored meeting. 
see evenT PAGE 6 

By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
The notre dame commu­nity will celebrate The shirt’s 25th anniversary with free food, entertainment and stu­dent discounts at the unveil­ing ceremony at the hammes notre dame bookstore begin­ning at 4:30 p.m. Friday. 
Junior John wetzel, presi­dent of The shirt project, 
said the ceremony would 
CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 
spotlight members of the 
Senior Haley Koth shares her composition research on spirituality 
notre dame community with 
and religion at a Spirituality Monday session on Thursday. 
performances from student groups. 
“The unveiling ceremony has been around since 2002, and it is always a great time for the community to come together,” wetzel said. “The event will feature fantas­tic performers including acousticafe, p-Fresh, the bagpipe band, irish danc­ers, pom squad, glee club, leprechaun legion, the notre dame cheerleaders and the 
see The shirT PAGE 7 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 baseball PAGE 20 men’s lacrosse PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                          peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What color do you want The Shirt to be? 

Bill Bloebaun 
freshman 
Keenan hall 
“gold.” 
Brendan Lesch 
junior 
Keough hall 
“red, white and blue. like america.” 
Chris Hubbard 
freshman 
alumni hall 
“gold.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Doug Randolph 
freshman duncan hall 
“blue.” 
Natalie Thomas 
freshman badin hall 
“gold.” 
Vince Cicciarelli 
junior st. edward’s hall 
“camo, please.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson vicky Jacobsen Email news@ndsmcobserver.com catherine owers Katie heit charlie ducey mary green 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Keri o’mara miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

“The Shirt” Unveiling Blue-Gold Spring Conference Cycling Meet with Blood Drive 
wei lin dan sehlhorst 

Hammes Notre Dame Football Festival Race Representatives Rolfs Sports Bookstore Notre Dame Stadium South Bend area from The Haitian Recreation Center 
4:30p.m.-6:15 p.m. All day 8:30 a.m.-2:15 p.m. Project 11 a.m.- 5:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

25th Anniversary of Irish civil war. Kick-off Hosted by ND cycling Geddes Hall Sign up at www. 
in the april 9 edition of the observer “The Shirt.” at 12:30 p.m. club. 4 p.m. givebloodnow.com. the acronym for the national 
Seeking volunteers. 
association for the advancement of 
Graduate Student Theater: Blood Mass in Spanish Four:7 Catholic 
colored people was mispelled. it is 
Mass Wedding Dillon Hall chapel Talk by Weston Smith Fellowship 
naacp. The observer regrets this 
Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing 1:30 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Cavanaugh Hall 
error. 

Heart Arts Center Celebrated by Fr. Joe 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Corpora. Former CFO of Celebrate with worship All students welcome. Lorca on lovers. HealthSouth. and song. 


Twelve-hour vigil to raise awareness for Syria 

By WEI LIN 
news writer 
students will pledge to give up their shut-eye this Friday to learn about the crisis in syria, to raise money to help catholic relief services (crs) bring aid to those in and around syria and to stand in solidarity with those who are suffering, junior sharia smith said. 
sleepless for syria, an event organized by the solidarity with syria coalition, will take place from 7 p.m. Friday to 7 a.m. saturday. The solidarity with syria coalition is a committee comprised of representatives from various student organizations and individual members. 
“i think what’s so cool about what we’re working on right now is that this was something started by matt, myself and other students just at the beginning of the year when we really realized that this was an issue that was striking a chord with us and that we were 
paid adverTisemenT 
concerned with,” smith said. 
smith said the solidarity with syria coalition provides its mem­bers with an opportunity to have conversations about the pressing issues affecting syria and enables them to act through the planning committee. 
Junior matthew caponigro said since the unrest began in 2011, the syrian civil war has killed over 140,000 people, stranded over 4.5 million syrians without homes inside the country and forced over 
2.5 million refugees to flee to coun­tries surrounding syria. Factions from both the government and opposition forces have been ac­cused of war crimes, consequently affecting syria’s innocent civilians caught in crossfire, he said. 
an inter-faith prayer will kick off the night, caponigro said. he said Fr. daniel groody, associate pro­fessor of theology and director of the center for latino spirituality, and imam rashied omar, re­search scholar of islamic studies and peace building at the Kroc institute for international peace studies, will offer prayers to com­mence the vigil. 
caponigro said groody also will speak about some of his ex­periences on the united states conference of catholic bishops delegation that observed the situa­tion of syrian refugees in fall 2012. 
caponigro said a living rosary will take place at midnight, during which participants will hold can­dles to represent each bead and place the lit candles on the ground at the front of the group to repre­sent the group’s continued prayers as the participants enter an hour of silence. 
Throughout the night, hourly reflections will feature guest speakers and their stories, as well as readings from the bible and the Quran that pertain to traveling populations and displaced citi­zens, caponigro said. 
manuel rocha, a senior involved with globemed, will talk about of some of the health issues in refugee camps that plague syrian refugees in particular, caponigro said. 
caponigro said Jennifer betz, the midwest coordinator for crs, will present on the organiza­tion and its work with refugees in Turkey, lebanon and Jordan, in­cluding the education programs they offer displaced children and the medical services they provide. 
The event will also feature mu­sical performances from various artists such as ameer armaly, a graduate student who will play the traditional levantine oud, which is a precursor to the guitar, caponigro said. he said notre dame alumnus and local singer-songwriter peter J. hochstedler will also be performing during sleepless for syria. 
The center for social concerns, center for civil and human rights, Kroc institute for international peace studies, the Kellogg institute for international studies, campus ministry, world hunger coalition, peace Fellowship nd, human rights nd, red cross club of nd, globemed, crs student ambassadors, st. edward’s hall, duncan hall, pasquerilla west hall, Keough hall and sorin college are co-sponsoring the event. 
elia’s mediterranean cuisine will provide food for the ben­efit dinner, which will include midardara, hummus, falafel and baba ghanoush, smith said. studebagels will also provide breakfast the next morning, she added. 
smith said sleepless for syria not only brings the notre dame community together but also holy cross college, saint mary’s college and the entire south bend community to stand in solidarity with syrians. 
caponigro said people can do­nate either at the event or online through notre dame’s online student shop. he said the goal of sleepless for syria is to raise at least $1,500. 
The planning committee was able to cover all the operating costs due to the support of the many co-sponsors and local busi­nesses, so every penny earned will go towards the crs, caponigro said. smith said the event had a large potential for fundraising and for drawing attention to the crisis. 
“every drop in the bucket counts; when we pool it together it really makes an impact,” smith said. “it gives me hope that my one little act can join with everyone else’s.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 

smc takes room picks online 
mary’s students can now choose 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor their dorm room for the following year online, since the office of with the click of a mouse, saint residence life moved the room 
paid adverTisemenT 


selection process online using the erezlife software system for the first time this year. 
director of residence life and community standards and vice president of student affairs Janielle Tchakerian said the of­fice decided to move the room selection process online for mul­tiple reasons designed to improve the experience for students. 
“we decided to move student assignments to an online process to allow for more transparency in the process [and] allow the stu­dents to self-select a roommate and a housing assignment in ac­cordance to what is most impor­tant to them,” Tchakerian said. 
“[The software] allows our stu­dents to be able to make changes to their applications themselves and [for] our students who are not currently physically on cam­pus during their room selection time to have control over their process instead of asking a friend to proxy for them,” she said. 
Tchakerian said the online pro­cess is similar to the old process of standing in line according to lottery number, but with the new system, students are given a spe­cific time slot according to their lottery number to pick a room online. 
“[erezlife software] has run smoothly, however we have slowed it down to make sure that staff are able to respond to ques­tions and provide individual counseling and advice with our first year students who may not be able to get the room type and/ or building they really wanted,” Tchakerian said. 
Junior nina vlahiotis said the new software is significantly more convenient for students. 
“i didn’t have to wait in line, and my lottery number was sent to me via email,” vlahiotis said. “i went online during my specific time and was able to view which rooms were taken.” 
vlahiotis said she understands issues with the new process if students don’t use it correctly, but she believes overall it has the potential to be convenient if used properly. 
“you are able to look at all the rooms that available and have 
[a] backup in case you didn’t get the room you wanted,” vlahiotis said. 
many desired rooms and buildings filled up quickly as the online software made the room­ing selection process move much smoothly, which has created some difficulties for rising sopho­mores, Tchakerian said. she said this issue isn’t related to the new online process. 
“we always reach a point with our rising sophomores where some options are completely filled and they need to choose a different option,” Tchakerian said. “This causes anxiety for those students as they need to choose an available room based on what is most important to them at that time.” 
vlahiotis said the software makes the room selection pro­cess easier and less stressful for students. 
“[erezlife] is easier to navigate online than running around a crowded room, scrambling to get the room you wanted,” she said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

student affairs recognizes student leadership 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
notre dame’s division of student affairs presented awards to seven students at the annual student leadership awards banquet on april 1, ac­cording to a university press release. 
senior Jenna ahn received the blessed basil moreau, c.s.c., leadership award for her work with campus ministry and the center for social concerns (csc). she has served as a lead­er in efforts to unite students working with both offices, the press release stated. 
“i think it’s essential that campus ministry work to­gether with the csc because the two, faith and justice, are deeply connected,” ahn said. “collaborating between campus ministry and csc reminds us to always be con­templatives in action . where what we contemplate will be put into action and where our actions will become forms of contemplation.” 
senior elizabeth Tucker, a four-year member of the var­sity women’s soccer team and two-time captain, won the ray siegfried award for leadership excellence, the press release stated. she has combined com­munity service with her athlet­ics, having her team adopt a patient from the local hospital and organizing tutoring at a lo­cal elementary school, Tucker said. 
“my junior year … i decided that it would be really cool to get involved with the Fighting irish Fight for life program, because it was a way [the soc­cer team] could adopt a little sister and bring someone in and bring so much happiness,” Tucker said. “it’s been really fun for me because i’ve gotten to know her very well.” 
senior Julia steiner, former editor-in-chief of scholastic magazine, won the denny moore award for excellence in Journalism. The magazine has devoted more attention to the topic of diversity under her leadership, the press release said. 
“i think it’s really interesting to not only understand the dif­ferences that we all share on the outside, but to strike up these conversations and to begin to understand how we all think differently, how we see the world differently,” steiner said. “… we did not have an outward push for diversity; it was kind of a thread that seemed to weave in throughout the year.” 
steiner said she also credits the magazine’s success to all of the staff. 
“i accepted [the award] indi­vidually, and i am proud of the work that i’ve done, but at the same time, it was really a group effort,” she said. “That’s prob­ably what i’m most proud of; scholastic won news magazine 
of the year for the second year “The monologues [in ‘show meetings for women to present in a row in the state of indiana.” some skin’] show that the writ-and hear research presenta­senior edithstein cho re-ers are human beings who have tions, the press release stated. ceived the inaugural diversity flaws and prejudices of their “you have this informal, and inclusion award for her own, alongside having their comfort way of talking to fac­role as co-founder and produc-own baggage that determines ulty and staff,” antonio said. er of “show some skin,” a stu-how they orient themselves. we “you get a different side of pro-dent production that aims to named our production, ‘show fessors; you’re eating lunch, shed light on students’ stories some skin,’ in order to chal-talking about what you do, your about difference and identity, lenge our community to dig family, your pets, whatever you according to the press release. deeper into their identity and want, and it’s not that con­
“i saw minority students on experiences to create a starting stricting, professional box that our campus talked amongst point for dialogue. ‘show some you are usually in. themselves and did a lot of skin’ is a form of art for social “as far as women in science problem identification on justice.” go, you’re able to unite people race issues, which is articu-Karen antonio, a doctoral in a very comfortable way that lating what is insensitive or student in the department probably would not have been racist,” cho said. “To go be-of biochemistry and chemis-available otherwise.” yond problem identification try, won the sister Jean lenz, senior alex coccia, student and to engage and change o.s.F., leadership award for body president emeritus, won how people engaged race, the her contributions in promoting the rev. a. leonard collins three of us [cho, senior hien women in science, technology, award, which is given to a se­luu and Jeeseun choi, class of engineering and mathemat-nior who has made large strides 2012] wanted to hear deeper ics (sTem) fields through her toward advancing the inter-narratives. organization of monthly lunch ests of notre dame students, 
paid adverTisemenT 


according to the student affairs website. 
coccia worked to improve the campus climate for lgbTQ students, undocumented stu­dents and students affected by sexual violence, the press re­lease said. 
“i want to ensure that all stu­dents feel welcome at notre dame, and breaking the silence on issues that create oppressive environments is the first step towards that goal,” coccia said. “ultimately, the student expe­rience is sacred, and we must ensure that we as students do all we can to create a welcom­ing environment for all.” 
To nominate a student for next year’s awards, visit the student affairs website. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 



of the affordable care act things that sound good on leader, democrat harry reid, “anchor babies,” foreigners 
Coulter 

would be almost impossible paper,” she said. “so now our couldn’t even get enough coming to the u.s. for the sole 
conTinued From page 1 

to explain to someone un-entire health care system is democrats to hold a vote on purpose of giving birth to strike, and your premiums familiar with the law. she going to be run by the people the so-called assault weap-their child on american soil, will go to pay for other peo-said it passed because the who run the department of ons ban,” she said. stems from faulty logic and ples’ catastrophes. That is democrats claimed a major-motor vehicles.” coulter said liberals cite violates the true purpose of not obamacare. obamacare ity in the senate. coulter said as public sup-“bogus statistics” in an at-the fourteenth amendment. is a welfare program, and “if an alien landed and port for the affordable care tempt to scare people away “The theory of anchor ba­money is collected via insur-said, ‘why did you people act has decreased, the only from guns, but she said she bies is ‘if i successfully break ance premiums.” pass obamacare?’ we’d democratic defense against refuses to believe their ar-into your house, i get to own 
coulter said the policies have to explain ‘because the criticism has been the lack of guments so long as liberals it. and if i don’t own it, then written into the affordable democrats had 60 votes,’” she a republican health care re-themselves continue to uti-at least my kids do, but don’t care act make it “the most said. “That’s it. This major form alternative. she offered lize “armed security,” such as punish the children, i told regressive tax in history.”“it change to our health care was her own solution based on bodyguards. them we own the house,’’ she is mathematically impos-passed with one party saying, free market competition. said. sible to have all insurance ‘ha ha, we’ve got 60 votes.’ “i have a plan,” she said. 
coulter said a shift in think­
“Liberals can’t 

companies cover everyone “it’s a little something i’ve ing has caused americans 
learn from what 
been working on. i like to call 
else’s smoking cessation pro-to view immigration in a 
“Never before has is right in front of skewed way. 

it free market capitalism. my 
grams, marital counseling, 
a major piece 
thought is we force insurance 
gambling addiction therapy, 

them: Anything “it’s this weird idea that’s aroma therapy, speech thera­
of legislation companies to compete for taken hold that it’s somehow 
provided on 
changing our business by offering good py, hearing therapy and have unfair for america to skim 
the free market 
plans at good prices.” 
insurance companies cover the cream to get the best im­
everyone’s life like 
coulter cited the tax code, 
people with very, very expen­gets better and migrants we can get,” she 

this been passed 
public education, the u.s. 
sive medical problems and cheaper. Anything said. “i think we ought to be on pure party-line postal service and social provide insurance to people bringing in people who are 

provided by the 
votes without a security, among other exam-who aren’t paying their own better than us, not worse 
government gets 
ples, as economically inef­
insurance premiums and than us. 
single vote from 
ficient results of government 
also cover me if i get cancer,” worse and more “what is the point of bring-

the opposing 
intervention. 
she said.coulter compared 

expensive.” ing in people who instantly the affordable care act to us-
party. ” “liberals can’t learn from need the taxpayers’ help? 
Ann Coulter 
what is right in front of them: 
ing car insurance to fund the we’re not talking about our 
Ann Coulter political commentator 
anything provided on the 
united states department of native americans here. we 
political commentator 
defense. 

free market gets better and know we have to take care of 
“it would be as if we fund-“never before has a major cheaper,” she said. “anything “as soon as politicians and them. why are we bringing in ed the defense department piece of legislation changing provided by the govern-these media bigwigs give up people we have to help?” through car insurance pay-everyone’s life like this been ment gets worse and more their guns or their armed se-coulter said the accusa­ments,” she said. “so every passed on pure party-line expensive.” curity, i’ll believe them when tions of racism inherent in month your premium would votes without a single vote coulter also addressed the they tell me that guns aren’t the immigration debate al­be $20,000, and your car in-from the opposing party.” issue of gun control, particu-helpful,” she said. “until most always misinterpret surance wouldn’t pay for coulter said the affordable larly in light of the shooting then, they’re like stockbro-the issue, as immigration both collision and liability. care act falls in line with at sandy hook elementary kers telling you to ‘buy, buy, ultimately harms african 
“either it would pay colli-the history of liberal politi-school in newton, conn., in buy,’ while they’re selling, americans. sion or liability, but it would cal ideology, which she said dec. 2013. selling, selling. “whenever this talk of im­buy car air fresheners for ev-leads to inefficiency. “after newtown, “i think americans know migration comes up, it is just eryone. That’s obamacare.” “The history of liberalism is [democrats] were all on their this. They know bald-faced shut down with the natural 
coulter said the passage replace things that work with high horses … but then senate hypocrisy when they see it.” invocation of the word rac­coulter said the issue of ism,” she said. “well, i agree, 
paid adverTisemenT 

gun control highlights her i think there’s a lot of racism belief that as people become in the immigration debate, more educated about a topic, but it’s all on the pro-amnes­the more conservative their ty side. views tend to be. “as has been shown in study 
“after all [the liberal] pranc-after study after study, what ing around after newtown … our immigration policy does one year after the shooting is bring in more than a mil-in newtown, support for gun lion people a year, 90 percent control was the lowest it’s from the third world, most of been in decades,” she said. them low-skilled. and who 
“and this is a corollary of does that hurt the most? it the ann coulter theorem that hurts low-skilled american the more people know about workers … but most of all it a subject, the more conserva-hurts african americans.” tive they are. what happened coulter said the debate after newtown is there was a would be altered if immi­lot of talk about gun control grants brought high-skilled on Tv, and people who had labor and were more compet­never given it any thought got itive in the labor market. to hear the facts, and support “i think if the immigrants for gun control plummeted.” we were bringing in were 
coulter said she wished competing with senators, gun rights advocates would with journalists, with yup-transfer their fervency into pies who need maids and the immigration debate. nannies, we wouldn’t hear 
“if only immigration patri-so much about compassion ots had the self-confidence toward the rest of the world,” of gun enthusiasts, i don’t she said. “no, it hurts the think we’d have to keep go-most voiceless in our society. ing through this amnesty “it’s one thing to apply debate every year,” she said. quotas to make up for the “The pro-mass-immigra-democratic policies of Jim tion people have the entire crow. it’s another thing to democratic caucus. have affirmative actions and 
“recently, they have the quotas for people who have media. They have many, never set foot in this country. many republicans on their we owe you nothing. if you side. The only special inter-have grievances, go back and est group the amnesty people address the perpetrators.” don’t have on their side are the american people.” Contact Jack Rooney at 
coulter said the concept of jrooney1@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Advocacy 
conTinued From page 1 
that comes from the institu­tion, more so than other acc schools that may be public,” she said. 
vidal said she and devine also used the opportunity to discuss other important cam­pus issues with indiana state representatives. 
“The acc focused on the idea of federal aid and what it means to students on our campus, but we also used the opportunity to speak directly [about] our school when we were in individual meetings with representatives from indiana,” vidal said. “we re-services mandate, which has ally tried to capitalize on been controversial not only that opportunity and speak for the university adminis­to the issues of notre dame tration, but for many students 
“The ACC focused on the idea of federal aid and what it means to students on our campus, but we also used the opportunity to speak directly [about] our school when we were in individual meetings with representatives from Indiana.” 
Lauren Vidal 
student body president 
specifically.” as well, devine said, especial-
a major issue they dis-ly those looking to enter the cussed with representatives medical field. was the health and human “[students’ concern] was something that i think hasn’t been addressed from the uni­versity level … but something that i think students are wor­ried about,” he said. 
vidal said the discussions that addressed student opin­ions of current issues at notre dame allowed congressmen to gain a better understand­ing of campus life and impor­tant campus issues. 
“[This trip] is a way for students to express the sen­timent on campus from a personal standpoint where legislators and individuals who work in washington, d.c., to represent schools of­tentimes … don’t have the direct connection to the stu­dents,” she said. 
This is the second year the acc has sponsored this trip to the nation’s capital. vidal said she hopes notre dame student government will con­tinue its involvement. 
“every year that they have been in existence we have participated, because we think it’s important as a university and as a student body,” vidal said. “it’s only the second year, but we hope to continue it. we think it’s a great opportunity.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 
Event 
conTinued From page 1 
while religion is, “the active expressing of spiri­tual beliefs through tradi­tions in an organized faith community,” spirituality is comprised of the “personal attitudes that come from be­lief in a higher power,” Koth said. They are considered separate from but can in­clude religion, she said. 
Koth sought to relate the two distinct terms with the help of 23 sisters from saint mary’s convent and 17 resi­dents of holy cross village, a senior living community. all participants but one identi­fied as catholic; one indi­vidual was protestant, Koth said. 
“i set up meetings with people who demonstrated interest,” Koth said. “we dis­cussed the benefits and the risks and the confidentiality and objectives of the study.” 
with the information from residents aged 60 through 100, Koth began to research the possible correlation between spirituality and health through a survey. The survey consisted of three parts, health and well-being, religion and spirituality, and basic information questions. 
when she concluded and began to analyze her re­search, Koth said she discov­ered  “people who reported significantly higher levels of religiousness and spiri­tuality also tended to report significantly higher levels of health and well-being.” 
Koth said it is important to note that “this [correla­tion] is their perception of their own health and it is not an actual measure of how healthy they are.” 
according to Koth, there have been more than 2,000 
paid adverTisemenT 
studies on religion and spiri­tuality in the last four years. 
“in many studies the two are combined into the term religious spirituality,” she said. 
Koth said she conduct­ed her research in a short time period and she won­dered how the results would change if her study contin­ued through a time span of multiple years. 
“it would be interesting to see whether a person’s spiri­tuality fluctuates along with changing health over a pe­riod of time,” Koth said. 
Koth, a biology major with minors in chemistry and religious, has studied both fields and brought them to­gether in her research. 
“i kind of look at religion and spirituality from a sci­entific type of standpoint,” she said. 
The next event in the spirituality mondays se­ries will take place monday in the student center. Jill vihtelic, professor of busi­ness and economics, will discuss spirituality and global business. 
Contact at Macaila DeMario mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 




The Shirt 
conTinued From page 1 
[marching] band.” 
wetzel said he expects a large turnout at the unveil­ing ceremony due to favor­able weather and student discounts. 
“we’re expecting a couple thousand students, alumni, faculty, staff and commu­nity members to show up for the unveiling this year, espe­cially if the weather is as nice as predicted,” wetzel said. “students will also receive 15 percent off up to two shirts that they purchase at the un­veiling ceremony.” 
marketing manager and se­nior catherine simonson said the local frozen yogurt shop let’s spoon and barnaby’s pizzeria would provide catering. 
in addition to the entertain­ment lineup and free food, simonson said attendees could participate in multiple other activities before irish coach brian Kelly officially unveils the new shirt at 6 p.m. 
“we’re offering a couple different interactive booths, such as face painting, a guess­ing station allowing people to predict the color before it’s unveiled — which is all polled through Twitter, a photo booth where we’ll be bringing out all the previous shirts and allowing people to try them on or hold them up and take pictures with their favorites 
— 
a really rare opportunity to see the whole collection 

—
 and a color stations allow­ing guests to design their own shirt templates.” 


along with expansions to the unveiling ceremony, The shirt committee has broad­ened its media presence for the 25th anniversary, simonson said. 
“we’ve really bolstered our social media,” simonson said. “we created an instagram ac­count over the summer and have used that as a central platform for growth. right now, we’re finishing up a scavenger hunt we’ve been running for several weeks now via all of our social me­dia platforms, including a newly designed website.” 
according to fresh­man committee member mackenzie smith, the social media outreach aims to high­light the charitable impact of The shirt, which helps to fund student activities. 
“one of our goals for the year was to promote what ex­actly The shirt project is and where the money goes,” smith said. “most people don’t know that the proceeds from buy­ing The shirt go straight back to the students and to campus through our The shirt charity Fund and the rector Fund.” 
simonson said she hopes the 25th anniversary edition of The shirt will excite notre dame fans and sell in record numbers. 


“This year’s shirt takes on a whole different vibe than any of the previous years’ and we’re really looking forward to showing it off,” she said. “i’m predicting significantly higher sales than last year, which sold 156,000. i’d love to hit 160,000 or higher.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

hhs secretary sebelius issues resignation 
washingTon, d.c. — obamacare law. The open-unpopular with many budget, to replace sebelius. deflecting republican calls embattled health and ing weeks of the enroll-americans and republicans burwell was unanimously for her resignation. but human services secretary ment period were marred by have made it a centerpiece confirmed by the senate for she was conspicuously not Kathleen sebelius is resign-widespread website woes, of their efforts to retake the her current post. standing by his side last ing as the white house seeks though the administration senate in the fall. a white house official re-week when he heralded the to move past the election-rebounded strongly by en-sebelius’ resignation quested anonymity to con-sign-up surge during an year political damage in-rolling 7.1 million people by could also set the stage for firm sebelius’ resignation event in the white house flicted by the rocky rollout the march 31 deadline, ex-a contentious confirmation and burwell’s nomination rose garden. of president barack obama’s ceeding initial expectations. hearing to replace her. in a ahead of the formal an-The official said the signature health care law. enrollment has since risen sign that the white house nouncement. obama has not 65-year-old sebelius ap­
sebelius’ resignation to 7.5 million as people were is seeking to avoid a nomi-nominated anyone to replace proached obama last month comes just over a week af-given extra time to complete nation fight, the president burwell as budget director. about stepping down, telling ter sign-ups closed for the applications. was tapping sylvia mathews obama remained pub-him that the sign-up dead-first year of insurance cov-even with the late surge burwell, the director of the licly supportive of sebelius line was a good opportunity erage under the so-called in sign-ups, the law remains office of management and throughout the rough rollout, for a transition and suggest­
ing he would be better served 
paid adverTisemenT 


by someone who was less of a political target. 
a spokeswoman for sen. pat roberts, a republican from sebelius’ home state of Kansas, called the resig­nation “a prudent decision” given what she called the total failure of obamacare implementation. 
sebelius dropped no hints about her resignation Thursday when she testified at a budget hearing. instead, she received congratulations from democratic senators on the sign-up surge. 
a popular former governor of Kansas, sebelius has been one of obama’s longest-serv­ing cabinet officials and his only hhs secretary. she was instrumental in shepherding the health care law through congress in 2010 and imple­menting its initial compo­nents, including a popular provision that allows young people to stay on their par­ents’ insurance plans until age 26. 


radio gal 
Emily Kefalas 
news writer 

up until may 18 of last year, i had never used my phone to make actual calls more than once an hour. anxious to please fresh out of high school, i was well aware that i was pushing myself completely out of my comfort zone after those first five calls to city officials asking for their availability. 
“hello. yes, may i please speak with representative mitchell? do you happen to know at what number i may reach him? This is emilie Kefalas from Talk 101 Fm with busboom and wolfe.” no matter how many times i had to say this one line, i nev­er grew tired of proclaiming it. For the first time, i had a title other than “student.” 
“yes. ok. could you please? i would greatly appreciate that. Thank you very much. you too. ba-bye.” This formula for contact was, as i would discover several phone calls and emails later, the typical exchange of dialogue amongst colleagues swimming in the same communal pool of business interaction. a community such as decatur, ill., requires everyone to cross paths at least once in order for any produc­tivity to ensue. 
This internship, however, owed my thanks to communal connections. i would learn to place this reality on a mental ped­estal of recognition and observe its signifi­cance every time i felt the urge to call in ill (which meant wanting to sleep in). 
nothing punctures my memory more vividly about that moment i realized how much responsibility lay in my possession than that midday coffee with my mother at wildflour bakery. Two old-fashioned chairs with red cushions reflected the sun’s stare while i frantically scrolled through my phone’s google search to find email ad­dresses, phone numbers, secretary’s num­bers and secretary’s assistant’s numbers, all in pursuit of booking six different guests for the week’s remaining shows. 
The lack of salary did not dampen my momentum. i had a job to do. letting scott busboom down was equivalent to disturb­ing the deep end of the communal pool. if he thought my skills to be inefficient and lacking in any urgency, word would quickly ripple to the water’s edge. 
now that i recall that day and setting, though, i am reminded of a greater gamble, a jeopardy with stakes slightly elevated above the height of the billboard telling decatur to “wake up with busboom and wolfe!” 
The listeners. why i cared about busboom and wolfe’s ratings as much as busboom and wolfe did not exactly puzzle me as much as it motivated me to rise to an unexplored level of greatness  in my own mind. proving myself was my personal mile marker, one that would be reached every time i booked the next big name, the impossible “get’s.” getting the impossible was worth it. For loyal listeners, it provided relevancy and intrigue. For me, it unof­ficially officially baptized me as a go-getter. and a radio gal. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
opportunities for conversation and dialogue are constantly available in many forums, especially on the internet. it is incredibly easy to comment on a viral video, show symbolic cyber support by liking a status or jump into an argument about controversial issues. 
however, when participating in any type of conversa­tion — particularly in an online setting — it is vital to keep in mind that the gift of this connectivity must be utilized in a productive and respectful manner. it be­comes dangerously easy to abuse the chance to type exactly what we feel when we believe we are protected behind a computer screen and the veil of anonymity offered by the internet. it becomes especially sensi­tive when it happens in a relatively small campus community. 
we are not suggesting the notre dame community should avoid arguments and fear conflicts. in fact, we urge everyone who feels passionate about something to speak out. ask difficult questions. research the topic, read up on the issue. Formulate your opinion, and maybe even write a letter. make a genuine attempt to listen to and understand the other side of the story. learn something. 
we would like to challenge all those at notre dame to engage in dialogue in a way that is respectfully aware that those on the other side of the argument are fellow human beings and not just fingers on a keyboard or let­ters on a page. They are our friends, classmates and pro­fessors alike. 
while it is easy to get caught up in the heat of a dis­agreement, we must not allow emotional responses to cloud our rationale. likewise, we must not dismiss le­gitimate, well-grounded arguments as being merely the result of emotion. 

when faced with an opposing perspective, it is conve­nient to focus on one potentially  problematic aspect of the argument, which consequently blinds us to the over­all message. This sort of refusal to see beyond our own stubborn, one-sided position creates an insurmountable obstacle towards any future constructive conversation. a willingness to respond must also include a willingness to listen and to understand. 
whether we jump into a debate in the line at starbucks or in the online comment section of a viewpoint column, we must remember to approach any issue with a tone of empathy, awareness and respect, allowing room for nei­ther unfounded animosity nor ignorance. 
as part of our final editorial of this school year, we set forth the hope that all in our community will be willing to work together towards becoming informed, open-minded participants in all future discussions. more im­portantly, we ask our fellow students to remain conscious of the fact that people are much more than the title of the clubs they belong to, the positions they take on the issues that divide us or even the alias they assume online. 
we all are challenged by our own experiences, and we are all too easily limited by our own perspectives and forget to appreciate the experiences of others. 
we all walk the same campus grounds each day. This weekend, we will once again unite as a campus to partic­ipate in the long-held traditions, including the blue-gold game. we hope events such as these may remind us that, despite our differences, we are all bound by the history, tradition and strong sense of community that unites us as notre dame. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“before we get too depressed about the state of our politics, let’s remember our history. The great debates of the past all stirred great passions. They all made somebody angry ... what is amazing, is that despite all the conflict, our experiment in democracy has worked better than any form of government on earth.” 
Barack Obama 
President of the United States 




The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Let’s have a conversation together 
when i was little, i hated math. it was unfamiliar and didn’t make sense to me. my father, a chemical engineer, was as­signed the task of helping me understand the concepts. although my father is a man of great patience, i always seemed to try that patience when we would work through problems together. The concepts were so simple to him, and he sometimes couldn’t see why i just didn’t get it. in return, i fought against learning math because sometimes i felt judged for not understanding something i had never been exposed to before. since basic math is necessary for functioning in society, my father persisted out of love and consideration for my personal development. he found new, relatable ways to present in­formation, allowing me to see from a differ­ent perspective. and i grew more receptive, eventually understanding enough to make it into what i consider one of the finest univer­sities in the country. From these memories, considering the situations occurring on campus right now, i can extrapolate several important elements forgotten in the debates occurring. 
First, there is nothing inherently wrong with ignorance. in first grade, i was igno­rant about mathematical concepts, and, as a child, this was understandable. often, ignorance is also understandable given an individual’s background. according to the merriam-webster dictionary, ignorance is “a lack of knowledge, understanding, or educa­tion.” many people judge those who make comments out of ignorance. however, christ calls us to instruct the ignorant. ignorance is an invitation . for education and for asking someone to consider something in a new way. although statements made in igno­rance can be hurtful and offensive (and are in no way justified or acceptable), the cor­rect response is not anger and hatred. even when difficult, we must begin a respectful dialogue. Judgment and anger breed defen­siveness and resentment, halting all forward progress. rather than making sweeping accusations and assumptions about an individual or group, begin asking “why?” Finding out why a person holds certain be­liefs is key to identifying misunderstandings and initiating change. incredibly sheltered upon my arrival at notre dame, i held beliefs about groups of people that i now realize were ignorant and unfair. but i had only been exposed to one perspective, and i had honestly never thought to question the infor­mation given to me by adults. new informa­tion widened my perspective in a way that attacking my opinions never would have. no one responds well to condescension and judgment, especially when they might not even realize that there is another reasonable side to the argument. 
This being said, bigotry is unacceptable, and, by definition, cannot exist within re­spectful dialogue. bigotry is separate from ignorance. a bigot is “a person who is obsti­nately and intolerantly devoted to his or her own opinions and prejudices.” only after re­jecting attempts at respectful dialogue with­out fair consideration does one become a bigot. There is no point engaging in an argu­ment with a bigoted person because a logical argument implies a search for truth, and a person “devoted to his or her own opinions and prejudices” has already found his or her truth; all that remains is to stay respectful, while declining unproductive dialogue that will only serve to further spread intolerance. 
second, finding common ground is es­sential. my father had to get creative when he taught me. it was important enough for me to understand that he tried new ways of presenting the information until something finally made sense. consider the person next to you, those in your classes, your dorm. all of these people have their own unique stories, but we are also united in our human­ity. as we engage in debate, let us not forget this common humanity. creating an “us vs. them” mentality only tears apart our com­munity, deepening the wounds preventing us from reaching a common understanding or at least loving and respecting one another. look into your hearts, your lives, your faith, your academic interests, your geeky hobbies or your taste in music (Try disney movies, those are a pretty good bet). chances are, the person shares something with you that will humanize them. when we humanize rather than generalize, we empower ourselves to remain respectful despite difference in opinion, because we see the other person as an individual. 
Third, we must be receptive to new infor­mation. i had to be willing to learn math, although it was unfamiliar and uncomfort­able. in order to avoid bigotry, we have to be open to dialogue. dialogue is “an exchange of ideas or opinions.” That doesn’t mean one side telling the other side what to believe. both sides must recognize that they might not have all the answers. The beauty of dialogue is seeking truth together, not beat­ing someone over the head with an ideol­ogy. The emphasis on “i’m right and you’re wrong” is shouted so loudly that it drowns out all else. even for conflicts that have no resolution because of a fundamental differ­ence in understanding, there is something to be learned from opposing views, and respect remains necessary to make progress. we can learn so much from realizing that we are not always right. in fact, we’re often wrong. but by engaging with multiple perspectives and remaining open to new and valid ideas and opinions, we fulfill the true purpose of a university and can move forward together. i firmly believe we have the potential to find much greater peace through education and unceasing dialogue. 

while all problems and misunderstand­ings in the world are not as simple as explaining why 3/4 is bigger than 5/8, the problems we have placed on the table at notre dame are so much more important. They are among the defining issues of our generation, and discussion on such issues makes me incredibly proud of our wonder­ful university. everyone wants to defend his or her beliefs, and we are striving to shape the world we live in. however, the hatred and vitriol i have seen directed towards other members of our notre dame family in some of the viewpoint articles and their comments both sadden and disappoint me. our collective ignorance cries out for understanding. love one another by educat­ing one another; don’t contribute through belittlement to the hatred you are trying to prevent. i know we, as a student body, are capable of so much more, and i challenge those who decide to speak up to do so with respect and openness, as well as humility. let us not begin to shout louder and louder until we are a sea of incoherency, unable to hear truth that is spoken. instead, let’s begin a conversation together. 
samantha lessen junior lewis hall april 11 

salad bowls: a reflection on race 
“as i was in south dining hall, feasting on corned beef and cabbage, garbed in green and surrounded by an emerald brigade of students and staff, i realized something. although the u.s. celebration of the feast of st. patrick is a commemoration of irish culture, i think it’s only fitting that we also remember the great american immigrant experience in general, of which we are all grateful beneficiaries. whether it has been war, famine, or just the prospect of a better life, our forefathers (and foremothers) all made the calculated decision to leave their home countries to reach these shores lined with so much promise. we are a nation of immigrants, a rich patchwork of races and cultures, and it makes sense that we eat, drink, and be merry on this particular day. so i tip my hat to all migrant families, work­ers, and their progeny. Today, we’re all irish (whether ethnically or “Fighting”), and today we celebrate all those who came before so that we who walk in their footsteps might pursue the american dream.” 
in this Facebook status of 176 words, i attempted to encapsulate the overwhelming sentiment of notre dame community pride i felt on st. patrick’s day. Today, the campus is no longer celebrating, but is boiling over like a pot of the steamed cabbage, the same cab­bage which we had just dined on four weeks ago, but now embroiled in a controversy about a lady in red. 
The united states has been described as a melting pot of peoples, a cultural chowder, a populist potage and a brotherly broth. The melting pot is a metaphor describing the americanization of immigrants, obliging them to lose whatever makes them differ­ent for the sake of assimilating with the rest of the country. The national identity, our collective “americanness,” had to be pre­served and so that is why newcomers had to speak english to the detriment of their native tongues and why many had to adopt westernized dress. This melting-pot mental­ity is also why my grandmother, who be­came a u.s. citizen a few years ago was asked whether she wanted to change her name (“divina gracia corpuz llanes”) to some­thing a bit more homogenized (which she, thanks be to god, refused, replying in her characteristic proud manner that her name reflects her catholic faith and means “divine grace” and “body of christ.”) 
while i do contend that melting-pot im­agery does indeed have its benefits, i prefer the more contemporary idea that the united states is a salad bowl. The salad bowl refers not to a nutritional vegan utopia, but to a society wherein diversity is celebrated and not merely tolerated. salad bowl symbolism recognizes that ethnic groups will be tossed around, yet never subsumed into a particular one — slicing and dicing stereotypes and garnishing them with the flavorful croutons of coexistence. “americanness” should not be measured by how similar we all are to each other, but by the diversity that renders our great nation unique. ours is a common patrimony of frontier folklore and patriotic practices, a national heritage made more complex and beautiful by the rich diversity of its citizens. i certainly agree that we should do our very best to promote the traditions that distinguish the united states, but to do so in a manner which does not actively eradi­cate our differences or ignores their existence altogether. 
as a member of the diversity council of notre dame, i actively choose to celebrate all forms of diversity. it would be foolish for us to consider “diversity” as applying only to non-whites. while many individuals on campus do hold this belief, this is an atti­tude that ignores the distinctive differences between germans and spaniards, between the French and the polish, between russians and italians. The diversity council wel­comes all perspectives to our meetings and events, as do the so-called “racially exclusive special interest clubs,” which compose the board. yes, it is true that with names like “national society of black engineers” or “latino student alliance,” the cultural clubs may appear to dissuade those who do not fit their categories from joining. The cultural clubs should not, however, be reduced to mere gatherings of people who look the same. all are welcome to participate in such student organizations and experience the sense of belonging they offer to those who may feel different. as a campus community, we should attempt to better understand this nebulous notion of “being different” which affects one half of the university and seems to be irrelevant for the other half. 

i write as a registered republican and a Filipino-american wanting to express the importance of conducting a frank dialogue about diversity and inclusion. i write as a californian who grew up in one of the poor­est cities in america, in the central valley heartland cultivated by generations of Filipino and mexican migrants. i write as a concerned notre dame student who rec­ognizes that the fruit of the ongoing debate about ann coulter is that people are now willing to talk about race relations. it is true we no longer live in an age of rampant racism, but we should not remain stagnant in the opposite extreme and pretend that we have already established a society free of cultural stigmas and prejudices, a post-race utopia. 
so go on: cry wolf and awaken others from their slumber of indifference. be bold and let your opinions, your prejudices and your ideas out. risk being correct and risk being corrected. a dialogue can only be mutu­ally transformative if we engage each other through an honest exchange of experiences. 
prinz Jeremy llanes dela cruz junior morrissey manor april 11 
The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

elkhart’s lerner Theatre will be hosting pop singer/songwriter gavin degraw next week after recently re­turning to the u.s. from an inter­national tour earlier this year. The platinum-earning musician will be accompanied by openers parachute and rozzi crane at the april 15 show. 
degraw has just released his fourth studio album, “make a move,” in october 2013 to largely positive re­views. The album’s first two singles, “best i ever had” and “make a move,” both have made appearances on the billboard charts in the last six months, and the album peaked at no. 10 on the 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

if you’ve been paying any atten­tion to pop culture in the last couple months, you’ve almost certainly heard the oscar-winning song “let it go” from “Frozen.” if you follow buzzFeed, you’ve almost certainly seen numerous adaptations and versions of the songs. one of the most popular is sam Tsui’s mash-up of the hit with passenger’s “let her go.” 
on Friday, notre dame students will have the opportunity to see the youTube celebrity live at legends. The asian american association and legends are hosting Tsui as part of the “springboard music Fest,” which featured yelawolf on Thursday and will feature vicetone on saturday night. 
Tsui is known particularly for his covers, most recently of bastille’s 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
u.s. charts. 
but this isn’t degraw’s first show­ing on the charts. The musician burst into the pop scene in 2003 with the release of his debut album, “chariot.” The album sold more than one million albums and put degraw on the map as a pop figure with three hit singles, including “i don’t want To be,” which gained fame as the theme song for “one Tree hill” and hit number one on pop charts. The debut album’s sec­ond single, its title track, also went platinum and established degraw as a hitmaker. 
degraw followed up his debut with a remarkably successful sophomore album, a self-titled lp that debuted at no. 1 in digital sales in 2008. after 
“pompeii” and Jason derulo’s “Talk dirty.” Tsui started posting his top­40 covers to youTube while studying at yale. some of his most popular cre­ations are mash-ups like the “let it go/ let her go” video, which has over eight million hits. 
recently, Tsui has released his first album, titled “make it up.” The album was financed through a Kickstarter campaign he ran with his producer and longtime classmate, Kurt schneider. in an interview with “The wrap, Tsui said he chose not to work with record labels in order to maintain creative control on the album. 
“i’m not opposed to working with other writers in the future, but what has drawn people to me is that when they watch a video, whether it’s a cover or an original, they know there is no middle man. it’s a direct to audience kind of releasing a collection of live record­ings a year later, degraw continued his prolific streak with “sweeter,” his third studio lp, in 2011. “sweeter” also proved to be a success, especially its single “not over you,” a songwrit­ing collaboration with onerepublic’s ryan Tedder that became a Top 40 hit. now with the recent release of his fourth studio album, degraw has demonstrated his staying power in the pop charts. 
degraw will be joined by parachute, a band based out of charlottesville, va. after releasing a third album in 2013, the band has toured, playing their pop-rock music with bands such as The script and goo goo dolls. 
also opening for degraw is rozzi 
thing,” Tsui said. 
Though his original intent was to get involved with musical theatre, his youTube covers and mash-ups led him down the path of pop music that is now bringing him to perform at notre dame. 
The songs from his original album are available on his youTube channel (ThesamTsui). Three of them feature original music videos. Tsui said in the interview with The wrap that his time doing covers has helped find what works for him as an artist. 
“my writing voice is a little quirkier, more singer-songwriter-y than the top­40 stuff i cover. it was still heavily influ­enced by the fact that i’ve spent three years doing covers; it gave me expo­sure to songs from diverse genres and i learned what worked for me in songs.” 
his mash-ups of popular songs in­clude ones of “Timber” and “counting crane, the first artist signed to maroon 5 frontman adam levine’s label. described by “Teen vogue” as a “rock star in training,” she is an up­and-coming singer/songwriter to look out for in coming years. 

The lerner Theatre will be hosting degraw, crane and parachute on april 15 at 7:30 p.m. To purchase tickets for the gavin degraw concert, go to www. thelerner.com, call the lerner Theatre at 800-294-8223 or visit the lerner box office at 110 s. main st. elkhart, ind. a student discount is available, and for more information about this discount, contact the box office. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at                                   atollaks@nd.edu 
stars,” and another of “payphone” and “Telephone.” in conjunction with schneider, Tsui has become known for his annual medleys of popular songs from the year. The 2013 medley features songs like “we can’t stop,” “what does the Fox say,” and “mirrors.” 
sam Tsui’s show is sure to feature a fun mix of his covers, mash-ups and original work. For those familiar with his work, it will be fun to see some of his most popular hits live and for those who aren’t, i suggest roaming his youTube channel for a couple minutes. you’re sure to find something you like. 
Tsui will be performing at legends at 10 p.m. Friday. admission is free for notre dame and saint mary’s students with an id. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATTHEW McMAHON 
scene writer 

Filmmaker and renaissance man spike Jonze cultivates emotional reso­nance in the strangest places. his team-ups with charlie Kaufman, the most adept and peculiar writer in cinema, have seen tremendous heartbreak and consciousness despite — or, more ap­propriately, through — absurd, surreal premises. with 2013’s spectacular “her,” Jonze continues his streak of unrivaled filmmaking in his first individual di­recting and writing effort. 
The film opens with the first of many subversions, as Jonze explores his new­est playground. anyone vaguely famil­iar with the plot of “her” seeing it for the first time assumes they are being plant­ed into the middle of the story; instead, Jonze slowly introduces main character and personalized greeting card writer Theodore Twombly (Joaquin phoenix), along with the extremely intimate, close-up direction employed through­out the film. despite the dramatic sub­ject matter, Jonze naturally weaves in tinges of humor, like in his previous works, by examining the conventions and implications produced by the world he created. 
and so masterfully do Jonze and com­pany create this setting. a near-future los angeles appears just beyond the modern world’s reach, very aestheti­cally sleek — as usually imagined of the future — with a smooth, warm pal­ette, cinematographically. similarly, the magnificent swelling-yet-mini­malistic score perfectly accents the re­fined moods of every scene. still, when Twombly heads home from work after the first establishing scene, everything looks and feels subtly bleak, like the advancements to technology have put everything at society’s fingertips, ex­cept they have stripped away humanity and social connection — Twombly jokes with a friend, “i can’t even prioritize be­tween video games and internet porn,” but we know this to be a more sobering statement of fact. 
Through a series of face-tracking shots, Theodore uses a crowded eleva­tor, rides a full train and walks down a lovely, expansive bridge against a sprawling l.a. skyline. however, like the direction suggests, he’s completely alone, assumedly just as each other per­son is around him. he whispers to his earpiece — a more developed version of apple’s siri — asking for a melancholy song, browses the news and checks his email. it is all rigidly formulaic, as though Twombly has mopily followed this routine every commute for a long time. 
Quickly we learn Twombly has gone through a separation with his wife, catherine (rooney mara), and he buys the latest operating system upgrade for his earpiece to sort out his life — an operating system capable of conscious­ness. The tonal accuracy of the flash­backs revealing his relationship with catherine is unparalleled, and mara takes command of a brief but scene-stealing role. in mourning of the two’s falling out, Twombly recalls only the fond memories, idealizing his relation­ship — and thus hanging himself up on it — to paralyzing effects. phoenix’s careful reactions and line readings of­ten play a quiet grimness, which Jonze expertly captures by keeping the cam­eras fixed on the actor’s face, though off-centered to underscore Twombly’s lack of companionship. 
when Twombly installs the new os — selecting a female identity — a hesitant, raspy but distinctly human voice greets him. her name, he asks, is samantha (scarlett Johansson) — a response he receives in no time, but by her explana­tion that she read an entire book and settled on the name, he learns the abso­lute depth of the os’s programming. as the premiere accompaniment for each other, Twombly and samantha quickly bond, relying on each other as confi­dants, ostensibly always there for each other. 
at first the two have a playful friend­ship: Twombly laughs, “i can’t believe i’m having this conversation with my computer,” when discussing dating with samantha. she tellingly replies, “you’re not! you’re having it with me.” soon, samantha’s increasing curiosity and dutiful utility coupled with Twombly’s newfound excitement bring the two closer, eventually beginning a romantic relationship and professing their love. 
Jonze uses the futuristic conceit to comment on and critique the effects of today’s technology. people have the means to always reach one another, giv­ing them the ability to connect much more rapidly and expedite relationships. however, this constant connection is also caustic, creating unrealistic expec­tations and worrisome uncertainty with even the briefest moments of noncon­tact — and this sentiment does not only apply to relationships, but for anything we become reliant on and immersed in technology. 
Twombly and samantha’s relationship experiences many of the same stages as any human relationship, blurring the nonhuman aspects of the os, while si­multaneously highlighting them. There’s the honeymoon phase, the subsequent fallout, the settling-in turned to compla­cency that could break down when faced with any kind of wrench and the attempts to salvage. in this case, the two face very opposing issues attached to their states of being: samantha yearns to evolve, not constrained by the limitations of humani­ty, while Twombly, stunted by his human­ity, rehashes the difficulties he saw with his wife. 
These pangs come to a head when both have pivotal interactions with those outside the scope of their very in­sular relationship. only after Twombly meets with catherine again does he remember their struggles, for some of which he was responsible. he has his issue and seeking comfort in a rapidly advancing os might not help him ad­dress them. meanwhile, samantha sees the disparities between humans and artificial intelligence through con­tact with other operating systems. in a gradual and beautifully implicit turn of realization, she determines not only is the relationship holding her back from technologically evolving, but equally it is holding Twombly back from emotion­ally evolving. 
spike Jonze fully commits to every concept he tackles in his work. someone falling in love with his or her os may seem implausible, but the earnest angle Jonze takes in portraying the relation­ship suspends the absurdity and al­lows acceptance. as a result, the film is a timeless, intimately personal conver­sation about relationships and coping, while concurrently discussing burgeon­ing, perhaps unconsidered, current and future implications, ethics and morals concerning our society’s interactions with and through technology. 

human beings are finite. They are imperfect, flawed and are bound to make mistakes. They do not have all the answers, nor the ability to search for them in milliseconds. realizing this and finding those you can love despite 
— nay, because — of those qualities is what a relationship of any nature truly boils down to. This takes mutual ef­fort, collaborating to evolve together in ways that people are compatible. These differences complicate Twombly and samantha’s relationship and would do so to any human-operating system re­lationship. Their relationship — in ad­dition to Twombly’s job writing other people’s emotionally weighty cards — also underlines the inherent risk pres­ent interacting with others solely online or, rather, not face-to-face. either per­son can gather skewed or unrealistic representations of the other because both have the ability to shape, put for­ward and even view idealistic versions of themselves or one another. 
at its emotional core, still, “her” shows that pain is not the end; pain might re­main a necessary component in heal­ing, but it is far from the end on which to dwell. as Twombly walks up to the roof of his apartment building with his good friend amy (amy adams, outstand­ingly playing a hybrid optimist/voice of reason for Twombly), he’s relieved of his pervasive os, free to experience his surroundings and connect with other, similarly free, humans. This final sub­version in Jonze’s futuristic love story provides a slight, uplifting end, offering hope for the flawed humans, incapable of the transcendence of their artificial counterparts. melding all of his varied, complex ideas into not just a clear and digestible, but immensely enjoyable, movie, Jonze has created another one of the most thought-provoking, stunning and all-around well-made films in re­cent cinema. 
“her” is playing on campus as the sub movie of the week.  The movie is show­ing Thursday-saturday in debartolo 101, and tickets are $3. 
Contact Matthew McMahon at                   mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

noah should be more appreciated 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
not much is pretty about bull’s center Joakim noah’s game. his jump shot spins like a tornado, and he runs like a baby giraffe tak­ing its first uneasy steps. with his unruly hair, gap-toothed grin and awkward rendition of a finger-guns celebration, noah has more in common the typical energy player than the stereotypical nba star. yet despite his gangly appear­ance and arguably ugly style of play, noah has surpassed all ex­pectations to become one of the top players in the league. 
drafted seventh by the bulls af­ter leading Florida to back-to-back championships in the 2006 and 2007 ncaa tournaments, noah’s lack of bulk and underdeveloped offensive game elicited concerns that he may have peaked at the college level. luckily for the bulls, after a rocky rookie campaign noah soon developed into a dou­ble-double machine and defensive menace, with his passionate, loud style of the court jiving well with young star point guard derrick rose’s more reserved approach. 
The bulls hired Tom Thibodeau in 2010, and the defensive mas­termind’s system quickly estab­lished a new identity in chicago: accountability, teamwork and intensity. no one represented this better than noah, who became the lynchpin of the defense using his quickness, length and leader­ship. since noah and Thibodeau’s union, the bulls have finished top-two in fewest points allowed per game each season, including a first-place mark of 91.6 this season. The suffocating defense headed by noah and small forward luol deng paired with derrick rose’s ascension to mvp status allowed the bulls to capture the number one seed in each of Thibodeau’s first two seasons. 
Then derrick rose tore his acl, chicago bowed out in the first round of the 2012 playoffs and doubts began to set in again. with rose out, the bulls seemed rudderless, lacking an offensive presence to complement their defense. in the face of adversity, noah responded with his finest season yet, averaging career-highs in points, rebounds, assists, blocks and steals, with 11.9, 11.1, 4.0, 2.1 and 1.2, respectively. Those totals drove the bulls to a fifth-seed in the east, and earned noah his first all-star berth and a spot on the nba all-defensive first team. 
rose returned for a short and unsuccessful comeback this sea­son, but the bulls limped out to a 14-18 start, leading chicago’s front office traded leading scorer deng to the cavaliers in an attempt to free up cap space. other than noah, the team was made mostly of journeyman veterans or inexpe­rienced youngsters, and all but the most die-hard fans to write off the bulls’ chances at contention. Few expected what happened next. since the deng trade, chicago is an amazing 32-14, and are tied for third in the eastern conference. 
even without rose and deng, the bulls have been able to perse­vere due to the magnificence of noah. he’s maintained his stal­wart defense and rebounding skills, but also demonstrated im­proved range on his jump shot and his unique passing skills for a big man after taking over as the focus of the bulls’ offense. noah current­ly is besting his career-highs with 
12.6 points and 11.2 rebounds, and his 5.2 assists per game are more than any forward or center in the league not named lebron or durant. That unique vision has also enabled him to tie lance stephenson for the nba-lead with four triple-doubles on the season. The fourth came Tuesday in the bulls’ 102-87 win over minnesota, during which noah also broke chicago’s franchise record for as­sists in a season. 
out of the shadow of rose and deng, noah is starting to get the appreciation he deserves, earning mvp chants from his home crowd and a place on the mvp ballot of voters like espn’s chris broussard. prior to the bulls’ march 13 matchup against howard and the rockets, houston coach Kevin mchale said noah deserved to be picked as defensive player of the year. 
“he should be defensive player of the year,” mchale said. “They’ve been winning a lot just on his en­ergy and effort, determination and confidence.” 
That night noah proved mchale’s point, coming just an as­sist shy of a triple-double while ha­rassing howard into a subpar line of 14 just points, 10 rebounds and a whopping seven turnovers. 
noah would give away all the praise and accolades in a heart­beat in exchange for an nba championship, however. he even asked fans to stop chanting mvp for him, claiming that rose is the mvp even in injury. This team-first attitude in what Thibodeau said sets noah apart in an often selfish league. 
“he doesn’t care about his own statistics,” Thibodeau said. “he just cares about winning. To me, that’s what separates him from most.” 
so while noah’s game might be ungainly, nba fans should enjoy their chance to watch the bulls’ center’s distinctive combination of passionate aggression, precision passing, defensive prowess and all-consuming desire to win. above all, noah should act as a reminder that in basketball, sometimes ugly can be beautiful. 
Contact Casey Karnes at       wkarnes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GOLF | The masTers 

Haas leads after round one 
Associated Press 
augusTa, ga. — no nerves. no worries. adam scott never knew the opening round at augusta national could be so enjoyable. 
with his green jacket upstairs in the locker room for masters champions, scott made only one bad swing that cost him two shots in a round of 3-under 69. it was the lowest opening score by a defending champion in 13 years, and it left scott one shot behind leader bill haas on an otherwise demanding day. 
“it was really how you hope to come out and play at any ma­jor, and especially the masters,” scott said. “and there’s no doubt winning the masters last year had me a little more comfort­able on the first tee than i’ve ever been in the past, because i didn’t have the legs shaking and nerves jangling for six or seven holes like usual.” 
haas, with a rich family his­tory at augusta that includes a green jacket for his great uncle bob goalby, settled down after an opening bogey with a collec­tion of good birdie putts and an 8-iron to 5 feet for birdie on the 18th for a 68. 
it was the first time in 18 ma­jors that haas has had the lead after any round. That only gets him a crystal vase for the low round of the day at the masters. haas knows better than to put too much stock into what hap­pens Thursday. he was lead­ing after the opening round in houston last week and tied for 37th. 

“There’s tons of golf left,” he said. 
only one first-round leader in the last 30 years has gone on to win the masters. 
Former masters champion bubba watson, who slipped that green jacket on scott last year, played his first bogey-free round in a major since the 2009 u.s. open and shot a 69. so did louis oosthuizen, whom watson beat in a playoff at augusta. 
They were the only players to break 70, the fewest for an open­ing round at the masters since 2007. 
“no one is really going crazy out there in perfect, perfect con­ditions,” graeme mcdowell said after fighting to salvage a 72. 
but there was something about the way scott played that grabbed most of the attention on such a gorgeous spring day in the south. golf has been waiting for a star to take control all year, even more without Tiger woods at augusta for the first time in 20 years because of back surgery. 
scott was in control of his emo­tions and his game all day — ex­cept for once. 
walking over to the heart of amen corner, the fans behind the 12th tee rose in unison to cheer the champ. 
“The memory that will stick with me forever today was walk­ing up to the 12th tee and every­one getting out of their seats as i approached there,” scott said. “it was great, the level of respect that everyone has for this golf tourna­ment and what happens here. 
“but then,” he said with a smile, “i went and hit it in the water.” 
scott’s tee shot bounced off the front slope and into rae’s creek — amazingly, he said it was his first shot into the wa­ter on that hole — and he made double bogey to fall out of the outright lead. he picked up a birdie on the 14th, and three-putted for par on both the par 5s on the back nine. 
still, there were few complaints. 
augusta national officials knew this would be a gentle day of weather, and it was clear they made sure the course was any­thing but that. The hole loca­tions were severe for an opening round. with endless sunshine, the greens became firmer and quicker by the hour. 
so many others paid the price. 
Jason dufner took a quadru­ple-bogey 9 on the 13th hole with only one penalty shot. The worst of his woes was a wedge from the drop area that didn’t even make it to the creek. he wound up with an 80 in his first round in a major since winning the pga championship last summer. 
he was in good company. phil mickelson had a pair of 7s on his card for the first time in five years at a major, and his 76 matched the highest opening round at augusta for the three-time masters champion. u.s. open champion Justin rose shot 40 on the front and scram­bled for a 76. 
NCAA HOCKEY | union 5, bosTon college 4 

union heads to ncaa final 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — daniel ciampini broke a third-pe­riod tie with the second of his three goals to help union beat boston college 5-4 in the ncaa hockey semifinals Thursday night. 
The dutchmen (31-6-4) advanced to the final for the first time. They will face the minnesota-north dakota winner in the championship game saturday night. 
mat  bodie  and mike  
vecchione  also  scored  and  
colin  stevens  made  34  

saves for union, the small, liberal arts college from schenectady, n.y. 
Johnny gaudreau, steve santini, ryan Fitzgerald and patrick brown scored for 

FOR RENT 
3 Bed house for rent $850, 574-302-5312 
boston college (28-8-4). 

ciampini broke a 2-2 tie on a power play at 6:31 of the third period, tipping in shayne gostisbehere’s one-timer from the point. 
only 18 seconds later, union’s matt hatch was given a major penalty and game misconduct for check­ing scott savage from be­hind into the boards, giving boston college a 5-minute power play. 
The eagles failed to score, and vecchione gave union a two-goal advantage with 8:07 left off a rebound after goal­ie Thatcher demko stopped Kevin sullivan on a break­away attempt. 
with demko off for an ex­tra attacker, Fitzgerald cut it 4-3 with 1:45 to go. ciampini restored the two-goal margin with an empty-net goal with 
1:09 left, and brown com­pleted the scoring on a power play with 4.2 seconds to go. 
union improved to 21-1-1 when it scores at least four goals. 
gaudreau put the eagles on the board less than 4 minutes into the first period, scoring on a rebound in the crease off Kevin hayes’ initial shot for his ncaa-leading 36th goal. 
union tied it on bodie’s slap shot from the top of the right circle 2:39 into the second. eight minutes later, ciampini put back a quick rebound off a faceoff win to give union a 2-1 lead. 
santini countered for boston college with 4:07 left in the second. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOOTBALL/COMMENCEMENT/ Did you know ... Abraham Lincoln SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL. Great moved to Indiana when he was 7 years location -next to Eddy Street old. He lived most of his boyhood life in Commons. Call 574-360-6910 Spencer County with his parents. 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to host three teams during weekend 


paid adverTisemenT 
Observer Staff Report 
after losing three of their last four matches, the irish hope to return to the winner’s circle against two acc opponents this weekend at their home eck Tennis pavilion. The no. 12 irish (14-8, 4-4 acc) face miami at home on Friday and host Florida state and valparaiso on sunday. 
in their most recent match, the irish were upset on the road by north carolina state, losing by a 4-3 margin in raleigh, n.c. against the wolfpack, the irish found themselves in a deficit after dropping the point in dou­ble play. senior greg andrews, ranked no. 20 in the country, se­nior ryan bandy and freshman eddy covalschi all won their singles matches what was even­tually a losing effort for the irish the losing effort. 
The hurricanes (13-8, 3-5 acc), coming off a four-loss skid of their own, are also seeking re­gain traction as their enter the final stretch of the regular sea­son. both teams have dropped recent matches against acc foes duke and north carolina. The irish, currently 4-4 in acc play, will need to beat miami to re­main above .500 in conference playing. 
Florida state (15-9, 3-5 acc) will also enter competition hav­ing lost its last four acc match­es. The seminoles fell at home to the Tar heels and blue devils on april 4 and 6, respectively, both by the score of 5-2. 
The seminoles will head to notre dame with two players ranked in to top 100 for indi­vidual play. seminole juniors dominic cotrone and christian gonzalez mendez are ranked no. 84 and no. 100, respec­tively. notre dame’s team also features two players ranked nationally: andrews and soph­omore Quentin monaghan, who is currently no. 89. before sunday’s matchup with notre dame, Florida state is slated to face boston college on Friday afternoon. 
valparaiso (15-6, 1-2 horizon league) enters the weekend on a mini-losing streak. last weekend they fell on the road to green bay, 6-1. before fac­ing the irish, the crusaders will play detroit on Friday. after this weekend, valparaiso still has three more regular season matches before they compete for the horizon league postsea­son championships. 
after this weekend, notre dame will head to massachusetts on april 19 to face boston college at the Flynn recreational complex. The match will be their regular sea­son and conference finale be­fore the squad will head to the acc championships in cary, n.c., april 24-27. 
NCAA HOCKEY 

Union advances to championship 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — daniel ciampini and tiny union college are thriving on college hockey’s biggest stage. 
ciampini broke a third-period tie with the second of his three goals to help union beat boston college 5-4 in the ncaa hockey semifinals Thursday night. 
The dutchmen (31-6-4) ad­vanced to the final for the first time. They will face minnesota — a 2-1 winner over north dakota in the second semifinal— in the champi­onship game saturday night. 
“when i came in here as a fresh­man, there were goals set, but our ultimate goal was not to win the national championship that year,” said ciampini, now a junior. “it’s just been growing each year.” 
mat bodie and mike vecchione also scored and colin stevens made 34 saves for union, a liberal arts college in schenectady, n.y., with only 2,200 students. 
Johnny gaudreau, steve santini, ryan Fitzgerald and patrick brown scored for boston college (28-8-4), trying to make its fifth title game appearance in eight years. 
ciampini broke a 2-2 tie on a pow­er play at 6:31 of the third period, tipping in shayne gostisbehere’s one-timer from the point. 
“i got very, very lucky,” ciampini said. “shayne blasted my stick away there — it broke on the tip. it’s good that i can produce.” 
only 18 seconds later, union’s matt hatch was given a major penalty and game misconduct for checking scott savage from be­hind into the boards, giving boston college a 5-minute power play. 
“we were pretty sure if we kill that, we get the momentum,” gostisbehere said. 
sure enough, he was right. 
The eagles failed to score and, only seconds after the power play ended, vecchione gave union a two-goal advantage off a rebound after goalie Thatcher demko stopped Kevin sullivan on a break­away attempt. 
“They’re a great shot-blocking team,” brown said. “i was in front and i couldn’t even see the puck because they had two or three guys in the lane every time.” 
“we just never quite got in sync on that major penalty,” boston college coach Jerry york said. 
paid adverTisemenT 




TRACK AND FIELD 

 Notre Dame races to Kentucky for Border Battle 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame will compete at the border battle in Kentucky this weekend after a drive to the university of louisville. 
This marks the third week­end of the outdoor season for the irish, and while the men’s team is currently unranked, the women are no. 22 in this week’s poll. 
last weekend, both squads travelled to the stanford invitational in stanford, calif. There, notre dame runners posted some of the best times ran thus far in the outdoor season, with eight irish athletes posting times that rank in the top 10 in the ncaa. This includes two 400-meter dash runners with top-five times, senior pat Feeney (second fastest overall with a 45.56 run), and junior chris giesting (fourth place, 45.62). graduate stu­dent nick happe, meanwhile, leads the entire ncaa in the 5000-meter run with a time of 13:43.55. 
when the irish travel to the border battle this week­end, they’ll be competing in a manner unlike their previ­ous events this season. notre dame and louisville will team up to compete against indiana and purdue in a battle of future-acc teams against big Ten schools. 

paid adverTisemenT 
after the first few week­ends featured long plane-rides to warm locations such as Texas and california, this weekend will be the first road trip of the outdoor season for the irish. while some storms are forecasted for Friday and saturday, the tempera­ture projects to be in the 70s all weekend. The relatively short trip to Kentucky will allow the irish to take more athletes than their previ­ous two events. as a result, 30 female athletes and 29 males will travel to team up with louisville at the border battle. 
The irish and cardinals shall join forces against indiana and purdue all day Friday and saturday at the border battle in louisville, Ky. 
ROWING 


irish compete in Folsom, calif. 

By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after nearly a month off, no. 9 notre dame will return to action in warmer weath­er in Folsom, calif., for the lake natoma invitational. The regatta, just outside of sacramento, will be the first of three straight week­ends the irish will be in competition. 
“i think we’ve seen some signs that people were get­ting antsy during the last eight to ten days,” irish coach martin stone said. “now i think we’ve planned it out so we know in advance 
paid adverTisemenT 
that it is tough coming back from the west coast and then immediately training again. we will see what we need to do and quickly make the adjustment for the next race.” 
notre dame is coming off a strong showing in the oak ridge/cardinal invitational, where they swept west virginia and split their six races with louisville on the first day of competition. 
The following day, the irish took home three more victories. The team was pleased with their showing, but wanted to compete bet­ter against no. 3 virginia, stone said. 
This weekend, the irish will face a strong group of schools that will provide a great gauge for the com­petition they may see in the ncaa championships. notre dame will compete saturday morning against no. 4 usc and Kansas, and in the afternoon against no. 1 california and oklahoma. The irish will close sunday with no. 7 stanford and no. 20 san diego. 
“This is a level of competi­tion we will only see in the ncaas,” stone said. “we’ll have raced three of the top 10 teams in the country — pretty special.” 
This regatta will be unique in that the irish will not race against any atlantic coast conference foes. 
despite the switch from the big east, where notre dame won 11 straight con­ference titles, to the acc, stone says the goal has not changed. 
“we want to win confer­ence titles and ncaa titles,” stone said. “i don’t think the acc is that different, and we raced those teams anyway in the past.” 
as the irish prep for their big weekend out west, con­fidence seems to be running high, stone said. 
“The team is in a good place, they’ve worked really hard,” stone said. “it’s going to be a pretty fun time.” 
The lake natoma invitational begins with racen saturday in Folsom, calif. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish host Virginia Tech for senior day 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish senior Jennifer Kellner returns the ball during Notre Dame’s 4-3 loss to Georgia Tech on Feb. 21. The Irish have swept their last four matches and have taken the doubles point in each game. The matchup against Virginia Tech will also serve as senior day for the Irish. 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
looking to continue their recent surge, notre dame wel­comes foe virginia Tech on Friday afternoon in the final home match of their inaugural year in the acc before travel­ing to north carolina state on sunday. 
The irish (12-8, 4-6 acc) are on a roll as of late, winning their last four matches by a combined score of 28-0, in­cluding last weekend’s sweeps of maryland and pittsburgh. The irish have won seven of their last nine matches, with the only two losses coming on the road at the hands of now no. 4 virginia and no. 3 north carolina. despite their recent hot streak, the irish dropped from no. 20 last week to no. 26 in the polls this week. 
with the weather forecast for Friday looking pleasant, it is possible the irish and the no. 64 hokies (11-9, 3-7 acc) could meet outside Friday af­ternoon. it would only be notre dame’s second home match played outdoors due to the late spring, after the victory over pittsburgh last sunday. ideally, the majority of spring matches would be played outdoors, said irish coach Jay louderback. 
“we don’t get a whole lot of home matches outdoors, so when we get the opportunity to get outside at home it’s very nice,” louderback said. “if we end up hosting at the ncaas, we play out[side], so it’s good to get some matches outdoors at home.” 
while notre dame has played outside on road trips this season prior to last week­end, many schools in the acc have been able to play in the sun for a couple months now. since the irish have flip-flopped between the faster inside game and the slower outdoor game a number of times now, louderback sees his team being able to transi­tion and play either game fairly well now. 
“we’ll be out[side] one day and then indoors two … i think we’ve had to do that so often that adjusting for us is get­ting easier,” said louderback. “outside you have to be a lot more patient with the ball, points last longer.” 
in addition to battling the elements, another part of the game the irish have been bat­tling all season has been the play of their doubles teams. There have been eight different pairs who have seen acc play­ing time for the irish, with the only mainstay being the pair of senior brittany sanders and sophomore Quinn gleason. however, louderback’s tinker­ing with the teams may have unlocked something for the irish, having won the doubles point in all four matches of their current win streak. 
one such key has been the emergence of the doubles duo of junior molly o’Koniewski and freshman mary closs. The pair played together for the first time last weekend, win­ning their two matches by a combined score of 16-3. 
“molly’s really solid off the ground, doesn’t miss returns, lobs well,” louderback said. “mary has a great serve and cuts balls off really well, so they complement each other really well.” 
another key for the irish of late has been their depth in the singles lineup. at the four, five and six positions, the irish have fared pretty well all sea­son, with closs, classmate monica robinson and sopho­more Julie vrabel seeing the most playing time. 
“we won a lot early, too, but now i feel like we’re playing even better at four, five, six,” louderback said. “Julie vrabel had a lot of three-setters ear­lier. she won a lot of them, but now she’s starting quicker. you start getting match tough from playing a lot, and i think all three of those guys have done a great job as the season’s gone on.” 
The irish will continue to 
paid adverTisemenT 
draw on this depth and dou­bles improvement Friday at 
3:30 p.m. as they look to win their final regular season home match against the hokies at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 




W Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 20 
only two goals in the contest against virginia. This sea­son, Fortunato has totaled 33 goals, a team high for the irish. Fortunato and senior midfielr margaret smith were both named second-team midsea­son all-americans. smith is fourth in notre dame history in draw controls and is on the watch list for the Tewaaraton award, given to the nation’s best lacrosse player. 
The irish will also be look­ing td junior goalkeeper allie murray to anchor the irish defense. murray had ten saves in the game against virginia. 
duke enters the contest cominy off a 13-11 loss to boston college on saturday. 
mcmullan said the irish are mentally prepared to take on duke tonight. 
“duke is a great team,” mcmullan said. “we have spent all week preparing for them. … i think if we stick to the game plan our coaches have set up for us, we should come out on top.” 
The irish are in action Friday at 7 p.m. against duke at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 

belles trump bethal, 7-2, in conference match 
margaret Faller and andrea edged out of a close game, Fetters led the way, both Jackie Kjollede, who was 
Observer Staff Report 

Fetters led the way with an losing 9-7 after going up 7-6. with comfortable 6-2, 6-2 trailing in the first set, came 
The belles returned to 8-3 victory, and this was mary catherine Faller also victories. back to win her match in winning ways yesterday quickly followed by anoth-ended up on the losing end elliot continued the win-another super tiebreaker with a convincing 7-2 win er convincing 8-1 win from of an intense singles match, ning streak with a 7-5, 6-2 (10-5). over local rival bethel. The freshman sam setterblad just falling short 10-6 in the win in the fourth singles The belles hope to con-belles (7-5, 2-1 miaa) began and junior shannon elliott. super tiebreaker. however, match while sexton over-tinue in this form in their strongly in the doubles, win-unfortunately, senior st mary’s were able to pull came a second-set deficit to senior day conference match ning two of three matches. mary catherine Faller and off five other singles wins. win 6-3, 6-4. against alma at 1 p.m. on 
The sophomore pairing of junior Kayle sexton were again, margaret Faller and in a similar fashion, junior saturday 

MLB 

yankees top red sox, 4-1 
Associated Press 
new yorK — This much is clear: michael pineda had a dark substance smudged on his pitching hand during his first win for the new york yankees. 
pine tar or dirt? we might never know. 
pineda took a two-hit shut­out into the seventh inning, and Jacoby ellsbury hit an rbi single off old roommate clay buchholz in his first game against the boston red sox. The yankees’ 4-1 vic­tory Thursday night left a bit of a mystery: were pineda’s pitches plain old nasty, or was something more sinister involved? 
“it’s dirt,” pineda said. “between the innings, i’m sweating too much, my hand. 
i’m putting dirt — i’m grasp­ing the dirt. ... i’m not using pine tar.” 
ellsbury drew all the pre­game attention after switch­ing sides in the rivalry during the offseason. but it was the dark brown, seemingly tacky substance on the lower palm of pineda’s right hand that be­came the focus. 
close-up camera shots showed pineda (1-1) pitching during the early innings with something on his hand, and there was speculation it was pine tar to help him get a bet­ter grip on a chilly night. The game was never stopped for an umpire to examine him, and it whatever it was, it was gone by the fifth. 
“i became aware of it in the fourth inning through the video that someone had seen,” red sox manager John Farrell said. “and then, when he came back out for the fifth inning, it looked, based on where it was told to me it was located, it looked like the palm of his right hand was clean.” 
yankees manager Joe girardi essentially repeated the same answer five times during his postgame news conference. 
“i never saw it. There’s noth­ing really for me to talk about,” he said. 
making his first yankee stadium start 27 months after he was acquired from seattle, pineda appeared completely recovered from the shoulder surgery that sidelined him for two years. Throwing at up to 95 mph, he allowed four hits, struck out seven and walked two. 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 20 
man-up goal opportunities. The irish may outperform the colonials with an aver­age of 11.56 goals per game and a record of 21 for 37 on man-up goal opportunities, but corrigan said that the colonials will still be a chal­lenge for his team’s defense. 
“robert morris is anoth­er team that like us plays a smart controlled offense with a lot of great skill,” corrigan said. “with a lot of great of­fensive players on their team, we need to make sure we are playing really sound defense to force them into bad shots and turnovers. “ 
in addition to playing sol­id defense, the irish offense will also need to apply con­sistency to its efforts to get past the colonial defensive front. 
“at the other end, we need to be aggressive in the of­fensive opportunities we are getting,” corrigan said. “we need to continue to be pro­ductive there and get better in our 6-on-6 play, which has been our most inconsistent thing this season.” 
senior midfielder Jim marlatt, junior attack man conor doyle and sophomore attackman matt Kavanagh lead the irish offense. in the past two games, the irish offense has been slow to start in the first half and in­stead has made strong runs starting in the second half. against duke, the irish only tallied two goals in the first half, but managed four goals in the fourth quarter alone, while against marquette on Tuesday, the irish scored five of the last six goals. despite the appearance of a weak of­fensive start, the explosive­ness of the irish attack in the second half is exactly what corrigan said he expects from his team. 
“part of the slow start is that of a function that we get better as game goes along, and within each game our decision making gets better,” corrigan said. “could we get off to a better start? yes. i would like to see us playing a more competitive energy at the beginning, but what we aren’t doing is taking our­selves out early in games. 
“you have to be careful for what you wish. if we get too aggressive, that could lead to more mistakes.” 
with that approach, and their main focus on build-about balanced consistency, The irish host robert ing smart decision making, corrigan said. morris on saturday at arlotta the irish cannot afford mis-“we need to find the right stadium at 1 p.m. takes against robert morris balance of energy and prepa­that arise from fundamen-ration early and continue to Contact Kit Loughran at tals. saturday’s game is all get better as game goes on.” kloughr1@nd.edu 


second baseman Tiffani for him at this point.” a team batting average of 
Softball 

brown has scored the most 
Baseball 
during his senior season .225 and a team era of 4.31, conTinued From page 20 
conTinued From page 20 

runs for the seminoles, with 
and aoki’s first as a head those marks are below notre 49 on the season. 
coach, Frates hit .242 with dame’s team batting average waldrop boasts a 0.83 era. For the irish, junior out-
to raise awareness for it and five home runs, 27 rbi and of .248 and team era of 3.35. waldrop was also named fielder emilee Koerner 
for pete.” 12 stolen bases. “[The eagles] play really acc softball pitcher of the leads in runs and home runs 
before beginning his ca-“This weekend means a lot hard and they’ve gotten some week on monday. with 32 and eight, respec­
reer at notre dame (12-20, to me, and we’re just trying good pitching performances, senior pitcher laura tively. sophomore infield­
1-14 acc) four years ago, to raise some money for peter in particular, out of their top winter leads the irish from er micaela arizmendi has 
aoki coached at boston to cover his medical costs two guys, [junior right-hand­the circle with a 2.11 era earned 29 rbis to lead notre 
college (10-22, 2-13 acc). and help him in his battle ed pitcher] John gorman in 21 appearances. winter dame in that category. 
when aoki began as an assis-to raise awareness of this and [redshirt sophomore has the opportunity to looking ahead, the irish 
tant at boston college, Frates disease,” aoki said. “he has left-handed pitcher] andrew meet and pass the 100-win have less than a month left 
was beginning his freshman tackled it head-on. he’s been chin,” aoki said. “Those two benchmark this weekend. in regular-season play. The 
year. Frates became aoki’s such an inspiration in the are certainly capable of shut-she currently sits at 98 ca-majority of the remaining 
first captain during his first way that he has gone about ting anybody down. i would reer victories, and two 17 games — including this 
season as the eagles head this. it would have been re-say [boston college] pitch it wins will make her the first weekend’s series — will be 
coach. “[Frates is] just a phe-ally easy and really under-fairly well; they’re struggling pitcher in irish softball his-played at home. 
nomenal kid from a phenom-standable for him to just go a little bit at the plate; they tory to hit the century mark The irish have the op­
enal family; a really, really, into his shell and feel sorry defend it okay.” in this category. portunity to add three 
really good kid and a high-for himself about this thing, Though both teams have winter will pitch against more tallies to the win col-
energy kid,” aoki said. “he but he hasn’t. he’s taken the struggled in the acc, com­a squad of seminole batters umn sunday and monday. 
would fit on the notre dame absolutely opposite of what-bining for only three wins, who have outscored their op-acc tensions will heat up 
campus just the same way ever that would be. he’s a kid the teams combine for 19 ponents 290-70 in 43 games. at melissa cook stadium 
he did on the boston college that i love dearly, and i want non-conference wins. redshirt junior short-when the irish take on the 
campus.” to help him and his family to “i think they’ve been com-stop maddie o’brien leads seminoles on sunday at 12 
started in 2012, the pete the best of my abilities.” petitive all year long. i think Florida state with 57 hits, p.m. and 2 p.m. and again 
Frates #3 Fund has had a va-Though both teams have they’ve been very similar to 16 home runs, and 64 rbis. monday at 7 p.m. 
riety of fundraising events continued to place an em-our tale, a lot of close games o’brien was also named acc 
over the years, including phasis on Frates and this where they’re right on the softball player of the week Contact Christina Kochanski 
plunge 4 pete, a december cause, boston college and doorstep but haven’t been on monday. redshirt senior at ckochans@nd.edu 
dip into chilly gloucester, notre dame still do face each able to walk through, so i mass., water. other as an acc matchup. think it’s one of those things 

“The foundation’s fund “obviously this is a team where we have to go there, that we have goes in large that’s struggled a little bit in we have to worry about our-part to trying to raise aware-the conference but they’ve selves and play well.” ness as well as covering his pitched pretty well and we’ve The first game will be medical costs,” aoki said. “at pitched it pretty well from played today at 8:05 p.m., this point he needs an auto-time to time, so i think it will followed by a 3:05 p.m, mated wheelchair, he needs be a good, competitive se-game on saturday and a 2:05 a computer that allows him ries,” aoki said. “obviously p.m, game on sunday. all to continue to communicate there’s a little bit of a rival-three games will be played with the outside world be-ry factor between bc and at chicago state university cause that’s becoming more notre dame, the two major baseball stadium in chicago, and more difficult for him. football-playing catholic ill., where all ticket revenues There’s a ton of costs, things universities in the country. will go directly to the pete that you and i take for grant-we’re going to continue to Frates #3 Fund. ed, like changing our clothes get better, more like the team and brushing our teeth and we were [against michigan].” Contact Aaron Sant-Miller things that people have to do Though boston college has at asantmil@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: stand up and be counted. show what you have to offer and don’t shy away from the limelight. be prepared mentally and physically at all times and you will be able to take advantage of opportunities that come your way. This is a proactive year that must not be overridden by unexpected setbacks. Face challenges head-on and proceed. your numbers are 4, 7, 15, 24, 26, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do your best to achieve your goals. show how competitive you can be. attract attention and make new friends who are just as enthusiastic as you are. socializing with progressive people will lead to long­term alliances. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep a low profile and work diligently toward your own goal. avoid telling others how to do things or you will end up with an enemy, not an ally. concentrate on self-improvement and doing a good job. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take part in things you enjoy and you’ll bypass some troubles that can develop with someone at work. a lack of honesty is apparent and can lead to poor choices. make positive changes at home as well as personal improvements. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): build your resume and add to your skills and knowledge, and it will be easier to deal with the changes occurring at work and within your industry. stability should be your concern and moderation your safety net. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): strive for perfection. your ability to see situations from all sides will help you mediate any disagreement or debate that arises. a change in position will help you build a strong portfolio and improve your standard of living. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): go over what’s happening in your life. don’t let your finances get you down when a strict budget and greater control over family or domestic spending will get you back on track. a business partnership must delegate responsibilities before you move forward. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Tread carefully when dealing with friends, family or partners. put time and effort into getting your chores out of the way and living up to any promises you made. you may feel like making a personal or physical change, but be wary of a sales pitch that promises the impossible. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make positive changes at home and follow through with creative endeavors. expand your circle of friends to include those who share your interests. love is on the rise and a positive twist to the way you treat someone special will benefit you. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do what you can to improve your surroundings. social activities will bring you in touch with someone you find appealing. get physical and improve your health and overall appearance. an emotional problem will surface if you haven’t been upfront. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your communication to a minimum. go over personal papers, contracts, settlements or any research you require to make a decision. avoid arguing with someone unwilling to budge. look for innovative ways to get your way. incentive and compliments will help. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): use what you know to advance. express your interests and set up interviews or talks with those in a position to help you reach your goals. aggressive action will bring results and position you to do well on upcoming projects. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make your moves with precision. The research you do will make a difference to the way you view what’s going on around you. a partnership will stabilize your position and encourage you to expand your interests. romance is highlighted. 

Birthday Baby: you are quick to respond. you are intelligent and generous. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BASEBALL 

Irish face Boston College in emotional series 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
when notre dame and boston college meet in chicago for a three-game se­ries, the games will be about more than baseball. all the ticket revenue generated from the series will be donat­ed to the pete Frates #3 Fund, a foundation set up by former boston college outfielder and current director of baseball operations pete Frates. in march of 2012, at the age of 27, Frates was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclero­sis (als), also known as lou gehrig’s disease. 

“[als] has really begun to take a physical toll on him, the way that this horrible disease does,” irish coach mik aoki said. “so we’re us­ing the weekend and trying ALLY DARRAGH | The Observer 
Irish junior pitcher Matt Ternowchek throws a pitch during Notre see baseball PAGE 18 Dame’s 6-2 victory over UIC on April 2, 2013. 

ND WOMEN’ SOFTBALL 

notre dame hosts Florida state 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 

The no. 23/25 irish host no. 7/8 Florida state in a three-game series this weekend at melissa cook stadium. 
The two acc rivals face off sunday at 12 p.m. and 2 
p.m. and again monday at 7 p.m. 
The irish (24-8, 5-3 acc) are coming off of a two-game series sweep of an­other acc rival, the north carolina Tar heels. This tri­umph marks the first time the irish have swept an acc team this season. 
when Florida state (38­5, 15-2 acc) faced the Tar heels (21-18, 12-7 acc) in late march, the seminoles claimed victory in all three games of the series. 
Florida state is coming off of a loss to no. 8/6 Florida. The defeat marked the end of a 17-game winning streak that dated back to mid-march. The seminoles have not lost two consecutive games this season. 
This weekend’s games present an opportunity for irish coach deanna gumpf to add her name to notre dame’s record books. with a victory in any of the three games against the seminoles, gumpf will tie former baseball coach paul mainieri for second-most all-time wins in irish base­ball and softball. 
in order to beat the seminoles, the irish have to best Florida state’s ju­nior pitcher lacey waldrop (25-3). waldrop is the seminoles’ leading pitch­er with 30 appearances, 
see soFTball PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

duke to visit arlotta stadium 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after dropping their last two games against acc op­ponents, the no. 10/11 irish attempt to end their confer­ence season on a high note when they take on no. 7 duke on Friday at arlotta stadium in their second-to-last acc matchup of the season. 
The irish (8-5, 1-4 acc) en­ter the contest coming off a close 11-10 loss to stanford on march 29, followed by a 13-8 loss to virginia on saturday. 
sophomore attack Kiera mcmullan said the irish have struggled with shooting in the losses. 
“we haven’t been shooting well in the last few games,” mcmullan said. “against virginia we were held to one goal in the first half. This week we really have gone back to the basics and worked a ton on finishing our shots.” 
in addition to shooting, the irish struggled to control the draw during their matchup with virginia. The cavaliers won 13 of the draw controls in the second half, while notre dame took only four. 
as they look toward duke (8-5, 2-2), mcmullan said the irish need to return to the ba­sics of irish lacrosse. 
“i don’t think we’ve been playing our style of lacrosse,” mcmullan said. “we have let the other team gain a lead early on, and it’s difficult to play catch-up the entire game. i think we need to go back to controlling the game and playing notre dame lacrosse.” 
against duke, the irish will be relying on several key players. Freshman attack cortney Fortunato has been a consistent powerhouse for the irish, though she scored 
see w lacrosse PAGE 17 
MEN’ LACROSSE 

ND welcomes Robert Morris 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish face off against robert morris on saturday at arlotta stadium in a mid-season non-conference contest. 
The no. 10 irish (5-4, 2-2 acc) look to capitalize on their home field advantage over robert morris (5-6, 2-3 northeast conference) to secure their second win of the week.  after falling 15-7 to acc-rival duke (9-2, 3-1) on saturday, the irish quickly recovered with a 12-7 on-the-road victory over marquette on Tuesday. The loss and recovery both have significant implica­tions for the irish moving forward, and notre dame looks to apply its takeaways from this week to its tilt against robert morris. 
“i think the biggest thing for us going forward con­tinues to be the consistency in our decision making on both ends of field,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “we need to continue to evolve what are great deci­sions for our team, and we learn more about ourselves and our team as we contin­ue to play.” 


with consistent decision-making at the forefront of their strategy, the irish will work to combat the colonial offense, which is executed similarly to their own. robert morris cur­rently averages 9.72 goals per game and is 14 for 32 on 
see m lacrosse PAGE 18 


Men’s Tennis vs. Miami  Fri., 3:30 p.m.  Baseball at Boston College  Men’s Soccer at Indiana  Sat., 2 p.m.  
ND Women’s Tennis vs. Virginia Tech  Fri., 3:30 p.m.  Track at Louisville  Baseball vs. Boston College  Sat., 2:05 p.m.  
ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Duke  Fri., 7 p.m.      Blue-Gold Game  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Robert Morris  Sat. 1 p.m.  





