The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 56 |Wednesday, november 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University to host fifth annual GIs day 
Wednesday workshops will explore interactive computer mapping, spatial data analysis 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
wednesday, notre dame will host its fifth annual geographic information systems (gis) day, explor­ing the ways research at the university can benefit from the technology and resources organized by the geospatial analysis laboratory (gal). 
gis is fundamentally a computer system designed to store and analyze spa­tial data, which allows us­ers an increased degree of interaction with a vari­ety of maps. The center for research computing (crc) and environmental change initiative (eci) collaborated to bring this analytical tool to notre dame researchers, ac­cording to the gal website. 
matthew sisk, a post­doctoral fellow in the university’s center for digital scholarship, works closely with the gis system on a daily basis, helping students and faculty to better understand the technology. 
“basically, it is computer mapping software that lets you incorporate location into existing data,” sisk said. “Think google maps with a 
see gis PaGe 4 




‘Thank you’ board on South Quad recognizes donors 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
The notre dame development office will construct a large board on south Quad on wednesday in an effort to say “thank you” to the many benefactors of the university. 
louis nanni, vice president for university relations, said the idea came from the development team and started last week with the de­livery of 29 boards, each 3 feet by 8 feet, to each residence hall. 

“The phrase ‘Thank you for the gift of notre dame,’ has 29 letters and we have 29 residence halls,” nanni said. “so we worked with student affairs and the rectors [of each residence hall] to get each of the 3-feet-by-8-feet panels into the halls this past week for students to write ‘thank you’ messages.” 
The letters will be displayed on a wall on south Quad on wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 
2:30 p.m., nanni said. 
“we are building a 119-foot­long wall that will stand a little more than 8 feet tall,” nanni said. “The wall will be featured in a thank-you message we’ll be send­ing out to all of the university’s donors next week, just prior to Thanksgiving.” 
nanni said the idea for the wall came from a desire to thank notre dame’s donors in a more visible way. 
“a couple of years ago, we creat­ed a 24-foot-long ‘thank you’ card that more than 1,000 students 
see wall PaGe 5 


smc alumnae reflect on study abroad experiences 
studied abroad in seville, spain 

By KATHRYN MARSHALL 

news writer during her time at saint mary’s, 
and she currently works as com-
Two saint mary’s college alum-munication manager at st. Joseph nae talked about the impact study county chamber of commerce in abroad had on their careers dur-south bend. in seville, she experi­ing “The impact of study abroad: enced complete immersion in the alumnae panel” on Tuesday spanish language through her host evening as part of international family and classes, she said. education week. 
cara grabowski, class of 2008, see abroad PaGe 5 

weather causes game-weekend cancellations 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
football activities and game-day staff encountered unusual challenges last weekend after “unprecedented” amounts of snow and harsh winds over­took campus, according to mike seamon, associate vice president for campus safety. 
“The snow and the cold played big factors in the weekend’s activities around the game,” seamon said. “To everyone’s knowledge, we cannot remem­ber a time when we had so much snow leading up to a game. 
“we’ve certainly experienced snow in and around certain games over the years, including as recently as the byu game last season, but we’ve never had over 12 inches of snow fall within a 48-hour period leading up to the game.” 
seamon said clearing notre dame stadium of excess snow by game time posed the biggest problem for his gameday crew, who for the first time had to look to the notre dame community 
see game PaGe 5 



news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 6 scene PaGe 8 fooTball PaGe 16 women’s baskeTball PaGe 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What word do you associate with rugby? 

Sarah Cokingtin 
freshman 
farley hall 
“Tackling of course.” 
Amy McDill 
senior 
mcglinn hall 

“awesome. better question: could you keep me away?” 
Sarah Prizio 
fifth year senior breen-phillips hall 
“comradre.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Rachael Shey 
freshman 
howard hall 
“badass, duh.” 
Nina Jones 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“ruckyep.” 
Nora Pinder 
freshman pasquerilla east hall 
“Thighs.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville renee griffin alex winegar mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Notre Dame GIS Day Men’s Hockey Women’s Basketball Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica 
wei lin bianca almada 
Hesburgh Library Compton Family Ice Purcell Pavilion Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Arena 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Workshops and 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. Notre Dame versus Irish take on Louisville 11:45 a.m.- 12:45 p.m. 
Corrections 

sessions throughout The Irish take on Chattanooga. in final home game. Music by Notre Dame 
The observer regards itself as the day. UMass Lowell. Folk Choir. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
International Taste Remembrance Vigil Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass Notre Dame Band Fall 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
of South Bend The Grotto Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Concert 
however, recognize that we will make 
LaFortune Ballroom 8 p.m.- 9 p.m. 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Heart DeBartalo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Vigil for the 43 missing Pep rally for Notre 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free and open to the students in Mexico. Dame vs. Louisville Music by the Women’s 3 p.m.- 4 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

public. football game. Liturgical Choir. Event is free for all. 


Professor explores media, censorship in China 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
in a lecture Tuesday titled “Journalism and the coercive power of the chinese state,” as­sociate professor Timothy weston of the university of colorado boulder discussed the status of the press in modern china. 
weston, who serves as asso­ciate director of the center for asian studies at the university of colorado boulder, said recent protests in hong kong reveal a deep-rooted tension between the paternalistic actions of the chinese government and the press. 
“The beijing government’s ap­proach to the press, as seen in the hong kong case but also in a myr­iad others in contemporary times, comes to be seen as the latest it­eration of a longstanding feature of chinese political culture rather than an expression of a sharp mo­ment of communist censorship, pure and simple,” he said. 
despite the government’s cen­sorship of the media, the ideal of a free press is alive in china today, he said. 
“article 35 of the chinese constitution states clearly that ‘citizens of the people’s republic of china enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly of as­sociation, of procession and of demonstration,’” he said. “The normative ideal of press freedom is enshrined in china’s highest le­gal document.” 

however, he said, tension exists between the stated ideal of free­dom of the press and the practices of the government — namely, censorship of events and “routine arrests of journalists in china, of­ten on trumped-up charges.” 
weston said the government’s censorship of the media arises from a distinct understanding of the nature of free press. The gov­ernment does not condemn free­dom of press, he said, but rather takes a paternalistic approach in regarding the press as a means of molding society. 
“no modern state is going to take a stand against the idea of press freedom any more than it will take a stand against the idea of human rights,” he said. 
he said the recent events in hong kong have prompted the government to adopt an offensive and defensive approach, consist­ing both of censoring the press and presenting an “alternative narra­tive” of events to chinese citizens. 
This alternative narrative, he said, depicts the protesters in hong kong as “petty criminals engaging in illegal behavior.” 
weston said the government has not been entirely successful in its efforts to suppress the dis­semination of reports of protest in hong kong. 
“in the digital age it is impossible 
paid adverTisemenT 
to enforce a total information em­bargo,” he said. 
nevertheless, he said, the aver­age chinese citizen is unable to view internationally popularized images legally, such as the one of a protester holding an umbrella to shield himself from tear gas. 
he said the government’s treat­ment of the events in hong kong has focused international attention on the ‘umbrella revolution’ — so christened because of the image of the protester with the umbrella. The response of the chinese govern­ment to the international spotlight has been to accuse foreign agents such as the united states of ma­nipulating naïve students to incite rebellion, weston said. 
“blaming conspiring foreign agents also has the complicit ef­fect of treating the hong kong protesters — of which there were tens of thousands in the early stages of the movement — as gull­ible children,” he said. 
weston said although china maintains the ideal of a free press, the actions of the government un­dermine its realization. 
“The logic of the paternalistic state with regard to question of freedom of the press then is that the people are free to know every­thing, except when they are not,” weston said. 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 

panel relates gap between scholars, policymakers 
By JOHN LEE 
news writer 
in a panel hosted by the kellogg institute, abraham f. lowenthal, professor emeritus at the university of southern california and adjunct professor at brown university, discussed the launch of his new book on the waning relationship be­tween scholars and policymak­ers today. michael desch, chair of the department of political science, and viva bartkus, asso­ciate professor of management, joined lowenthal for discussion of policy and academia. 
in the field of international re­lations, a large gap exists between scholars and policymakers, and it is widening as policymakers demand black-and-white solu­tions and scholars become in­creasingly theoretical in their solutions, lowenthal said. 
policymakers see scholars as “absorbed and abstract” and “primarily interested in crafting theories … rather than in illumi­nating much less recommending solutions to pressing problems,” lowenthal said. scholars, on the other hand, “disdain the simpli­fications and lack of analytic rig­or” of policymakers “interested in outcomes but not in under­standing causality.” 
“it is fitting that i am here at this early stage because the pur­pose of the keough school initia­tive and of this modest new book is exactly aligned,” lowenthal said. “That is, to help develop stronger, more effective rela­tions between scholars and pol­icy makers with the aims both in improving policy and strength­ening academic research and teaching.” 
lowenthal referenced the cre­ation of the first new college or school at the university in al­most 100 years: the donald r. keough school of global affairs. 
“developing more fruitful relations among scholars and policymakers is such an impor­tant and indeed such an obvi­ous goal,” lowenthal said. “but frankly, it has not been high on the agenda, either for most schol­ars or for most policymakers.” 
michael desch, chair of the department of political science, illustrated the evidence behind the “gaping chasm” between ac­ademics and politicians. 
“we did a one-of-a-kind sur­vey of major national security decision makers … and asked them what of contemporary aca­demic social science do you find useful in the process of actually making policy. and the answers were not encouraging. not zero, but very little,” desch said. 
desch said he attributes the main causes of the widening gap between scholars and poli­cymakers to two main factors: first, changes in government where research and advice on foreign policy is now done in­ternally within the government bureaucracy and, second, the change in public opinion where the citizens view academics and scholars negatively. 

professor bartkus, associ­ate professor of management, focused on the core aspect of rebuilding the bridge between scholars and policymakers. she said finding the common ground between scholars and policymakers does not entail a search for a place that already exists but rather envisioning and creating a shared space while having “the courage to take the first step.” 
“of course, [creating that common ground is] not going to be easy because we’re going 
“Developing more fruitful relations among scholars and policymakers is such an important and indeed such an obvious goal. But frankly, it has not been high on the agenda .” 
Abraham F. Lowenthal 
adjunct professor 
Brown University 

to keep talking past each other,” bartkus said. “i have an entire class where my students talk past each other. The beginning of business on the front lines, we had mba students and kroc stu­dents; they talk past each other every single class. why? because there’s a whole set of mbas who are looking at the kroc students going, ‘how are you even rel­evant?’ and the kroc students are looking at the mba students, ‘how are you not evil?’” 
“you have to put both of them against a really tough, substan­tive, important problem like re­building war-torn societies … for us to be forced to start having that kind of common language, common dialogue,” she said. 
lowenthal praised notre dame for taking “a very big and welcome step to address this combination of problem and opportunity” with the creation of the keough school of global affairs, and he said he hopes that his book can also contrib­ute to the same goal by “helping to illuminate what needs to be done and how to achieve success in building better bridges be­tween the scholarly and policy communities.” 
Contact John Lee at jlee54@nd.edu 


The observer | Wednesday, november 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

GIs 
conTinued from page 1 
whole lot more.” 
with this sort of technol­ogy, eventually researchers hope to create maps that are interactive and demonstrate a change in data such as pop­ulation or weather patterns over the course of time, all on one interface. 
“This is one of the best platforms where a gis user can learn from another user also feature several different events, ranging from a series of workshops to quick talks about campus research and demonstrations of tools like 3-d printing and high resolu­tion topographic data. 
milan budhathoki, another organizer and gis special­ist, currently leads a lab in innovation park where gis resources are often utilized. 
“This day is one of the best platformd where a gis user can learn from another user through knowledge ex­

“Application of GIS in research here on campus ranges in wide disciplines including social sciences, biological sciences, engineering, public health, etc. So this event will facilitiate to bring users from diverse intelligence to a common room to share their GIS work.” 
Milan Budhathoki  
GIS specialist  
Center for Research Computing  
through knowledge exchange,  change, workshop, training,  
workshops and training,” sisk  etc.,” budhathoki said. “This  
said.  is a big day for professionals  
as a co-organizer for the  who are in gis industry, and  
event, sisk said he is excited  for me.”  
about the lightning talks fea­ attracting  students  from  
tured  throughout  the  day,  all  disciplines,  including  
which will showcase the wide  biology,  political  science,  
variety of ways researchers on  peace studies and architec­ 
campus use gis. The day will  ture majors, gis day offers an  

extremely unique opportu­nity to learn about a relatively new technology, budhathoki said. 
“i have seen that there are good numbers of nd fac­ulty, researchers and stu­dents using gis technology in their research and teach­ing to make a difference in the world,” budhathoki said. “application of gis in re­search here on campus ranges in wide disciplines includ­ing social sciences, biological sciences, engineering, public health, etc. so this event will facilitate to bring users from diverse intelligence to a com­mon room to share their gis work.” 
Taking place all day in the center for digital scholarship, gis day provides a unique chance to interact with cutting-edge technol­ogy, sisk said. 
“This is a great opportu­nity to learn about the types of research that this powerful tool can help with, to see how others are using it on cam­pus and to tour the center for digital scholarship and find out about the tools, technol­ogy and people that can help with research here at notre dame,” he said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

sTUdenT GovernmenT WeeKLy UPdaTe 





Wall 
conTinued from page 1 
signed,” nanni said. “we have a lot to be thankful for here at notre dame. we want to thank our donors for their generosity in a more visible and meaningful way.” 
“we wanted to thank our more than 100,000 donors,” he said. “The goal is to simply say thank you. our students are the big­gest beneficiaries of gifts to notre dame, and i think it means a lot to the notre dame family to see the gratitude of our students.” 
students will have the op­portunity to sign the letters and thank all the members of the notre dame family that have donated to the university, nanni said. many students have already signed their residence halls’ let­ters, he said. 
“we have already seen more than 2,000 notre dame students 

write a note of thanks on the pan- Game  conditions throughout the days  
els that will make up the ‘thank  leading up to the game disrupt- 
you’ wall,” nanni said.  conTinued from page 1  ed traditional football weekend  
despite recent adverse winter  activities.  
weather conditions on campus,  and beyond for assistance  “The friday Tunnel Tour was sus­ 
nanni said the event will still be  “numerous groups of indiv idu­pended as we were busy hauling all  
held outside on south Quad.  als, including many students f rom of the snow out of the stadium dur- 
“we are embracing the ele­ various campus clubs and org ani­ing the afternoon and throughout  
ments,” nanni said. “we will  zations, helped in removing l iter-the entire night,” he said. “we were  
have the snow plows and shovels  ally tons of snow from the stad ium forced to reduce some parking and  
ready and will serve hot choco­ on friday and saturday,” he  said. limit the courtesy golf cart rides  
late to all who want to visit the  “… some of the student groups  that and the student pedal cab service  
wall and write a note of thanks.”  helped in the shoveling inclu ded due to the snowy conditions. The  
in addition to those that have  roTc, the rugby club and  the band also had to cancel its tradi­ 
already signed the letters, nanni  boxing club.  tional friday step-off and practice  
said he hopes for even more stu­ “from Thursday evening w hen due to the inclement weather.”  
dents participation wednesday.  the snow finally stopped fa lling other football-related events saw  
“we hope many more will join  through saturday morning,  we a decline in attendance. seamon  
us, along with faculty, staff and  had over 400 people from var ious said the friday luncheon had  
members of the notre dame  student, staff and outside agen cies more than 800 guests and 5,000  
community, who can visit the  help with the operation. we  built people attended the pep rally in  
wall and write a note of thanks  and implemented the respons e as the compton family ice arena. for  
for the gift of a notre dame edu­ this amount of snow during  the the game against the university of  
cation and all that comes with it,”  season was unprecedented.”  north carolina, those events drew  
nanni said.  seamon said the harsh wea ther 1,050 and 8,250 fans, respectively.  

Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

abroad 
conTinued from page 1 

“when i got to spain, my fam­ily didn’t speak a lick of english.” grabowski said. “[while abroad,] you’re going to be put iwn situa­tions where you’re not going to be able to communicate easily. 
“i can about guarantee that all of you … are going to come back a changed person. it’s going to open your eyes to new culture, you’re going to learn to communicate effectively.” 
adapting to new situations is one way grabowski sees her study abroad experience carry over into her career, she said. 
“studying abroad taught me how to be adaptive,” she said. “you’re dropped in a new location where you don’t know anyone. … That’s similar to when you get a job. when you go off on your first day, you’ll show up and it will be a whole new world and a whole new culture.” 
Time abroad also instilled a travel bug in grabowski. The fol­lowing year, she spent 20 days in 

paid adverTisemenT 
europe with friends and two years ago visited a friend in south africa. 
being able to talk about study abroad is a great way to start con­versations when networking, grabowski said. communication is key, and talking about a chal­lenge faced while studying abroad says a lot about a person, she said. 
“you’ll change as a person, it’ll make you more confident,” grabowski said. “[study abroad] opens your eyes to a lot of things. you have to broaden your hori­zons. … That is the key.” 
karolyn wojtowicz, class of 2011, works as a coordinator for off-campus learning at depauw univeristy. when choosing a pro­gram to study abroad, wojtowicz sought out the most unique pro­gram she could find and chose the south africa program, she said. 
“i wanted my study abroad experience to be as different from saint mary’s as possible,” wojtowicz said. “[The university of kwaZulu-natal in durban, south africa] is the complete op­posite of saint mary’s. it’s a large, co-ed, public school, very urban campus, and in a lot of my classes i 

notre dame security police (ndsp) made six arrests on cam­pus saturday, including four for “public intoxication or public or-der-related offenses” and two for shoplifting, according to ndsp chief phil Johnson. 
Johnson said the snowy condi­tions complicated travel and park­ing procedures but did not create any serious problems. 
“The cold weather and snow presented some challenges for fans but the parking lot operations went well and traffic moved along safely,” he said. “i’m thankful for all the staff who braved cold tempera­tures to welcome and assist guests in the lots and to the area police of­ficers who directed traffic to help fans get to campus and then again on their way following the game.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
was the only white student.” 
while in south africa, wojtowicz traveled but also fo­cused on getting to know her host country and the people in it. 
“a lot of my classes were focused on african culture and context. i was really trying to immerse my­self in my host culture,” she said. “... as you study abroad, you’re go­ing to do a lot of touristy things, and that’s fine. but you also want to immerse yourself in your cul­ture and have those connections.” 
despite language barriers, wojtowicz found herself connect­ing to others through pictures, facial expressions and gifts from home such as pop-Tarts, she said. 
after graduating from saint mary’s, wojtowicz took a job as a study abroad program coordi­nator in iowa. her experience in south africa made her a strong candidate for the job, she said. 
“i was told specifically i was hired to be at iowa to create a pro­gram in rwanda, because i had studied abroad in south africa,” wojtowicz said. 
as a result of her experience in iowa, the position at depauw university opened up to her. in this way, study abroad con­stantly impacts her every day life, wojtowicz said. 
sophomore michele mostoller plans to study in ireland this spring and found the panel infor­mative and interesting, she said. 
“having alums talk about how they used their experiences to network after graduation really showed that a lot of doors and opportunities can be opened up to students as a result of going abroad,” mostoller said. “listening to fellow belles talk about their ex­periences and the challenges they faced abroad makes me more and more excited for next semester.” 
The event was co-sponsored by the saint mary’s center for women’s intercultural leadership program and the cross currents collegiate speaker series and indiana belle bridges pro­grams, which is funded by the lilly endowment’s initiative to promote opportunities through educational collaborations. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

InsIde CoLUmn 

all about perspective Peter Durbin 
news writer 

i promised i wouldn’t write a sentimental inside column, but i failed. excuse me while i climb up on this soapbox and serenade you about the impending doom of adulthood. 
growing up, everyone always told us to enjoy our college years, that this is the last time we’ll be free before our 60-year service to “The man.” we politely nod and laugh, our textbook move in a situation where we can’t disagree with the person, even if they were making a naïve and careless comment. as i near the inevitable plunge into true adulthood, i’ve come to realize that these people aren’t idiots, that these were the people that had it all figured out. 
during this past weekend’s dreadful foot­ball game, i had the first of what i assume will be many misty-eyed moments in the upcoming months before graduation. it was in this dichotomous moment — a disastrous outcome while surrounded by my best friends — that i once again recognized how important this school is to me. in the past, i’ve feared that i was not taking time to pro­cess the amount of love i have for the people and experiences i’ve had here. as we near winter break and a time to be surrounded by family, i’m working on taking time every day to recognize how special the daily interac­tions i have with my friends and classmates are. This is the last gasp before the big drop, learn to accept it and cherish each moment. 
let me paint a picture for you. my six roommates sipping hot cocoa as our golden retriever puppy, michael bublé christmas music and 50 different yankee candles surround us in holiday cheer. is this not what it’s all about? sure, these same room­mates will partake in some debauchery every weekend, but have they not figured out what this time of year and this school are all about? while alcohol-hazy weekend nights are run-of-the-mill by mid-senior year, moments shared soaking in the ambi­ence of our decked-out house listening to christmas music will and should never get old. 
if this stream of consciousness has been too much for you, let me try to be as con­cise as possible. i can sum up everything i have said here in one word: perspective. recognize that in 50 years, these snapshots will be remembered with much greater fondness and clarity than the organic chem­istry exam you missed your friend’s birthday to study for. as we near the midpoint of the year, look around and make sure you are surrounded by people who genuinely care for you. These are people you will proudly present to your children and grandchildren, who your family will regard as those who copiloted the experiences of some of your most formative years. 
it’s all about perspective: the jobs and salaries will be there, but these friendships and experiences will not. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In defense of Jesuits 

Sarah Morris 
left of center 

around this campus, there exists a list of well-known crowd pleasers that one can toss into any conversation for a reliable chuckle. such topics include south bend’s unfor­giving weather, the obesity of our campus’ squirrels, that sorry excuse for a university in ann arbor and of course the heathen Jesuits. despite the facts that thousands of us have been educated by Jesuits at some point in our lives, that eight of the 15 largest catholic universities in the country are Jesuit and that the pope himself is a Jesuit, it seems that many folks around notre dame no longer rec­ognize them as “real catholics.” of course, many of these comments are made in jest, light-heartedly poking fun at an order that has long been a popular subject of humor. (a man walked up to a franciscan and Jesuit and asked, “how many novenas must you say to get a mercedes benz?” The franciscan asked, “what’s a mercedes benz?” The Jesuit asked, “what’s a novena?”) 
however, the persisting sense of serious differentiation between “us” and “them” is cause for concern. 
The tendency to distinguish “real” catholics from Jesuits often goes hand in hand with what new york Times colum­nist ross douthat has dubbed a possible “schism” between “adherent” and “progressive” catholics that is brewing on the horizon. as douthat and fr. James martin, a prominent Jesuit scholar and author, discuss in an excellent dialogue recently published in america magazine, the labels of left­right/liberal-conservative can often be reductive when discussing varying ideologies within the catholic faith. however, most would agree that it is fair to place Jesuits on the progressive side of things. This leads to the unsur­prising conclusion that the large number of conservative-leaning catholics at this university may find significant discrepancies between their idea of catholicism and the Jesuit “brand.” yet, it must be recognized that such dis­crepancies are not dogmatically based, but rather matters of focus. 
The Jesuit order’s emphasis on higher education and social justice does not make it any less catholic than groups that emphasize issues like abortion or gay mar­riage. providing world-class educations to young people around the world and promoting the preferential option for the poor are just as “catholic” as attending the march for life or fighting for the “sanctity of marriage.” (in fact, i would argue that they are more so, but that is for another 
edITorIaL CarToon 

column). in a sept. 2013 interview, pope francis remarked that “we cannot insist only on issues related to abortion, gay marriage and the use of contraceptive methods … The dogmatic and moral teachings of the church are not all equivalent. The church’s pastoral ministry cannot be obsessed with the transmission of a disjointed multitude of doctrines to be imposed insistently.” his comments strongly reflect the Jesuit tendency to focus on broader means of carrying out the gospels through promoting “global justice, peace and dialogue” instead of honing in on ultra-specific issues that affect much smaller percentages of humanity (more than three billion people live on less than $2.50 per day. There have been roughly 71,165 same-sex marriages in the united states since 2004). 
but disagreement on focus is expected and should be viewed as a positive element of our shared catholic faith. There are 1.2 billion catholics around the world. of course we will have different ideas of what matters most. This diversity is what makes the church such a wonderfully dynamic body. To dismiss the largest single order of the catholic church simply because it emphasizes “liberal” values is wrong. To lament the fact that “georgetown is basically a secular university” is not only factually inac­curate, but dismisses a rich and major element of catholic presence in the united states and the world. 
as a community, we can differentiate and debate the various manifestations of catholicism, as well as their merits and vices. it is completely acceptable to disagree with the Jesuits’ focuses and believe that we as catholics should invest our time and energy in entirely different pursuits of living the faith. but writing them off as “fake” catholics will get us nowhere. Jesuits, and liberal catholics in general, have an important place at the table. for some, the recent goings-on at the vatican are incredibly exciting; for others, they are genuinely upsetting and worrisome. instead of condemning one faction of “other” catholics as heathens and heretics, or fundamentalists and bigots for that matter, let’s discuss these changes together, like fr. martin and douthat do. with all of the rhetorical skills we picked up at our Jesuit high schools, it’s sure to be an excel­lent debate. 
Sarah Morris is junior studying political science and American studies. She is a proud Ryan Hall Wildcat and originally hails from Monterey, California. She can be reached at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | Wednesday, november 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Whirlwinning’ 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

when you come to college, there are certain ex­pectations. you expect to make new friends. you expect to have more fun than you thought possible. you expect to be broke. you expect to make memo­ries, to make a fool of yourself, to have the time of your life. you expect to study, at least a tad. with notre dame, you expect to watch some football and to become part of your dorm. we all come to college with expectations, and i was no different. 
what i’ve found however, is that much of the greatness and many of the best memories of col­lege are those you did not expect. They are the things you did not and could not see coming. it’s the random conversation produced by a chance encounter that ultimately changed your major. it’s the club you joined by chance. it’s hip hop night. 
Just about everyone has a handful of decisions they didn’t know they would make, a handful of people they didn’t know they would meet and a handful of paths they didn’t know they would take. so when i decided to hop aboard with my friends and coach women’s interhall flag football, i didn’t exactly know how it would go. 
i quickly learned, however, that this would be one of those experiences to remember. i learned it was a great way to spend time with old friends and make a bunch of new ones. i learned that if i want­ed anything to do with coaching the welsh family whirlwinds, there were two requirements. i had better have a darn good rbf (resting, uh… “witch” face) and i had better hate communism, and, if possible, the huns as well. 
as coaches, my friends and i learned that for every terrible coaching decision we make, we’d be bailed out by some pretty incredible players. we learned that there’s nothing like watching the quarterback take a broken play and make it a touchdown. There’s nothing quite like watching a team “get it.” we learned to remind players that it’s okay to be aggressive. we learned to remind players to then stop short of “accidentally clothes­lining” the running back. we’re still not sure how that happened. we learned there were a lot more of players saying “sorry” than in the football we’d played before. 
we learned that sometimes going the improv route for your pregame speech works out better than writing it, but that the same doesn’t hold true for in-class presentations. we learned that any team is only one keenan roller disco away from injury. we learned that snow football is still fun and that the hoedown Throwdown is always a great idea. 
we learned that no matter how hard we try the “statue of liberty” play, much like “fetch,” it’s just not going to happen. we learned that you’re never too old to play sharks and minnows and that any practice is always a player coup away from devolv­ing into “never have i ever … ” yeah, so the coaches still don’t entirely understand girls … 
we learned that it’s possible to care more about whirlwind football than notre dame football. we learned that golson to koyack against stanford has nothing on a last-play win over pw or a fourth down goal line stand against cavanaugh. after eight games, and eight wins, we learned that winning is pretty darn fun. we learned that flag football is a sport equal part wheel routes and romcom references. it’s a chance to have a ton of fun with a ton of great people. in the words of one coach, “we get to be cool uncles.” in the words of another, far less mature one, “it’s more like drunk uncle. druncle, if you will.” go irish? 
ultimately, the season has been a blast for each and every one of our coaches.  we got to know 20 truly incredible girls and be a part of an incred­ible team for an incredible season. with one game to go, it remains to be seen who will emerge from the stadium showdown come sunday. win or lose, however, this season of whirlwinning will truly be one of the greatest,and unexpected, experiences of my time at notre dame. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior finance and political science major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He still doesn’t understand why Tom and Summer didn’t end up together. He can be reached at mmiklavi@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LeTTer To The edITor 

scop stands against hate 
stand against hate week has concluded, but students for child-oriented policy (scop) thinks it worthwhile to continue to think about what it means to hate — and surely we’re not alone in that. certainly not meaning to label those who disagree with us as haters (last time we checked, the number of domers in isis was zero), scop thinks it fitting at a university to continue to reflect on what it is to hate. 
we might think of hate, and love, as nothing other than emotions. love is what marius feels when he is with cosette in les misérables. hate is what voldemort feels against, well, just about everyone in harry potter. 
This has to be incomplete, though. exactly what about the feeling that marius has for cosette is different from the feeling gladiator’s emperor commodus has for his sister? does leonidas from 300 feel different or less fury than voldemort? The feelings of marius and leonidas seem laudable while those of commodus and voldemort do not. unless we say that love is not always good, we would seem to need more than feelings to define love and hate, its opposite. 
maybe it’s noteworthy that marius and voldemort don’t simply sit around experiencing emotions. They act, which is to say, they will things to happen. maybe, then, loving and hating are actions. perhaps loving is willing good things and hating is willing the deprivation of good things. on this account, to hate a person is to make it one’s delib­erate purpose that the person be deprived of some good. if i hate a person, i will that he or she be worse off. and as both socrates and Jesus teach, this is always wrong. 
if to hate is to will the deprivation of good things, then standing against hate turns us to thinking about good things. what things are good in themselves for human persons? physical health is a good thing. certainly, it’s good just to know something. Then again, it’s also good to perform skillfully, whether on a test, at football or in dance. living with integrity and authenticity is surely good and it’s good to live in community with friends. another available good is living out a comprehensive sexual union. finally, it is good to live in harmony with the greater-than-human source of order and meaning in the universe. 
To choose as one’s purpose that someone be deprived of any of the goods above is to hate that person, and that person could be anyone, even oneself. suicide, as willing the deprivation of one’s own life, is self-hate. lying, as will­ing the deprivation of one’s own authenticity, is a different kind of self-hate. adultery or any other act that deprives oneself of participation in comprehensive sexual union (exclusive, permanent, procreative) is self-hate. (need i add that simply dying, failing to communicate effectively and celibacy are not self-hate, since they’re not choices against any goods?) 
perhaps it’s worth dwelling on a more particular pos­sible example of hate. let’s take that mouthful of a term, “comprehensive sexual union.” The good here is the union of male and female in a total sharing of life. it is total or comprehensive in that it unites mind, emotion and body, and thus unfolds into family life. sexual complementar­ity makes bodily union possible. we might say, then, that we have sexual complementarity to thank for this one of many human goods that might contribute to a fulfilling life. 
sadly, as much as any other, this good may be made the object of deprivation — of hate. one could will the deprivation of comprehensive sexual union (what has long been known as marriage) by choosing to thwart or oth­erwise undermine true marital union as such. we could count the ways. 
it’s more important, though, to repeat that a person does not hate by not marrying. let none of our fellow un­married domers (including priests!) take us to mean oth­erwise. on this view, what is hateful is to choose an action deliberately aimed at depriving oneself or another of living out the comprehensive sexual union of male and female. 
every single human being has dignity that we harm by hating. opposed to hating of every kind for every reason, scop stands particularly against hating of the sort that wills the deprivation of the good of marriage, which is comprehensive sexual union. in doing so, scop joins fr. Jenkins in calling to “love one another and together build a less imperfect community of love” (“same-sex couples to receive benefits,” oct. 16).
       Tiernan Kane 

president students for child-oriented policy 
Tim Bradley

        treasurer students for child-oriented policy 
nov. 12 




The observer | Wednesday, november 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Alexandra Lowry 
scene writer 

in the early monday evening, Team snapchat ac­quainted its 100 million active users about its latest in­novation — snapcash, a mobile money-sharing feature that has come conveniently equipped with its own song and dance number. 
despite snapchat’s discernible attempts to keep the news of the money exchange classy (i.e., song and dance number), yik yak and Twitter have yet to recover from the influx of “now i’ll have to pay for nudes” jokes. 
pornographic transactions aside, the team behind the supposed $10 billion company is excited about the op­portunity, particularly partnering with square, a young company that pioneered on-the-spot credit card pay­ments and quick online payments via e-mail. 
according to snapchat’s blog post, square is respon­sible for holding the debit or credit card information and handling the mobile transactions for snap users that are 18 years and older. by entering your bank information into the photo sharing app, you are automatically cre­ating a square account for yourself. so, to summarize, 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

fiction about world war ii and specifically the holocaust is incredibly popular. i think that this reflects our need, even today, to deal with the atrocities committed during this time period and somehow rectify how they could hap­pen in a world that we need to be primarily good. These books always deal with a loss of innocence, and trying to build and rebuild in a world that is entirely full of horrors. 
eoin dempsey’s “finding rebecca” is a recent addi­tion to this canon. dempsey tells the story of a 6-year-old german boy, christopher, who meets a Jewish girl when he moves to the channel islands of Jersey. rebecca becomes his best friend, and he helps her through her troubled life at home and loves her before and after she makes the move to leave her parents when she was just 15 years old. 
The book tells the story of the two times christopher loses rebecca: once when she runs away to escape her abusive, alcoholic father and once when the nazis finally relocate her after their occupation of Jersey. 
most of the action comes after christopher loses rebecca the second time, as the title suggests. he joins square is in charge of the messy financial details while snapchat came up with a cute name and song and dance number. 
The reaction to the feature was mixed to say the least. many called into question the security of the transac­tions given snapchat’s history with hackers and pictures that were supposedly “gone forever” resurfacing. last year, 4.6 million usernames and phone numbers of the app’s downloaders were posted online, followed by 100,000 hacked snapchat images, many depicting child pornography, were made public this october. The company settled with the federal Trade commission in may for the false advertisement of permanently deleting pictures and for collecting users’ contacts without their consent. 
other corners of social media deemed the app’s new­est improvement superfluous, given that companies like venmo have already become popular amongst the colle­giate demographic snapchat is trying to appease. when choosing between a well-established money transfer­ring site and an iphone app used primarily for ugly self­ies and self-destructing nudes, it’s safe to say most coeds would prefer the former. 
on the same note, college-aged snapchatters, a group 
the ss and begins work at auschwitz in an attempt to find and save her from the nazi death camps. in the meantime, he works to limit the damage done by other officers to the people captured there. 
some of dempsey’s strongest writing showcases the moments when christopher fails to save the people he sees as his charges. at times, christopher seems to morph into a figure as ruthless as those he would oppose, and it is easy to condemn him for the sacrifices he makes to save his own position at the cost of others’ lives. still, by the end of the story, it is obvious that he has tried his best, and it is perhaps better that he maintained his job and saved those he could rather than sacrificing himself for one other person. 
it’s a question that lies at the heart of the novel, and dempsey never truly reveals how he feels about it. rebecca seems to stand for the ideal of never allowing another in­nocent to get hurt while christopher staunchly portrays a more utilitarian view. in the end, dempsey does not rec­oncile these two views — as both survive and find a way to live in harmony with one another. 
i think my biggest problem with “finding rebecca” is perhaps the ending. dempsey does a beautiful job, up that makes up a staggering 77 percent of the app’s daily users, expressed concerns about the simplicity of the feature. snapchat remains many students’ go-to app on the weekends when those of us who are 21 and up decide to opt out of sobriety, because, honestly, no selfie looks bad after you’ve had a few natty lights. if you can’t stop yourself from drunkenly sending an embarrass­ingly desperate front camera pic to that cute girl in your gender studies seminar, then what will bar you from sending her your entire life savings in exchange for her love? 
also, i have a feeling those same kids will have a little too much fun with the “making it rain” option and most likely forget that it’s actual dollars being virtually deliv­ered, not pretend stripper singles. 
for the most part, snapcash seems more prone to criticism than praise. however, given the newness of the project, only time will tell if the money-selfie collabora­tion will pay off, pun intended. in the meantime, the song and dance will get us through. 
Contact Alexandra Lowry at alowry1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
until the last couple of chapters, of creating this sort of tragic happy ending. yes, christopher has survived his time as an ss officer. yes, the camps have finally closed. yes, christopher managed to save hundreds of women and children from certain death. 
but, because rebecca is dead before he even really be­gins his journey as the “angel of auschwitz,” he can never fully reach that stage of happiness and innocence he has before the nazi camps. her surprise return ruins this and makes the ending far too neat and tidy for a holocaust story, especially one that seems to be marketed towards adults and not part of the young adult fiction genre whose biggest fault often seems to be their penchant for incred­ibly tidy endings. 
dempsey does try to rectify this issue by discussing the nightmares christopher still has and by creating a life for rebecca in israel that she builds while hating him for his actions. but this doesn’t seem to be enough, to me. as far as the storyline goes, it is perhaps stronger if she dies in the camps, a strong reminder of all that was lost in the holocaust. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

The observer | Wednesday, november 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

between scrolling through pictures of the juxtaposi­tion of fall and winter on campus and colorful gluten-free meals with 2,000 likes that somewhat resemble rabbit vomit garnished with basil, quinoa and expen­sive sunglasses, i find myself in awe at the glimpses i get into people’s lives, namely celebrities. 
as someone who only recently unfollowed the stars of “dance moms” and still follows a fake “gossip girl” account for the flawless pictures of s and b, i am no instagram connoisseur. however, i have come upon a few realizations about celebrities’ accounts and their subsequent lifestyles. 
in true miley cyrus style, her instagram account can’t be tamed. and, in honor of her 2008 hit, here are seven things you are sure to find in your feed everyday if you follow her. 
1. 
fans’ photo edits of her face onto everything imag­inable. her as an exasperated toddler photoshopped over north in kim k’s arms. her, along with some aliens, in edvard munch’s iconic painting “The scream.” her riding a cloud shaped like a unicorn. 

2. 
wayne coyne, flaming lips frontman, miley’s bff and fellow subject of numerous photo edits — usually placing his head on miley’s less-than-clothed body. 

3. 
floyd, her late dog that she will #neverforget #ripfloyd. 


4. bubba sue, her pet pig with painted nails — hooves? 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 
“i saw kanye kissing santa.” 

This sentence, plastered on a crewneck sweatshirt, is the first thing i saw upon logging into facebook today. a product of rad, an online “urban fashion” retailer, the shirt i saw was just one of many graphic tops i see on a regular basis from online-only vendors taking on the street wear trend. 
it wasn’t long ago when i would pine over the pun-sat­urated, contemporary or retro-themed graphic tees from stores like delia’s (rip). i shudder when thinking back to my pre- and early-teen closet, full of colorful dinosaurs and david and goliath cartoons printed onto pre-worn, short-sleeve shirts. 
Then i was essentially told to burn those t-shirts. graphic tees went out with the rest of the secondhand, years-late, hipster-inspired kids’ apparel of the mid-2000s. and so i gave away my “chilling with my gnomies” lawn gnome shirt and all the other threadbare tees i’d collected and didn’t look back. 
now, a new generation of funny and ironic graphic tees 
5. 
aliens in various forms: her in a green alien morph suit, her face on a Telletubby and alien faces covering her chest. 

6. 
rainbow, lisa frank-esque trippy anything and everything: a holographic floral phone case hanging up on what looks like a wal-mart display, her sub-par note­book doodles and photos of her dirty hippie collabora­tion with designer Jeremy scott from fashion week. 

7. 
slo-mo videos of her dancing, usually in a onesie, to “Turn down for what” … i may or may not have done my own version of this one. 


unlike miley, beyonce will go days without gracing your feed with her presence, but when she does she goes all the middle of the night dec. 13, 2013 — dropping all her pictures at once in a “flawless” fury so “pretty (it) hurts” leaving you “Jealous” of her “superpower” and life, aka “heaven.” 
she’ll hit you with four pictures of blue ivy and her at the eiffel tower or six pictures of solange’s regal, pinterest emblazing wedding that took out the idea that the bride should be the only one wearing white like it was Jay-Z on an elevator. 
beyonce also uses instagram to remind us that her life and family are #flawless despite media rumors. she shut down haters after the infamous elevator incident by posting multiple pictures of solange and her embracing and laughing. in July, she affirmed her happy marriage during divorce rumors by posting a picture of Jay-Z and blue ivy on the beach with the caption “my favorite hue is Jay-Z blue” — quoting young Jeezy’s and Jay-Z’s 2005 
have taken over my newsfeed this time instead of my clos­et. but instead of care bears or lawn gnomes that served as the pint-sized counterpart to the trucker-hat-toting, ironic-tee-wearing mid-2000s hipster, the graphic tee business has attempted to tackle street wear. 
but there is just as much to complain about with this new wave of graphic tees that has hit 2014 so hard. 
The first is that they’re cheap and easy to make, and hor­ribly overpriced. if you think it’s difficult to throw kanye lyrics over a painting, you’re sadly mistaken. There is no doubt that these companies are capitalizing on buzz­words and memes, then charging $40 so you can have your favorite “where the wild Things are” quote printed on a sweatshirt. 
They’re also pretty hideous. These dime-a-dozen online brands feature terrible typefaces and uninspired phrases (one shirt i found says “Just eff it”) that were churned out with what appears to be next to no thought. it seems as though these designers simply ripped the most popular tweets from the web and songs from spotify, then placed them over tried and tired images stolen from Tumblr. 
The worst, in my opinion, is that they appropriate mu­sic, artists and cultures with reckless abandon. rad, for hit, “go crazy.” 
oprah has a minimalistic instagram technique. she posts only the most perfect pictures of her with celebri­ties, vegetables and warby parker lenses. i tried out this technique myself, but unfortunately the picture of me wearing my warby parkers with some broccoli and car­rots at the dining hall i did not get 59,323 likes. 
mindy kaling’s instagram feels like her life — hi­larious, glamorous and somewhat overwhelming. she seems to have the perfect blend of work, gorgeous dress­es and makeup and fun, as well as sassy food commen­tary. as the relatable celebrity she is, she’ll post a picture of her ordered-in chinese, mcdonald’s breakfast spread or unfinished green juices — usually accompanied by captions like “did i disappoint you or leave a bad taste in your mouth?” or “ i hate it, i hate this life." 
Taylor swift instagrams pictures of cats (or her in a robe with pictures of cats on it), her lyrics written out on paper, polaroids and band-aids and her friends. her list of friends includes, but is not limited to: kate upton, amanda seyfried, lorde, karlie kloss, lena dunham, emma stone, sarah hyland, The Queen of england, sacagawea and probably 1,989 other influential females. 
Try out some of these techniques yourself and maybe a picture of your latte will get 451,574 likes à la Taylor swift or photoshop yourself on the top of the golden dome and title it something like “golden dope” to get your ratio up to miley's standards. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
example, features kendrick lamar lyrics plastered over classic art and hand-drawn tigers wearing headdresses. whether or not you’re a fan of tigers or kendrick lamar, the so-called “streetwear”-inspired shirts scream ironic racism and cultural appropriation. 
one could certainly argue that this rising trend isn’t necessarily ironic, that juxtaposing hip-hop lyrics and art isn’t meant to be a joke. perhaps the young owners of these shirts sincerely love both the art and the songs and see the two as complementing one another. i’ve heard this argument before and am willing to concede that this might be the case, but it’s hard to ask who is laughing and who is laughed at when you see the models wearing these shirts amidst two facebook posts. 
The truth is that this trend is just too easy. it’s the internet vomiting on a shirt and calling it fashion. it’s a new wave of dubiously inappropriate or unoriginal state­ments on t-shirts and faceless vendors cashing in on others’ art and lyrics. it’s everything wrong with urban outfitters gone viral. it’s boring and lazy and we can do better. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



sPorTs aUThorITy 

Exhibitions do matter for teams 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 
as you can probably guess, my sports teams had a rough weekend, and i’m still recovering from their losses. i think this is why i am peeved to see the united states men’s soccer team lose 4-1 to the republic of ireland last night. 
granted it was a friendly exhibition game, and it does not really matter much in the overall picture, but since the end of the world cup in July, the men’s team has not performed very well. The national team has posted a record of 1-2-2 since it was eliminated by belgium 2-1 in extra time from the world cup in the round of 16. The squad has dropped eight spots in the fifa/coca-cola world ranking since July from no. 15 to no. 23 (at least it is still in the top 25, i guess). 
To kick off the new 2018 world cup cycle, the u.s. defeated the czech republic 2-1 on sept. 3 in prague. it was a good sign for fans, as the czech republic is now no. 22 in the world. yet af­ter a solid victory, the u.s. tied no. 27 ecuador and no. 69 honduras both 1-1 and lost to no. 3 columbia 2-1 and no. 61 ireland. 
The rankings are not critical at the moment, but the perception of the 
u.s. national team is im­portant. people argue that polls do not like the u.s. soccer team. The u.s. is consistently perceived as a mediocre team compared to the rest of the world. but when the u.s. gets some kudos on the world stage, it should do its very best to keep its presence as a top-16 team. after advanc­ing out of the death group with a 2-1 win over no. 35 ghana, a 2-2 draw with no. 9 portugal and a 1-0 loss to no. 1 germany, it is hard to see the u.s. then lose to the like of ireland, espe­cially by three scores. after going punch-for-punch with some of the world’s best, like world cup cham­pion germany and no. 4 belgium, the u.s. should not be content to simply play okay in the offseason. otherwise the rest of the world starts to put off the 
u.s as simply a lucky team. The u.s. should strive to keep itself in the conversa­tion as a good team. 
The u.s. team is not per­forming like the top-16 team it proved it could be in brazil. maybe it is because Tim howard has not played in any of these matches, and howard was a 7-foot, 12-armed god in the world cup. despite the 2-1 loss to belgium, howard set the record for most saves in a world cup game with 16. however, the u.s. will have to get used to not having howard, as it is extremely unlikely the 35-year-old will play in another cup. 
it does not help that the 
u.s. is still struggling to produce goals. The squad has not been scoring much, averaging just 1.2 goals per game since July, and can’t rely on the goalkeeper every game to give up a goal or less. 
again, maybe i am mak­ing too much of a fuss about these exhibition draws and losses, but i can’t stand to see another talented team slip into mediocrity and ful­fill the wishes and predic­tions of all of its naysayers. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nhL | sabres 4, sharks 1; islanders 5, lighTning 2 
gionta leads buffalo to victory against san Jose 
Associated Press 

buffalo, n.y. — brian gionta had two goals and an assist in leading the buffalo sabres to a 4-1 win over the san Jose sharks in front of a sparse, snowstorm-depleted crowd on Tuesday night. 
nicolas deslauriers and brian flynn also scored for buffalo, which won its eighth straight against san Jose, dating to the 2009-10 season. Jhonas enroth stopped 20 shots over the final two pe­riods after replacing starter michal neuvirth who did not return after sustaining a lower body injury in the first period. 
brent burns scored for san Jose, which finished 3-4 on a seven-game road swing. 
The sabres improved to 16-1 all-time at home against the sharks. buffalo, coming off a 6-2 victory over Toronto on saturday, also won con­secutive games for the first time since a three-game streak late last february. 
Too bad there weren’t many to cheer on the sabres. 
The game was played in front of an estimated crowd of about 6,200, who turned up on a day a severe lake effect snowstorm dumped more than 4 feet of snow on communities south and east 
of buffalo.  
The  storm  even  strand­ 
ed  sabres forward  patrick  
kaleta,  who  was  snowed  

in and unable to leave his home. 
The biggest cheer went up with 4:44 remaining when san Jose’s patrick marleau had a goal overturned on a video review. marleau got to the front of the net and back­handed a shot that sneaked in behind enroth and was rolling over the line be­fore buffalo’s matt moulson swept it away. 
initially called a goal that would have cut buffalo’s lead to 3-2, the review showed moulson got to the puck be­fore it crossed the line. 
gionta got the fans on their feet by breaking a 1-1 tie with 
8:06 left, and 85 seconds af­ter burns scored. corralling a rolling puck in the lower right circle on a pass from flynn, gionta slapped the puck inside the far post. 
it was the team captain’s first goal since signing with the sabres in free agency last summer. 
gionta then set up flynn on a 2-on-1 break to make it 3-1 with 12 seconds left in the period, and sealed the win with an empty-netter in the final minute. 

sharks rookie goalie Troy grosenick stopped 10 shots and didn’t fare as well as he did in his nhl debut in a 2-0 win at carolina on sunday. That’s when he stopped 45 shots to become the league’s 22nd goalie to register a shutout in his first game. 
neuvirth stopped all 10 shots he faced in the first period. he appeared to be hurt with 2:41 left. he was doing the splits after stop­ping Justin braun’s shot, when sabres teammate Tyler ennis crashed into the goal­ie. ennis knocked the puck across the crease, but the goal was disallowed because the referee ruled braun in­terfered with neuvirth. 
enroth was sharp in com­ing in to start the second period. his best save came when he wasn’t looking. enroth had his back to the play after attempting to stop Tommy wingels wraparound attempt at the left post. The puck dribbled to Jason demers, who fired a shot off the goalie’s back. 
enroth had little chance on burns’ goal, a hard one-timer that found the top left corner. 
in announcing the game would be played, the sabres asked fans to respect numer­ous driving bans that had been put in place in numer­ous communities. fans un­able to attend the game were provided the chance to ex­change their unused tickets for a future game. 
postponing the game would have been difficult be­cause the sharks were trav­eling home to play florida on Thursday night. san Jose makes only one more trip east: a seven-game swing from march 17-29. 
Islanders 5, Lightning 2 

uniondale, n.y. — cal clutterbuck, mikhail grabovski and ryan strome scored in the second period to lift the new york islanders to a 5-2 victory over the Tampa bay lightning on Tuesday night. 
lubomir visnovsky and casey cizikas also scored and Jaroslav halak stopped 26 shots for the islanders, who got a measure of revenge for a 5-2 loss at Tampa on saturday that snapped their five-game winning streak. 
alex killorn and ondrej palat scored for the lightning and evgeni nabokov finished with 31 saves against his for­mer team. 
clutterbuck tied the score at 1-1 with a short-handed goal 39 seconds into the middle period. grabovski and strome then scored 1:03 apart to give the islanders a two-goal lead with 6 1/2 minutes to go in the period. visnovsky’s power-play goal in the opening minute of the third made it 4-1. 
killorn opened the scoring with 8:07 left in the first peri­od with his fourth of the sea­son, poking a loose puck past halak after the islanders had the better of play for most of the period. 
starting the second period with defenseman Thomas hickey in the penalty box, clutterbuck burst down the right wing and sent a shot past nabokov for his second of the season. 
grabovski put the islanders ahead with 7:37 remaining in the period with his fourth goal on a pretty pass from frans nielsen before strome recovered a blocked shot and scored just over a minute later. 
visnovsky’s goal at 36 sec­onds of the third was the 11th goal this season for an islanders defenseman. 
palat finally answered for the lightning at 2:14, but cizikas scored on a break­away at 8:55 to seal new york’s win. 
nabokov started for the islanders the past three sea­sons after a decade with the san Jose sharks. he helped new york reach the playoffs in the lockout-shortened 2012-13 season. 
The 39-year-old nabokov looked strong early, mak­ing a flurry of saves as the islanders had an early two-man advantage. 
however, after cizikas’ goal, nabokov bowed his head in frustration and skat­ed slowly along the goal line. The nassau coliseum crowd chanted, “nabby, nabby” — as they often did in support of the goalie — after new york’s final goal. 
The lightning, coming off a 5-1 win over the new york rangers on monday night, looked tired playing their third game in four nights. 
new york came into the rematch with the lightning with 11 wins in 17 games, the most for the franchise since starting 12-4-1 in 1987-88. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


nCaa fooTbaLL 

Big Ten West full of contenders 
Associated Press 
There’s high drama in the big Ten west. 
four of the seven teams are still alive in the division race with two weeks to go and, by chance, the november schedule set up as a round-robin for the contenders. 
“as a league you couldn’t ask for a better position to be in as far as everybody playing everybody that has a chance to win it right now,” wisconsin coach gary andersen said Tuesday. “it’s a great spot to be in for the young men with these games they get to play late in the year. it brings tremendous attention to the big Ten, which is great for all of us.” 
ohio state (9-1, 6-0) would wrap up the east on saturday with a win over indiana or a michigan state (8-2, 5-1) loss to rutgers at home. 
wisconsin (8-2, 5-1) would clinch the west if it wins at iowa (7-3, 4-2) and nebraska (8-2, 4-2) beats visiting minnesota (7-3, 4-2). 
The division winners meet in the big Ten championship game dec. 6 in indianapolis. 
The west race, with so many teams still alive in mid-november, is the clos­est in the big Ten since the conference split into divi­sions in 2011. 
minnesota is the only west team besides wisconsin that controls its fate. if the gophers win out at nebraska and at wisconsin, they would own tie-breakers over those teams and iowa. 
“we’re in a situation where we’re playing for something in november, which is good for us as we build our pro­gram,” minnesota coach Jerry kill said. 

The gophers are trying for their first above-.500 confer­ence record since 2003 and their first league champion­ship since 1967. 
kill said he laid out minnesota’s path to the di­vision title right after last week’s 31-24 loss to ohio state. 
“it’s better to be in control of your own destiny than to have to see somebody else win or lose and so forth,” kill said. “we’re excited about the opportunity of being in the situation we’re in. at the same time you have to go take advantage of it.” 
The gophers are playing their best right now, but they have the toughest final two games in the league. 
“winning on the road in the big Ten or anywhere isn’t easy,” kill said. “That’s what we’ve got to do to put our­selves in a position to win our side.” 
iowa is home for its games against wisconsin and nebraska. The hawkeyes will have their hands full with national rushing leader melvin gordon, who set an fbs single-game record with 408 yards in the badgers’ 59­24 win over nebraska last week. 
“i haven’t seen a better one than the one we’re going to see this saturday,” iowa coach kirk ferentz said of gordon. 
kill said he expects to play a bo pelini-coached nebraska team that’s look­ing to atone for a dismal per­formance in madison in a 59-24 loss to the badgers. 
“we’ve had one of those games this year. sometimes things snowball,” kill said, referring to his team’s 30-7 loss at Tcu. “i promise you that his football team, and with his intensity, they’re probably getting after it right now. you’d much rath­er play a coach pelini team that won a game ... because they’re very proud at lincoln and he’s a great coach.” 



men’s soCCer 

Brown steps up for offense 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
during last year’s regular sea­son, since-graduated forward harrison shipp bolstered notre dame’s offensive production. shipp might have finished with a team-high 12 goals in all, but when the ncaa tournament rolled around, another irish player stepped up: now-junior midfielder patrick hodan. The then-sophomore scored at least one goal in both acc tourna­ment games and four of the five ncaa tournament games for the irish. his seven goals during the postseason led the team, after only contributing four during the regular season. 
funny how the tables can turn in less than a season. 
and again, another irish offen­sive threat has emerged the lat­ter-half of this season — in a way not unlike hodan’s rise last year. 
graduate student forward leon brown scored three goals early in the season for notre dame before a drought through the month of october. brown had been out of the goal column since sept. 26, when he scored in notre dame’s 2-0 win over north carolina. but, come nov. 1 against pitt, brown found the net again and led notre dame’s 4-1 victory with two goals. 
“i wasn’t worried, it was more ‘keep playing well enough to help the team,’” brown said last night before the team’s film ses­sion. “obviously, as a forward scoring goals is important but, if you’re not getting those goals you’ve got to do other things to keep going and help the team win. it was definitely not the best streak for me … but it was nice to get back into it.” 
and ‘get back into it’ he has. in addition to finding the back of the net twice against pittsburgh, brown scored in both acc tour­nament games notre dame played before their run ended, to bring him to seven on the season. 
“i think getting those two goals against pitt definitely got my focus back in it and got my confidence up,” brown said. “hopefully it’ll lead on through the ncaa tournament.” 
brown’s role on this year’s team has been more than just his play on the field. The graduate student found himself the old­est forward on the squad look­ing to fill a void left by shipp’s graduation. with two freshmen forwards in Jon gallagher and Jeffrey farina seeing plenty of minutes for the irish, brown stepped into the gap. 
“The two freshmen are learn­ing as they go, which is nice,” brown said. “[i’m] just keeping them in it, teaching them things about making runs, about de­fending … because [forwards] start the first line of defense. 
“it’s a little different without [shipp] up there, so i felt i needed to take that leadership role, be­come the ‘voice’ of the forwards, so to speak. … i just realized that void needed to be filled and felt i was the right guy to do that.” 
brown’s growth as a leader has certainly not gone unnoticed by his teammates or his coaches. 
“he quietly just goes about his business,” irish coach bobby clark said. “he’s now showing that he is a leader out there. … i’ve seen him grow throughout this season. maybe it’s because he’s got two young guys beside him that he’s got to lead and he’s suddenly finding a new ability he’s got, which is great for him, great for the team and i think ev­erybody’s benefiting.” 
after the irish were eliminated in the acc semifinals, brown said the team was disappointed but also knew that was not their end goal. 
“we know that the national championship is what we really want,” brown said. 
with the second national championship of his notre dame career still in close site, brown said he really did not even know notre dame until aaron maund, a former irish de­fender (2012) and fellow gradu­ate of The roxbury latin school, convinced him to come out and take a visit during brown’s ju­nior year. 
“i came out for about a week during my spring break and i really loved it,” brown said. “i just kept talking to [clark] and committed. 
“i love the community aspect that you find here. There aren’t a lot of places like it. i actually compare it to my high school, where there were 300 boys. … it helped me transition pretty well.” 
brown said notre dame has made a lasting impression on him to look out for those around him. 
“i think notre dame changed me as a person,” brown said. “especially being on the soccer team here, it’s a big team sport, so you have to put your own needs and desires aside for the sake of the team. … in the next few years, wherever i may be, the training that i’ve got here at will help me.” 
brown is unsure what exactly the future holds for him but said that he’ll really get a chance to start thinking about it in an­other month. until then, he and his teammates will have the winner of ohio state and akron forefront in their minds, at least until sunday when the irish set out to defend last season’s na­tional championship at 7 p.m. in alumni stadium. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
m bball 
conTinued from page 16 

recorded his career-high of 19 against the bearcats on friday and then one-upped it sunday with 20 against nav y. 
“i want to be the main guy in the middle,” auguste said. “i think i have a great impact on the game, but i’ve got to give credit to my teammates. They’ve been finding me. i’ve been hang­ing around the hoop and they just find me.” 
“i love that [auguste]’s scoring for us,” brey said. “i think he’s still a work-in­progress in his post defense and i think that’s an area we’re going to be after him about. he’s come a long way and is very good at showing the ball screen and being athletic that way.” 
brey said Jackson is the quarterback of the irish offense. however, an area of concern that has car­ried over from last year is his turnovers. against the bearcats, Jackson only turned the ball over once in 31 minutes of play, but lost possession three times in 27 minutes against navy. 
“Today, he was a little loose with the ball,” brey said. “at the end of the game he came up to me and said, ‘i’ll be better with the ba ll.’” 
brey said he was pleased with how his defense per­formed, especially in the first half against navy when the offense was struggling. 
“we weren’t in much of a rhythm on offense in the first half, but … it didn’t car­ry over to us defensively,” brey said. “That’s an area we really needed to grow in from last year, and showed some really good signs of that. one of the things we talk about is ‘kills.’ ‘kills’ consists of three stops in a row. … [against navy] we had 10 kills. 
“it was also good to see how we were going to play when [Jackson] got in foul t rouble.” 
brey said the early season 
paid adverTisemenT 
was an important time for notre dame to really devel­op as a team. 
“we need confidence, we must have trust in each other, we need to not panic, and we need to play pos­session by possession, and not give up on the defensive end,” brey said. “we’ll have our screws turned on … and we will see how we react to pressure.” 
notre dame and coppin state (0-2) are scheduled to face off tonight at purcell pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 




smC basKeTbaLL | norTh park 92, smc 68 
Belles fall to North Park 




By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
saint mary’s suffered its second loss this season in Tuesday’s home game against north park, surren­dering 53 points in the sec­ond half for a final score of 92-68. 
belles coach Jennifer henley pointed to defensive struggles inside as the major source of the team’s lack of success. 
“we have to do a better job stopping the drive,” henley said. “That’s been our prob­lem the past two games. we’re giving up too many points in the paint.” 
saint mary’s had a 6-5 lead about 13 minutes into the game before the vikings scored 18 unanswered points against the belles. saint mary’s was never able to recover from the deficit or narrow the gap, as north park went on to dominate af­ter halftime with 53 points. 
“we get beat; we don’t call for help,” henley said. “we scored enough points to win today, but we can’t expect things to go our way when we allow 53 points in the second half.” 
The belles finished with a 43.3 shooting percentage, with the vikings’ shoot­ing percentage only slight­ly higher at 45.8. however, north park had a more dras­tic advantage in free throw percentages, sinking 33-of­37 to the belles’ 15-of-27. The foul trouble that gave the vikings several free throw opportunities was a significant factor in the loss, henley said. 

“it’s frustrating when we have a lot of foul problems, which goes back to us not being able to stop the drive,” henley said. “we don’t have great lateral movement right now.” 
forwards junior krista knapke and senior ariana paul led the belles in scoring with 15 points each. Though the offensive effort could not offset the defensive trou­bles, henley said knapke improved since the previous loss to wheaton. 
“she played better than what she did against wheaton; we found her a lot more which is some­thing we’ve been looking at,” henley said. “krista’s been a three-year starter so she’s obviously our go-to in the paint. i think things are go­ing to get harder for her as teams start double-teaming her. i thought she played well.” 
henley also said the play of junior guard maddie kohler was a highlight despite the defeat. 
“maddie’s a kid who’s go­ing to do things that aren’t going to show up on the scoreboard for you,” henley said. “she has an intensity defensively that when she’s guarding the other team’s point guard, she’s a pres­ence. she’s the calm in the storm, she calls out the plays, she gets things going. maddie’s stat line is never going to be something that a lot of people write about be­cause she does a lot of things you can’t measure.” 
saint mary’s travels to north central in naperville, illinois, on friday for a two-day tournament. The belles play north central at 6 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 




football 
conTinued from page 16 
by sophomore receiver will fuller, kelly elected to go for the two-point conver­sion, which the irish didn’t convert. 
“i think you get in the game and it definitely affects you,” kelly said. “look, it affected me. i went for two when i should have kicked the extra point. it affects everybody. i can’t fall into that. i’m not getting paid to make stupid decisions like that. you fall into that. i can’t let our play­ers fall into that.” 
irish senior kicker kyle brindza hooked two field-goal attempts, and sopho­more quarterback malik Zaire botched a hold that led to northwestern return­ing an extra-point attempt for two points. kelly said the place-kicking battery will remain the same when the irish host louisville on saturday. 
“our kicking game has to get back to where it was,” kelly said. “i still think we have one of the best kickers in the country. he had an off day on saturday, but i expect him to bounce back.” 
defensively, notre dame has allowed an average of 
34.3 points per game in its last seven contests after sur­rendering just 31 points total in the first three games of the season. 
“we’ve never been as young as i’ve been [this sea­son] on defense. so that’s difficult,” kelly said. “and we’ve never had this much difficulty holding on to the football on offense at the same time.” 
Injury Updates 
irish senior quarterback everett golson (sprained ac joint in shoulder) has re­ceived treatment each of the last few days and has report­edly responded well, kelly said. golson has a full range of motion and is expected to practice fully Tuesday, ac­cording to kelly. 
irish junior defensive lineman sheldon day (mcl sprain) will not play this 

week, but kelly expects day  ball reallyW bball   well. we’re pretty decision-making.  
to return at some point this  unselfish.”  “i thought that we just  
season.  conTinued from page 16 The irish  out-rebounded threw some really bad passes,”  
irish freshman defen­ massachus etts-lowell by mcgraw said. “i thought the  
sive tackle daniel cage  field. Jankoska and powers led more than  double, 54-23. decisions were pretty good  
(knee sprain) is also out  michigan state with 20 points Turner and  reimer tied for the most of the time, but the pass- 
for saturday’s tilt with the  apiece as the only double-digit team lead  with nine, and every ing was not as crisp as we ex- 
cardinals, but kelly said it  scorers for the spartans. player wh o saw game action pect it to be.”  
looks like cage will be ready  in the irish opener, fresh-pulled dow n at least two. last year, notre dame also  
for the nov. 29 rivalry game  man forward brianna Turner behind t he 105 points and played michigan state in its  
against usc.  sparked the irish with 29 54-point m argin of victory in second game. The then-no.  
irish senior linebacker  points, many off the fast break. that game , however, were 18 6 irish defeated the then-no.  
Jarrett grace and senior  it’s a style mcgraw said she turnovers.  mcgraw chalked 19 spartans, 81-62, at purcell  
defensive lineman chase  hopes to see more of this sea-the miscu es up to nerves, as pavilion.  
hounshell have not played  son with the team’s talented many of t he turnovers were loyd led notre dame with  
this season while recovering  forwards, including starters committed  by freshmen play­22 points and added nine re- 
from injuries. kelly said it’s  Turner and sophomore Taya ing in their debuts.  bounds while reimer tallied  
too early to determine their  reimer. “it was  fast-paced,” Turner 19 points and a team-high 13  
playing futures at notre  “i think our post-game, we said afterw ards. “i mean, it’s rebounds. for michigan state,  
dame and the possibilities  feel like rebounding’s some-college; it’s  a lot different from mills scored a team-high 15  
of fifth years.  thing that we’re going to do re-what i pla yed in high school, points followed by Jankoska  
notre dame will celebrate  ally well,” mcgraw said. “our but we’ve  done a lot of condi­with 14.  
senior day before it hosts  posts are really good running tioning lat ely, so i felt like it The irish tip off against the  
louisville on saturday at  the floor. Transition offense was good.  i was able to keep spartans at 7 p.m. tonight at  
3:30 p.m. at notre dame  is something that we really up.”  breslin center in east lansing,  
stadium.  want to do, and i thought mcgraw  said she expects michigan.  

Contact Mike Monaco at      jmonaco@nd.edu 

we did both of those really well [against massachusetts­lowell]. i think we share the the passing game to improve, especially because the er­rors didn’t result from poor 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




CrossWord | will shorTZ 

horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: be careful not to overload your plate. excess will be your downfall. focus on what’s truly important to you, and you will maneuver your way through the year. Try to get more rewards for your efforts. it’s all about believing in yourself and following through instead of just talking. call the shots and make your dreams come true. your numbers are 4, 12, 13, 21, 28, 33, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): hard work will pay off. you will find strength and success, even in a difficult situation. enjoy your good fortune. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what you love the most. make a point to get out with people you find interesting or who have something to offer you. altering your outlook will encourage professional advancement. learn something new or pick up helpful skills. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ve got the right idea, so figure out how to implement the information you have in an orderly but unique manner. don’t let uncertainty in your personal life cost you. Take care of business, regardless of what’s going on around you. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): keep a cool head and a diplomatic approach. what you do at work will make a bigger impact on your future than how you deal with personal matters. don’t let the complaints regarding your work hours slow down your progress. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): say what’s on your mind. you need a little excitement in your life. follow a new path, learn, form alliances and expand your creative dream. express your feelings, concerns and plans for the future. love is on the rise. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a chance and do things a little differently. look at the facts and add your unique touch to stylize the way you intend to move ahead. bring any concerns you have out in the open and disclose your plans. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let others see your vulnerability. keeping your beliefs and concerns a secret will allow you to find out what everyone else thinks before you commit to anything that entails working with others. an argument will result in an unexpected change. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): check out destinations that intrigue you or courses that can help you develop greater insight into an unusual interest. don’t get sidetracked by someone using emotional tactics to get you to spend money or make a contribution. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make personal changes that will help you get ahead professionally. put your reputation on the line and gather as much knowledge as you can to help support your ideas, plans and concerns. love is highlighted, and romance will help improve your personal life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): speak up, but don’t act out emotionally. you have to have your strategy in place and your information accurate. knowing exactly what you want will help you avoid being coerced into an emotional battle. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you know what you want, but trying to get it will be difficult. use reverse psychology to improve your chances of closing a deal or getting someone to agree with your plans. romance is in the stars. plan a celebration with someone special. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): go over important papers and any plans you have to contribute to something you feel is worthwhile. sending out a positive message will help you reconnect with people you’ve worked with in the past. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, spontaneous and determined. you are outgoing and generous. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
HUVCO  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
GRUEP  

PORMIT NEROEC  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 



“ 

” 
Answer: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: VALVE SWEPT SHADOW SHOULDYesterday’s 
Answer: The prison play wasn’t going well becausethey all wanted to — STEAL THE SHOW 

ACROSS 1 Testimony spot 6 Nursing school 
subj. 10 Defeats regularly, in slang 14 Muscular strength 15 30 Rock’s architectural style 16 Female mil. unit created 5/15/42 17 Like a patient 
person’s attitude 19 Analogy words 20 Flying Cloud of 
old autodom 21 Take the top off of, in a way 22 Stray from the subject 29 Rooney ___, star of “The Girl With the Dragon 
Tattoo” 30 Browses, in a way 31 Place to wallow 
in mud 32 Quick ballroom dance 

35 Relating to the calf 37 Mideast monarchy 42 Passion 43 Term of address for a 2-Down 44 Model Carangi 47 One of almost 20 French kings 49 Fishing rod, flies, lures, etc. 50 Without delay 
54 Where some ex-major­leaguers play 

55 ___ Taylor (clothing retailer) 
56 Company that once owned the trademark “Escalator” 

57 Not corroborated 64 Cork’s locale 65 Component of 
brass 66 Words of 
compassion 67 Progeny 68 Rash feeling? 69 See 61-Down 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


DOWN 1 Vane dir. 2 Member of la 
familia 3 Purchase from Pat Sajak 4 Last figure on an 
invoice 5 Tower over 6 Scanners, 
webcams, etc. 7 Super ___ (old 
game console) 8 Do superbly on 9 Shoe part 
10 Short, in a way 11 Laps against 12 Floating 13 “Star Trek” 
character who says “Aye” a lot 18 Modernist’s prefix 21 Failing inspection, say 22 Some pickups 23 Island with Yokohama Bay 24 Like many presentations 25 Statements in a legal case 26 Alpine land 27 Irrefutable 28 Some “Hair” hairdos 33 Sci-fi author Ellison 34 “___ the seventh day …” 36 “Cute” sound 38 Month in l’été 39 Where Duff Beer is poured 40 ___ Sea (now­divided waters) 41 ___ a one 

hIGhLy PUnLIKeLy | chrisTopher brucker 

dome nUTs | alexandria wellman 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

PUZZLE BY JONATHAN GERSCH 
44 Toys known as 52 Tolkien creature Action Men in 
53 Negro leagues the U.K. 
star Buck ___ 45 Headed for sudden death, 
57 Assault weapon perhaps 
named for its designer
46 Aim high 58 Minor complaint 
48 Swipe, as a purse 59 Post-apartheid ruling org. 
51 Shocked, in a way 60 Chem. or biol. 

61 With 69-Across, beach markings … 14 of which are hidden vertically and horizontally elsewhere in this puzzle 
62 ’Fore 

63 ___ Plaines, Ill. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
sUdoKU | The mepham group 







9/26/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | Wednesday, november 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
fooTbaLL 

Kelly discusses errors against Wildcats 
Kelly admits mistakes in kicking game, gives updates on injuries to Golson and Day 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
Three days removed from notre dame’s 43-40 over­time loss to northwestern, irish head coach brian kelly reflected on some of the de­cisions that impacted the surprising defeat. 
kelly mentioned sunday that notre dame is seven points away from being 9-1, but he’s aware an opposite argument could be made too. 
“college football is such that it comes down to a cou­ple plays and the fine line,” kelly said in his Tuesday press conference. “That’s why it’s so critical that when you turn the ball over 
— when we turn it over, it’s critical. it’s catastrophic turnovers.” 
irish senior running back cam mcdaniel fumbled on a second-and-eight carry with 1:28 remaining in the fourth quarter and notre dame nearing a victory. The wildcats took over, drove down the field, tied the game and eventually won in overtime. kelly said he told mcdaniel he’d give him the ball again in that situation. 
“we really think that the self-inflicted wounds on of­fense have been the story of the season so far, knowing that our defense has been young and that we were gon­na have to hold on,” kelly said. “we’ve made it really much more difficult than it’s had to be.” 
while turnovers and oth­er critical errors have piled up over the past few games, kelly said he does not think they’re becoming a self-ful­filling prophecy. 
with notre dame leading 40-29 with 10:34 remaining in the fourth quarter follow­ing a touchdown grab 
see fooTball PaGe 14 


nd Women’s basKeTbaLL 

nd to face first ranked opponent at michigan state 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
even a 105-point perfor­mance isn’t perfect. 
after putting up 105 points in a season-opening win against massachusetts­lowell, the no. 3 irish gear up for a matchup tonight against no. 14 michigan state in east lansing, michigan. They’ll have to make improvements to face their first ranked op­ponent of the season, irish coach muffet mcgraw said. 

“i think defensively we’ve got a lot of work to do before we’re ready for michigan state,” mcgraw said after last friday’s game against massachusetts-lowell (0-1). “They’re a great team. They’ve [it] will motivate our offense, got some veteran players that so we’ve always got to ap­are really, really talented, so proach on defense and learn we’ve got to get a lot better be-defensive spots, but that’s fore wednesday.” why we go back, and we prac­
although the irish (1-0) tice, and we get better and do were aggressive on offense, better the next game,” loyd they need to do a better job said. staying aggressive on defense, Three of the top four scorers junior guard Jewell loyd said for the spartans (1-0) return after the game. from last season: redshirt 
“we need to do better on sophomore forward aerial defense, and i think if we get powers, sophomore guard more aggressive on defense Tori Jankoska and senior forward becca mills. 

powers led michigan state with 13.4 points per game, 
8.2 rebounds per game and 59 total steals last season. Jankoska averaged 12.4 points per game, and mills posted 
10.0 per game. 
The spartans won their sea­son opener against eastern michigan, 69-61, despite shooting 33.3 percent from the 
see w bball PaGe 14 
men’s basKeTbaLL 

Irish look to keep win streak going 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after blowing past binghamton and navy to start the season last week­end, notre dame looks to continue its hot start tonight when it hosts coppin state for a midweek non-conference matchup at purcell pavilion. 
The irish (2-0) clinched the pair of early victories thanks to the return of seniors guard Jerian grant and guard/for­ward pat connaughton, as well as the developments of sophomore guard demetrius Jackson and junior forward Zach auguste. 
grant, who was named to the John r. wooden award watch list for the second con­secutive year Tuesday, aver­aged 15.5 points per game last weekend and recorded a double-double sunday against the midshipmen (0­2), after scoring 17 points and dishing out 10 assists. 
“it’s always exciting to get a double-double,” grant said. “it means a lot to me [to get 10 assists]. it means you’re getting your teammates in­volved. it means you’re being aggressive. it means other people are making shots, which is the most important part because you can’t get as­sists without someone mak­ing the shot, which is great for us.” 

The 6-foot-5 connaughton averaged 15 points, as the team captain continues the consistent production he’s given the irish throughout his career. he also became the 56th player in notre dame history to record 1,000 career points after a 3-point­er in the second half against binghamton (0-2). 
“we were able to hang our hat on the defense [against navy],” connaughton said. “That’s a good thing, to have that happen early in the season when we have been focusing on defense all sum­mer and in the off-season, to be able to rely on the defense when our offense is not click­ing is really key for us.” 
auguste, who irish coach mike brey has said needs to become a presence inside, put up a combined 39 points in the two games. The junior 
see m bball PaGe 12 





