The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 16 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 , 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame wins Shamrock Series game 
The Irish beat Purdue, 30-14, at Lucas Oil Stadium 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
notre dame students and fans traveled to indianapolis saturday for the 2014 shamrock series game versus purdue. 
The game, which was held at lucas oil stadium, ended well for the irish, who beat the boilermakers of purdue, 30-14. 
Junior colleen pinkelman said the atmosphere in lucas oil stadium was electric. 
“The stadium is a big pro stadium, which makes the atmosphere different from notre dame stadium,” she said. “it was a really cool ven­ue for the shamrock series.” 
Junior Julia Zanotelli said the proximity to south bend made the game more acces­sible to students. 
“we drove, and it only took about two and a half hours,” Zanotelli said. “The game be­ing so close contributed to a lot of students being able to attend, which made for a great student section.” 
Junior andrew cusator said the tailgating was was a high­light of the day. 
“The pregame atmosphere was second only to the main lot outside notre dame stadium,” he said. “it was a great time with family and friends.” 
pinkelman said the night game added to the excitement. 
“night games have a whole different atmosphere than day games, and this game was no exception,” she said. “Just like the michigan game, the night adds an extra amount of hype. it made the stadium more charged with energy.” 
see FooTball PAGE 4 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Notre Dame football players gather around to sing the Alma Mater to celebrate their win against Purdue. The team traveled to Indianapolis on Saturday as part of the annual Shamrock Series. 



university Dean reflects on career 
from Kent state university. years and then i started here [at 
BY CAROLYN HUTYRA 

news writer after working in a naval re-notre dame] in 2008 as dean, 
receives top 
search lab as a civilian, he relo-and i’ve been doing it ever 
Two weeks ago, the university 
notre dame publicly an-since,” he said. 
crawford said president ruth 
simmons at brown university 
and university president Fr. 
John Jenkins are both phenom­
enal leaders who helped him 
see the potential of his own 
career. 

of 


workplace honor 
nounced their appointment 
of gregory p. crawford, dean 
department chair relation-of the college of science, to 


By ALYSSA LYON 
ships” and “work/life balance,” the position of associate pro-
news writer 
according to The chronicle’s vost and vice president of the 

For the sixth consecu-website. university, for the purpose of 
tive year, The chronicle of higher education placed the university of notre dame on the honor roll of the top-10 “great colleges to work For.” 
The chronicle offers a sur­vey every year to universities around the nation, in which every faculty and staff mem­ber has the opportunity to pro­vide feedback about the overall work environment at his or her respective universities. 
of the 12 categories in­cluded on The chronicle’s survey, notre dame achieved excellence in the categories of “compensation and ben­efits,” “confidence in senior leadership,” “facilities, work­space and security,” “job satisfaction,” “supervisor or 
To make the top-10 honor roll of the 196 four-year in­stitutions surveyed, The chronicle’s website stated that schools must be “cited most often across all recognition categories.” 
bob mcQuade, vice president of human resources at notre dame, said the administra­tion, above all, aims to create an environment that satisfies all notre dame employees. 
“[university president] Fr. John [Jenkins], [provost] Tom [burish], [executive vice president] John affleck-graves believe in creating an envi­ronment [in which] our staff is treated with respect and 
see award PAGE 5 
expanding the notre dame vi­

“[i] was inspired by them sion to california. cated to california for a position in terms of then wanting to 
crawford, who grew up in at Xerox before transferring to do leadership in admission ohio, received his bachelor’s, brown university. master’s and doctoral degrees “[i worked] at brown for 13 see dean PAGE 5 

SMC backs sustainability 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
Junior bri o’brien, co-chair for sustainability at saint mary’s college, gave a pre­sentation on sustainable con­sumerism Friday as part of the Justice Fridays lecture series. 
o’brien, who won the dooney grant for Justice education this year, is con­ducting an independent study with philosophy professor adrienne lyles-chockley on sustainable education. she said she wants to encourage student involvement in sus­tainability events on campus. 

“we are killing the world faster than we can fix it,” she said. 
seniors meredith mersits and molly smith, fellow grant recipients, also attended the event. 
“There are obviously dumb ways to shop,  so buying the unsustainable is one of these ways,” mersits said. 
showing a documentary 

see smc PAGE 4 

news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 IRISH INSIDER 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your ideal SYR theme? 

Kendall Kovalik 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“space/disney Zenon.” 
Conor Bradley 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“municipal workers.” 
Michael Nolan 
senior 
off-campus 
“silent films.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Margaret Prakel 
senior mcglinn hall 
“beans.” 
Caesar Hernandez 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“dome dance.” 
Josh Dempsey 
junior 
duncan hall 
“nicholas cage, then and now.” 
Michael Yu | The Observer 


Former Irish receiver John Goodman takes a selfie with linebacker Jaylon Smith after Notre Dame beat Purdue 30-14, on Saturday night. The game was part of Notre Dame’s annual Shamrock Series, which took place this year at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra henry hilliard Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kayla mullen greg hadley Katie mccarty mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Grant Workshop Classic Film- “The International Open Information Session-Cross Country 
michael yu gabriela leskur 
Brownson Hall Arsenal” House Truman Scholarship Notre Dame Golf 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Debartolo Performing Hesburgh Center for Brownson Hall Course Learn how to craft a Arts Center International Studies 3:30-4:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-6 p.m. 
Corrections 

strong grant proposal. 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 4 p.m.-7 p.m. Learn about the National Catholic 
The observer regards itself as World War I film. Pre-register online. application process. Championships. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Alpha meeting Four:7 Catholic Shakespeare at Mindful Meditation Graduate Student 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse Fellowship Notre Dame Coleman-Morse Mass 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Cavanaugh Hall Washington Hall Center Basilica of the Sacred 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6:30-8:30 p.m. 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m.. Heart 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7-week introduction to Faith and worship. “Much Ado About Open to all students of 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Christianity series. Nothing.” all faiths. Social will follow. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | The observer 




Choir aims to serve the community 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
last march, the notre dame celebration choir visited the westville correctional Facility, an indiana prison with thousands of inmates. sophomore and choir vice president anna o’connell said the experience was profound. 
“To see the prisoners come in, it was a really cool thing because people in prison are definitely marginalized and forgotten about a lot,” she said. “… There’s not much excitement in their life, but we were able to bring some joy and some happiness. obviously it’s hard to tell when you’re sing­ing to people, whether it’s impact­ing them. but there was one guy in the front row. he was standing up and swaying.” 
service and community out­reach are central features of the celebration choir, which was created in 1997 to accommodate campus visitors who could not fit in the basilica of the sacred heart for mass on football saturdays. director Karen schneider-Kirner said the choir regularly sings at correctional facilities, including westville and the Juvenile Justice center. 
“i had some poignant letters from afterwards of the prison­ers saying how much it meant to them that people were willing to do some outreach,” schneider-Kirner said. “[The prison is] largely a forgotten place where most people aren’t going to go. 
“when we went, we tried to have some interaction where we can talk with people, to show hu­man compassion. we’re really trying to live out all of what [pope] Francis has exemplified in his evangelii gaudium document, of bringing the joy of the gospel to those who most need to hear it.” 
schneider-Kirner said the choir, in addition to singing at football masses and prisons, also visits lo­cal parishes and dorms, goes on an annual tour with the handbell choir and performs at special events and concerts, often with other basilica choirs. she said the choir has a diverse repertoire, ranging from traditional hymns to 20th-century compositions, with a variety of accompanying instruments. 
“catholic means ‘universal,’ so [we want to] be indicative of the whole universal church and sing in different languages and in dif­ferent styles from different eras of music composition,” she said. “we enjoy doing gospel music as well as classical music. i’m also a pub­lished composer, so often i’m us­ing the choir as a training ground for trying out new compositions.” 
schneider-Kirner said the choir welcomes students without much experience in order to help them develop their musical skills. 
“we tend to be open to all,” she said. “we don’t put up any barriers. we want to meet stu­dents exactly where they’re at with their music skills. 
“i realize, for instance, that a lot of — primarily — men may be used to, in high school, being pushed towards sports, but then they get to be college-aged and re­alize they might want to develop those gifts, but then they haven’t really sung in a choir, haven’t played an instrument. i do some vocal coaching on the side just to help students with their skills.” 
senior celebration choir presi­dent Kenny Kraynik said the choir’s accommodation of begin­ner-level singers as well as the ser­vice component encouraged him to join. 
“i wasn’t much of a singer before college, and i knew the celebration choir really wel­comed new singers with not that much background, so that’s what i was originally looking for,” he said. “Then when i started to sign up, i started hearing about all the service opportunities they do — prison visits, visits to parishes that could use the help — it just seemed like a really good fit for me.” 
schneider-Kirner said the choir also acts as a “training ground” for students interested in get­ting involved as liturgical musi­cians, by incorporating lessons on planning liturgies, recruiting musicians and including catholic church thought on liturgical music into choir rehearsals. 
“we’ve had a great number of students over the years who [may not] have gone on to careers in sa­cred music, but they still use their talents and skills,” she said. “even though they may be lawyers or other things, they’re still actively engaged in music ministry. i think that’s a really valuable thing to be able to offer the church.” 
sophomore morgan widhalm, the choir’s accompanist, said she was a member of the notre dame Folk choir, when schneider-Kirner, who is also the assistant director of the Folk choir, invited her to audition as a pianist for the celebration choir. 
“playing in a different capac­ity, being the accompanist, it’s brought me a lot of blessings,” widhalm said. “i’ve gotten to develop my skill a lot. i’ve never accompanied a choir like this before. 
“i’ve done pieces with my choir in high school where i would do a piece, but it was more classical and i would just have to go with the score. but here i’ve had to de­velop improvisation skills and other general accompanist skills that i would not have gotten with­out this position.” 
This fall, the location of alter­nate football masses changed from stepan center to leighton concert hall in the debartolo performing arts center (dpac). 
widhalm said the location change adds to her experience as a liturgical musician. 
“it’s such a wonderful space,” she said. “i actually wasn’t part of the choir last year when they played in stepan after football games, but i know from what everyone else in the choir has said [that] it’s been an immense improvement. 
“For me, just the experience in dpac alone has been amazing. playing on an amazing steinway piano, seeing that beautiful hall fill up with people, it’s a re­ally wonderful experience, and i think it’s something that not a lot of people get.” 
in the upcoming semesters, the choir will go on tour, perform with various campus musical groups in an interfaith prayer concert and sing with other basilica choirs in a beethoven showcase. o’connell said the choir will also go on an annual retreat, one which fosters the sense of com­munity that drew her to the choir. 
“choir gives me a founda­tion socially,” o’connell said. “a lot of my really close friends are in choir, which is really cool. i hope that it provides that com­munity for other people. That’s something i’m working on as vice president, to make it a com­munity where people feel totally welcome.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
SMC 
conTinued From page 1 
about the creation of chocolate, o’brien unmasked the “ugly truth” of the unsustainable practices used in the creation of some of american’s favorite foods. she discussed child labor and unsustainable means of ex­tracting energy. 
“even though these appear good, they are not,” o’brien said. “These items are given to us in unethical methods.” 
o’brien said the commitment to saving the planet involves ev­ery aspect of the college. 
“establishing strong relations between our campus and sus­tainable efforts, it is extremely important to get everyone in­volved from the administration to alumnae and student body,” she said. 
Following the presentation, o’brien opened the floor to small group discussion. 
“‘The cove’ is a documentary that shows unsustainable prac­tices in Japan,” senior Jessica richmond said. “you all should look into it and learn about the unsustainable crimes in Japan.” 
smith stressed the goal of the need for a student movement toward sustainability. 
“we wanted to work to con­nect the student body to sus­tainable approaches,” she said. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 
Football 
conTinued From page 1 
Junior gold squad notre dame cheerleader lizz weir, said the trip to indianapolis was fulfilling for the whole team. 
“notre dame did a great job planning the shamrock series this year,” she said. “The weekend was so much fun and indy was a really great atmosphere. 
“There was so much to do and the energy from all the fans be­fore the game was something i cannot imagine happening at any other school. From fan fes­tivals to parades to pep rallies, the cheerleaders were all over the place this weekend, but we enjoyed every second of it.” 

Zanotelli said there were definitely more irish fans in the stands, but there was a good presence from purdue as well. 
“i think it really helped being that both schools are in indiana that there was a large showing from both teams at the game,” she said. 
sophomore noelle gooding said the game itself was enter­taining to watch. 
“beating purdue and moving up to 3-0 for the season made for a good time on saturday,” she said. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | The observer 



greend hosts marchers for climate action 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
in conjunction with the arrival of 40 marchers, who stopped at notre dame on saturday as part of the great march for climate action, greend hosted a panel discussion and film screening in the hesburgh auditorium. 
senior garrett blad, president of greend, said the movie, titled “disruption,” was great in de­scribing the history and science of climate change. 
“it really goes into the intercon­nectedness of the issue and how the people’s climate march is re­ally trying to get a broad array of groups involved,” he said. 
Award 
conTinued From page 1 
dignity,” he said. 
notre dame has created many initiatives in the past few years to ensure employee satisfaction, mcQuade said. 
“This honor is a fantastic affirmation that those [ini­tiative] efforts are well-re­ceived,” he said, according to the official press release. 
mcQuade attributes the honor to the many systems of “upward feedback” in place at notre dame that allow em­ployees to report evaluations of their supervisors, the work environment and their job 
Following the screening of the film, two professors and one marcher discussed the short- and long-term implications of climate change. 
“The film is very impressive, in the historical sweep of the view that it’s giving and looking back at previous attempts to engage issues that can really be so pun­ishing ... as well as the attention to the emotional component and how they kind of mobilize the grassroots here to build towards a global movement, which leads to an impressive intersectional approach,” sociology and peace studies professor ann mische said. 
saint mary’s political science 

satisfaction to higher authori­ties at the university. 
“one of the key things was to target where there were anomalies, looking at where an individual may have some shortcomings so [the institu­tion] could look to develop some programs to help that leader to improve,” he said. 
in particular, mcQuade said the employee nd voice survey, which takes place every two years, is a consis­tent source of feedback. with 74-percent employee par­ticipation, he said the survey provides a “very good view of what people think of the or­ganization with that high of a return.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
professor sonalini sapra orga­nized a screening of “disruption” last week at the college in prepa­ration for this week’s event. 
“The focus on not just a climate treaty, but a just climate treaty is really something the documen­tary seems to emphasize,” she said. “and so what does a just cli­mate treaty look like? who gets to be part of those conversations? i mean, i know that india and china, their leaders, have already said they are not going to come to the climate meetings on sept. 23 that [united nations secretary-general] ban Ki-moon has orga­nized. so one of my questions is what would a just climate treaty even really look like?” 
“looking back, [nd voice] has been the biggest success we have had,” he said. 
notre dame also has an ex­tensive leadership-training program open to all employ­ees, mcQuade said. although not mandatory, more than 60 percent of supervisors and a large number of employees have participated in these programs, which mcQuade said the university spends nearly $1 million on each year. 
“people are being managed more professionally, and that has a definitive effect on job satisfaction,” he said. 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at Alyssa.N.Lyon.14@nd.edu 
The great march for climate action began in march, when 40 people from all over the united states left los angeles, hoping to arrive in washington, d.c. by nov. 1. 
“one of the reasons i’m doing this, and i think we’re all doing this, is because climate change really is one of the largest issues facing our world today,” marcher Jimmy betts said. 
born in south Korea and raised in nebraska, betts has walked with the march since it started in los angeles and was included as one of the speakers on the panel. 
“This is a huge mobilization that will officially last,” he said. “but the real work is going to 
Dean 
conTinued From page 1 
because they both made some hard decisions, and they stuck with them,” he said. “i think people really appreciated that they held by their principles and they got some things done that i don’t think anybody else could have gotten done.” 
in addition to the faculty lead­ers, crawford said it’s the stu­dents who keep him going day to day. 
“[i am inspired by] the under­graduates and everything that they do in terms of where they go in the summer from guatemala to chile and everywhere else in the world…” he said. “i think that any leader at notre dame, when they see what the students are doing, are kind of in awe.” 
upon first arriving at notre dame, crawford said he be­came passionate about his work with rare diseases. growing up in a catholic family, crawford said he wanted to play for ara parseghian, and although he never played football at notre dame, through his work in find­ing a solution for niemann-pick Type c, he plays on parseghian’s team now in a very different way than he ever dreamed. 
“i knew i was coming in as a physicist and was going to over­see this and then what happened ultimately was i met them, cindy and mike parseghian and coach,” he said. “i just became passionate that we needed to get a solution for niemann-pick. it was so close to the notre dame family.” 
This mission to find a cure for niemann-pick is just one of the many aspirations notre dame holds dear. crawford said the university’s history of leaders is evidence of the multitude of vi­sions notre dame seeks to fulfill. 
“you look back on the history of notre dame, and they’re not short of big visions,” he said. 
it was Father sorin’s big vi­sion to build in the “frozen tundra of indiana” and create a university, crawford said. Father nieuwland had the vision to create synthesized rubber. 
“and then you had Father come after the march. That’s where all this uniting is going to really come to this political will, this power that we essentially created, and we have to take it.” 
all of the marchers shared the similar sentiment of an increas­ingly pressing need for climate change reform. 
“we have to do this as a collec­tive society, it can’t just be two outspoken environmental orga­nizations, that’s way too narrow,” he said. “it affects far more people than just environmentalists, but unfortunately that’s sort of how it’s been polarized in the past.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
hesburgh who was part of all kinds of big visions with the fed­eral government, working with presidents all throughout his career and being so respected by governments in terms of what notre dame brings and in terms of perspective to decision mak­ing at that high level for the na­tion,” he said. 
now Father Jenkins is work­ing on his big vision to grow the university, crawford said, through an expansion in re­search, the new school of global affairs and the new california effort. The california plan, will consist of establishing a larger notre dame presence through internships and career oppor­tunities for undergraduates, re­cruiting top high school students and establishing online classes. 
“i say that you look at all these visions [and] when you kind of add them up i just feel somehow that this california effort is go­ing to be part of one of those in a look back ten years from now, or one or two decades, that notre dame was going to really go and plant their flag at another loca­tion in the u.s.,” he said. 
crawford said it is important for the university to bring its core values and virtues out west to “a technology hub of the world.” he said all these visions have taught him to really think big. 
“when you just look at what’s going on out there in terms of technology, biotechnology, in­vestment, it was very important sort of on the research side of things,” he said. “when you look out there in terms of develop­ment, there [are] a lot of people that resonate with our mission. we think we can engage them through that.” 
although crawford will relo­cate to california next year, he said he is still very much so a part of the notre dame family. 
“i think the world needs notre dame students, and they contin­ue to inspire people,” he said. “i don’t think sometimes students realize how much of an impact they have on faculty and deans and so forth, but they truly do, so keep up the great work.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

my right, red eye 

Emily McConville 
news writer 

occasionally, people ask me why the corner of my right eye is unusually red and splotchy. 
short answer: it’s a birthmark. no, really. 
long answer: no, not really. it’s actually the remnants of a limbur epibulbar dermoid, which is an overgrowth of normal skin in an abnormal place. when i was born, the white of my eye encroached a little onto my pupil. it didn’t do anything too crazy (dermoids are generally benign), but it was pretty weird-look­ing, so when i was three years old i had surgery to remove it. i remember waking up, eating ice cream, crying and wearing an eye patch for awhile. 
problem solved. except the surgery didn’t go quite right, and i ended up with a red and blotchy patch where the dermoid used to be. a few months later, i had another surgery to cor­rect it. it wasn’t corrected. hence, splotch. 
camp counselors who don’t know what pinkeye looks like have thought i have pinkeye ever since. 
here’s the interesting thing, though: when i was three, and my parents became concerned about my mutant eyeball, eye-dermoid surgery was still in its early stages. apparently, if you were unfortunate enough to be born with a dermoid (which, considering all the things that could grow out of your eye, is not especially un­fortunate), you just had to walk around without a perfectly round pupil. although toddler me might have been too loopy to appreciate it, the surgery that gave me my splotch was kind of cutting-edge. 
and the eye doctors are apparently pretty good at it now. i’ve been told the doctor who did my surgery was instrumental in developing the surgery itself. you don’t see three-year-olds today walking around with bloodshot eyes after their cosmetic surgery. in fact, if i wanted to, i could have one more procedure to get rid of the red part entirely. The optometrists i see on a semi-regular basis started telling me that when i was around 12, and the risk factors they give me decrease with each subsequent check-up. 
i keep my splotch around, though. i’m not entirely sure why. i guess i’d rather not undergo a medical procedure on my eyeball unless i absolutely need to. or maybe it’s sentimental, a small reminder of the tremendous work that has gone into making my face look presentable. maybe it’s also a reminder of the importance of medical advancement and how i might have played a small role in the development of one particular branch of optometry. perhaps it makes me feel unique or important or something. 
in any case, my blotch is a part of me, and i feel strangely protective of it. i’m not tired (well, i am, but that’s not what makes my eye red), i’m not sick, it doesn’t hurt and i’m glad you brought it up -i actually like to talk about it because i think it’s a cool story. 
That’s what i tell people, if they ask. 
my mom suggested i just call it a birthmark, but i prefer the long story. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconville@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
American dream at a Crossroads 
Amanda Pena 
silence isn’t golden 
Two individuals i love were born in the united states, grew up in poverty as the children of mexican immigrants and suffered in a world of gang violence, drugs and hunger until god brought them together in october 1982. within six months they became 17-year-old teen parents and dropped out of high school to get married, work full-time and create a life together. 
when their first daughter was born with a learning dis­ability, they were overwhelmed with the responsibilities of ensuring she had the best available care on an income that barely afforded enough food. while some of their peers and family fell to addictions, incarceration and gang activity over the years, they raised their four daughters on the sidelines, affected by these circumstances but never absorbed in them. when she was 5 years old, their third daughter was deeply moved by the things she had experi­enced in this world, vowing with one of her cousins that they would be the first in their families to go to college. 
sixteen years later, she is now a senior set to graduate in may 2015 at notre dame — one of the most prestigious universities in the country and the alma mater for some of the most influential people in the world. 
my parents, now married for 31 years, sacrificed all of their time, energy and resources to support the promise my cousin and i made long ago. i will never forget their reactions when they found out i would be going to col­lege — let alone here — or their childlike excitement when they moved me into welsh Family hall. never imagining they would set foot on a college campus in their lifetime, they cried and bought everything they could carry from the bookstore to brag to friends and coworkers about my joining the Fighting irish family. i still remember my dad wanting to get an nd tattoo, giddy by the fact that he would now consider himself an irish mexican. 
as graduation looms overhead, i’ve reflected on the challenges, memories and people that characterized my journey to the golden dome. i have been working since i was 14 years old to offset costs i knew my parents couldn’t bear, and which help get me into college. paying for my own extracurricular involvement, saT/acT exams and navigating the entire college process alone was difficult to do when all the adults in my life didn’t know what the FaFsa was or couldn’t proofread my applications because i used words that were “too big.” The night before i left for my home under the dome, i was thrown a huge party and all of my lifelong family and friends were in attendance. They filled my pockets with every dollar they had in their wallets and shared their fears about me being the first to move so far away. after all of the pictures and jubilation, they made plans to see me graduate and began saving up over the years. 

every visit home turns into a party similar to my send­off: my family gives me what little they have to dem­onstrate their pride and support of my education. my 16-year-old neighbor was inspired to work hard in the classroom and at football practice to show his parents he can get into notre dame too. For his birthday present this year, he asked to see me graduate at notre dame. it moved me to tears when my uncles, aunts, neighbors and friends crowded around our only home computer to book flights and hotel rooms. 
i ask you to now put yourself in my shoes to imagine how devastated they were when i informed them that they could no longer see me graduate in the stadium. with a lump in my throat, i called my parents and sisters to tell them only 3 of them would probably be allowed to see the commencement. sure, there are other ceremonies, but that’s not the point. 
The campus crossroads project originally claimed that the 2015 commencement plans would not be disrupted, a promise that was too-easily broken and blindsided many of us. Keep in mind though that there will still be six home football games scheduled in the 2015 season. in spite of my pride being a student, i am sickened that the university has once again demonstrated that football takes priority over its students. without those home foot­ball games, the university would lose out on millions of dollars, so i am sure construction plans will be adjusted to prevent that from happening. why can’t plans also be adjusted so we can have this one weekend to walk through the tunnel onto the field, slap the “graduate like a champion Today” sign and emerge toward Touchdown Jesus with a degree and all of our supporters cheering wildly from the stands? 
Amanda Peña is a senior with a self-designed major in Sustainable Development and minor in Poverty Studies. She welcomes respectful dialogue on issues of race, poverty, gender and interpersonal relations. She can be reached at apena@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



why you should be disappointed with obama 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

The last couple of weeks have been rough for the white house. president obama announced sept. 6 that he would not act on the immigration issue facing the united states until after the midterm elections. a white house official said saturday, “The reality the president has had to weigh is that we’re in the midst of the political season.” obama delved further into his decision as a guest on chuck Todd’s inaugural episode of “meet the press,” stating “the politics did shift mid­summer.” This priority shift is meant to reduce the harm his policies would inflict on fellow democrats going into the midterms. placing elections and politi­cal expediency ahead of real issues facing the united states, back peddling on previous statements, broken promises, what else should we expect from the 44th president? 
obama’s own supporters are even upset with him, rep. loretta sanchez (d-ca) expressed her disen­chantment with his decision on cnn’s “new day,” “The president said he would address [immigration reform] with us. we should be getting it done now instead of after the election, so, yes, of course we’re disappointed in the president.” 
“it’s a disappointment with real consequences,” said neera Tanden, president of the center for american progress and former obama aide. it keeps piling on: “when candidate obama asked our com­munity for support in 2008 and 2012, he urged us all to vote based on our hopes, not our fears,” said president and ceo of the national council of la raza Janet murguía. “Today, president obama gave in to the fears of democratic political operatives, crushing the hopes of millions of hard-working people living under the constant threat of deportation and family separation.” carmen velasquez penned a scathing op-ed in poliTico last week, asserting, “This year, obama promised us action on immigration at the end of spring. Then he promised movement after the summer recess, when federal lawmakers returned to washington. now, he promises to take up the issue after the november elections. lie to me once, shame on you. lie to me five times; what do you expect us to do?” 
Keep in mind that obama isn’t just giving up on trying to convince congress to work together and act with him on immigration – he is refusing to issue any executive orders that could have an impact on the current immigration crisis. executive orders are uni­laterally decided and declared by the president, so it stands to reason that he cannot blame congressional gridlock for his own inaction. not long ago he fought back against supposed calls for his impeachment by claiming, “you hear some of them: ‘sue him! impeach him!’ really? For what, doing my job?” as a matter of fact it seems he is not doing his job. in truth, he has decided to neutralize the one thing he could do to keep alive the “hope” he promised his supporters six years ago. 
i am continually surprised by my liberal friends’ faith in the president’s ability to get anything done. aside from getting the affordable care act passed in 2010, he has accomplished nothing else that required congressional action. he has failed to reform firearms regulations or immigration policy and has stumbled on foreign policy throughout his presidency, not to mention the headline campaign promise of closing the guantanamo bay detention camp. excuses for not closing the facility generally conclude with him say­ing he came into greater knowledge of the goings-on there and decided against it. 
are we left to believe, then, that candidate obama was naïve and ignorant to the fact that suspected terrorists were held in a highly-secure, top-secret prison for what just might have been justifiable reasons? 

don’t mistake my criticisms of obama’s inaction as agreement with his beliefs or campaign promises; i simply believe my liberal friends should be more disappointed in obama, the commander-in-chief of irresolution and forsaken promises. Then again, maybe they are – a new washington post poll shows evidence of obama losing the confidence of the key demographics that worked to elect him. 
perhaps i shouldn’t be so surprised that he chose to delay action on immigration yet again. 
it is interesting to note that the strategic reason he has chosen to hold off on immigration is because his actions could reflect poorly on democratic can­didates come november, which is to lead us to say those up for reelection can no longer count on their constituencies’ support of the president. That those policies which the president – and the democratic party – hold dear, may no longer resonate with the american public. This evaluation of the midterms and obama’s national perception is well founded, with polls released last week showing a majority of americans view obama’s presidency as a failure, and his approval rating hovering around just 40% for the last few months. 
isn’t it amazing how beliefs and policy can change so quickly and closely with the polls? it is apparent now more than ever we don’t have a president who stands for “hope” or “change,” but a president who is the personification of disappointment. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
hamas: a legitimate government 
Anhvinh Doanvo 
guest columnist 

Throughout the recent war in gaza, all of hamas’ “operatives” were targeted by israel, regardless of their affiliation with hamas’ po­lice force, civil services or izzedine al-Qassam brigades, hamas’ armed wing. even after the conflict ended, israel continues to count hamas’s police officers, who weren’t affiliated with the militant al-Qassam brigades, as militant casualties. 
israel’s targeting of all those affiliated with hamas will only legitimize the organization to the world and the palestinians. israel must learn to treat and pressure hamas as if hamas were a government. israel must recognize that hamas’ civilian infrastructure is not a legitimate tar­get. Furthermore, israel’s fallacious methodol­ogy counting hamas’ civilians as militants will only serve to discredit its own public relations campaign. 
in the weeks of mass arrests in July, an israeli defense Forces official said that “everything linked to hamas (was) being targeted,” including civilian facilities and hundreds of civilians were arrested for their association with hamas and protests prior to the rocket attacks. 
when israel’s airstrikes and ground forces came, news reports including those from Fox news con­sistently mentioned israel’s reasoning as its aim to destroy “civilian institutions with suspected hamas ties.” 
hamas isn’t just a foreign terrorist organization as the u.s. government labels it. it’s a government that has been democratically elected. according to the israeli scholar reuven paz, “90 percent” of its work is devoted to social services that the palestinian authority has failed to provide. innocent civilians depend on hamas’s social ser­vices to live and such services are not legitimate targets. The targeting of such services follows osama bin laden’s logic, under which american civilians were legitimate targets for supporting 
u.s. operations in the middle east. 
hamas’ rival, Fatah, has been discredited for its corruption and disregard for democracy. poverty and corrupt governments breed radicalism, revo­lution and societal regression, and attacking hamas without providing a credible alternative will perpetuate terror. likewise, israeli brutality against protestors including americans will have disastrous consequences for the region. 
Fatah starred in the coalition for accountability and integrity’s 2013 report for misappropriation of funds, lack of transparency and rampant cor­ruption “across all sections of… society.” Two bil­lion euros in aid to Fatah were lost to corruption from 2008 to 2012. in contrast, hamas is known for its extreme antipathy towards corruption and the international crisis group noted that there is little “substantial evidence” that hamas’ civilian facilities divert funds to violent activities. 
and when hamas won the 2006 elections, Fatah expelled hamas officials including the prime minister, ismail haniyeh and unilaterally ex­tended abbas’ (Fatah president) term. Fatah’s reputation has become so soiled that haniyeh is still recognized by the pa’s palestinian legislative council as palestine’s prime minister. 
because of israeli blockades, airstrikes and out­right killings, the people of gaza look to hamas and the u.n. for aid, not the west, and israel’s targeting of everyone associated with hamas will exacerbate the security crisis. 

israel must recognize hamas as gaza’s govern­ment rather than seeing it as just another militant organization. by targeting protestors and hamas’s social services, israel destroyed the little support it has among human rights organizations and palestinians. 
attacking only militant cells is more practical than arresting all of hamas’s doctors, cooks and parliamentarians and rebuilding the infrastruc­ture from the ground up. and Fatah must be held accountable for its actions. it will not regain its position in gaza if it refuses to include hamas, a move that israel vehemently opposes. 
Fatah has abused its power, sidelining the op­position in a manner comparable to the now de­posed maliki’s iraqi government, and israel has permanently wounded its image with its outright executions of fleeing civilians in Khuza and indis­criminate airstrikes, so there is no credible alter­native to hamas. 
and with its vast civilian infrastructure devoted to healthcare, food and other services civilians need, hamas is the only organization keeping the gazans from living beneath poverty, so it’s no wonder british academics writing for The guardian believe that hamas is here to stay. 
a war against hamas can only make it stronger, because to many of the palestinians, hamas is the martyr working to keep gaza alive. 
Anhvinh Doanvo is majoring in biology and lives in Keough Hall. He is interested in international relations. He can be reached at vinhdoanvo@outlook.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

last Thursday, legends hosted nothing less than a full-fledged rave as innovative electro-pop duo cherub brought their champagne showers Tour to notre dame. The official legends’ webpage advertised that the duo would be “performing their hit song ‘doses and mimosas’ live,” but a diverse set list proved cherub to be more than a one-hit wonder. 
a crowd swarmed in promptly for show time, undeterred by the construction around legends. The crowd expressed some impatience at having to wait until midnight to see the group, but first opener gibbz provided a much-needed warm-up with energetic dance beats. a second opener and fellow electronic duo, ghost beach, followed up with an ambient yet upbeat style reminis­cent of st. lucia, which mellowed the restless crowd. 
when Jordan Kelley and Jason huber — the two friends and former college classmates who make up cherub — appeared onstage, it was without the array of synths and com­puters i had expected. instead, both wielded guitars with a surprising aptitude. huber also used an incon­spicuous sound pad to manipulate the sounds, as well as a talk box. This is a technique that has been utilized by psychedelic rockers like pink Floyd, causing me to suspect some totally out-of-genre influences. 
The duo opened with “<3,” a deep track off their new album that demonstrated their characteristic avant-garde dance-pop style and scandalous lyrics. Though “<3” is an exception, their lyrics often express a love for partying, which was cer­tainly apparent in their performance style. The band has gained commer­cial success with straightforward catchy pop tunes, but it was obvious that they saw live performances as an opportunity to revisit their elec­tro-funk roots. 
with a well put together set list having ebb and flow, the duo demon­strated versatility by slowing it down with soulful r&b beats, much appre­ciated by those audience-members who had paired off to dance. The energy was revived with what they called a cover of “Feels so close,” es­sentially calvin harris’s version with huber’s vocals and a few guitar notes. by now the audience was completely engaged as its inner layers began to look similar to a mosh-pit. after a few more tracks, the audience was finally ready for the top hits. 
Kelley built up the crowd for “doses and mimosas,” — the sus­pense was palpable — but finally gave in and played what the major­ity of the audience had come to see. as is always the case for a band like cherub with only a few well-known songs, the crowd noticeably thinned after the hit was played. The rest of us had our loyalty rewarded with an unexpected cover of weezer classic “say it ain’t so.” 
overall, the show was dance-friendly and satisfying, and no one seemed to mind that the majority of the sound was playback. although after a sampling of songs the audi­ence favorite was still “doses and mimosas,” there is certainly more to come from this fun young duo. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 



EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 


Notre Dame 30, PUrDUe 14 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | NDsmcobserver.com 
Battling adversity 

No. 11 Notre Dame shakes off slow start and injuries, powers past Purdue, 30-14 
Too early to know much about this Notre Dame team 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
INDIaNaPoLIs — For the second time in three seasons, the Irish have started 3-0, and they’ve put up a combined 109 points through those first three contests. 
It might be tempting to draw conclusions about this team, especially after its exciting run in 2012. 
but the problem with that is, we still don’t know anything definitive about this year’s Notre Dame squad, and bar­ring a crazy loss to syracuse on sept. 27, we still won’t know anything until after its game against stanford on oct. 4, its first real test of the season. 
In these days of instant gratification, we want to know everything immediately, on-the-spot after it happens. 
Unfortunately, the Irish schedule will make us be pa­tient before we can make judg­ment calls about how the rest of the season will go. 
the one definitive from the past three weeks is how good everett Golson is and how im­proved he is from 2012. 
Not that Golson was bad two years ago — after all, he quarterbacked the Irish to an undefeated regular season, with a little help from tommy rees. but he did make a lot of progress in his time away from south bend, and that’s shown on the field so far. 
Had Golson and Notre Dame put away Purdue as handily as most people thought, some other conclusions about how good this team really is might have been drawn after blowout wins over rice and michigan. 
but the boilermakers played the Irish like they had in the past two seasons — scrappy, “brawling,” as Irish junior defensive lineman romeo okwara said, and never quite going away until the very end. 
though Notre Dame closed the game with 20 unanswered points, saturday’s matchup wasn’t over until the final whistle, based on how the Irish played in the first half 
see earLY PAGE 3 

By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 
INDIaNaPoLIs — the glitz and glamour of the new uni­forms and new venue for Notre Dame’s shamrock series match-up with Purdue changed little about the recent history from the long-standing series be­tween the two teams. 
the boilermakers kept things close and interesting into the fourth quarter before No. 11 Notre Dame (3-0) packed away Purdue (1-2), winning 30-14 at Lucas oil stadium in Indianapolis. 
“they played with great passion. they were physical,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said of the boilermakers. “they al­ways play us in that fashion.” 
before saturday, the previous two meetings between Notre Dame and Purdue were de­cided by a total of 10 points. on saturday, the Irish led just 17-14 after a relatively uninspiring first half, and Purdue trailed 24­14 entering the fourth quarter. but the Irish latched the clamps on the boilermakers and posted 20 unanswered points en route to the victory. 
“We’re pretty excited about the win,” Kelly said. “We’ve got a lot of young guys in there that 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
EVERETT GOLSON 
IRISH SENIOR QUARTERBACK 
He wasn’t perfect saturday, but the fact he wasn’t yet still posted a turnover-free game, accounted for three touchdowns and led the Irish in rushing shows how far he has come. Golson lifted Notre Dame with key conversions in the third quarter, allowing it to pull away after he pulled back the momentum with his touchdown run. 
like to play and enjoy the victory as well.” 
the already-young Irish were forced to dip deeper into the reserves saturday. Irish fresh­man defensive end andrew trumbetti (head, neck, chest) did not dress. Graduate student offensive lineman christian Lombard (high-ankle sprain) dressed but did not play. senior receiver amir carlisle (right mcL sprain) and junior safety Nicky baratti (shoulder) ex­ited the game in the first half. sophomore cornerback cole Luke (neck) left in the second half. sophomore safety max redfield was ejected for target­ing early in the second quarter. 
“I was proud of the way our team responded to adversity for the first time,” Kelly said. “We’re playing a lot of young guys. We had some injuries today. Guys stepped up and responded to that first sign of adversity that a team has to handle and respond to.” 
Irish senior quarterback everett Golson completed 25 of 40 passes for 259 yards and two touchdowns while also leading 
see vIctorY PAGE 2 
Irish ‘D’ stiffens, shuts out Purdue in second half 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 
INDIaNaPoLIs — a shoddy start gave way to solid stops for the Notre Dame defense saturday night at Lucas oil stadium, as the Irish limited Purdue to 290 yards of total of­fense and two scores in a 30-14 win. 
Fresh off last week’s shutout of michigan, the Notre Dame defense promptly allowed two 60-plus-yard drives and seven points on Purdue’s first two drives. 
the boilermakers climbed to a 14-10 lead in the second quar­ter, and it was the Purdue side­line bouncing up and down in excitement while the pro-Irish crowd stood subdued inside the home of the Indianapolis colts. 
“We were very sluggish in the first half,” Irish graduate student cornerback cody riggs said. 
boilermakers sophomore quarterback Danny etling com­pleted his first nine passes and the Irish defense missed a slew of tackles as Purdue marched down the field at the outset. 
“there was no energy — the ‘D-boys spirit,’ a lot of enthu­siasm, things like that, so it was about bringing that to the table,” Irish sophomore linebacker Jaylon smith said. “somebody had to make a play and once that happened, we got going.” 
but in order to get going, Notre Dame needed its younger reserves to step up and make plays. Irish sophomore safety max redfield was ejected in the second quarter for target­ing. With graduate student safety austin collinsworth (mcL) and senior safety eilar Hardy (withheld) unavailable, the Irish turned to junior safety Nicky baratti. baratti logged one snap before injuring his shoulder and leaving the field. so Irish defensive coordinator brian vanGorder bumped ju­nior elijah shumate from strong safety to free safety — a position Kelly said shumate had never played at Notre Dame — and in­serted freshman Drue tranquill at strong safety. 
“We came [back] out [to the 
see DeFeNse PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

everett Golson accounted for 315 yards of total offense, three touchdowns and zero turnovers. Nonetheless, Irish head coach brian Kelly said the offense missed too many opportunities. Golson missed a few more throws than he did in the first two games but was still solid. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Notre Dame’s running backs were decidedly average, saturday. cam mcDaniel, tarean Folston and Greg bryant combined for 83 yards on 24 carries (3.46 yards per rush) but somewhat made up for the ground struggles by getting involved in the passing game. bryant and Folston com­bined to haul in four grabs for 60 yards. 
RECEIVERS 

there weren’t too many blatantly obvious miscues by this unit, but Kelly still said he’s looking for more from it. Will Fuller, ben Koyack, c.J. Prosise and corey robinson each had at least three catches. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

the offensive line arguably played the poorest of any Irish position group saturday. there were few running lanes for Notre Dame’s three-pronged backfield, and Golson was sacked four times. Kelly said sunday the Irish will evaluate the offensive line during the bye week. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Irish junior defensive end romeo okwara starred on the defensive line and tallied 11 tackles. Notre Dame notched three sacks and limited Purdue to just 56 yards rushing on 26 attempts (2.2 yards per carry). 
LINEBACKERS 

While sophomore Jaylon smith and senior Joe schmidt combined for 17 tackles, the Irish still had too many missed tackles, especially in the first half. schmidt did re­cord his first career interception late in the fourth quarter. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

all things considered, the Irish secondary played well given the circumstances. With elijah shumate, Drue tran­quill and Devin butler starting by the game’s end, Notre Dame’s depth was tested saturday. missed tackles proved costly in the first half, but the unit tightened up. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kyle brindza had a solid day punting and kicking off, and he connected on three of four field goals despite some awkward kicks. amir carlisle broke off a 47-yard return to start the game. but Notre Dame’s coverage units allowed returns of 33 (kick) and 17 (punt) yards, respectively. still, Notre Dame didn’t hurt itself much on special teams. 
COACHING 

It’s difficult to understand Notre Dame’s lackluster first half, but — to Kelly’s credit — the Irish made necessary adjustments in the second half, and Kelly and his cohorts readied a cast of youngsters on the fly for the second half. For the first time this season, penalties truly hurt Notre Dame. the Irish racked up 43 penalty yards on seven infractions. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.78 (B-) 

even when they weren’t at their best, the Irish were able to win by 16 points.  Now, Notre Dame will look to clean up some of its issues, par­ticularly along the offensive line, while trying to get healthy during the bye week. the Irish were dealt their first chunk of in-game adversity this season and were able to overcome it. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
EVERETT GOLSON RUSHES FOR A 15-YARD SCORE BEFORE HALFTIME 
Notre Dame took over down by four with three minutes to play in the first half. after Golson drove the Irish into the Purdue red zone, he scrambled right from 15 yards out and scored behind a strong block by receiver chris brown with 13 seconds left. Notre Dame never surrendered its lead. 
Victory 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
the ground attack with 56 yards and a score on 14 carries. senior kicker Kyle brindza connected on three consecutive field goals af­ter missing a 50-yarder in the first quarter. Irish junior defensive end romeo okwara, who saw a bump in snaps with trumbetti out, amassed a career-high 11 tackles. 
Notre Dame found itself trail­ing for the first time in the 2014 season when Purdue scored on a 19-yard strike from sophomore quarterback Danny etling to sophomore receiver Deangelo Yancey in the back of the end zone with three minutes re­maining in the second quarter. the Irish quickly responded as Golson sprinted in from 15 yards out with 13 seconds left in the first half, and Notre Dame never looked back. 
according to Irish sophomore receiver Will Fuller, Golson pulled the offense together be­fore halftime. 
“We weren’t executing as we wish that we should, so [Golson] brought us together right before halftime and told us, ‘We’ve got to get going, we’ve got to execute,’ things like that,” Fuller said. 
the Irish composed a lacklus­ter first half and only led 17-14 at the intermission. Notre Dame committed five first-half pen­alties, misfired on a field goal, missed tackles and committed its first turnover of the season. In a span of two second-quarter drives, the Irish tallied negative yardage on six plays, punted and fumbled. 
“there was no energy — the “D-boys” spirit, a lot of enthu­siasm, things like that, so it was about bringing that to the table,” Irish sophomore line­backer Jaylon smith said of what needed to change at halftime. “somebody had to make a play and once that happened, we got going.” 


the Irish defense made its share of plays in the second half. Purdue only tallied 121 yards of total offense in the second half. the boilermakers ended their second-half drives with a punt, punt, turnover-on-downs, punt, interception and interception. Irish sophomore cornerback Devin butler and senior line­backer Joe schmidt both record­ed their first-career interceptions in the fourth quarter to knot the victory. 
butler and freshman safety Drue tranquill were forced into extended action in a depleted secondary. by the final whistle, the list of sidelined and withheld Irish defensive backs included junior cornerback Keivarae russell, graduate student safety austin collinsworth, senior safe­ty eilar Hardy, Luke, redfield and baratti. 
“there’s no waiver wire, there’s no trading in college football,” Kelly said. “We’re trying to get young guys ready. that’s what we’re trying to do in the locker room.” 
early in the second half, the Notre Dame offense started to click. Golson converted four of five third downs on the first two second-half drives, fitting in passes to Fuller, junior receiver 
c.J. Prosise, robinson and sopho­more running back Greg bryant. after a 17-yard off dump-off to bryant, Golson grooved a 15-yard strike to robinson in the corner of the end zone to lift the Irish lead to 24-14 with 4:05 to play in the third quarter. 
“I knew that everett was com­ing to me, I knew that the guys re­ally needed me to make that play, so I just rose up, and I caught it, got smacked a couple times, and I woke up on the ground and had a touchdown,” robinson said sim­ply of his first touchdown of the season. 
the boilermakers slogged through their next two drives, and Notre Dame entered the fourth quarter ahead by 10. brindza buried a 48-yard field goal with 9:31 remaining, and the Irish picked off boilermakers sophomore quarterback Danny etling on Purdue’s two succes­sive possessions to finalize the victory. 
“there’s no easy wins in col­lege football,” Irish graduate stu­dent cornerback cody riggs said. 
on the opening drive of the game, Notre Dame stormed down the field quickly to lead 7-0 just 2:37 in after Golson connect­ed with Fuller on a slant. 
a few possessions later, the boilermakers drove 67 yards down the field, capitalizing on some missed tackles by the Irish defense. Purdue tied the game, 7-7, with 1:50 remaining in the first quarter. 
Following Irish senior tight end ben Koyack’s fumble, the boilermakers rumbled 26 yards into the end zone, highlighted by the nifty 19-yard touchdown snatch by Yancey to put Purdue up 14-10. 
but Notre Dame responded in the final minutes of the first half. Golson connected with robinson over the top of the Purdue defense for 32 yards to get the Irish to the 12-yard line. two plays later, Golson motored behind a strong block from junior receiver chris brown and notched his fourth rushing score of the season to lift the Irish back ahead, 17-14, head­ing to the halftime break. 
redfield was ejected for target­ing when he hit etling in the neck/ head area after etling scrambled and tried to slide. redfield will be eligible to play in Notre Dame’s next game against syracuse. 
the Irish are off next week and return to the field sept. 27 when they square off with syracuse at metLife stadium in east rutherford, New Jersey. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


NDsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER !5, 2014 | tHe observer 

Defense 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
field with] about two minutes and five seconds [remaining] on the clock at halftime be­cause we’re trying to coach it up on the run,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “We’re depleted at that position.” 
so the Irish spent halftime trying to ready the youngsters while also re-setting the over­all defensive mindset. 
“Going into halftime, we got together — the defense — and talk to each other, and we knew that we had to execute better because we came out flat,” Irish junior defensive end romeo okwara said. “In 
Early 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
and how Purdue was compet­ing against them. 
so we can’t draw any conclusions based on Irish struggles yesterday, because the boilermakers — no matter how bad their record is — al­ways show up against Notre Dame. 
at the same time, we can’t draw any conclusions be­cause the Irish faced seri­ous adversity with an excess of players absent from the field at Lucas oil stadium on saturday. 
take a look at the second­ary. sophomore safety max redfield was ejected in the first half on a targeting pen­alty. Graduate student safety austin collinsworth hasn’t made his debut after an mcL injury sidelined him shortly before the season kicked off. Junior safety Nicky baratti left the game with a shoul­der injury that brian Kelly said will require season-ending surgery. sophomore the second half, we definitely executed better.” 

okwara posted a career-high 11 tackles to pace the Irish. okwara saw a marked increase in his snap total, as freshman defensive end andrew trumbetti (head/ neck/chest) was sidelined. With the Irish up three early in the third quarter, Purdue ran up the middle on third-and­three. okwara was there to stuff boilermakers senior run­ning back raheem mostert for no gain. Notre Dame also gridlocked Purdue on two fourth downs, from one and five yards, respectively. 
“It’s all about leverage in those fourth-down situations 
cornerback cole Luke was taken out in the second half with a neck injury as a con­cussion precaution. Junior cornerback Keivarae russell still sits from practice and competition while the ongo­ing academic investigation continues. 
that left only three “veter­an” players in the secondary saturday night: graduate stu­dent cornerback cody riggs, senior cornerback matthias Farley — who just made the switch to that position from safety — and junior safety elijah shumate — the player everyone ripped into after a few blown plays against rice, but praised after a lock-down performance against michigan. 
that’s probably not how brian Kelly imagined his depth chart before the season started. 
but there are some posi­tives from the first three games, which could turn out to have serious results down the road. 
though most of Notre and it’s also about executing, so making sure that every­one’s doing their job, not wor­rying about anything else,” smith said. 
after those opening three possessions in which Purdue piled up 136 yards, Notre Dame limited the boilermakers to just 160 yards on their final 49 plays (3.27 yards per play). 
“It was a lot of adversity as well, getting off to a bad start as far as how we feel defen­sively,” smith said. “Giving up 14 points, that’s something that isn’t acceptable, and we just had to rally together.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Dame’s offense is young, it’s shown up to play in every game. sophomores tarean Folston, Greg bryant and corey robinson have all lived up to preseason expectations. 
okwara registered a ca­reer high in tackles against Purdue as he stepped up in place of injured freshman andrew trumbetti. 
and still to everyone’s shock, the return game is as good as it’s ever been in the Kelly era, despite some strug­gles saturday. 
then again, all these are hypotheses — they could turn into the factors that will make this a great season for Notre Dame, but nothing is set in stone right now. 
Until the Irish face a real test, which will most likely come oct. 4 against stanford, it’s simply too soon to tell. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Fuller opens with three tDs 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
sophomore receiver Will Fuller became the first Notre Dame receiver to catch a touch­down in each of the first three games of a season since michael Floyd did so in 2009. 
Fuller grabbed a six-yard pass from senior quarterback everett Golson at the 12:23 mark of the first quarter to put Notre Dame ahead, 7-0. 
In the season opener against rice, Fuller notched a 75-yard touchdown reception from Golson, and he caught a 24­yard pass for a score against michigan. 
Floyd registered touchdown receptions in games against Nevada, michigan and michigan state to open the 2009 season. 
Brindza rising up the ranks 
senior kicker/punter Kyle brindza moved up to second all-time in program history in career field goals after his 19­yard make in the second quarter. His career record is now 49-for­65 after three makes and a miss saturday. 
brindza passed former Irish kicker Nicholas setta, who com­peted for Notre Dame from 2000 to 2003. 
the senior now only trails former kicker John carney, who tallied 51 field goals from 1984 to 1986. 
Golson streaking 
With his 15-yard touchdown pass to sophomore receiver corey robinson in the third quarter, Golson has thrown at least two touchdowns in three straight games for the second time in his career. 
Golson tossed two scores against Purdue and rice and three against michigan. 
the quarterback completed the feat in 2012 in a three-game stretch against Pittsburgh, boston college and Wake Forest. 
He registered two touchdown passes against Pittsburgh and boston college and three against Wake Forest that year. 
Irish in Indy 
after the victory against Purdue, Notre Dame is now 6-2 in games played in Indianapolis. the Irish have picked up those wins against Purdue, butler and Indiana. 
However, saturday marked the first time the team competed at Lucas oil stadium. 
the last Irish win in Indianapolis came in a 31-3 game against butler on Nov. 18, 1922. 
Notre Dame also continued its perfect record in shamrock series games, moving up to 6-0 with the win. the Irish have also defeated Washington state, army, maryland, miami (Fla.) and arizona state in the series. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  7  0  0  14  
7  10  7  6  30  

NOTRE DAME 7, PURDUE 0 
Will Fuller 6-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
12:23 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 45 yards, 2:37 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, PURDUE 7 
brandon cottom 7-yard pass from etling (Griggs kick) 
1:50 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 67 yards, 5:00 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, PURDUE 7 
Kyle brindza 19-yard field goal 
11:57 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 76 yards, 4:53 elapsed 
PURDUE 14, NOTRE DAME 10 
Deangelo Yancey 19-yard pass from etling (Griggs kick) 
3:00remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 26 yards, 0:47 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, PURDUE 14 
everett Golson 15-yard run (brindza kick) 
0:13 remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 70 yards, 2:47 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, PURDUE 14 
corey robinson 15-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
4:05remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 62 yards, 1:56 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, PURDUE 14 
Kyle brindza 48-yard field goal 
9:31remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 39 yards, 5:08 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 30, PURDUE 14 
Kyle brindza 39-yard field goal 
5:30remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 27 yards, 2:49 elapsed 
STATISTICS 


RUSHING YARDS 56  139  
PASSING YARDS  234 259  


Time of Possession 
33:00 
PASSING 
Golson 25-40-259 
RUSHING 
Golson 14-56 McDaniel 9-32 Bryant 6-29 Folston 9-22 
RECEIVING 
Robinson 3-52 Fuller 6-51 Prosise 4-51 Bryant 2-34 Koyack 5-32 Folston 2-26 
TACKLES 
Okwara 11 Smith 9 Schmidt 8 Rochell 6 Etling 

Mostert Hunt Etling 
Anthrop Yancey Mostert Posey Sinz Hunt 
Feichter Robinson Bentley Williams 
Time of Possession 
27:00 
27-40-234 
14-47 5-32 6--21 
4-61 2-48 3-30 4-28 5-26 5-14 
10 
10 9 8 


tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER !5, 2014 | NDsmcobserver.com 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish sophomore receiver Corey Robinson hauls in a touchdown grab during Notre Dame’s 30-14 win over Purdue on Saturday in the Shamrock Series at Lucas Oil Stadium in In­dianapolis. Robinson tallied three receptions for 52 yards as the Irish outscored the Boilermakers 13-0 in the second half. 
Notre Dame started slowly against Purdue but finished strongly and 
topped the Boilermakers, 30-14, in the Shamrock Series clash at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson 
PASSING BY 
tossed for two touchdowns and added another on the ground, while the Notre Dame defense limited Purdue to just 121 yards of total of-
PURDUE 
fense in the second-half shutout. The 3-0 Irish enter the bye week. 





The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 

oliver Tate, the existential protagonist in richard ayoade’s directorial debut, “submarine,” wonders what is inside of everybody after stumbling upon an ency­clopedia entry on ultrasound. 
“we’re all traveling under the radar un­detected, and no one can do a thing about it,” he states. 
“submarine” flew under the radar itself, however, now streaming on netflix, the film’s character begs to be viewed and, furthermore, interpreted. you will sub­merge yourself in Tate’s world, indulging in his narration and bitter humor. 
Tate wishes there was a film crew fol­lowing his every move and acts in an ac­cordingly melodramatic, self-reflective way. 
“i don’t what i am yet. i’ve tried smok­ing a pipe, flipping coins and listening exclusively to French crooners,” Tate confesses. 
“other times i’ll go to the beach and stare at the sea as though i’m in a 

Emily McConville 
scene writer 

To be honest, i was a little apprehen­sive going into the screening of national Theatre live’s “The curious incident of the dog in the night-Time” last Thursday night at the browning cinema in the debartolo performing arts center. mark haddon’s novel of the same name is one of my all-time favorites, and i wondered how any theatre company could possibly recreate it. its brilliance, like “The catcher in the rye,” comes from its writing — the main character’s thoughts on the page. how do you represent that visually? 
answer: you create a play in a black-box theatre, and then you film that play. 
“The curious incident,” book and play, follows christopher boone, a fifteen-year­old boy who loves space, “maths” (he’s british) and his pet rat, Toby. Though it is never actually said, it is understood that he has asperger’s syndrome, and he at­tends a special school where his teacher, siobhan, encourages him to pursue his interests. christopher, whose mother died before the events of the story, lives with his father on a street in swindon, england. when christopher decides to investigate the brutal murder of a neigh­bor’s dog, despite the disproportionately-strong objections of his father, he sets off a chain of events that changes everything he thinks he knows about his life and family. 
documentary as a prominent thinker, who’s struggled with unspeakable loss. i even went through a brief hat phase. nothing stuck.” 
Tate has a crush on his classmate, Jordana bevan. he describes her “spo­radic bouts of eczema” to be her only flaw, “other than that she has many qualities. she’s also a girl, to be seen with her could improve my street cred, which though high, could be higher.” 
Jordana takes polaroids of them kiss­ing to make her ex-boyfriend jealous, and the two start dating. They’re relationship involves arson-filled dates, sitting in an abandoned bathtub together talking and Jordana singeing Tate’s leg hairs. you will fall for the eclectic coupling, cherishing Tate’s try-hard attitude and Jordana’s witty jibes. 
For example, Tate nervously lets Jordana know they can have the house to themselves, saying “my parents go to the cinema on Thursday, so what i’m saying is it’s empty. The house. The house is empty on Thursday evening. it’s empty, you know. it’s an empty house.” 
after writing down the reasons Jordana 
The story is, of course, told from christopher’s perspective; we see the world of swindon through his eyes. he is straightforward in speech and writ­ing, expects everybody else to be the same way and is confused when they are not. numbers and puzzles permeate this world: each chapter in the novel is a prime number, and he spends significant portions of the book explaining compli­cated logical problems and hypothetical scenarios. we read (or hear) christopher’s thoughts, and we see how they are differ­ent from our own, but we also recognize the teenager’s eloquence and poignancy. 
national Theatre live translates this inner world to the stage remarkably well. The adaptation, which was first per­formed in 2012, follows the book almost exactly, using the black-box setting to recreate elements i once thought could only be written. For example, the novel contains several drawings or visual rep­resentations of christopher’s ideas. in the play, christopher (luke Treadaway) actu­ally draws these pictures with chalk on the floor of the stage, which can then be filmed from above so the movie-theatre spectator can see the shapes. The stage floor, laid out in tiles, also lights up to de­marcate, say, the houses on christopher’s street exactly as he would see them. other novel-specific elements are simply said: in both novel and play, christopher’s first-person account is actually a book his teacher siobhan reads. at one point, siobhan tells him, “it’s very clever how all should come over, per her demand, Jordana tells him she has one more seri­ous question, “will the house be empty?” sarcastically poking at Tate’s anxiety-ridden words. 
ayoade’s stylistic choices emulate wes anderson: he opens with a scanning shot, frequently uses slow motion, centered shots and features montages throughout. 
he begins one of these montages as Tate narrates his daydreaming in class, “i find that the only way to get through life is to picture myself in a completely discon­nected reality. i often imagine how people would react to my death.” The montage features clips of grandiose school an­nouncements, news reports and bawling girls all reacting to his untimely passing. 
Tate’s dramatics lend themselves to the film, influencing the style of cinematog­raphy. The film is staged in four parts: a prologue, part 1 – “Jordana bevan,” part 2 – “graham purvis” (named after Tate’s mother’s old-flame who moves in next door and is, to his mother’s approval, try­ing to reignite the relationship) and part 3 – “show down.”  This style of narration is very similar to the staged theatrics in 
the chapters are prime numbers.” 
The acting is also generally spot-on. Treadaway’s christopher stands rig­idly still, focusing only on what catches his attention, making little eye contact with the other characters, playing with the strings on his hoodie, saying what­ever comes to mind. his father (howard ward) is scruffy, downcast, sometimes angry but well-intentioned.  one neigh­bor, mrs. shears (sophie duval), is an­gry and neurotic while another, mrs. alexander (sherlock’s una stubbs), is frail and kindly. a few characters are overacted, but perhaps that’s the point: in christopher’s world, there is little subtlety in expression. 
The play really shines, however, be­cause of what it adds to the story and christopher’s character. The production is fluid — actors move around, alternat­ing between characters and props, seam­lessly blending storylines, trading the job of narrating christopher’s story — giv­ing me the sense that the world whirls around christopher while he only some­times notices. The stage is a chalkboard and a map, but it is also a projection canvas: when christopher has a pointed thought, that thought is written out on the stage. when he stressed out, sans-serif prime numbers emanate from where he stands. 
in one breathtakingly beautiful scene, christopher talks about his desire to go to outer space: as the thought progresses, as he extrapolates on how much he would anderson’s “rushmore.” 

ayoade used a technique i had never seen before to sensationalize certain scenes, such as Tate accidentally pushing an overweight bullied student into a pond or Tate and Jordana’s first “real” kiss. he used slow motion, but slowed the feature of the shot to a near pause. it emphasized the drama of the events and reflected how long the moments felt to Tate. it was a jarring, unique stylistic choice that proves ayoade to be an inventive, impressive director. 
The movie was supplemented with a soundtrack by alex Turner, lead singer of the arctic monkeys, which added to the melancholy tone of the film. 
be sure to pop open your laptop, launch netflix and follow Tate’s requests in the movie’s own opening message: “submarine is an important film. watch it with respect.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
like it, what he would need to do to get there, how easy it would be and who he could take, the stage melts slowly away. The lights focus on him, and stars and galaxies blink to life on the walls and stage floor and christopher’s body. music eases into the scene as the other actors bear christopher aloft, letting him drift away through the void, leaving the con­fusing and complicated world behind. The scene — and the play as a whole — speak to the beauty, humor and sadness of christopher’s world. it both respects and adds to the novel; in a way, i now con­sider my experience with “The curious incident” complete. 
Though “The curious incident” showed only once at dpac, there are more takeaways than just the play itself: the novel, of course, remains amazing, an beautiful and sympathetic look at the world of autism, and i could not recom­mend it more. national Theatre live is a unique and entertaining theatre com­pany, and dpac often screens its perfor­mances, so be on the lookout for more. 
“The curious incident of the dog in the night-Time” was, however, an incredible adaptation of an incredible novel, one that deserves every accolade it wins and every audience member it wins over. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Let the Peterson process play out 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
you had to know this column was coming. 
it was almost inevitable after such a tumultuous week in the nFl. 
ray rice was cut by the ravens and indefinitely suspended by the league after the video of him hitting his then-fiancée, now-wife, surfaced. 
adrian peterson was charged with causing reckless or negli­gent injury to a child by alleg­edly using a branch to hit his four-year-old son, and he was subsequently deactivated by the vikings for sunday’s game against the patriots. 
The panthers made a last-minute decision to deactivate greg hardy for their matchup sunday against the lions after head coach ron rivera faced criticism for stating hardy would be active earlier in the week. The defensive end was found guilty of threatening and assaulting his ex-girlfriend in July. 
The responses to the rice and hardy cases seem to be clear. abusing or assaulting a spouse or significant other is a black­and-white matter: There’s no way to justify it because it is sim­ply wrong. commissioner roger goodell dropped the ball with his initial decision to only sus­pend rice for two games, and he missed a key opportunity for the nFl to declare a strong stance against domestic violence and set a precedent for future cases. 
but after the video evidence emerged last week, there were no more questions that needed to be asked since the facts were right in front of goodell, in visual form, and he acted correctly in suspending rice indefinitely. Though the legal system seems to be dragging its feet with rice’s case, the nFl’s brass had a re­sponsibility to take action within the league once they saw the facts before them. 
The hardy case brings up the question of why the panthers didn’t act sooner since he was found guilty two months ago. it seems they only took punitive measures against hardy in light of the controversy surrounding rice and peterson — he wasn’t suspended for their week-one game against Tampa bay. however, since the pro bowler has been found guilty in a court of law, he deserves to receive an equal punishment from his own organization and the nFl. 
peterson’s situation is the one that is most “gray,” so to speak. There’s not one clear answer anywhere, and there are many different opinions floating around. 
i’m not saying the viking made the wrong decision in deactivating peterson. in all hon­esty, i have no idea what i would do in that situation. 
but at the same time, peterson has been charged with the crime but not yet found guilty. 
yes, just being charged with an offense as egregious as beat­ing your own child goes against many legal and ethical lines. it’s certainly not anything to be proud of. 
allegedly, his son suffered bruises and cuts in several places on his lower body. if those alle­gations are true, peterson should face a lengthly suspension from the nFl, at the least. 
however, the legal system has not found peterson guilty, so he is still presumed innocent. That’s something understood in the fifth and sixth amend­ments of the u.s. constitution along with common law in many countries around the world. 
in the end, the viking probably made the right call to sit peterson out. but that’s a decision that comes with much reflection and contemplation about peterson, his situation, the facts and the crime. it’s not something that should be done immediately based on a quick reaction. 
There were far too many peo­ple calling for peterson’s head as soon as the story broke, saying he should be suspended for the rest of the season or even kicked out of the nFl for life. 
Those kinds of gut reactions are what started and fueled the reign of Terror during the French revolution. 
That was what rivera said was his rationale when he initially decided to keep hardy active for yesterday’s game. on Friday, he said, “we are in a process, and we’re letting the process play its way out. because of that, we’re following through with the situa­tion, set of circumstances. we’re not trying to do anything below board or way above board.” 
Teams don’t want to let a crim­inal — whether that be a wife-beater or a child-abuser — roam their sidelines on sundays. but they don’t want to be too quick to jump the gun either and convict an innocent man in a kangaroo court. 
There’s no easy answer for cases like peterson’s. much de­liberation is put into selecting commissioners like goodell, because they will need to make difficult decisions. we just need to have faith in those leaders to make that right decision and use their judgment and reason before sending down a ruling too harsh or too lenient. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY | calvin KnighT inviTaTional 

beeler leads belles in calvin Knight invitational 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
saint mary’s finished 11th out of 25 teams at the calvin Knight invitational on saturday in its first major meet of the season. 
sophomore brittany beeler finished led the team, finish­ing 40th overall in the race. saint mary’s coach Jackie bauters said the team’s finish was not great, but not disap­pointing either. 
“i had expected us to do a little bit better time-wise, but i was overall pleased with the performance,” bauters said. “we have a lot to work on, but it was a good start.” 
bauters said saint mary’s will need to get faster at every spot on the roster in order to be more competitive in confer­ence meets. 
“we’ve really got to get our number one up where she can be,” bauters said. “she didn’t have her best race on saturday. we’ve also got to close the gap between our number one and number seven runners entire­ly. a lot of our competitors are going to be tough and we’re go­ing to need our three, four and five spots to really get us to the next level.” 

racing against teams like calvin, which is currently ranked no. 7 in the ncaa div. iii poll, was a positive expe­rience for the belles, bauters said. The long list of teams also included st. Francis, case-western, heidelberg, and con­ference-rival alma. 
“it was good to go up against some really strong programs that are regionally and na­tionally ranked, like calvin and case [western],” bauters said. “it was a good showing from everyone that was there. That’s why we go to calvin, to compete with some of the best teams around.” 
some individuals on the team showed signs of prog­ress at the invitational, bauters said, specifically sophomore Kaitlyn alessi and junior Katelyn dunn, who finished in 109th and 110th places, respectively. 
“Kaitlyn alessi and Katelyn dunn had really good races for our first real meet this season,” bauters said. “alessi ran re­ally well coming off some good summer training, so that was great to see.” 
bauters said she is looking forward to the miaa Jamboree, the first six-kilometer race of the season, as a chance to get experience and exhibit im­provement, especially with so many younger runners. 
“i think we’ve got a lot of first-years who have never run the 6K, so even though it’s not re­ally different distance-wise it does take some adjustments,” bauters said. “we’ll have to see how it goes. we’re excited for Jamboree since it counts for a third of our conference points.” 
The belles have a two-week break before the Jamboree, which takes place sept. 27 at Kalamazoo. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgiffi6@nd.edu 
NFL 

Stars sidelined in week two 
Associated Press 
after a tough week off the field, the nFl got back to play­ing - and the focus turned to big-name players who were in­jured all over the league. 
robert griffin iii, Jamaal charles, desean Jackson, a.J. green and Knowshon moreno all left their games on a busy sunday for team trainers and medical staffs. 
griffin dislocated his left ankle in the first quarter of washington’s 41-10 victory over Jacksonville, putting his sea­son in jeopardy. The redskins quarterback was scheduled for X-rays and an mri to determine more about the injury. he and coach Jay gruden did not offer a timetable for a return, but the injury typically sidelines nFl players for at least two months. 
“moments like this,” griffin said, “you just have to keep the faith.” 

FOR RENT 
IRISH CROSSING TWNHM For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Text or call John 281-635-2019 
You and Tequila- Kenny Chesney Baby, here I am again. Kicking dust in 

if there is also a fracture, griffin will need surgery and will almost certainly be done for the year. he was hurt when he landed awkwardly on his ankle as he finished the throw and then tumbled out of bounds. The pass was caught by Jackson for an 11-yard gain. 
“it’s an excruciating pain,” griffin said. “anytime you look at your ankle and it’s going in a strange direction, you don’t want to get up.” 
Jackson also left the game shortly after he sprained the ac joint in his left shoulder in the first quarter. he hoped to be able to play next week against philadelphia, his former club. 
other redskins players in­jured included running back roy helu (strained quadriceps), guard shawn lauvao (sprained right knee) and fullback darrel young (sprained back). 
Jaguars tight end marcedes lewis was carted off after leaving with a high left ankle sprain. rookie receiver allen hurns injured his left ankle and was scheduled for X-rays following the loss. 
in denver, charles left with a left ankle injury after be­ing brought down in the first quarter against the broncos, and did not return. charles was stopped on a run up the middle by broncos safety T.J. ward and then hobbled to the bench. 
chiefs safety eric berry also sprained an ankle. 
green aggravated an in­jured toe during the cincinnati bengals’ opening series and sat out the rest of the game, a 24-10 win over atlanta. 
green missed practice time during the week with an in­jured toe on his right foot. he started against the Falcons, but came to the sideline after a few plays to have the foot exam­ined. he walked off without as­sistance, limping slightly. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
the Canyon wind. Waiting for that sun putting up a real good fight. And to go down. Made it up Mulholland there were times I thought you’d win. Drive. Hell bent on getting high. High It’s so easy to forget. The bitter taste above the lights of town. ‘Cause you the morning left. Swore I wouldn’t and Tequila make me crazy. Run like go back there again. ‘Cause you poison in my blood. One more night and Tequila make me crazy. Run like could kill me, baby. One is one too poison in my blood. One more night many, one more is never enough. could kill me, baby. One is one too Thirty days and thirty nights. Been many, one more is never enough 
paid adverTisemenT 




W Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
was the performance of fresh­man Kari bellville, who shot a 23-over-par 239 (80-75-84) to finish tied for 41st in her first tournament for notre dame. 
“i thought Keri stepped up played a really nice round yes­terday afternoon for her first collegiate experience,” holt said. 
armstrong and Ferreira contributed to the irish vic­tory with their consistent­ly strong rounds, battling alongside their teammates through less-than-favorable conditions that included cool temperatures and strong breezes. armstrong posted a final-round 77 to finish at 12-over-par 228 (73-76-77) in ninth place, while Ferreira’s 15-over-par 231 (73-76-80) was enough to tie for 13th place. 
with strong play across the five-player roster, it was campbell who ultimately led the way for the irish, finishing at 9-over-par with rounds of 73-76-76, a score that put her in fourth out of 87 golf­ers in the field. The finish was campbell’s best since her medal performance in the big east championship as a freshman. 
“Talia played really well in her qualifying, and i was real­ly happy she continued to play as well as she did,” holt said. 
holt said she was happy with how everyone stepped up and set a tone for the season, but she also said that each player knows they can con­tinue to improve in one area or another. 
“moving forward we’ll see some acc teams and big 12 teams,” she said. “it will be a challenge and we’ll have to be ready for it.” 
The irish will play the sec­ond of their four fall tourna­ments on oct. 4-6 when they travel to belmar golf club in norman, oklahoma for the schooner Fall classic. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.ed 



paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | The observer 




ND  VOLLEYBALL | Tcu 3, nd 1; nd 3, norTheasTern 1; norThern iowa 3, nd 1 
irish win first game of year but drop two more 

paid adverTisemenT 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame achieved its first victory of the 2014 sea­son, along with two losses this weekend at the shamrock invitational at purcell pavilion. 
The irish (1-7) lost 3-1 against Tcu on Friday, won 3-1 against northeastern on saturday and lost 3-1 against northern iowa later in the day. 
Friday evening’s match against the horned Frogs (6­
4) proved difficult for notre dame, who put up large num­bers compared to its oppo­nent. despite producing 65 kills, 69 digs, 61 assists and four services aces, the irish could not keep up with Tcu’s .351 hitting average and 9-3 blocking ratio. 
notre dame started off the match strong, taking the first set, 26-24. however, momen­tum ran short for the irish in the next three sets, losing to the horned Frogs, 25-18, 25­21 and 26-24. senior middle blocker Jeni houser was a bright spot for the irish, rak­ing in 20 kills to tie her career high. 
Four freshmen — setter maddie dilfer, outside hitter sydney Kuhn, middle blocker sam Fry and libero natalie Johnson — also stood out for notre dame. dilfer and Kuhn recorded double-doubles, while Fry accumulated 10 kills, and Johnson had a sea­son-high eight assists. 



on saturday afternoon, the irish dominated the court against the huskies (5-5), winning the first two sets, 25-18 and 25-19. The third set kept notre dame from a sweep, allowing the huskies a 25-20 win. however, the irish bounced back and took the fi­nal set, 25-17, to win their first game of the 2014 campaign. 
notre dame started out strong against northeastern, hitting .409 in the first match. houser and graduate student outside hitter nicole smith both accumulated three kills to lead the irish to a 25-18 victory. The next set only im­proved for notre dame, who held a constant lead through­out to give the irish the 25-19 set. northeastern scored sev­en of the last eight points for a 25-20 huskies win in the third set. however, the irish con­cluded the match hitting .351 in the final set to take a 25-17 victory. 
notre dame closed out the shamrock invitational with a loss to northern iowa (5-5) on saturday evening. despite pounding 57 kills and hit­ting a season-high .331, notre dame recorded 11 errors and could not stop the panthers, who out-dug the irish, 61-44. northern iowa rolled over the irish the first two sets, taking each set 25-20 and 25-21. 
several irish players con­tinued their strong weekends however, with houser record­ing 15 kills, while sophomore middle blocker Katie higgins amassed a career-high seven kills to break her previous ca­reer best from earlier in the day against the huskies. Kuhn added 10 kills, eight digs and two blocks to her stats, and Fry ended the match with nine kills and two blocks. other than Kuhn and houser, smith was the only other irish player to reach double figures in kills, with 12 during the match. 
with saturday’s win, northern iowa took first place in the tournament, while panther sophomore outside hitter lindsey schulz won tournament mvp. both houser and Kuhn earned spots on the all-tournament team as the irish finished third overall. 
notre dame will conclude its tournament portion of the season next weekend as it competes in the purdue active ankle challenge in west lafayette, ind. The irish will play against morehead state and saint louis on Friday be­fore taking on no. 8 purdue on saturday. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

the midpoint, but failed with extra time looming 
W Soccer 

to convert on several good in the 88th minute, andrews 
conTinued From page 16 

crosses, romagnolo said. went down hard in the pen­
“anticipating and having alty area after being pushed (5-3-0) off of one of notre that killer instinct to jump by a Toledo defender to draw dame’s 15 corner kicks in in front of a defender [is the free kick. she buried the the two games, compared to something we need to work attempt in the lower left just one each for the bears on],” romagnolo said. “Just corner to secure the win. and rockets (3-3-1). making something happen it was notre dame’s sec­
“it’s a funny game some-inside the 18-yard box.” ond penalty kick in as many times, especially when you notre dame finally broke games. against baylor, have the ball for 90-percent through in the 53rd minute irish junior forward mary of the game,” romagnolo after posting five shots in schwappach’s shot rico­said. “our defensive line the opening minutes of the cheted down off the cross-was a result of us possess-half. sophomore forward bar and was covered up by ing the ball and getting so Kaleigh olmsted made a bears sophomore goalkeep­many players forward on run down the left side of the er sara martinson. the attack.” field before serving the ball “it’s a great sign [that we 
naughton scored just be-in to andrews. got two penalty kicks],” fore halftime in the 44th after that, the irish main-romagnolo said. “it shows minute, with the assist tained possession and kept that we’re being aggressive coming from fellow defend-the ball in the midfield and we’re trying to go one-er, freshman sabrina Flores. area before surrendering an v-one in the box.” The irish bunkered down in equalizer in the 76th min-irish junior midfielder the second half, shooting ute to Toledo sophomore cari roccaro sat out both the ball three times while forward Kiersten Johnson. games due to injury and weathering six from the a bad pass allowed the was replaced in part by bears, as well as six baylor rockets’ offense to chip one freshman defender ginny fouls. over the head of sophomore mcgowan, who logged 102 
sophomore midfielder goalkeeper Kaela little. minutes of playing time and morgan andrews dominat-“we had a lapse and al-three shots, one on goal, ed against the rockets on lowed the goal [sunday],” over the weekend. sunday, scoring both goals, romagnolo said. “you kind “she’s done very well,” including a penalty kick, of get lulled into a false romagnolo said. “she’s which came off of a foul she sense of security. it only playing out of position be-drew in the box. andrews, takes one chance, and the cause she’s used to playing who leads the team in shots other team capitalized on center back, so we’re trying 
(25) and is tied for the lead its one chance today. … to get her some minutes. she in goals (3), led all shoot-we’ve got to make better de-brings some good quality ers in both games and put cisions on the ball.” on the ball, and she’s a very six shots on goal against little only had to make good defender.” Toledo. eight saves in both games The irish begin confer­
“morgan andrews put combined and extended her ence play saturday when the team on her back,” shutout streak to more than they welcome acc rival and romagnolo said. 400 minutes before the score 10th-ranked north carolina 
The irish had several op-in the 76th minute. little’s to alumni stadium. Kickoff portunities against Toledo shutout of baylor was her is scheduled for 7 p.m. counterstrike, cicciarelli 
in the first half, but were fourth on the year. after the 
M Soccer 

unable to put any away. weekend, her goals against Contact Greg Hadley at said. 
conTinued From page 16 

They led in shots, 12-1, at average stands at 0.55. ghadley@nd.edu 
dealing with syracuse’s tran­forward] leon [brown] and sition game,” cicciarelli said. i combined for some great “They play a very direct style, runs which really tired out which combined with their syracuse’s physical, athlet-athleticism makes them dan­ic defenders. This allowed gerous on the counter attack. the younger guys — Jon and but our midfield and defend­[freshman forward] Jeff ers were able to handle that [Farina] — to come on and very well, which really shut really put together a great down syracuse’s best chanc­performance at the end of es at scoring.” the game.” with their first acc game 
clark said he was im-under their belt, the irish pressed as well with the of-continue conference play fense’s performance and the sunday against no. 15 plays his forwards were able virginia. notre dame’s only to create on the field. regular season loss in 2013 
“all of our strikers did very was a 2-0 loss to virginia, well,” clark said. “we played which also beat the irish, 4-3, the more experienced leon in penalty kicks in the semifi­and vince for the majority nals of the acc tournament. of the game. They were very, “virginia next week on the very good and put in a lot of road will be a very difficult hard work, [and then] we put task, and we know it will not in the two young strikers — be an easy environment to Jon and Jeff — and they were play in,” cicciarelli said. “but the most composed and dan-if we can band together like gerous they have ever looked. we did [saturday] night, and They are beginning to find combine that with a little their feet.” vengeance [from last year] i 
The previously undefeat-think we can get a positive ed orange did not leave the result. we are looking for-field without putting up a ward to it.” fight. They led the irish 13-The irish take on acc ri­12 in shots and kept con-val virginia on sunday tinuous pressure on irish at Klockner stadium in graduate student goalkeeper charlottesville, virginia patrick wall, who had three at noon. The game will be saves during the match. broadcasted on espnu. For the irish, the biggest obstacle in containing the Contact Kit Loughran at orange was managing their kloughr1@nd.edu 
“our biggest challenge was 




ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 31 “___ first you 61 Uneasy feeling don’t succeed 
1 Uneasy feeling 62 Hurricane’s 
…” 

6 Timekeeper center 
33 Seaboard 

11 Madrid Mrs. 63 Swarms (with) 
34 Drummer for 
14 “Understood,” 64 “Long time 
the Who 

to a radioer ___!” 
37 Mexican 15 Drug company housesthat makes 40 Slangy assents DOWN Valium 41 Free TV spot, 1 Pinball parlors 

16 Rooster’s mate for short 2 Humongous
17 Randy Travis or 44 Attribute (to) numbers

Travis Tritt 47 Overall profit 3 Lizards
19 Chicken ___ sometimes kept king 49 Arizona as petsN.B.A.’er 
20 Tennis great 4 Past, present Andre 51 Tehran’s land and future 21 “Wing” for 52 Amaze 

Dumbo 5 Crafts’ partner 
53 College 22 Airline that transcript no. 6 Weep doesn’t fly on 54 Period when 7 One who can’t 
the Sabbath 

a computer is catch a break 23 Finished functioning 
8 Groups of eight 24 Minivan since 56 Abbr. on a sale 
9 Alternative to
the mid-’90s item’s tag 

cash or check 27 Material in 57 Clark Kent and 
10 Lead-in to plopan underwear Lois Lane’s or plunk

waistband paper 11 Song syllables 
29 Sinks to the 59 Make a sharp in the title of abottom, as silt turn back 1964 hit 
30 ’60s draft org. 60 Binge 
12 Takes a breather 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Brokerage worker 
18 Classic 1955 Jules Dassin heist film 
22 John who sang “Rocket Man” 
25 One-___ (old ball game) 
26 Without any profit 
28 Connects 
32 “___ will be done” (Lord’s Prayer phrase) 
34 Singer Carpenter 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

SUDOKU | The mepham group 
PUZZLE BY ALAN ARBESFELD 
35 Restaurant 41 Leftovers after posting peeling 
50 Oregon’s capital 
36 Words after a 42 Shorthaired cat 55 Scheme yell of “Police!” 
43 Actress Bening 37 Flip over, as a of “American 57 Summer hours: 
boat Beauty” 
Abbr. 38 Apt pig Latin for 
45 Galoot “trash” 46 Run out, as a 
58 Band with the 
subscription
39 ___ of God 1983 hit (epithet for 48 Jordache jeans “Owner of a Attila the Hun) competitor Lonely Heart” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: procrastination won’t get the results you are looking for. align yourself with the doers. put your intuition to work for you and size up the best possible way to get the results that will buy you greater freedom. work, money and investments will help you gain the confidence required to mingle with people who have as much to contribute as you. your numbers are 5, 8, 19, 26, 35, 44, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): concentrate on your future, not on your past. make changes based on what’s important to you and how you want to move forward personally. opportunity will develop if you share your ideas and concerns with someone influential. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): helping others can be rewarding as long as you aren’t being taken for granted. draw the line if anyone is too demanding. your time and expertise is valuable and you should be rewarded for your effort. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think before making a decision that will alter your status. mixing business with pleasure will not play out in your favor. make decisions based on your goals, not your current desires. ask for written documentation before you commit. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your imagination coupled with your expertise and you will find a way to improve your relationships as well as your home environment. compromise and you will get into a give-and-take situation that is both comforting and prosperous. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t fear change or what others think of you. move in the direction that offers guidance and a better future. make choices that will make you happy and content with your life. Take better care of your mental, physical and financial wellness. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep an open mind and go the extra mile. what you do to help others as well as to ensure that you are living up to your expectations, integrity and standards will determine who stands by your side and respects you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): network, ask questions and use your intuitive intelligence in order to make the best choice. a contract will bring you financial gains. Focus on the fine print and details. a good idea can turn into a great one if you don’t cut corners. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you may face opposition, but don’t get coerced into doing something for the wrong reasons. get your facts straight from the source before you jump into action. Taking control will save you from ending up in a vulnerable position. romance is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t allow an emotional encounter with someone to ruin your plans. an honest answer may not be easy to deliver, but it will help you reach your destination quicker. an alteration regarding your home or domestic situation is likely to be costly. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): a financial, contractual or legal matter will turn in your favor. don’t leave any stone unturned. look over personal papers and make a decision without getting angry or jumping to conclusions. a calm, calculated response will lead to victory. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you may have an unusual way of doing or seeing things, but it’s your innovative ideas and unique way of following through that will help you reach your goals. don’t let anyone make you feel self-conscious. do your own thing. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): reconsider your connection to the people around you and look for a way to collaborate in order to reach a common goal. a change in attitude regarding children or friendships will bring you closer to the people you love the most. 


Birthday Baby: you are intuitive, productive and trendy. you are helpful and considerate. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
COKBL  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NCRAH  

 
 
 
 
 

RANLEY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

DIOWSM  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Dr. Frankenstein put a faulty brain in his 
Answer:  A  
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday’s  Jumbles: Answer:  MUNCH  IDIOT  HEDGED  UNWIND  

monster, but the monster – DIDN’T MIND 


Level: 



9/4/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, syracuse 0 
Notre Dame opens ACC play with win 
After first loss of season, Aubrey scores first career goal, Wall blanks Syracuse as squad bests Orange 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The no. 4 irish opened acc play with a 1-0 victory over conference-rival no. 20 syracuse on saturday in syracuse, new york. 
notre dame (3-1-1, 1-0­0 acc) beat an undefeated no. 20 syracuse (4-1-0, 0-1­0), who had not given up a goal on the season. The irish ended the streak in front of a crowd of 2,442 at su soccer stadium. 
“we went in knowing that it was going to be a very hard game,” irish coach bobby clark said. “syracuse was an undefeated team, hadn’t let up any goals and we were playing in front of a packed stadium. The team handled a very confident syracuse team very well. i thought that they showed a lot of character and composure in handling the game.” 
sophomore defender brandon aubrey’s first ca­reer goal put the irish up 1-0 in the 75th minute and earned them the victory. The scoring play began af­ter syracuse senior defender skylar Thomas was issued his second yellow card of the game and ejected. Junior midfielder patrick hodan sent the subsequent free kick into the penalty area and aubrey headed in hodan’s kick. 
while aubrey did not score until the 75th minute, notre dame’s first shot-on-goal came in the 21st minute from junior midfielder connor Klekota, who ripped a shot from the lower right side of the penalty box. Klekota had another chance to score in the 42nd minute from the top of the penalty box, but syracuse junior goalkeeper alex bono blocked his at­tempt. one minute later, bono denied another irish attempt at goal, a head-on shot from senior forward vince cicciarelli. 
cicciarelli opened the sec­ond half with another scor­ing opportunity, spinning around from seven yards out and firing his shot near post, with a breakaway shot that ball to create space and op-but bono made another save bono once again denied. portunities for our midfield for the orange. Following gallagher had a second at-to play through,” cicciarelli aubrey’s goal, freshman for-tempt in the 79th minute. said. “[graduate student ward Jon gallagher almost “offensively, i think we doubled notre dame’s lead worked really hard off the see m soccer PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, baylor 0; nd 2, Toledo 1 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF | mary Fossum inviTaTional 
irish grab two wins to end 
nd wins first 
non-conference play 
invitational of year 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
after four straight games against top-25 opponents, no. 19 notre dame headed into the weekend hoping to avoid letdowns against un­ranked baylor and Toledo. in two games, the irish ac­complished just that, re­cording a 1-0 win Friday over the bears and a 2-1 de­cision to top the rockets on sunday. 
“i was pleased,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “i thought we played well this weekend. i thought we lacked a little bit of ur­gency in the 18-yard box … but at the end of the day … we found a way to get the job done.” 
The irish (5-2-1) domi­nated possession in both games and outshot their op­ponents 34-12, on the week­end. The team was able to maintain pressure and keep possession by pushing its defense forward and keep­ing the ball past midfield, romagnolo said. 


By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
The irish could not have got­ten off to a better start to their season, finishing atop a 15­team field in the mary Fossum invitational at the Forest akers west golf course in east lansing, mich., in their first tournament of the season. 
The winning notre dame performance included a fourth-place individual finish by junior Talia campbell and a ninth-place finish by senior captain ashley armstrong. The irish teed off saturday, playing back-to-back 18-hole rounds, followed by another 18 holes sunday. 
after the first day of the invitational, notre dame found itself in second place, seven strokes behind the tour­nament hosts, no. 20 michigan state. The irish boasted three top-ten golfers heading into the final 18 holes. campbell was in fifth after rounds of 73 and 76, while armstrong and 
Junior defender Katie header against baylor 

sophomore Jordan Ferreira naughton scored her third 
posted identical 78-73 marks goal of the season on a see w soccer PAGE 14 
and stood in ninth. 
“after the first day, the girls felt good and knew they could play even better [than they did saturday],” irish coach susan holt said, “we totally went back out [sunday] with the mindset to win.” 
leading the way in the final round was senior Kelli oride, who struggled saturday but posted a two-over-par 74 in her third round, which tied for the best score of any golfer sunday. 
“Kelli shooting 2-over [par] was huge,” holt said. “i thought she played really well. The fact that everyone shot one round of 75 or below was great for us.” 
individually, oride jumped from her spot at the begin­ning of the day in 40th to fin­ish tied for 21st, shooting an overall 18-over-par 234 (82­78-74). holt said that she was impressed with how everyone contributed to the win. 
“it really takes the pressure off to know that everyone else is playing well, and that each person was just focusing on doing their part,” she said. 
included in this sentiment 

see w golF PAGE 12 





