The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 43, issue 13 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Changes to printing policy spark conversation 
OIT’s new system simplifies printer names, uses points instead of dollar values for printing 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
notre dame’s office of information Technologies (oiT) overhauled the university’s printing system during the summer, implementing chang­es that include consolidating campus printers to two queues and changing students’ print­ing allotments to a point-based system. 
vice president for informa­tion technology ron Kraemer, who also serves as chief infor­mation and digital officer, said the purpose of the changes was to simplify printing on cam­pus and reduce both waste and printing costs. 
“The university and the oiT know that students need to print, and we want to deliver easy and cost-effective print­ing solutions for campus while still maintaining a high level of quality,” Kraemer said. 
in previous years, students would send printing jobs from their computers to one of sev­eral queues depending on their location. now, students can send printing jobs to every black-and-white printer or ev­ery color printer on campus at once, Kraemer said. 
in addition, students’ stan­dard printing quotas, or the amount each student is allowed to print from campus printers, switched from a dollar amount to a point system. according to the oiT website, undergraduate students receive a quota of 1,000 points per semester. each sin­gle- or double-sided black-and­white page costs two points, and each color page costs 12 points. graduate students re­ceive 3,500 points per year, and law students receive 4,250. 
Kraemer said points not used during the fall semester roll over to the spring semester, but points left over at the end of the year do not roll over to subse­quent years, a change from the 
see prinTing PAGE 5 



Career Expo to feature service options 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
when the Fall career expo kicks off wednesday, there will be a new twist to the event: the opportunity for students to explore postgraduate service opportunities. 
hilary Flanagan, director of the career center, said the new development arose from a col­laboration between the center for social concerns (csc) and the career center. 
“service options have been a part of the career fairs for as long as anyone can remember. This year, we have collaborated in a new way with csc to make it even easier for our students and the service organizations to connect,” Flanagan said. “csc had previously coordi­nated another event focused on service organizations about a month after the Fall career expo. 
“some organizations would attend both events, and others would need to choose only one due to their travel budgets. although in the past we col­laborated to cross-promote the events, this year we have fully engaged the service organiza­tions into the Fall career expo at the beginning of the 
see career eXpo PAGE 5 


smc opens satellite writing center 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
news writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the second installment in a three-part series exploring the new initiatives at the Cushwa-Leighton Library, which will showcase the life of Sister Madeleva Wolff, cater to students’ writing needs and raise awareness for eco­friendly printing. 
The cushwa-leighton library recently implemented new ini­tiatives to accommodate the needs of students, includ­ing offering increased writ­ing support for students. on monday, saint mary’s opened the brand-new, walk-in-only writing center satellite lo­cation, “write now,” on the top floor of the library. The center will be open sunday through wednesday from 6 
p.m. to 9 p.m. before fall 
see smc wriTing PAGE 5 





Man falls in Main Building 
Observer Staff Report 
a man fell in the main 
building on saturday eve­
ning shortly after the 
Trumpets under the dome 
concert began at 6:20 p.m., 
university spokesman 
dennis brown said Tuesday 
morning. 
“notre dame emergency 
personnel responded at 
6:28 p.m. saturday to as­sist an individual who fell in a stairway in the main building,” brown said. “he was transported to memorial hospital.” 
representatives from 
see Fall PAGE 4 The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



What is your favorite Apple or Android app? 

Allison Doermann 

Alexa Lodenquai 
sophomore 
junior 
lewis hall 
lyons hall 
“soundhound.” 
“spotify.” 

Gabby Marzeke 

Allie Smith 
sophomore 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
welsh Family hall 
“Timehop.” 
“sportscenter.” 


Sarah Followill 

Matt Schade 
junior 
junior 
howard hall 
dillon hall 
“shazam.” 
“reminder.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds renee griffin alex winegar henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 


Photo Viewpoint 

Fall Career Expo Faculty and Staff Volleyball Film: “The Mass at the Basilica Joyce Center Mass Purcell Pavilion. Congress” Basilica of the Sacred 4 p.m. Log Chapel 4:30 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performin Heart Including postgraduate 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. Part of the Shamrock Arts Center 11:45 p.m.- 12:45 p.m. 
Karla moreno bianca almada 

Corrections 

service. In memory of 9/11. Invitational. 3 p.m.- 5 p.m. Music by the Notre 
The observer regards itself as a 
Also showing at 7 p.m. Dame Folk Choir. 

professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism 
Basilica Server Artist Talk: Sue Coe Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass Reception for Fall 
at all times. we do, however, recognize 
Training Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium Alumni Stadium Exhibits 
that we will make mistakes. if we have 
Basilica of the Sacred 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. Snite Museum of Art 
made a mistake, please contact us at 
Heart Open to the public. Notre Dame vs. Baylor. Includes music by the 2:00 p.m.- 4:00 p.m. 
(574) 631-4541 so we can correct our 
8:30p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Women’s Liturgical Free public reception. 
error. 

Open to all. Choir. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 




Guests enhance ‘electric’ game 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
Thousands of fans flocked to campus saturday under warm sun and cool breezes to experi­ence notre dame football’s fi­nal meeting with michigan for the foreseeable future, and the first night game weekend of the season brought several special guests to campus. 
“coach lou holtz and david Feherty from the golf channel joined coach Kelly and the team at the pep rally,” associate vice president for campus safe­ty mike seamon said. “david Feherty was on campus filming with coach holtz for the Feherty show for … Tuesday night’s episode.” 
“The environment in the stadium on saturday night was absolutely electric,” he said. “i can’t remember an environ­ment as intense and exciting as this past saturday night. 
“The navy seals flying in the united states flag along with the notre dame flag and the game ball was an incredible sight and a great way to begin the game, along with chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff, general martin dempsey, presenting the flag for the national anthem.” 
seamon said more than 1,100 people attended Friday’s football luncheon in the Joyce athletic and convocation center and 3,500 toured the stadium tunnel. more than 1,300 people also visited the labar practice facility, he said. 
“all parking lots were com­pletely sold out and at capac­ity as people made their way to campus early given the great weather and the magnitude of the game,” seamon said. “… as expected, we experienced high numbers throughout the entire weekend for all activities. 
“we had over 13,000 in at­tendance for the pep rally held outside on the library Quad between Touchdown Jesus and [notre dame] stadium.” 
notre dame security police (ndsp) chief phil Johnson said traffic ran “smoothly” before the game, although motorists leav­ing campus experienced “very heavy” traffic, as expected. he said ndsp arrested 16 people. 
“14 arrests were for public intoxication or public order re­lated offenses,” Johnson said. “Two men were arrested for shoplifting.” 
indiana state excise police of­ficers cited a restaurant and ar­rested or cited 15 people on 42 charges in south bend through­out the weekend, according to an excise police report. They did not arrest any tailgaters around notre dame stadium on saturday. 
“excise police officers also cited between the buns … on a preliminary charge of allow­ing carryout of alcohol not in its original container after officers saw several patrons leave with large plastic cups with alcoholic beverages,” the report stated. 
other charges included: six for possession of false identifi­cation, five for illegal possession or consumption of alcohol, four for minor in a tavern or liquor store, four for false statement of age, four for misuse of license, three for open container viola­tions, two for possession of a false government-issued iden­tification and two drug-related charges. 
“excise officers also issued several traffic tickets for seat­belt violations and one for not using headlights,” the report stated. “They also issued writ­ten warnings for seat-belt viola­tions, no license plate light and failure to signal lane change.” 


Contact Lesley Stevenson at     lsteven1@nd.edu 
u. s. advisor details foreign policy goals 
By DAN DeTORO 
news writer 
dr. shaun casey, special advisor to the secretary of state for Faith-based and community initiatives, spoke Tuesday at the hesburghcenter forinternational studies on the growing role of reli­gious engagement in u. s. foreign policy. 
as the inaugural holder of this office, casey said he welcomed the challenge to “launch a new of­fice at the state department that might have a long term impact on our foreign policy.” he said one reason his position now ex­ists is that secretary of state John Kerry “is deeply convinced that the united states needs a firmer grasp on the power of lived reli­gion across the globe.” 
casey began his job in July 2013 and has since set to work on its “three overarching missions,” the first of which is to fulfill his role as advisor on faith-based and com­munity initiatives, he said. 
“eighty percent of what secretary Kerry does today has re-ligion-related issues,” casey said. 
second, the office had to build capacity and organize within the state department to further and systemically engage with religious communities. casey said his of­fice is attempting to unify the efforts of the state department relating to religious engagement. 
“we do a tremendous amount of religious engagement, but it’s never been systematized; it’s nev­er been examined,” he said. 
The third mission incorporates casey’s goal for “external engage­ment” that will make his office “the point of contact, the custom­er service window … for external faith communities,” he said. in this capacity, casey and his staff work with religious groups and addresses their needs and con­cerns while working to connect their communities with the of­fices inside the state department that are best suited to handle their specific issues. 
“we live in an era where no one has really figured out analytically the right relationship between in­ternational relations theory and interpreting religion,” casey said. 
Contact Dan DeToro at ddetoro@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 






Activist lectures on ‘community of kinship’ 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
Fr. greg boyle, head of a promi­nent los angeles gang-inter­vention network, delivered the annual rev. bernie clark, c.s.c. lecture on Tuesday night, en­couraging a standing-room-only audience to create a “community of kinship” in order to achieve so­cial justice. 
boyle is the founder and di­rector of homeboy industries, which provides education, social services and job opportunities to former gang members and prison inmates. his talk, “hope and Joy in the hood,” focused on forming relationships and being in soli­darity with marginalized mem­bers of society. 
“all of us are invited in our own way to imagine a circle of com­passion and then imagine nobody standing outside that circle, and so we’re invited to dismantle the barriers that exclude, and we’re invited to stand at the margins,” boyle said. “… stand with the de­monized, so that the demonizing will stop, and with the disposable, so the day will come when we stop throwing people away. i suspect that if kinship was our goal, we would not be seeking justice; we would be celebrating it.” 
To illustrate his point, boyle told stories from his 30 years working in los angeles with “homies,” his term for former gang members. often drawing laughter from the audience, he recounted the ex­pansion of homeboy industries from a converted convent where boyle and his colleagues edu­cated gang members and helped former prison inmates find odd jobs to a citywide network of edu­cational initiatives, interventions and small businesses, which in­clude restaurants, a farmer’s mar­ket and a solar panel installation team. 
boyle said members of rival gangs often had to work alongside one another, increasing the sense of kinship among them, and homeboy industries’ businesses often brought together unlikely combinations of “homies,” politi­cians and entertainers. 
in one story, boyle said oscar­winning actress diane Keaton ate at homegirl cafe, one of the restaurants in the homeboy industries network. he said Keaton’s waitress, after trying to figure out how she knew the actress, asked if they had served prison time together. boyle said the incident reflected the bonds of kinship Jesus calls for. 
“you don’t hold the bar up and ask anyone to measure up; you just show up and you hold the mirror up and you tell people the truth, knowing that your truth is my truth and my truth is your truth, and it all happens to be the same truth, and here’s the truth: you are exactly what god had in mind,” boyle said. “… occasionally what you have to do is reach in and dismantle the mes­sages of shame and disgrace that get in the way, that keep people from seeing their truth.” 
boyle said doing service work means accepting that all people need healing. in another story, boyle said he once gave a talk with a “homie,” who told a shocked 


letras latinas and red hen press award inaugural prize 
By HUNTER KUFFEL 
news writer 
dan vera, the inaugural winner of the letras latinas/ red hen poetry prize, will perform a public poetry read­ing from his book “speaking wiri wiri” on wednesday night. vera will also vis­it classes and contribute to the latino studies oral history project, according to Francisco aragon, director of letras latinas, the literary initiative within the institute for latino studies. 
vera published “speaking wiri wiri”  in 2013. he said it consists mostly of stories about his family’s immi­gration from cuba to south Texas. 
“it also has some poems that are really meditations on, i believe, what it means to be an american, what it means to be part of this larger narrative,” vera said. 
aragon said the letras latinas/red hen poetry prize was designed to support the publication of poets’ second or third books. “speaking wiri wiri” is vera’s second book of poems, according to his website. 
“it’s not easy to publish books of poetry,” aragon said. “many times, presses are re­ally shy and reticent about publishing books of poetry because it’s not a big money maker.” 
vera will visit two classes: “latino/a poetry now,” taught by aragon, and “migrant 
voices,” taught by marisel moreno, associate professor 
of  romance  languages and  
literatures.  
associate  professor  of  

english orlando menes served as the final judge of the prize. he said vera is “a poet haunted by memory, haunted by place.” 
“another person would have avoided this agonistic search for his roots — both linguistically and culturally 
— but vera chose instead to persevere in connecting with his ancestral homeland,” menes said. 
aragon said the university brings writers like vera to campus in large part to help students better understand poetry — in this case, latino poetry. 
“oftentimes poetry is viewed as this obscure, dif­ficult subject matter, and i think that when students have the opportunity to meet and speak in the flesh with a living poet, it can demystify the art,” he said. 
aragon said the reading of the poems out loud was cru­cial to further understand­ing, and that was part of the thought process behind hav­ing the public reading. 
“a poem does not reach its full potential until one hears it loud,” he said. “i’ve had the experience where students have actually come up to me afterward and said it wasn’t until actually hearing the poet read his or her work in person, that something really clicked even more so than just encountering the work on the page.” 
vera said he looked forward to spending time with stu­dents and hoped they would begin to connect their own personal histories with liter­ary expression. 
“i would like my time in these classes to be a reminder of the ways that poetry and writing in general can allow us to mine history,” he said. “our own family histories can have as much to say about where we are as a society and as a country as our formal history.” 
vera said he hopes he and the students he meets can discuss “questions about not only the ways in which lan­guage can hold us together as a society but also how it can inform our sense of plurality and the richness of what’s led us here and held us here.” 
he said “non-poetry peo­ple” could still enjoy the pub­lic reading. 
“humor is something i re­ally enjoy working with. most people have a sense of poetry as extremely severe and gray, and it can be that … but it can also be damn funny. life is a lot like that too,” vera said. 
The reading will take place at 7:30 p.m. in 210 mcKenna hall, and it will be preceded by a reception at 6:15 p.m. in the east lounge on the sec­ond floor of mcKenna hall. 
Contact Hunter Kuffel at hkuffel@nd.edu 
audience his story of abuse and neglect at the hands of his mother. boyle said the man hid his scars for years before embracing them. 
“‘after all,’ he says, ‘how can i help heal the wounded if i don’t welcome my own wounds?’” boyle said. “and awe came upon everyone. The measure of our compassion lies not in our service of those on the margins, but in our willingness to see ourselves in kinship with them. 
“There’s an idea that … there are some lives that matter less than other lives. how do we, to­gether, stand against that idea? how do we stand at the margins and hope that they’ll get erased, even as people accuse you of wasting your time … how is it not the job of every person of faith to make those voices heard?” 
boyle said people who want to solve social problems first have to find the right “diagnosis,” or cause of the problem. he said young people join gangs in order to flee past pain, and solving the prob­lem of gang violence involves giv­ing people the love and support 


Fall 
conTinued From page 1 
memorial hospital did not immediately return The observer’s phone calls. ann wassmann of spring lake, mich., attended Trumpets under the dome and wit­nessed the incident. when the concert was over, she said she exited near the back and witnessed the fall in a stair­well in her peripheral vision. 
“Just as i reached the ground floor and was pro­ceeding to the door, i saw something dark drop in my peripheral vision,” she said in an email to The observer on Tuesday afternoon. “as i stepped through the door i heard a very loud bang – like they might not have had before. 
“if love is the answer, commu­nity is the context, tenderness is the methodology. it’s how you re­pair attachment,” he said. 
boyle concluded with a story about two “homies” from rival gangs who worked at the same job at homeboy industries. he said one of the employees was later violently killed, and as he passed away, his former rival grieved the loss of his friend. boyle said by building relationships with the marginalized, people can dimin­ish the margins themselves. 
“it shouldn’t surprise us that god’s own dream come true for us that we be one, just happens to be our own deepest longing for ourselves,” boyle said. “For it turns out it’s mutual, so we inch our way out to the margins, and we stand there. god erases those margins because you chose to stand there, and people who for­merly were unwelcome have now been brought in.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
something heavy hitting a metal surface. 
“i turned to see what had happened. The door had closed, so all i could see were people on the stairs, and the horrified looks on their faces. people were crying and call­ing out ‘call 911'.” 
wassmann said two “fire engine-type vehicles” ar­rived shortly after with paramedics. 
brown said he had not been provided with any additional information. 
“it was weird to walk around to the front of the main building, meeting up with joyous people who knew nothing of the tragic accident we had just experienced,” wassmann said. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 





Career Expo 
conTinued From page 1 
semester.” 
michael hebbeler, director of student leadership and senior transitions within the csc, said he and his colleagues want se­niors to realize the career fair has opportunities for each of them. 
“it is really important for postgrad service organizations to be really visible on campus and for students to know there are viable opportunities in al­most all fields,” he said. “if you look at the list, there is quite a number of organizations com­ing. There are social service agencies across the globe that offer full-time service volun­teer positions to our graduating seniors.” 
according to hebbeler, ap­proximately 10 percent of the graduating classes over the past several years have pursued ser­vice work after graduation. 
hebbeler said some com­monly-held beliefs about pur­suing postgraduate service are false. 
“volunteer refers to pay grade and not the work level,” hebbeler said. “These are pro­fessional positions at profes­sional organizations. many of these organizations will offer opportunities to live in com­munity with fellow volunteers, and these communities offer opportunities for reflection, for prayer, for deeper exploration of the interior life and maturity in relationships with friends, neighbors, coworkers and peo­ple on the margins.” 
Flanagan said seniors should give service options as much consideration as they give ca­reer paths that are considered more traditional. 
“a service experience is a fabulous first-destination op­portunity, providing a depth of experiences in various indus­tries and settings,” she said. “service experiences, no mat­ter the duration, are a strong springboard to whatever career transitions come next.” 
Flanagan said notre dame seniors’ perennially strong pur­suit of postgraduate service re­flects the university’s mission. 
“To me, it says that our unique student body has such an ex­citing range of interests, and whether they pursue a com­mitment to service after gradu­ation or incorporate service into their lives a different way, each graduate will continue to make an impact in service to others,” she said. “i’m thrilled to work in collaboration with my team, csc and so many of our discernment coalition partners on and off campus, to connect our students to those opportunities.” 
hebbeler said it is essential for students to think not of ca­reers, but of vocation. 
“it’s the hope of the csc and career center and really the university that each of our graduates will take seriously his or her vocation, explore his or her call and respond with courage to answer that call,” he said. 

Contact Katie McCarty at         kmccar16@nd.edu 
SMC Writing 
conTinued From page 1 
break and sunday through Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 
p.m. after the break. 
aaron bremyer, director of the writing center, said stu­dents can expect to find as­sistance of all kinds on any of their writing assignments. 
“[our tutors] are very well-prepared to sit and talk about the assignment and help at any phase in the writing process,” bremyer said. “we can help them be­gin the process, polish the draft they have and help or­ganize thoughts and brain­storm during these shorter half-hour tutorials in the write now center.” 
bremyer said one or two student tutors will be work­ing at the new writing center location, along with a refer­ence librarian downstairs as an added benefit. 
“our tutors are great writ­ers and have been very suc­cessful in their classes, but not only are they good writ­ers themselves, but they have been recommended because they work well with women who are struggling or succeeding with the writ­ing process,” bremyer said. 
Junior megan woods, a tu­tor for the writing center, said she is looking forward to working in the new writ­ing center because it will al­low more students to get the help they need. 
“i think this will be a great program because the writing center has re­straints with how many people can sign up for ap­pointments, but in the new location, people can just walk in, and we can talk with them for a half-hour on whatever help they need with a paper,” woods said. 
“Good writers share their work. That’s true of the professors here, that’s true of our best students here and it should be true of anyone who wants to do well, that they see the Writing Center as an avenue to help them succeed.” 
Aaron Bremyer 
director 
Saint Mary’s Writing Center 
The writing center works with all students, some who are juniors and seniors re­fining their writing, and others who are first-years or sophomores who often struggle with the early stag­es of their writing. bremyer said he wants to dispel the belief that going to the writing center is punitive. 
“we collaborate with peo­ple who are invested in their own success because we are invested in their success as well, so people can be pre­pared at all different levels of writing,” bremyer said. 
bremyer said he is excited about the new changes in the library, especially be­cause write now can help more students who might not be able to make appoint­ments in the writing center due to a high demand for tu­toring there. 
“last year, we had a sub­stantial increase in the number of students who needed to sit down and col­laborate with tutors, so now we have more tutors, and here we will be able to work with students who simply couldn’t make it on the list last year,” bremyer said. “we had 80 percent of our days completely full with a waiting list, so we’re hope­ful that on those days, stu­dents will be able to go the new location and work with tutors.” 
bremyer hopes that the new writing center location will be recognized as a pow­erful resource for the saint mary’s community. 
“good writers share their work,” he said. “That’s true of the professors here, that’s true of our best stu­dents here and it should be true of anyone who wants to do well, that they see the writing center as an avenue to help them succeed.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 



Printing 
conTinued From page 1 
previous policy. he said stu­dents can increase their quotas by paying $3 for 100 points. 
Kraemer said the point sys­tem would be easier to use than a dollar amount, and the new standard quota, although a de­crease from the former yearly allotment, reflected the num­ber of pages students typically print. 
“The printnd system shows that more than 90 percent of students print within 2,000 points each academic year,” Kraemer said. 
students have expressed con­cern that the new standard quo­ta will not allow them to print as often as they need. sophomore Jackie winsch said materials for classes and projects have used a significant amount of her points. 
“i was a week into school, and i was already a quarter of the way down, and then we did this 

paid adverTisemenT 

half-hour presentation in one of my classes the other day, and we had to print a colored paper front and back, and it was like 50 points,” winsch said. “it’s a really drastic change from hav­ing so much extra to being wor­ried about running out.” 
winsch said the change has prompted her to exercise cau­tion with the number of pages she prints. 
“i don’t just print anything,” she said. “i have to make sure it’s double-sided, and [think], do i really need this? and i print four on a page — it’s really hard to read, but i get the most out of it.” 
Freshman olivia colon said the point system was easy to understand, but she worried about the allotment of pages. her biology class requires her to print out powerpoint slides and pre-lab information. 
“i feel like it’s been two weeks, and i’m already running out of points,” colon said. “The class­es that i have to take require me to print out a lot of stuff from sakai and whatnot, and i just feel like 1,000 [points] isn’t enough. it may seem like a lot, but it’s not. it goes fast.” 
in addition to students being able to pay for increased allot­ments, professors also can use department funds to increase printing quotas for their class­es or for individual students, according to the oiT website. 
dan graff, director of under­graduate studies of the depart­ment of history, said he often requires students in his classes to print out materials and bring them to class. he said his stu­dents have expressed concerns about using up their quotas in previous years but never this early in the semester. 
“students might be getting mixed messages, that oiT sug­gests that they should be print­ing less,” graff said. “. . . we don’t want you to be printing less because we want our class­rooms to be technology-free spaces where there’s no distrac­tions from email and Facebook and those kinds of things, so we want them to have stuff printed out.” 
Kraemer said oiT is open to input from students. at the beginning of the semester, printing a single-sided page cost twice as many points as printing a double-sided page, but oiT reduced the price of single-sided pages this week after receiving feedback from student government. Kraemer said the point allotment on a per-semester basis also leaves open the possibility for future changes. 
“The oiT opted to divide the quota for undergraduates be­tween the fall and spring se­mester so that if students need us to make adjustments, we can make them at the winter break,” Kraemer said. 
Kraemer said oiT consulted student government and other campus organizations before implementing printing policy changes. Junior shuyang li, di­rector of student government’s department of campus technol­ogy, said his division recom­mended simplifying printing quotas last spring and this se­mester supported the reduction in the price of printing a one-sided sheet. 
li said student government also was working with oiT to communicate the changes to students. he said oiT technol­ogy liaisons in each residence hall explained the quota sys­tem to incoming freshmen during orientation, but stu­dent government and oiT were still looking for ways to reach upperclassmen. 
li said student government was gathering feedback on the new system from student senate members and dorm technology liaisons. 
“we’re trying to get a com­piled opinion on the changes, and we’re going to pose that to oiT and try to . . . make sure that the printing quota system is what students want,” he said. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

st. liam first-timer 

Maddie Daly 
associate scene editor 

before last week, i had gone 21 years of life without ever being hospitalized, having an X-ray or breaking a bone.  yes, i still had a childhood even without the right-of-passage leg cast or arm sling.  i guess i was overly cautious, too scared to try jumping off the jungle gym or skateboarding down the hill of doom. i was never very active in contact team sports, choosing tennis and cheerlead­ing rather than basketball and vol­leyball, so the chances of injury were significantly reduced. 
however, as i grew up, i became taller, more adventurous and, naturally, clum­sier.  now standing at six-feet tall, i no­toriously trip, fall and slip all the time, embarrassingly enough.  so i was not extremely surprised when i landed my­self in the orthopedic section of st. liam health center last Friday after com­plaining about an enormously swollen, painful ankle that just wouldn’t heal. 
Three weeks earlier, i was innocently walking down the stairs (while texting, i’ll admit) and tripped over my own feet, twisting my ankle in a very unnatural way. it hurt, and badly. however, with no precedent, i didn’t know what was wrong or how to respond. so i carried on with my life like nothing had happened, not even telling anyone about the em­barrassing fall. apparently, that was a terrible idea, as walking and exercis­ing on a badly-sprained ankle for three weeks only extended recovery time, according to the doctor i spontaneously decided to see. he pressed spots on my ankle as i cringed and wished he would stop. “yes, that hurts,” i whined.  i was then sent to the scary, dark X-ray room to take three different pictures. it was pretty cool to see my (thankfully unbro­ken) bones on the screen like i had seen only on grey’s anatomy episodes. 
after more prodding and pain, the doctor gave me a huge and hideous, white velcro boot device that would compress my ankle and supposedly make it feel better. i also was instructed to give my ankle basically a 15-minute­long ice bucket challenge five times a day by soaking it in freezing water and making it numb — an extremely un­pleasant feeling. 
as i’m forced to wear tennis shoes ev­ery day and walk around in this terribly unfortunate fashion statement of a boot, i can’t help but feel for all the kids out there who have broken bones on a yearly basis. athletes, i don’t know how you deal with this pain and inconvenience. This one sprained ankle is quite enough for my lifetime, thank you very much. i will take advantage of the pity and shameless elevator rides while i still can. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
It’s easy to stay informed 

Sarah Morris 
left of center 

as i write this, i am surrounded by faces staring at screens. i am staring at a screen. odds are, you are staring at a screen or have at least checked one in the last three minutes. These plates of glass have evolved to accompany us at each juncture of our daily lives, from the moment we compulsively check email at our waking to that final scroll down instagram at day’s end. This ubiquitousness is often a favorite topic of lamenting grandparents, talk show hosts and social psychologists, but at the moment, i am more concerned with what those screens are delivering — particularly when it comes to news. 
The amount of information we have the ability to access is end­less: 24-hour news networks, an infinite collection of apps and the entirety of the world wide web. and while our screens are doing the best they can, we can be inundated with only so much of this limitless information at a time. Therefore, we must choose what we receive and how we receive it. 
The modern media landscape is vast and rapidly changing. Though many of us have televisions in our dorms and apartments, few of us regularly watch the nightly news as many of our professors, parents and grandparents do. The same goes for newspapers, radio and even magazines, to varying degrees. but we all check Facebook and Twitter, perhaps get news updates from apps on our phones and hopefully even check an actual news website from time to time. 
although the media diet has changed, there is no use in lamenting about disengagement. There are simple strategies for maintaining an adequate level of informedness that anyone in possession of a screen should adopt. These strategies will help you use the apps you already have to be a better news consumer and more informed person. 
Bookmarks and apps 
according to a 2009 study released by the council for research excellence, american adults spend roughly 8.5 hours each day look­ing at their computers and phones. with this in mind, two minutes on a news site to scan the headlines should be more than easy to set aside. do it when your newsfeed is nothing but touchdown pushup pictures; do it when you need a break from an essay; do it in the seven seconds before your next netflix episode loads. in the same vein, it takes 30 seconds to visit the app store, download a news app of your choosing and “allow notifications.” From then on, your tired thumb will not even be burdened with the exhausting task of an extra tap, for blurbs will be automatically transmitted to your home 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
screen. The ease of these habits is genuinely ridiculous, but the ab­sence of them in so many people’s routines is even more so. 
Follow and like 
in addition to adding a button to your bookmarks bar and an app to your home screen, make adjustments to your current portals. once again, it takes a minimal amount of effort to seek out three or four Twitter and Facebook profiles of quality news sources. by following and liking just a few pages, your existing habits of social media perusal will help you effortlessly become better informed. headlines and links to stories will be included in the feeds you al­ready read. They will serve as reminders that an outside world exists and hopefully will inspire you to learn more about what’s going on. more often than not, it happens to be interesting. 
Good sources 
where we get the news is as important as if we get the news. as a culture, we hold a deep mistrust for “the media,” which has become a contentious phrase in itself. however, this scorn is for the most part misguided. by weeding out low-quality (albeit popular) news sourc­es and having the discipline to think critically not only about the events being covered, but also about the coverage itself, it becomes fairly easy to recognize and appreciate top-notch journalism. one of the most important steps is to remove politics from the equation. good journalism is neither “liberal” nor “conservative,” regardless of how stridently such ideas are screeched these days. 
good journalism is a concentrated effort to present a true account of events within the appropriate context. with that in mind, it must be emphasized that Fox news is not news. msnbc is not news. do not consult these unless you wish to analyze competing ideologies and viewpoints. if you wish to be truly informed, turn to respected sources that invest in true journalists rather than talking heads. These include the new york Times, the wall street Journal, cnn, the washington post, npr, bbc and al Jazeera. all of the above — and scores of others — have websites, apps, Twitter handles and Facebook pages. 
so please, bookmark, download, follow and like. with informa­tion at our fingertips and screens in hand, there is no excuse not to. 
Sarah Morris is junior in Ryan Hall majoring in political science and American studies with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She can be reached at smorris8@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Seek out some scars 
Matthew Miklavic 
The maine idea 

welles crowther led a life that was, in many ways, remarkably similar to those led by a number of col­lege students, including those here at notre dame. growing up along the hudson river in new york, he distinguished himself in the classroom and on a sports field. during this time, he became known for his habit of wearing a red bandana. he attended boston college while playing lacrosse. after gradua­tion, he returned to new york to work as an equities trader at sandler o’neill, a firm most mendoza stu­dents will be familiar with, while debating whether his work from behind a desk was the best way for him to help others. 
Thirteen years ago tomorrow, he awoke on a Tuesday morning and headed to work. like so many others, welles strolled into the events of sept. 11, 2001 in ordinary fashion. although he would not survive the day, his extraordinary actions ensured others would. his courage and willingness to help others — to do good — defined his final hours. in the days after sept. 11, stories emerged of the man in the red bandana leading others to safety, returning over and over to help those behind. at the age of 24, welles died while saving others. 
welles’ story has been well-publicized from espn to the new york Times, but there are many more stories still left untold. For nearly 3,000 americans such as welles, sept. 11 proved to be their final day on earth. For millions more, it forever altered their lives’ trajectories. 
The day would alter the life of 26-year-old Jason cunningham, an air Force combat rescue man. working to save the lives of the wounded atop a mountain in afghanistan six months after sept. 11, cunningham was mortally wounded, embodying until the end his profession’s motto of “That others may live.” 
anne smedinghoff was only 13 years old in 2001. after growing up in the chicago suburbs, she joined the state department’s Foreign service, hoping to make a difference in the world. while stationed in afghanistan, anne set out on april 6 of last year to deliver books to a nearby school when an explosion ripped through her convoy, killing her and three others. she was 25. 
These are the tales of three americans, just barely older than us students, who gave their lives in the service of something greater.  whether deliberate or as a result of the situations into which they were thrown, each answered the call to do good for oth­ers, ultimately sacrificing their own lives for the betterment of those around them. 
There are thousands of similar stories. 
while accepting notre dame’s laetare medal in 2008, martin sheen said, “The irish tell the story of a man who arrives at the gates of heaven and asks to be let in, and saint peter says, ‘of course. show us your scars.’ The man said, ‘i have no scars.’ saint peter says, ‘what a pity. was there nothing worth fighting for?’” 
echoing sheen’s speech, notre dame asks all of us what we would fight for. it is a core message of the university, and a core question in each of our lives. no matter where we look on a map, be it domesti­cally or across the globe, there is good to be done. 
There is room for this world to be better. 
scores are thirsty, and many more are hungry. Thousands die of diseases that could be treated in this day and age. millions live in fear because of ignorance and hatred. we face a world in which, too often, the few are oppressed by the many. we face a world where women too often are treated as second class and where too many girls are denied the op­portunity to go to school and live fully. 
we all have the potential to address, at least in part, these challenges that face our collective hu­manity. we need people to serve in their commu­nities and for their country. we need teachers and coaches and volunteers. not all of these challenges require extreme sacrifice. rather, they require mere­ly our attention. not all of these require us to fight or claw for what we know to be right. but some will. 
even when the solutions to these conflicts call for us to sacrifice, we should know these challenges are worth facing. we know they are worth facing because when children and adults alike are being gunned down in rwanda or iraq or chicago, we all have a responsibility to protect them. we know they are worth facing because we refuse to yield to a world in which people are executed for their ethnic­ity or creed. we know they are worth facing because the costs of action are dwarfed by the costs of our negligent apathy. 
The world is not always black and white, but nei­ther is it always gray. There is good in this world, and it is worth serving; there is evil in this world, and it is worth fighting. and while we should be careful about allowing ourselves to pass judgment too easily, we also must guard against abandoning altogether our defense and service of what we know to be right. 
The events that unfolded 13 years ago taught us as a nation and as humans about suffering and trag­edy. but it also reminded us of the capacity we have when we work together toward something better and of the resilience that mandates we never accept evil as the norm. 
in their lives and in their deaths, welles, Jason and anne gave all they had, thinking not of the costs but rather of the good they could do. They refused to stand by and allow what they knew to be worthy and noble to go unserved; they refused to sit still and al­low evil to triumph. may we be so courageous as to do the same. 
be it in south bend or south sudan, the inner city or the developing world, find that which you know to be truly good. and don’t be afraid to get a few scars fighting for it. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior finance and political science major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He’s in a long-term relationship with the lemonade of a man named Mike.  He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

service at the shamrock series 
Fr. edward sorin said, “This college will be one of the most powerful means for doing good in this country.” 
it is hard to imagine if sorin knew just how right he would be. students, faculty and staff, let us prove him correct yet another time by participating in the shamrock series service project. 
on Friday, the notre dame alumni association in partnership with the notre dame club of indianapolis will sponsor a community revitaliza­tion project in the near westside neighborhood of indianapolis. volunteers will help with landscaping, building raised flower beds, building a playhouse and bench and painting the interiors of rehabili­tated homes while working alongside members of the community. The project’s mission is not only to leave a lasting impact on a marginalized community through physical restoration, but also to draw public attention to the fact that the area is worth investing in, that the children and adults who live there are undeniably worth it. 
as sorin knew well, the presence of christ is felt strongest in community. “where two or three have gathered together in my name, i am there in their midst,” matthew’s gospel shares. with this in mind, to make the best impact this weekend, the notre dame alumni association is partnering with “two or three.” 
providence cristo rey high school is one of 26 schools in the cristo rey network and a school notre dame played a key role in establishing. The cristo rey model is unique in that it combines rigorous academic coursework with corporate work-study. many of the children who attend providence cristo rey live in the neighborhood and work to make it a better place. 
The hawthorne community center has been op­erating in the neighborhood for over 90 years and is run by a lifelong resident. The center serves both children and adults, offering programming that includes preschool, summer camps, senior services and youth social development. 
hearts and hands of indiana is a non-profit under the umbrella of the archdiocese of indianapolis. its executive director, mark buckingham, is a 1998 nd grad. The organization’s mission is to help individu­als attain affordable, long-term home ownership through education and to provide mentoring and quality rehabilitated homes. 
The call to love is the call to serve. as another ex­citing weekend of football approaches, the love of football can rally us around a community in need, giving us the perfect opportunity to serve our fel­low brothers and sisters. The alumni association needs everyone’s help to respond to the needs of this neighborhood and to be the powerful source of good we are capable of being. answer the call and email mbutler2@nd.edu to get involved. 
Molly Butler ‘06 
service program director notre dame alumni association sept. 9 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

“submarine” is a clever indie coming-of-age film, which, fittingly, didn’t surface into blockbuster terri­tory, regardless of the fact that ben stiller produced it in 2010. 
“submarine” was richard ayoade’s debut as a film director. he had previously acted and directed mu­sic videos for vampire weekend and arctic monkeys 
— a connection he used for the film. appropriately enough, alex Turner, lead singer of the arctic monkeys, created the soundtrack for the film. The music adds to the melancholy undertones of the film; the unique tracks contribute to the identity of the film. 
The movie stars craig roberts as oliver Tate, a 15-year-old who wishes there was a film crew 
By CAITLIN DOYLE 
scene writer 

i’m a recovering addict. my drug of choice: Kim Kardashian’s hollywood. when the game came out over the summer, it garnered national attention as one of the most lucrative apps of all time. i downloaded it “to see what all the hype was about,” but as soon as Kim mentioned her mom-ager while mentoring my character (named emilia Forde, naturally), i was hooked. 
immediately, it becomes apparent that the pro­grammers of Kim’s game (because attributing any substantial design decision to Kim herself proves mis­leading if not outright incorrect) are being very inclu­sive in regard to race and gender. There is a wide array of skin tones open to you as well as several fun ways to customize your look. i, obviously, customized my ava­tar to look like a younger, edgier anna wintour. 
later in the game, your character can choose wheth­er or not to identify as gay or straight, and then they can date other characters of either gender. while pro­gressive, same-sex relationships within “video game” universes are not at all uncommon and without prece­dent. in 1999, the sims franchise introduced the possi­bility for same-sex relationships within its games, and following his every move and acts in an accord­ingly melodramatic manner.  his fixation with theatrics is redolent of max Fischer’s flair for play­writing in “rushmore,” one of the many similar themes and stylistic choices ayoade shares with wes anderson. 
Tate fantasizes his own death, wondering what would happen if he committed suicide. This concept rouses memories of harold’s obsession with death in “harold and maude.” 
oliver Tate has two priorities in the film: keeping Jordana, his brunette-bobbed girlfriend with pyro­maniac tendencies, interested in him and attempting to spark his parent’s fading love interest. 
Tate’s relationship with Jordana begins with her asking him to meet up with her secretly, which ends up involving her taking polaroid pictures of them kissing to make her ex-boyfriend jealous. The act 
a number of other games have adopted similar models over the years. in a lot of ways, the Kardashian game’s design is like a less-complicated version of the sims with more of a storyline and, of course, Kim. 
Though free to download, most of the app’s revenue occurs through in-app purchasing. The economy of the game is fairly straightforward. you expend ener­gy to complete tasks that, in turn, allow you to earn money and K stars that allow you to purchase items to further help your progress within the game. K stars, i discovered, were a precious and scarce commod­ity, though i resisted the siren call to buy some with my actual money. your progress is measured by how “famous” you are, and that is measured based on the number of faux fans you have within the game and which list you are on (these range from the a list — the promised land of Kim’s hollywood — to the e list). 
The only way to gain wealth and, as a consequence, celebrity, are through dating, club appearances, mod­eling and endorsements. Kim Kardashian herself even appears as a fairy godmother of sorts, giving you ad­vice on how to become famous like her and giving you new dresses to wear to events. she even references some very noticeable aspects of her show, from letting you adopt a bengal cat like the one her sister Kourtney succeeds, and Jordana’s ex-beau beats up Tate at school, which somehow manages to bring Jordana and oliver together. 
Tate monitors his parents’ relationship by the dim­mer switch in their bedroom, which is, to his dis­content, nearly always at full brightness. his marine biologist dad suffers from depression. his mom starts to take an interest in their neighbor, graham purvis, an old flame of hers who has a bewildering career as a new age motivational speaking career and even more baffling mullet mohawk. 
“submarine” is darkly humorous, featuring loads of situational irony and absurd concepts. it is avail­able to stream on netflix, which you should be sure to do this week to form your own opinions before read­ing mine on monday. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
actually owns to using her common vernacular and saying things like “bible!” to let you know she’s telling you the truth. it was unreal. 
The game is actually a re-branding of a previously existing game called stardom hollywood with ele­ments of Kim’s life and a Kim character added in. it was incredibly disappointing that none of the other family members made an appearance. Though Kim’s influence is, then, only surface deep, it’s very apparent that Kim (who signed off on the final product) and the programmers are conscious of the Kim Kardashian brand. The avenues open to you professionally are solely those that Kim used herself to rise from paris hilton’s stylist to a multi-millionaire and world-re­nowned celebrity, from the cover of K-9 magazine (think Kim posing suggestively on the cover of dog Fancy) to the cover of vogue with then-fiance Kanye west. socioeconomically, the structure of the game is specific. your progress in the game parallels the actual business decisions that Kim made in her own life. Though hardly innovative, Kim Kardashian’s hollywood offers you a fun escape into blatant narcis­sism and consumerism and provides a fun diversion for a time (a week for me). bible. 
Contact Caitlin Doyle at cdoyle1@nd.edu 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

labor day has come and gone, college football season has begun, and pumpkin spice lattes have re­turned, meaning summer 2014 is, by most accounts, officially over. luckily, the reality Tv world managed to let out a cry of “summer break forever, y’all” with its last gasp of air, monday’s finale of “bachelor in paradise.” 
“bachelor in paradise” is a spinoff of abc’s long-running “The bachelor” franchise, and at first glance, the concept is completely confusing and altogether difficult to explain. a group of former “bachelor” and “bachelorette” contestants are taken to a villa in Tulum, mexico, for a “second chance at love.” The show begins with more women than men, and the men hand out roses to decide who stays in paradise. in the following episode, the roles are reversed as new men arrive in mexico, and women control the elimination process. This cycle and influx of new cast members continues over the course of the show, as re­lationships form and break. 
put simply: good-looking people are put on a beach with copious amounts of alcohol, and america gets to watch. 
what made this the most enjoyable show of the summer is that it embraced the craziness of the whole process. if it is ridiculous to expect to find love in sev­en weeks on a reality Tv show, it’s completely absurd to expect to find love in three weeks. 
unlike the creators of the flagship series — who present the show’s quest for love as completely genuine — the producers of “bachelor in paradise” embraced this absurdity, almost unbelievably so. and the contestants, old hands at creating drama for the camera, happily oblige. The series’ seven episodes feature no less than two emergency room trips, an al­leged ménage à trois, a naked hippie, a man jumping out of a third-story balcony, a cast-crew affair, a guy who goes on a date by himself, a talking raccoon, a marriage proposal and lots and lots of ocean sex. 
in an interview with new york magazine, host and executive producer chris harrison refers to the show as “don’t-think-too-hard, don’t-choose-too-good-of­a-box-of-wine, sit-down-with-a-pint-of-your-favor­ite-ice-cream, just-have-a-good-laugh-and-relax Tv,” which, if you follow the excessive hyphenation, is the best possible description. it was this self-aware silli­ness, such as when editing made the delusional claire look like she was venting to a raccoon, that made the show so fun to watch over the last six weeks. 
in the finale, the mayhem comes to an end, in what is disappointingly the most conventional (boring) episode of the season. harrison dramatically asks the remaining couples, “can you really see this person in your life … forever?” realizing they’ve known their partners for less than three weeks, three of the six couples immediately break up. The episode’s fourth breakup occurs when sarah dumps robert after he wears jeans to bed during their night in the Fantasy suite. i couldn’t make up the storylines on this show if i tried. 
The episode actually ends on a rather sensible note, given its predilection for the ridiculous. Three of the original franchise’s successful couples were brought to mexico to counsel the two remaining “bachelor in paradise” couples about making their relationships work after the show. with this glimmer of optimism in their eyes, the unbearably boring marcus and lacy 
— who the other contestants held up all season as the paragon of true love — end up getting engaged. 
but in true paradise fashion, the season ends with a “where are they now” montage that pokes fun at the contestants. claire’s raccoon apparently still is looking for true love, and “there’s an 80/40 chance [marcus and lacy will] have hot babies” — a refer­ence to when lacy commented she was torn 80/40 on a decision. “bachelor in paradise” is guilty-pleasure Tv at its finest, and luckily, it already has been re­newed for a second season next summer. it’s going to be a long winter. 
Contact Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

No one wins in Rice video drama 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
The elevator video was re­leased, and then ray rice was, too. 
Justice, right? 
but ray rice is not the only person hurt by the release of the video in which he brutally punches his then-fiancée and now-wife Janay rice and drags her out of a casino elevator. he’s not even the person most hurt by it. 
ray rice’s reputation is irre­vocably stained, and his profes­sional career could be over. but don’t forget the woman battered in the video, plastered all over the internet for everyone to see. 
Janay rice posted Tuesday morning on her instagram ac­count in response to the release of the video and ensuing media attention, The baltimore sun reported. 
she wrote, “i woke up this morning feeling like i had a horrible nightmare, feeling like i’m mourning the death of my closest friend. but to have to accept the fact that it’s reality is a nightmare in itself. no one knows the pain that [the] media & unwanted options from the public has caused my family. To make us relive a moment in our lives that we regret every day is a horrible thing.” 
TmZ released the video to the public, and now we all can watch what surely is one of the single worst moments in Janay rice’s life. 
before the video surfaced, ray rice was slapped with a two-game suspension. if it weren’t for this video, ray rice would still be employed by the ravens. 
but seeing evidence that graphically illustrates the ex­tent of his wrong-doing changes the circumstances. The initial consequences dished out to ray rice look absurd in light of the video. now, rice has been sus­pended indefinitely. 
it shouldn’t have come to this. TmZ shouldn’t have had to circulate the video of Janay rice’s assault for the nFl to take meaningful action. if the point of publishing the video is to expose ray rice’s violent behav­ior, that has been accomplished, but it also places a psychologi­cal and emotional burden on his wife. 
it is unclear what exactly happened, in terms of the nFl’s knowledge of the video prior to its public release. 
why couldn’t the nFl in­vestigate and find this video in its entirety before TmZ did? if the nFl knew of the video or had it, why couldn’t this have been handled responsibly and internally before Janay rice’s pain was made public in such a callous way — through a media circus? if the nFl couldn’t get access to the video because of an ongoing investigation, why did TmZ get hold of it? 
maybe the video would have come out even if the ravens and the nFl had taken more meaningful action earlier after seeing and discussing the video evidence. 
but the fact remains that it shouldn’t have taken a move by gossip site TmZ for the nFl to find out what truly happened or dole out punishment more appropriate than a two-game suspension. 
yet it did. and that has made things much, much worse for the nFl and ray and Janay rice. 
Janay rice’s instagram post continues: 
“This is our liFe! what don’t you all get. if your inten­tions were to hurt us, embarrass us, make us feel alone, take all happiness away, you’ve suc­ceeded on so many levels. Just know we will continue to grow & show the world what real love is! ravensnation we love you!” 
it is their life. and now we all have an ugly moment of it, easy to view on Tv or our computers. 
The nFl has taken steps to implement a new policy that cracks down on domestic violence: a six-game unpaid suspension for a first offense and a lifetime ban for a second offense. 
That’s a great step, but how the nFl institutes the policy determines whether the change makes a difference. if a case similar to this one emerges, hopefully it will be handled in such a way that it doesn’t morph into a media circus. 
a circus on an issue like this hurts everyone involved. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
bill scholl tapped as marquette athletic director 
Associated Press 
milwauKee — ball state athletic director bill scholl is set to join marquette as its new athletic director, marquette president mike lovell announced at a press conference on Tuesday. 
scholl, 57, will start at marquette in mid-october. The university has been without a permanent ath­letic director since larry williams left in december after holding the job for less than two years. men’s bas­ketball coach buzz williams left for virginia Tech four months later. 
scholl rattled off the names of al mcguire, Jim chones, dean meminger, bo ellis, butch lee and rick majerus, who coached at ball state from 1987-89, during his introduction at a news conference at marquette on Tuesday, the milwaukee Journal sentinel reported. 
“i now i’m dating myself, but as a teenager, i had the opportunity in person to see them coach and play,” scholl said. “what a tre­mendous history this pro­gram has.” 
scholl said he had both an “incredible excitement and an enormous sense of re­sponsibility ... as i am given this opportunity to lead one of the great programs in in­tercollegiate athletics.” 
larry williams was re­placed on an interim ba­sis by bill cords, who was the athletic director at marquette for 20 years be­fore retiring in 2006. 
scholl worked at notre dame for 23 years, where he was deputy athletic director before joining ball state in muncie, indiana, in 2012. 
“when you look at bill’s record in intercollegiate athletics, it really speaks for itself,” lovell said during 
scholl’s news conference yesterday afternoon. scholl will report directly to lovell. 
golden eagles basketball coach steve wojciechowski said he welcomed scholl’s hiring and the beginning of renewed continuity of lead­ership at marquette. 
“i think it’s a huge step for the athletic department,” wojciechowski said. “The leadership bill will provide for our program and the rest of the sports programs involved is huge. we were all anxious to see who that new leader was going to be. i think we are all excited to move forward.” 
ball state president paul Ferguson said in a state­ment that he regretted los­ing scholl so early in his time there. 
“but i understand his motivation to seek the marquette experience,” Ferguson said. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Big Ten struggles early 
Associated Press 
There are a couple of tough nonconference tests on the big Ten schedule this week and rivalry games, too, but this week is more about recovery. 
The proud brand took a hit with decisive defeats by michigan state, ohio state and michigan to high-profile opponents, and the spartans have this saturday off to re­cuperate from a decent per­formance at oregon that got out of hand at the end. 
They pivoted nicely last year from an early loss to notre dame, bouncing back after a bye to win at iowa — and every game after that, including the conference championship and the rose bowl. 
“we lost a football game, but i don’t think we lost our team and there’s a big dif­ference there,” coach mark dantonio said Tuesday. “when you climb the moun­tain, you get up high, and the peaks are very steep.” 
wisconsin lost to lsu in its season opener, fading late in the game. The badgers, 

FOR RENT 
IRISH CROSSING TWNHM 
albeit against an Fcs team, took out their frustration with a convincing victory over western illinois. 
“i didn’t feel a hangover. i didn’t think they had a prob­lem,” coach gary andersen said. “it hurt ‘em, and they’re not going to forget the loss, but i believed they’ve moved on in a professional manner.” 
The buckeyes (Kent state) and wolverines (miami of ohio) host mid-american conference teams that were slated as 30-plus-point un­derdogs on betting lines this week. 
ohio state stumbled against virginia Tech last weekend in the program’s first nonconference loss at home to an unranked team since 1982. michigan was shut out by notre dame, snapping an ncaa-record streak of scoring in 365 straight games that began in 1984. 
both teams could use the apparent break against a school outside of the power 65 teams, though the mac is always extra motivated against the big Ten as central michigan reiterated last saturday with a three-touch­down victory at purdue’s own stadium. 
The 20-7 collective record so far is the worst nonconfer­ence record of the five major leagues. There were some shaky wins last week, too, with nebraska (mcneese state), iowa (ball state) and illinois (western Kentucky) barely getting by lower-tier foes with late quarter surges. 
buckeyes coach urban meyer said he didn’t notice the other scores around the conference until the next morning when he sat down to vote in the Top 25 poll. 
“Keep recruiting,” meyer said, when asked how the big Ten could avoid a repeat of this humbling weekend. “There’s no easy answer.” 
oK, all is not lost. There are plenty of games left to re-establish that na­tional credibility, start­ing saturday: iowa takes on rival iowa state, purdue travels to indianapolis for a major upset bid against notre dame, illinois plays at washington, maryland hosts west virginia and minnesota goes to Tcu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND John 281-635 -2019 Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Text or call 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 


SMC VOLLEYBALL SMC SOCCER 
belles prepare for Trine SMC to play first 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
after a strong weekend, the belles aim to win a third straight match when they play Trine on wednesday night at home. 
saint mary’s (3-4, 2-1 miaa) dropped four of its first five matches but re­bounded over the weekend to beat olivet and albion in its first home matches of the season. 
The belles are in the midst of five-game homestand where all five matches are against miaa opponents. belles coach Toni elyea said starting off that stretch with victories set the right tone going forward. 
“it was wonderful to get a team win,” elyea said. “it was truly a team effort. we still had some players stand out. [senior middle hitter] melanie Kuczek had a great weekend for us. she had 12 blocks, hit extremely well and just had some phenom­enal matches. [sophomore outside hitter] meaghan gibbons was strong, too. she had a great serve and was getting over five digs per set, which was huge for us. overall, though, the team stood out as a whole and got a couple nice wins that can hopefully give us a lot of good things to build on.” 

The belles have just one match this week before calvin, the no. 1 team in the country, comes to town, but elyea said the Knights are not yet the team’s focus. she said despite all the posi­tives from last weekend, the belles still have some key ar­eas to shore up and improve. 
“we still have to get more consistent on offense,” elyea said. “we have to have better communication, es­pecially in transition, and that is something we are working hard on. we want to stay focused and make sure we’re ready to face a great team.” 
indeed, before saint mary’s can worry about calvin, it must face a squad from Trine (5-1, 1-1) that has opened the season by winning five of its first six games, with its only loss coming to calvin. 
The Thunder’s strong start has been spearheaded by the offensive play of senior set­ter carly searles and junior outside hitter Taylor rabel. searles leads the team with 189 assists, while rabel’s 94 kills are also a team high. elyea said searles’ playing style and Trine’s offensive scheme will pose a unique 
paid adverTisemenT 

challenge for the belles. 
conference games 
“searles is a great setter, 

and they have strong out­side hitting,” elyea said. “[searles] is a very offensive setter, so we are just trying to get into that mindset and make sure we have our eyes and feet in the right place on every point. we can’t cheat or get ahead of ourselve on defense. playing well on de­fense will be huge for us this weekend, and that is our primary focus.” 
defensively, saint mary’s has been led by gibbons’ 93 digs, along with fellow senior outside hitter Kati schneider’s 87. meanwhile, on the offensive side, sophomore setter clare mcmillan will play opposite searles and leads the belles with 194 assists. elyea said individual efforts will be critical, but putting it all to­gether as a unit will be the key to getting a win. 
“we definitely want make sure everyone is on-point this weekend,” elyea said. “we want to build of these wins and maintain our strong efforts as a team.” 
The belles and Thunder play at 7 p.m. wednesday at the angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Josh Dulany at              jdulany@nd.edu 

Observer Staff Report 
with four games under its belt in the 2014 season, saint mary’s begins its miaa con­ference schedule Thursday as it takes on Kalamazoo. 
The belles (2-2) have be­gun the season with mixed results, opening with a 3-1 loss to bethel before bounc­ing back against mount st. Joseph for a 2-1 overtime win. after falling to the strong of­fense of illinois wesleyan in their third game and losing 4-1, they pulled out a 1-0 win over illinois Tech on a late goal by sophomore forward liza Felix. 
The hornets (3-1, 0-1 miaa), who finished one spot behind the belles for sixth place in the conference last season, got off to a strong start, winning all three of their non-conference games. They earned 1-0 wins against otterbein and aurora, fol­lowed by a 2-0 win over Transylvania. in their first miaa contest of the season against Trine, however, they were not quite able to repli­cate their success, letting up their first goal of the season in the 57th minute of a 1-0 loss. 
games between saint mary’s and Kalamazoo have been tightly contested and highly defensive in recent years, with just one goal in each of the last four matches. last season, each team post­ed a 1-0 win on its respective home pitch to split the series 1-1, and in the 2012 season, saint mary’s won both con­tests 1-0. 
The matchup Thursday fig­ures to be another defensive battle, with a Kalamazoo team that has let up only one goal through its first four games. it is anchored on defense by junior goal­keeper lucy mailing, who was named miaa defensive player of the week after post­ing her first two shutouts. 
That is not to say that the hornets are not an offensive threat as well — despite only scoring four goals so far, they boast 68 shots and 33 shots on goal through four games. They had 34 shots in their loss to Trine alone, none of which resulted in goals. 
The belles, like the hornets, have struggled to convert their goal-scoring opportunities, with just five goals scored on the season. They have posted a compara­ble 59 shots and 29 shots on goal, while only allowing 41 shots and 19 on goal. 
The saint mary’s offense has come from a variety of sources, with each of the five goals coming from a dif­ferent player — three from midfielders, one from senior defender mary Kate hussey and the aforementioned goal by Felix at forward against illinois Tech. Felix leads the team with 17 shots and nine shots on goal. 
hornets sophomore de­fender paige sambor leads Kalamazoo’s offense with a goal and an assist, as well as 12 shots. 
after the game against Kalamazoo, the belles have a quick turnaround before their second conference game, this one against alma on saturday. The scots (3-1, 1-0 miaa) finished second in the conference last year with a 13-4 miaa record. 
The belles will host their opening miaa game against Kalamazoo at 4 p.m. on Thursday at the saint mary’s soccer field. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | us 119, slovenia 76 
us beats slovenia to reach semis 
Associated Press 
James harden and stephen curry went into halftime with no points and no panic. 
“we just stick to the pro­gram. we know it’s tough for any team to run with us for 40 minutes because of how deep we are and how hard we work on the floor,” curry said. 
“i think we understand we didn’t make many shots in the first half but our defense was pretty solid and if we kept the pressure on them, things would open up.” 
They did. Quickly. 
Klay Thompson scored 20 points and harden had 12 of his 14 in the third quarter, helping the u.s. turn a close game into a 119-76 rout of slovenia on Tuesday in the quarterfinals of the world cup. 
Kenneth Faried added 14 points and 10 rebounds for the americans, who will play lithuania on Thursday in barcelona for a spot in sunday’s gold-medal game in madrid. lithuania beat Turkey 73-61 earlier Tuesday. 
The u.s. led 49-42 at half­time despite shooting just 36 percent, with harden and curry, two of the nba’s top seven scorers, combining to miss all 12 shots. 
“i said, ‘i don’t think that’ll happen in the sec­ond half’ and it didn’t,” 
u.s. coach mike Krzyzewski said. 
derrick rose finished with 12 points after coming into the game shooting 8 for 37 in the world cup. anthony davis had 13 points and 11 rebounds. 
goran dragic of the phoenix suns led slovenia with 13 points. 
“we prepare but it’s easy to prepare on the paper,” slovenia coach Zdovic Jure said. “definitely they were so athletic, they were more aggressive second half and actually they punish every mistake.” 
The americans led by only five points early in the third quarter before tearing off a 27-10 run. That made it 76­54 with about two minutes left in the period, and the game turned altogether lop­sided after the americans scored the first 10 points of the fourth quarter to lead 96-64. 
“i thought we played real­ly hard the whole game and we just couldn’t finish in the first half some of those plays,” Krzyzewski said, “and then they stayed with it and then the floodgates opened in the second half.” 
so the scoreboard ended up looking much like the americans’ 101-71 exhibi­tion rout the week the tour­nament opened, when they had huge advantages in points in the paint and at the free-throw line. 
but it didn’t look that way for a while for a u.s. team that had been mostly unchallenged in the tour­nament while beating op­ponents by 31.5 points a game. 
“we try hard but around 23 minutes it was like, close, the game,” Jure said. “but the power that they have, you know, it was too much for us.” 
The americans shot poorly at the start, but that just gave them more opportunities to pad their rebound totals. They missed 21 shots in the first quarter but grabbed 14 offensive boards and scored 15 second-chance points, though their lead was only 29-22 after one. 
The u.s. lead grew to 12 in the second quarter, but the americans managed only a 3-pointer by rudy gay over the final 2 1/2 minutes, and Zoran dragic’s 3-pointer with 36 seconds remaining cut it to 49-42 at the break. 
“They kind of slowed us down in that first half, dic­tated the tempo and coach talked to us second half about playing our brand of basketball and how we like to play,” harden said. “and we came out with that intensity.” 
harden was 0 for 8 in the half while curry missed all four of his shots while being limited to eight minutes of playing time because of foul trouble. 
That gave rose extra time to get his shot going after struggling badly in the tour­nament, his first action after missing most of the last two seasons following a pair of knee operations. 
“coach K gave me the green light to be aggressive and play my type of game,” rose said. “That eased me into the game and i tried to keep it going.” 
The tenseness of the first half and the feistiness of the slovenians seemed to fire up the americans, who celebrated so wildly after a couple of their dunks that Krzyzewski had to back them up off the floor back toward the bench. 
The u.s. finished at 50 percent after making 29 of 45 shots in the sec­ond half (64 percent). The americans outrebounded the slovenians 53-38. 
ROWING 
Irish prepare to enter fall season with confidence 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
notre dame is gearing up for its fall season, and team members say they are ready to hit the water. 
“This fall season is all about getting excited for the year and just feeling the ener­gy we have around the team,” sophomore hilary shinnick said. “we have a solid team back from last year, we’ve got a lot of freshman in, and it’s an exciting time.” 
The irish bring back 14 se­niors on a team that finished ninth in the ncaa finals last year, an accomplishment which tied a program-best finish at the competition. 
one of those returning se­niors, erin boxberger, won two gold medals at the world under-23 championships in italy over the summer. 
That success, combined with quality results from last year, has the irish feel­ing confident about the year ahead, shinnick said. 
“we’ve got a lot to build on,” shinnick said. “we got second in a couple meets last season, competed really hard all year and came together as a team. now we get to do it all again, and the fall is especially important for the coming-together part and just building each other up as teammates.” 
The team’s main competi­tive challenge this fall will be the head of the charles regatta that takes place oct. 18-19 in boston. 
at the same meet last year, the irish finished sev­enth in the championship Four race and sixth in the championship eight race. The high-quality field includ­ed the united states rowing 
“As we build as a team and try to put lineups together, it will be critical for us to face top-flight teams.” 
Hilary Shinnick 
sophomore rower 
team, the united states naval academy and the cambridge boat club. 
shinnick said the competi­tion will be a good test for the irish as they tune up early in the season. 
“The charles is coming 
paid adverTisemenT 
up and will be important for us,” shinnick said. “again, as we build as a team and try to put lineups together, it will be critical for us to face top­flight teams. This event is a fun time but also a good way to get the season started and start competing.” 
other than the head of the charles, practice and condi­tioning are the main focus of the fall for the irish, shinnick said. 
last year, notre dame competed in meets with the country’s top teams, includ­ing the eventual national champion, ohio state, so the irish appreciate the need for constant improvement. 
“last year, we had some tough races,” shinnick said. “we faced top teams and were competitive, but we want to get even better and win even more. The fall practice is cru­cial to get some outdoor prac­tice in before winter and get stronger individually and as a team.” 
The irish aim to jumpstart their development as they gear up for the head of the charles regatta. 
Contact Josh Dulany at                          jdulany@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Football 
conTinued From page 16 
“we know a lot about the kind of challenge it will have from an in-state rival in purdue,” Kelly said. “made it clear to our team that it’s really about our preparation again this week and how we prepare is going to be really what we focus on this week.” 
heading into saturday’s matchup, Kelly said the irish still has plenty of room for im­provement. Kelly said the irish coaching staff counted 34 men­tal errors (about 36 percent of the time) committed by its de­fense against the wolverines. in the season opener against rice, notre dame was closer to 44 percent, Kelly said. 
“we obviously have a lot that we can talk about this week in terms of getting better, and they saw the film last night and can see a shutout and know that there is a lot there that they need to clean up,” Kelly said. “you can’t get a better teaching environment than that. you’ve shut out an opponent, and there are all these errors that need to get cleaned up.” 
Injury Updates 
irish senior linebacker Jarrett grace (leg) is making “slow progress” each week, Kelly said, but there is no time­table for his return. 
“we’re going to continue to press,” Kelly said when asked about the continued push for a return this year. “i think we have to keep that for him the thought of playing this year. There has to be something there for him to keep pushing and motivating factors to play football this year. There is still a lot of football out there.” 
Kelly said irish sophomore receiver Torii hunter Jr. (groin) is set to begin work against live bodies Tuesday during prac­tice. notre dame will see how hunter Jr. responds to that, Kelly said. 
irish graduate student safety and captain austin collinsworth (mcl) is out for saturday, Kelly said. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

ND Vball 
conTinued From page 16 
the best advice i got from a team­mate is that it is the same game we have been playing all our lives — just a different gym, different jersey.” 
despite successfully integrating the freshmen to the squad, the irish have struggled early on in the sea­son, going 0-5 in their first games. however, the team’s youngest play­ers said they are confident this drought will soon be over. 
“i know these first sets of games have been difficult, but i believe that it will come together eventually,” Kuhn said. “we all know that and know that it takes a little bit of time because there are so many new freshmen. but i think when it clicks, it is really going to click, and hope­fully that will be sooner rather than later.” 
Fry said she believes it is just a matter of time, but it will be sooner rather than later that the team be­comes dominant on the court. 
“we are still getting a feel for play­ing next to each other, and that has definitely been a huge factor this year,” Johnson added. “i think the more reps we put in and the more time we spend working together, the better we’ll get, so we just have to keep working and kind of break down step by step how we can im­prove as a team.” 
Johnson, Fry, Kuhn and the rest of the irish next hit the court to take on Tcu on Friday. The game will open the weekend for notre dame at the shamrock invitational at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: look at your options and make changes that will secure your financial position. downsize or invest in something that has the potential to grow or help you establish your position amongst your peers. Take better care of your health and wellbeing. protect against minor mishaps, accidents and physical setbacks that will put a wedge between you and your goals. your numbers are 6, 11, 18, 23, 27, 31, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): put creative thought into any job or responsibility you pursue. exploring new ways to present who you are and what you have to offer will build confidence and aid you in making transitions that will help you advance. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t look at what you are missing; look at what you have. you will learn from experience and the encounters you have with people who touch you emotionally. size up your situation and make whatever adjustments required to obtain a secure future. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep moving forward and don’t take everything others say to heart. make your own decisions based on thorough findings. use your intelligence and refuse to let your emotions interfere with making a wise practical choice. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): rely on good old-fashioned hands-on physical work. Too much thinking and not enough action will be your downfall. don’t procrastinate or you will appear unorganized and lazy. it doesn’t matter how you reach your destination, it’s getting there that counts. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you may want to do things in a big and bold manner, but it’s important to keep whatever you do moderate and within your budget. you can make positive changes with a little effort and common sense. don’t let jealousy cost you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotional problems will escalate quickly if you are unreasonable regarding domestic matters. Find a way to compromise and collaborate in order to keep the peace without jeopardizing your principles. Take care of responsibilities before someone criticizes you. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel, participation and spending time in the company of people you love or admire will lead to personal changes that will improve your life and your outlook. walk away from anyone making demands. exclude whatever or whoever is negative in your life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put your creative ideas into motion. money will come to you from an unexpected source. a lifestyle change will allow you to regain your strength, integrity and ease your stress. common sense coupled with responsibility will be necessary. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll attract attention and dazzle people with your wit and ability to charm and tempt. love is on the rise, and doing something romantic will lead to an interesting change in an important relationship. positive change is heading your way. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): bet on your own ability to get things done. someone will talk big but do little. getting upset or angry will be a waste of time that is better spent chasing success. being responsible, dedicated and loyal will not go unnoticed. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take on a challenge that will help fulfill a dream or a cause that means a lot to you. your personal life will suffer unnecessarily if you opt to argue instead of being affectionate. make positive personal changes. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a partnership can bring you greater financial stability. listen to any offer or propose what you think is workable, but take a wait-and-see approach before you begin to negotiate. don’t let your emotions dictate your actions. 

Birthday Baby: you are unique, outgoing and entertaining. you are intuitive and pioneering. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
TONJI  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
GYNIT  

 
 
 
 
 

TOYNHR  

 
 
 
 
 
 

CRIBEK  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

“ 

” 
Ans: HIS 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: VOCAL SORRY METRIC TRIPLEYesterday’s 
Answer: Getting a cardio workout by dancing to discomade them — RETRO-ACTIVE 

ACROSS 1 Dos + dos + dos 5 Utterly hopeless 
11 “We ___ the 99%” 14 Dermatologist’s concern 15 Capital on the Vltava River 16 ___ Heels (college team) 17 First name in folk 18 Like a raccoon’s tail 19 Confessional confession 20 *What paper profits aren’t 22 Checkout counter count 24 Counting-out rhyme start 25 Oil-rich nation invaded in 1990 26 Good dishes 
29 Taste whose name means “savoriness” in Japanese 31 *Photo gear with variable focal lengths 

34 Metro map points: Abbr. 38 Kind of clef 39 Like a fugitive 40 Hype up 41 Berate, with “out” 42 *Titularly 44 Lauder of cosmetics 46 Case for Scully and Mulder 47 Torch holder 50 Big Ben sound 52 To a great extent 
53 *Sarcastic remark upon hearing bad news 
58 Ashes holder 59 One passing out 
cigars, maybe 61 See 13-Down 62 “Shoot!” 63 “Seinfeld” woman 64 Hazmat­
monitoring org. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Prefix in some French surnames 
66 Bing Crosby or David Crosby 
67 Condé ___ 
DOWN 
1 Mark for life 
2 See 7-Down 
3 Tierra surrounded by agua 
4 *Precious, brief time with a loved one 
5 Butcher’s wear 
6 Like pickle juice 
7 With 2-Down, book that includes the line “Conventionality is not morality” 
8 Like a soufflé 
9 Word before card or stick 
10 Rote learning, to most people 
11 Where hurricanes originate 
12 “Spider-Man” director Sam 
13 With 61-Across, physicist who studied supersonics 
21 ___ plan 
23 Drink garnish … or a hint to five letters in the answer to each starred clue 
25 Casey of “American Top 40” 
26 Executive branch V.I.P. 
27 Tunnel, e.g. 
28 I as in Ilium? 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

PUZZLE BY ERIK WENNSTROM 
29 Rte. with a 37 Eyelid woe terminus in Key 
43 Part of a dentalWest, Fla. 

visit 30 Natural table 
45 Act parts 32 A-listers 
47 Nine, in baseball 33 Slim to ___ (poor 
48 Wish evil on

odds) 49 Farm sounds
35 “Mickey” vocalist ___ Basil 50 Hughes’s Spruce Goose, e.g. 
36 Empty, as a math set 51 One with seniority 53 Olympic skater Michelle 
54 Hippie’s “Got it!” 
55 Friendship org. of 1962 
56 Phil who sang “Draft Dodger Rag” 
57 Word from the hard-of-hearing 
60 QB Manning 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 
1  2  3  4  



9/4/12 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly previews Purdue week 
Coach discusses suspension hearings, staying focused and injured players in advance of Boilermakers 
something should happen 

By MIKE MONACO 
this week.” 
Kelly said Thursday eve­

irish head coach brian ning he was told sept. 1 that Kelly provided no new up-the honor committee hear-dates on the five players ings for the five withheld being withheld from prac-players were going to occur tice and competition dur-“very quickly,” but Kelly said ing his weekly Tuesday press it was his understanding the conference. hearings hadn’t happened 
earlier in the day, Kelly yet. told espn’s colin cowherd irish junior cornerback on “The herd” there could Keivarae russell, senior re-be progress this week. ceiver davaris daniels, se­
“we’ve gotten close here to nior defensive end ishaq where i think that the hear-williams, graduate student ings should be happening linebacker Kendall moore hopefully this week,” Kelly and senior safety eilar hardy said. “i know we’re trying to have been held out of prac­get this thing done the right tice and competition during way. it happened for us a the probe into “suspected little bit earlier because we academic dishonesty.” were in preseason camp but notre dame announced its school didn’t start — now investigation aug. 15. The this is only the third week university said “evidence 
senior sports writer 
— so the normal timetable that students had submit-has been about three weeks. ted papers and homework we’re into the third week, that had been written for so our expectations are that them by others” was initially detected at the end of the summer session and referred to the compliance office in athletics July 29. notre dame said the office of general counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
Prepping for Purdue 
Following notre dame’s 31-0 domination of michigan on saturday, Kelly and the irish will be looking to avoid a letdown. 

“you’re always on guard the next week,” Kelly said. 
despite purdue’s recent struggles — a 1-11 mark in 2013 and a 38-17 loss to central michigan on saturday — Kelly pointed to notre dame’s last two match-ups with the boilermakers (1-1) to emphasize the need for focus and preparation. in 2013, purdue carried a lead into the fourth quarter be­fore the irish won 31-24. Two seasons ago in south bend, notre dame won 20-17 after kicker Kyle brindza drilled a 27-yard field goal with seven seconds remaining in regulation. 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Young Notre Dame team aims to overcome early-season struggles, injuries 

By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
The start of the fall semester brings a new season for notre dame, and along with that come new players and talents. This year, the irish welcomed six freshmen to their squad from all over the country — represent­ing california, indiana, Kansas and ohio — and all over the court, with nearly every position represented. 
The beginning of the season has not been an easy one for the irish. prior to the season’s start, senior outside hitter and honor­able mention all american Toni alugbue suffered a torn acl and was ruled out for the remainder of the season, while an ankle in­jury to graduate student outside hitter nicole smith left her out two games in the golden dome invitational this past weekend. 
as a result of these injuries, almost all of the irish fresh­men have received a signifi­cant amount of playing time. Freshmen libero natalie Johnson, outside hitter sydney Kuhn and middle blocker sam Fry have gained some of the most experience early on this season, with all three of play­ers earning starting positions in the big Ten/acc challenge and the most recent golden dome invitational. 
“it has been a great experience so far,” Johnson said. “The up­perclassmen have really helped us along with what we need to know in order to play at the col­lege level. i think the supportive environment of the entire team has really helped us and pushed us to play at our best.” 
Kuhn added that because there are so many freshmen on the team this year, the upper­classmen have really stepped it up to teach the girls exactly what needs to be done in a short pe­riod of time. Fry also said how transitioning into collegiate play has been made a lot easier with the advice and guidance of each of her teammates. 
“i feel like there is a lot of sup­port on this team, and that sup­port really helps us overcome our nerves,” Fry said. “being freshmen, we are new, and it can be kind of nerve-wracking, but 
see nd vball PAGE 14 






