The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 41 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students serve, pray on fall break trips 
ND students travel to Appalachia for seminars 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
while many students travelled home to see family over fall break, 242 notre dame students jour­neyed to the appalachia region of the united states for weeklong service immersion trips through the center for social concerns (csc). 
This year, students travelled to 18 unique sites in Kentucky, virginia and west virginia, csc appalachia seminar director Kyle lantz said. 
“some sites participate in edu­cation. others engage in questions around energy and the environ­ment. many sites work directly on construction projects. others focus on living simply 
see appalachia PAGE 5 



SMC students make pilgrimage to Peru 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
For the second straight year, 10 saint mary’s students made a pilgrimage to peru over fall break, which students said was a spiritual encounter in the people and the places of peru. 
senior sarah lipinski said the week was eye opening and insightful. 
“everyday brought new ex­periences that both challenged me as well as have a greater ap­preciation for the communities we encountered in our journey,” lipinski said. “we visited local schools, a hospice, built a house and delivered food to families who were being sponsored by families in the us.” 
see peru PAGE 5 



washington post journalist reflects on career 
MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
wil haygood, biographer and journalist for The washington post, spoke in the hesburgh center auditorium on Tuesday evening about his work in jour­nalism and about his books, in­cluding the award-winning “The butler: a witness to history,” which was released concurrently with the critically-acclaimed film of the same name. 
haygood, who is visiting campus as a journalist-in-res­idence of the John w. gallivan program in Journalism, ethics and democracy, said he was shocked to find that no one had told the story of eugene allen, a white house butler who served eight presidents, before he did. haygood said he knew he had to retell the life story of such an in­teresting man. 
“i asked allen if anyone had ever written a story about him. he looked me and said, ‘if you think i’m worthy i believe you’d be the first.’ it hurt me deeply that he didn’t consider his own life worthy of retelling,” haygood said. “i had no idea how much the story would resonate with read­ers, but i knew i had a story that would excite me. i knew it was a story that i wanted to write.” 
haygood described his intense desire to write as a reporter and the obstacles he faced just get­ting his foot in the door. 
“i didn’t have enough experi­ence when i started out to be a full-time reporter so i decided to take a test to be a copy editor and i was hired,” haygood said. “i was at that position for a year and a half, but i fiercely wanted to write. 
“so on my days off i used to go around town and talk to people 
see haygood PAGE 4 



Former Polish PM examines democratic transition 

ANNMARIE SOLLER | The Observer 

Hanna Suchocka gives the 2014 Nanovic Forum lecture Tuesday night. Suchocka discussed Poland’s 
transition from Soviet-rule communism to democracy. 
By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer 
Former prime minister of poland hanna suchocka vis­ited campus Tuesday evening to address a public audience in the Jordan auditorium about the transition of poland from a communist to democratic na­tion at the 2014 nanovic Forum lecture. 
a. James mcadams, the direc­tor of the nanovic institute for european studies since 2002, introduced suchoka, who was the first woman to serve as the polish prime minister, and ex­plained her selection as the 2014 nanoic Forum lecturer. 
“The founders of the nanovic Forum, robert and elizabeth nanovic, had a brilliant idea to bring some of the most distinguished european leaders to notre dame in any field and give them the opportunity to engage students and faculty on whatever themes they wanted to in whatever form they want­ed to,” mcadams said. “The idea was not simply to get famous people but instead to get people who had really made 
see poland PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 FooTball PAGE 16 nd women’s soccer PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 

Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite fall tradition? 

Rose McClimans 
senior 
off-campus 
“apple picking.” 


Jen Ho 
senior 
welsh Family hall 

“pumpkin picking with my family.” 

Ryan Mas 
freshman 
carroll hall 

“raking leaves and jumping in the pile.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Michelle Wern 
junior 
lyons hall 

“caramel covered apples.” 

Colin Lillibridge 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“Fall golf.” 


Shannon Kronenberger 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“baking pumpkin pie.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

Jack rooney mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville Zach Klonsinski alex winegar christine mayuga 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Jenny Boully Reading Thriller Night Women’s Volleyball Men’s Basketball Mass at the Basilica 
wei lin` bianca almada 
Eck Center Auditorium Rockne Memorial Joyce Center Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred 
7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Heart Event is free and open Free and open to Notre ND vs. Georgia Tech. ND vs. Minnesota-11:45 a.m.- 12:45 p.m. 
Corrections 

to the public. Dame students. Duluth Music by Notre Dame The observer regards itself as Folk Choir. a professional publication and 
Theology on Tap Interdenominational Men’s Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass Gesualdo Quartet 
strives for the highest standards 
Legends of Notre Fellowship Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred DeBartalo Performing 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Dame Coleman-Morse Arena Heart Arts Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
8:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Center 8:05 p.m. - 10:05 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 2 p.m.- 3:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
“Homosexuality - From 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. ND vs. Vermont. Includes music by the ND’s quartet-in­
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Tolerance to Love.” Meetings are held Women’s Liturgical residence makes 
we can correct our error. 

weekly in Room 329. Choir. series debut. 


Professor explores effectiveness of fair trade 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
news writer 
as part of the Kellogg institute’s lecture series, pro­fessor of economics and inter­national studies bruce wydick from the university of san Francisco gave a talk titled “does Fair Trade coffee work? The Taste of many mountains, a novel about Fair Trade coffee, globalization and the poor” on Tuesday afternoon at the hesburgh center for international studies. 
The lecture addressed the theme of globalization and poverty in developing nations with particular emphasis on the fair trade coffee movement and wydick’s novel on the topic. 
noting the contrast between the efforts of wealthy coun­tries and the results of pover­ty alleviation efforts, wydick said “what makes us feel good may not be what they need at all” and posed the question “do we want to help the poor or just feel better in the belief that we have helped the poor?” To illustrate this point, wydick asked the audience to think of three consumer products they bought for themselves and three donations or consum­er choices they made to help the poor and to what extent they had thought about their effectiveness. 
“we often do not make the same effort to investigate if things like Tom’s shoes or fair trade coffee worked well as we do with our own personal products,” he said. 
wydick spoke about aid programs that seem to have no beneficial effect and those that do. he said, “programs like one laptop for every child, free shoes and micro finance have been shown by random­ized control trials to have no effect.” in contrast, “mosquito bed nets, unconditional cash grants and de-worming pro­grams are the most effective.” 
wydick addressed the para­dox between the failure of mi­crofinance and the success of unconditional cash grants. 
“Ten years ago, everyone thought microfinance was a silver bullet,” he said. 
however, wydick said cash grants succeed because they increase the purchasing power of poor families. 
Turning to the issue of fair trade coffee, a system intended to help poor farmers by selling coffee at a guaranteed price, wydick listed 10 reasons why the well-intentioned program does not work. 
“it encourages people to grow more coffee, lowering 
paid adverTisemenT 
prices and farmers’ profits. The flawed design of the sys­tem undermines its own ben­efits; the cost of certification for fair trade standards alone can eliminate the price advan­tage,” he said. 
wydick also cited a study that found the net income of fair trade farmers did not change over 14 years. he said fair trade incentivizes the use of poor-quality beans and “the cost of environmental sustain­ability maintained by the sys­tem is imposed on the poor.” 
“it does not help the poorest growers” wydick said, point­ing to how fair trade focuses on latin america but largely ig­nores destitute areas of africa. 
he said fair trade lacks trans­parency and funding often goes to administrative costs and dubious projects. 
“it is inefficient at transfer­ring consumer goodwill to cof­fee growers, and it addresses superficial poverty issues in­stead of root causes,” he said. 
he said there is a stark con­trast between the marketing, on which fair trade spends millions, and its measured impact, and said “direct trade is arguable better for the poor than fair trade.” 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 
astrophysicist discusses world’s largest telescopes 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
notre dame professor of as­trophysics peter garnavich ad­dressed a full room of students, faculty and members from the south bend community Tuesday night on the topic of the uni­verse’s largest telescopes. 
garnavich said the current era is what he calls the “golden age of astrophysical exploration,” a period that will garner some im­pressive discoveries over the next several decades. 
“we see a time, after the big bang, which was sort of the dark ages, where no stars existed,” he said. “we understand very little about cosmology at this time, because we’re always stuck when light isn’t being created ... but eventually, stars are starting to be formed and we can start to see what’s going on there.” 
garnavich said dark mat­ter, despite its name, makes up much of what we know about the universe. 
“a lot of what we think we know about the universe is actu­ally dark; we think that dark mat­ter makes up about one quarter of the universe,” he said. “... dark matter may be some weird par­ticle, some weird thing that we don’t know, but it’s a larger part of the universe. 
“Then dark energy makes up about three-quarters of the uni­verse, the mysterious energy that makes the universe actually ac­celerate instead of decelerate.” 
Though dark energy and matter make up much of the universe, there are stars and oth­er elements that make up a sig­nificantly smaller but important portion, garnavich said. 
“This really doesn’t leave a lot of room for the ‘ordinary’ stuff, so round-off error in astronomy means that atoms make up a very small fraction, less than 3 percent of the universe is made of hydro­gen and helium and that little smattering of elements,” he said. 
garnavich tied this idea of un­derstanding the universe to tele­scopes with the famed hubble telescope. 
“in about the 1920s, a guy named hubble began to un­derstand much more about the universe by studying distances in the universe,” he said. “This is a big problem when you don’t know the scale of the universe or the distance of the stars or the distance of the galaxies, in fact, back then they didn’t know there were other galaxies, they thought they were just fuzzy blobs within our galaxy.” 
The telescope came about as a result of trying to find those dis­tances, and hubble was a trail blazer into the present golden age of discovery, garnavich said. 
“he actually found the dis­tances of objects then compar­ing that to the velocity those objects were moving away and came up with a really nice rela­tion ... which obviously became so famous it got his name on a really big and really important telescope,” he said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at ro­grady@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT WEEKLY UPDATE 





south bend resident relates pro-life activism 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
shawn sullivan, a lawyer, real-estate agent and pro-life activist from the south bend community, spoke at saint mary’s on Tuesday night about with his involvement with the pro-life movement as direc­tor of the apostolate of divine mercy in service of human life. 
sullivan presented a half-hour long talk for students and faculty in stapleton lounge ti­tled, “The pro-life movement in saint mary’s backyard: the who, what, where, why, when and how.” The event is the first in a series during saint mary’s right To life week, saint mary’s respect life club member junior Jana Zuniga said. 
To contextualize the clos­est abortion clinic’s location, sullivan began his discussion by drawing a map of where the clinic is located in relation to the apostolate of divine mercy chapel. 
“The epicenter of what’s go­ing on in the pro-life move­ment is here,” sullivan said. “This is where the spiritual warfare occurs. This is where Jesus does battle. we have a real presence right here.” 
sullivan is currently the vig­il director of 40 days for life campaign held during both the spring and fall seasons, he said. since the campaign began in 2008, it has evolved with the life center, he said. 
“we eventually got a deal worked out [where] we would just come out and be there, and by the grace of the person who owned it allowing us to be there,” sullivan said. “we did a spring campaign in 2009, and it allowed us to be more of a focal point when obama came to notre dame in 2009. we got to meet a lot of people and evangelize the movement even more.” 
sullivan said after his 12th campaign he spoke with bishop Kevin c. rhoades about putting a chapel next to the abortion clinic. 

“we [were] having meetings with the bishop, and we put a name to it, the apostolate of divine mercy in service of human life,” sullivan said. “everything else just [keeps] brewing, just keeps coming together.” 
students were encouraged to visit the chapel and con­sider participating in sidewalk counseling, sullivan said. 
“it’s really fun to come out and see what we’ve got go­ing on,” sullivan said. “i re­ally invite you to just show up. you can stop by on your own. [it’s] a principal way to spend your time. our training is re­ally simple. it’s really stream­line, trusting god to be your shield.” 
whether counselors talk with mothers for five seconds or 10 minutes, those words matter, sullivan said. 
“so, say you’re talking to somebody for five seconds,” he said. “you could sit down with them and have a conversation. we call that ministry life sup­port. if we get somebody to sit down, then a whole other min­istry kicks in. we’ve got to go disintegrate their problems. it hits across the board. They can’t go home to parents. They can’t go home to boyfriends. They’re going to get fired.” 
in sullivan’s time with the life center, he has witnessed more than 50 saves, meaning his team’s influence changed many women’s minds about aborting their babies, he said. The life center keeps in touch with all of the moms they come in contact with, often sending them necessary items for their child, he said. 
“i know we had a great save on the anniversary of roe vs. wade,” sullivan said. “The husband didn’t want her to get it, and she didn’t want to get an abortion, but the last two ladies who got preg­nant at her job were fired. so, we had to promise her legal help, save the marriage, save everything.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
Poland 
conTinued From page 1 
a difference — people who have changed the world in important ways and done so in a way that makes sense for notre dame’s distinctive mission and values.” 
mcadams said suchocka, who played an integral role in converting poland from a communist into a democrat­ic nation, is a person who has made such a difference. 
suchocka, who also served as polish ambassador to the holy see from 2002-2013, focused her remarks on the political and economic transformation of poland in a lecture titled “democratic poland: 25 years after the Fall of communism.” 
suchocka began her lec­ture by noting the special nature of poland in central europe as the first coun­try in communist europe to distinguish itself from communism with public free democratic elections, held in June 1989. suchocka served as prime minister from July 1993 to oct. 1993. 
she said the situation in poland between 1981 and 1988 was very depressed, catalyzed by the declaration of martial law in december of 1981, and it was not until the polish round Table Talks in april 1989 that the situa­tion began to improve. 
“The round Table agreement opened the way for free democratic elec­tions,” suchocka said. 
The agreement, by intro­ducing the office of presi­dent and therefore negating the power of the communist party general secretary, re­sulted in an election held on June 4, 1989 that transferred power to the non-commu­nist solidarnoss party of poland. 
suchocka said the June elections were essential in the shift from communism to democracy. 
“i am of the opinion that as a consequence of the June elections that everything has changed,” suchocka said. “after June 4 the politi­cal dynamism as a result of the elections went beyond the political round table agreement. it changed com­pletely the whole political system. … we can see it is an agreement which opened 
the way to semi-democrat­ic elections.” 
however, suchocka said the transformation to a democratic nation was not without challenges, most notably, the public criticism to the economic changes of post-communist poland. 
The public reaction to the transformation of poland was separated into political and economic spheres, she said. 
while most of the pub­lic supported the abolition of communism, the public voiced much criticism over the economic changes that occurred as a result. 
“society at that time was not completely prepared for such changes because we suddenly tried to establish a free market,” suchocka said. “we tried to make better social conditions … but suddenly we faced this completely new phenom­enon [the free market] that changed the nature of the economic system and soci­ety was not prepared.” 
suchocka said public pas­sivity and lack of political culture rooted in the history of a non-democratic nation also made the initial transi­tion difficult. 
despite the initial struggles of post-communist poland, suchocka said she found the resilient nature of poland able to overcome and succeed as a democratic nation. 
suchocka said what helped 
the  new  government  pre­ 
vail  was  the  late  forma­ 
tion  of a constitution. The  

constitution of poland was not adopted until april 2, 1997 – almost a decade after the free elections. 
suchocka said an immea­dite formation of a constitu­tion would have been rooted in old thinking. The passing of eight years allowed the government to face several ups and downs and realize what would construct the best policies for a democrat­ic poland. 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

Haygood 
conTinued From page 1 
and find stories. so after that time i had over 100 unpaid stories published in order to have some clips to send to other editors.” 
haygood said he saw his writ­ing career as a natural pro­gression from his career has a journalist and that the two work together to help him in both pursuits. 
“a lot of the authors that i had admired had their roots in news­papers,” he said. “i was used to writing 3,000 word articles, and about 45 of those would be about the length of a book. i knew that if i wanted to write books that i would have the skills and the training. 
“i wanted to have my journal­ism lead to something else, and books just started calling me and grabbing my interest.” 
haygood said for him, writing has always been about telling good stories and getting them to people in a medium that is un­like any other. 
“i think i’ve always wanted to write, to bring a picture to the page without a picture,” he said. “The best novels can make you see and visualize a whole world without any pictures. That’s what i want to do with my writing.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 



these issues while hopefully con-
and then we travel to a town two great, they do not lack in their 
Appalachia 
tributing to long-term positive 

Peru 
hours in the mountains called sense of community and in their 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
community impact through our 
cacachaqui.” faith,” lipinski said. 
partnerships.” 
The peruvian women who work senior allison cox said the 

and sustainably,” lantz said. like broadbent, junior connor 
The pilgrimage, which is fund-at the parish in cacachaqui did group was active in the local com­
“The class attempts to set forth a hayes also went to west virginia, ed by a grant from netvue, is not not have a pastor before the sisters munities while in peru. 
way of learning and engaging these but worked at a separate site, a mission or service trip, which of the holy cross, wilson said. “we brought along arts and 
various experiences, utilizing tools nazareth Farm in salem. hayes assistant director of campus min-“The sisters started working crafts for the children, we took 
like theological reflection.” said he felt a strong engagement in istry regina wilson said distin-with the women there to get them their pictures with a instant cam-
Junior Kate broadbent trav-social justice throughout the trip. 
guishes it from other fall break to take leadership to realize that era and allowed them to decorate 
elled to bethlehem Farm in pence “my favorite part about the week experiences. they could do that and they were construction paper with their pic-
springs, west virginia, where she was being able to live for a week in “while we do do things for peo-able to start allowing people to ture on the front,” cox said. “we 
said her group lived simply and a tight-knit community devoted ple, we did build a bamboo house come and be baptized,” wilson spoke with the mothers of many 
worked in the local community. to social justice, and one that i feel which is what everyone does, the said. of the children in the afternoons 
“[bethlehem Farm] is a catholic had a very well-balanced and nu-
point is to meet people and to en-wilson said students grasped regarding their experiences 
community focused around the anced perspective on the service counter christ in them,” wilson the idea that the peruvian wom-with their church in mantucana 
four cornerstones of prayer, sim-it was conducting in the broader said. “we are not going specifi-en in the parish share the same and the faith community there. 
plicity, community and service,” community in which it is situated,” cally to do things for you because experience as students here in overall it was a wonderful trip, 
broadbent said. “as part of their hayes said. “Just being in that type we can do things for you. we are america. and gave great perspective of a 
mission of simplicity, they have a of environment is something i rec-going so you know that you can “one of the students was re-different part of the world.” 
strong emphasis on sustainability, ommend to everyone.” reveal christ to us, and that’s a big alizing that what students here six to seven weeks before the 
so all the food is either farm-grown lantz said he hopes the big distinction on this trip.” experience is what the women trip, students prepared by with 
or purchased local and organic. appalachia program impacts par-The group traveled to the north-there experience with the sis-relevant readings, wilson said. 
They also strive to conserve wa-ticipants long-term through the les­west part of the country to the city ters is the same kind of inspiring “we read a document by 
ter and electricity. while there, sons the immersion taught them. of piura, wilson said. The students encouragement to be women of John paul ii called ‘ecclesia in 
i worked at different sites in the “i would like to see students con-stayed in santisimo sacramento faith and to be leaders in faith america,’” wilson said. “we read a 
community doing everything from sider next steps both related to the parish, where Fr. Joseph uhen, community,” wilson said. “That book on pilgrimage, get people to 
roofing and painting to working in appalachia region, but also issues notre dame class of 1980, serves was a really great insider thought start talking about themes in their 
the community gardens.” of social justice broadly,” lantz said. as pastor. that we shared in that group of life of conversion and encounter 
lantz said the appalachia pro-“we always try to push students to 
“we spent four days [in piura] peruvian women and north and solidarity so they can prepare 
gram allows students to engage consider next steps after taking part and then three days with the american women. all of us have and look at the whole experience 
with the challenges the appalachia in a seminar like appalachia. sisters of the holy cross who are been shaped in some way by the through those lens.” 
region faces through a lens of “For some that is participation in stationed in lima,” wilson said. ministry of sisters.” “students that did come want-
catholic social Teaching. other csc programs. For others, it “There are six sisters there. The lipinski said the students at-ed to have that experience, and 
“we want students to consider is something in the local commu­
sisters tell stories about these tend the peruvian festival señor most of them wanted to have a 
what a justice framework like nity. For others it’s a choice of life-places and the peruvian people de los milagros, a devotion to profound experience of faith in a 
catholic social Teaching has to style and habits. There are many and their experiences with the which is said to protect lima culture that is very different from 
peruvian people. from earthquakes. she said she ours.” 
say to systemic issues that do not ways to take next steps.” 
“so we meet the peruvian peo-has never felt so connected to her 
have simple solutions,” lantz said. 

“we think spending a week in this Contact Emma Borne at ple through their eyes, through catholic faith than at the festival. Contact Alex Winegar at 
the ministry that they’ve done “while the needs of peru are awineg01@saintmarys.edu paid adverTisemenT 
region allows students to engage eborne@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

interview blues 
Maddie Daly 
associate scene editor 

interviews: the bane of every college senior’s existence. (well, unless you were lucky enough to have an offer from the sum­mer already. if that’s the case, please stop complaining about all the work you have to do). ever since the career fair in september, in addition to my full load of coursework, i have had to take on the challenge of apply­ing, interviewing, following-up and waiting for an answer, over and over again. as excit­ing as the job search may seem from the outside (especially to those already em­ployed), it is nothing more than a stressful, fun-sucking period of time full of anxiety of the unknown. interviews and resumes, in my opinion, are terrible indicators of a can­didate’s real personality and skill set; so why are they basically the only factors involved in getting a job that could last a lifetime? 
in an interview, a candidate is not his or her normal self. The person has had fair warning for the event, prepared robotic answers and put on a persona that fits into whatever job they are applying for. now, don’t get me wrong, it is possible to express yourself accurately and to naturally be a good fit for a role, but i would argue that for the most part candidates are putting on somewhat of a show during interviews. i mean, who can tell me they seriously walk around wearing suits, heels and ties on a regular basis? 
as for the resume . . . can you honestly tell me every single detail on that piece of paper is 100 percent accurate? whether you added an extra-curricular that you signed up for at activities night and never actually went to or you exaggerated the dates of some role, you probably fudged some of those facts. i imagine companies expect it these days. do they really believe that every single student “spearheaded” new projects, even in their minimal intern role? once again, i’m not saying that no one accomplished the things written on their resumes. i just doubt that everyone did absolutely everything their resumes claim they did. 
you may think i sound bitter, and i prob­ably am. going through the interview process of putting myself on display while constantly being judged with a microscope can be exhausting. it can raise confidence and then shoot it right down with a rejec­tion. it builds up hope and anticipation that very likely could be lost in a week. 
very similar to my senior year of high school when i had no idea where i would be living the next year, i have no clue what’s in stock for me next year. i have my ideal scenario, but we can’t always get what we want, so i am prepared for anything. Just like the day i got into notre dame, the day i get an offer from the perfect job in my target city will be one of the best days of my life. Thank you for your time, and i look forward to hearing from you soon. 
Contact Maddie Daly at      mdaly6@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘1989’: A brief lyrical analysis 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 

i had zero intention of writing about Taylor swift this week. nevertheless, after walking through breen-phillips hall and hearing various tracks off her new album booming from multi­ple rooms, i decided if there’s ever a time to write about T-swift in your college newspaper, this is it. 
“1989” is like nothing we’ve heard from Taylor before, as the album takes on a total 80s vibe. Though synthesizers and a for­eign electric feel characterize each track, swift’s lyrics still pos­sess that straight-from-the-diary sensation. while some claim to be completely turned off by Taylor new sound, it’s hard to argue that this artist isn’t still the queen of narrative lyricism. 
swift has mastered the ability to capture the sensation of a moment within her universally-relatable verses and refrains. how many teenage girls do you think, upon hearing “she’s cheer captain and i’m on the bleachers” for the first time, thought, “wow, that’s totally me”? is there anybody on this earth that can listen to “never grow up” without tearing up? The openness with which Taylor writes allows us to see bits of ourselves within different songs, while applying her pertinent lyrics to our own lives. This, i believe, is where Taylor finds the most success as an artist. 
Therefore, upon listening to “1989,” i could not help but tune into the lyrics of every verse. The words to all 14 tracks pulled up on my desktop, i explored the many layers of swift’s lyrics — what exactly is she getting at in “clean,” what story is she trying to tell in “bad blood?” These questions have been on the fore­front of my mind, perhaps more than they should be. 
after detailed track-by-track analysis, i’ve noticed Taylor’s fifth album creates somewhat of a storyline, highlighting her experiences and sentiments as she explores the city of new york. in fact, Taylor is so pumped about being in a new city that she can’t even find the words to express her excitement. literally, all she really says in track one is “welcome to new york” over and over again! “it’s a new soundtrack,” the pop star sings. in essence, this lyric captures the metamorphosis she’s experiencing as a singer and individual. Taylor is living in a new place and exploring a new genre. she leaves her cowboy boots and acoustic guitar behind, preparing to explore the unknown. 
Taylor seems to have officially put her angst-y, it’s-not-me­it’s-you songs to rest. none of this album’s lyrics particularly dwell on the star’s break-up woes like what we’ve seen in the past.  in contrast to previous tracks such as “Forever and always,” the songs on “1989” approach heartbreak much more casually. many of Taylor’s new lyrics emphasize this underly­ing idea of “you win some, but you lose most in the game of love.” Taylor applies this new spirit of indifference towards all the negative influences in her life as well. This is perhaps most prominent in “shake it off,” in which Tay-Tay asserts she’s go­ing to brush off “the liars and dirty, dirty cheats of the world” and just do her own thing. 
The alternative culture of nyc’s vast hipster population has definitely influenced the singer, as abstract imagery is rather prominent throughout her lyrics. listen to “out of the woods” and you’ll hear exactly what i mean — metaphoric language everywhere! Further, in several tracks we hear Taylor experi­ment with vocal sounds in an alternative fashion. For example, in “wildest dreams,” she makes a breathy sigh (somewhat resonant of a whale call) that’s arguably the most non-main­stream thing i’ve ever heard.  if lyrics and music alone don’t sell you on swift’s new fondness of counter-culture, just take a look at her album design. it presents swift in a vintage polaroid frame with a filter i don’t even think is available on instagram. 
i urge you to explore the lyrics of “1989” on your own if you have not yet done so — it makes for some great entertainment. however, in your lyrical analysis i suggest digging deeper than just identifying which past love interest Taylor alludes to in each track. seriously, there is so much more to this artist’s songs than just pinpointing the fact that she’s writing about a measly boy band singer with a butterfly tatted to his chest. 
That said, i think there are a lot of harry style references to be acknowledged. Track two, “blank space,” is definitely about him, as Taylor sings, “i can read you like a magazine.” That boy’s body is covered in ink. 
Paige Affinito is a junior accounting and English major. She has found that humor is much easier to capture in 140 characters than in 700 words. She can be reached at paffinit@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
sitting on privilege 
Kelly Monahan 
guest columnist 

when i sat down in the 79 green-apple back, 98 white y-tower and chrome based sayl chair, all i could think about was rosa. 
rosa, for the past 19 years, has been making the sayl chair, a high-end office chair from herman-miller. she knows all the parts, all the color codes and every deliv­ery route. rosa practically wrote the books on mass-pro­duced chairs. she wakes up every day at 5 a.m., clocks in at 5:53 a.m., works a minimum of eight hours and then goes home for the night. she returns monday through saturday like clockwork, repeating the cycle. 
This past June and July, rosa was my co-worker, my mentor and my friend. she helped me navigate my sum­mer job in the factory and avoid an imminent, complete mental breakdown. 
work was always hot, redundant, non-stop and long. The weak of heart do not last long in a factory. it takes mental and emotional strength to persevere through a life of uninspiring work. rosa had this strength in abundance. 
i did not. i was strong at home and school, but i did not feel strong here. 
chair-making is a rapid and lonely process (no social­izing). so for roughly eight hours a day, i found myself alone with my thoughts, and not with thoughts of the task at hand (that was too vacant a process to occupy anyone’s mind). i thought about my future, my faith, my failings and my fate. it was enlightening at times, yet so frightening. delivering chair parts for hours, i found myself wondering, “is this all there is?” 
i thought about the lives of my co-workers, like rosa. 
i grew up very differently from rosa, but we were not so different. she had likely contemplated her own future, faith, failings and fate on that same factory floor and asked herself, “is this all there is?” 
on days i was visibly defeated, rosa would come over to me say with her spanglish, “porque no smile? almost done today, smile chiquita!” 
so for rosa, i did. and with rosa’s help, i found my strength on the factory floor. 
i soon found things to distract me from the monoto­nous work. rosa’s companionship and my secret mis­sion to sit down in one of our sayl chairs were the two things that made my factory life bearable. 
i never completed my chair-sitting mission while at herman-miller, though i once came close. i saw a chair pushed off to the side of the assembly line, sitting idly. mid-delivery route i tried creeping towards it. i got so close but stopped when rosa hurried around the curve of the assembly line pushing a tool cart with the speed and distress of someone getting chased by an axe murderer. 
“ayyyaayayy! can you help with carts? i sorry but we behind. never time for to sit in chairs,” she explained. 
so i abandoned my mission. if rosa worked 19 years and never got the chance to touch a finished chair, nei­ther would i. 
eventually i left herman-miller to return to college. a month into school, i went to the library to study, and there it was. The sayl chair — 79 green-apple back, 98 white y-tower, chrome base — was parked in front of an unoccupied black table. after a moment of paralyzing awe, i approached the table. in disbelief, i touched the chair, lacing my fingers through its netted back. when the moment felt right, i pulled it out from the table and reverently sat down. 
after 400 hours building this chair as a worker, i had finally completed my chair-sitting mission by leaving. workers are not allowed to sit. workers are not allowed to stop being productive. workers are not allowed to hurt the bottom line at any cost. 
but i wasn’t a worker anymore. removed from the fac­tory at my expensive private university, i finally found myself seated in the sayl chair. 
my expected triumph was masked by enormous guilt. my mind went to rosa, who deserved to sit in this chair far more than i did, but who will likely never have the opportunity.she has spent 60,000 hours making this chair. she is still walking 11 miles a day pushing 50-pound carts. she is wiping sweat off her brow on her oversized pink t-shirt. she is straining her 50-some-year­old back every day to make a miniscule living and build a chair that she will never, ever sit in. 
at that thought, i started to cry, sitting in the sayl chair in the library. 
how could anyone have the right to sit in this chair if rosa cannot? 
sitting there, i felt privileged in the most disgusting way. 
The sad truth is that some people in this world will make chairs while others will sit in them. The sadder truth is that some people, seated in their high-end office chairs, consider themselves better people than rosa, who built that chair with her bare hands. 
rosa deserves to kick up her feet, retire and relax. but she will build chairs for many years to come. and with the thought of rosa, i rose from the chair. 
Contact Kelly Monahan at kmonaha5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

British-isms: Reflections on language 
Charlie Ducey 
english channeled 

“alright, boys. let’s ‘ave 15 press-ups ‘fore you put on your shin pads for the football match. it’s cuppers’ week. don’t step your boots onto the pitch quite yet. cheers.” 
These were the words, more or less, of the captain of my oriel college “football” (read: soccer) team. now, although i was familiar with what some of those words meant (“15,” “step,” “you”) and could deduce the meanings of others (“football match” = soccer game, “shin pads” = shin guards?), the whole verbal expression congealed into a mismatched blob of sounds in my head. mind you, the football captain has a strong british accent, the origin of which i can’t quite place. is it essex? manchester? not sure. 
This brief exchange revealed to me in unclear terms that there exists a language barrier, however mini­mal, between british english and american english. i am of the opinion that this barrier is a rather good thing. 
sure, i might need a dictionary to decode the mean­ings of the words “hob” (stovetop) or “skon” (scone). and, sure, the british use certain commonplace american words for more risqué referents. (“pants” refers not to what you wear on your legs but rather to what you wear beneath your outer garments). yet, we can capture the nuance and subtlety of life through words that are just slightly different and some that are in a world all their own. 
The american author bill bryson, who once lived in britain, has compiled a host of british-isms in the glossary of his travelogue of the british isles, “notes from a small island.” can one really capture the joy­ful connotations and aural flair of the word “jam roly­poly” in the simple american-ism “dessert pastry”? and how can the euphemism “bathroom” compete with the brevity and aptness of the british-ism “loo”? more words means more angles on life, more ways of putting things together, more relating sounds to objects and objects to other objects. collisions of cul­tural vocabulary, while confusing, can result in more clever modes of thought. 
Take, for example, the novelist Joseph conrad, flu­ent in at least three languages and having gained exposure to many more in his life’s travels. of conrad it has been said, “he wrote in english, thought in French and dreamt in polish.” conrad’s comprehen­sion of multiple languages gives his writing a linguis­tic nimbleness, an ability to express ideas through sound patterns and grammar that mono-lingual writ­ers might not consider. compared to english, conrad saw a robust structure in French: “english is so plastic 
—
 if you haven’t got a word you need you can make it, but to write French you have to be an artist like anatole France.” 

perhaps, then, differing vocabularies and variant languages do not only sound different, but can actu­ally express ideas that other languages simply cannot 

—
 that is, with greater elegance or precision. perhaps we need multiple languages to refer to the phenom­ena of the world in all of its complexity. 


according to “nationalencyklopedin,” a collec­tion of census results from across the globe, half of the world’s population speaks 13 of humanity’s most popular languages — mandarin, spanish, english and hindi among them. of the english portion, only about one-sixth is familiar with british-isms. but, far more astonishingly, there are a total of 6,909 living languages, 473 of which will soon be extinct. some studies report that only 10 percent of all languages will be extant by 2050, with the pressures of global­ization forcing native speakers of certain languages to “convert” to english, spanish or other common languages. 
but what is it that we lose when arawum or bagupi or any other of papua new guinea’s 850 native lan­guages plunge off the cliff into linguistic oblivion? are we really any worse off? it’s not as though these tribes have massive libraries of literature that will become unreadable. and yet for these tribespeople, certainly a part of their identity would be lost. and for the world at a large, a particular manner of seeing things, link­ing sounds to phenomena, a network of connections, is engulfed by 13 or so languages within whose con­fines our thoughts and worldviews are bound. 
but what’s the big deal? can’t i say anything in english that i could say in any other language, albeit with less grace? aren’t the sounds we use to link ideas essentially arbitrary? maybe. but the arbitrariness of language varies. pictographic languages, such as cer­tain elements of chinese, contain symbols that actu­ally resemble their referents, and onomatopoeia seeks to replicate auditory phenomena through its pronun­ciation. bam! language. in degrees of arbitrariness not all languages are equal. 
language also has import in limiting what we can say. when i was in bonn, germany, this summer, i came upon an anti-war rally in which i heard the ora­tor say (in german) that there is a tribe in the amazon that has no word for “to pay,” as they have no notion of currency. he hoped for a world in which there would be no word for “war,” because there would be no notion of war at all. 
as the german philosopher ludwig wittgenstein wrote in his monumental ‘Tractatus logico­philosophicus,” “The limits of my language are the limits of my world.” and, as he concluded, “whereof one cannot speak, thereof must one be silent.” 
in the name of language diversity, i prefer the original german, “wovon man nicht sprechen kann, darüber muss man schweigen.” 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Saul Kripke (English) and Ludwig Wittgenstein (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, U.K. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

“you might wanna record the way you feelin’ like history bein’ made!” 
if there was ever a moment that could capture what “run The Jewels 2” is, this opening rant by Killer mike on opening track “Jeopardy” would be it. aggressive, explosive and straight to the point, “rTJ2” throws you to the floor from the very start and relentlessly drags you kicking and screaming through 39 minutes of one of the best rap albums of the year. brag tracks like this make run the Jewels members el-p and Killer mike’s point very clear: we’re going to do whatever the heck we want, and you’re absolutely going to love it. 
and love it, we do. everything about “rTJ2” is a giant leap forward from the dy­namic duo’s already excellent 2013 breakout album “run the Jewels.” The production is tighter, the comradery is superior and the social commentary is even more brutal. 
immediately noticeable from the start of this album is just how solid the production is. el-p has always been a solid producer, but with “rTJ2” he has pulled out all the stops and given us some of the finest beats this year. The backing tracks are not just basic, repetitive beats for Killer mike and el-p to show off their rapping skills over, but rather 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

dystopian overload. That was my first thought when i saw the ads for “The maze runner” last spring when i went to see “divergent.” granted, i was sitting in a the­ater to see a movie based on a young adult dystopian fiction novel — but i was still not sure i was prepared for yet another fran­chise devoted to ya novels with eerily simi­lar plot lines. i couldn’t handle it. even with dylan o’brien, i wasn’t sure i was ready for another dystopian world to compete with “divergent,” “The hunger games” and “The giver.” 
i hadn’t read the book and i didn’t plan to. still, somehow, i ended up in a theater over fall break watching “The maze runner” movie. it was raining, all the museums were closed and we really didn’t want to see the new nicholas sparks movie. it was the best choice, but still, i couldn’t imagine i’d actually enjoy the movie all that much. apparently, i was wrong. 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

complex, expansive, multi-layered works that enhance the mood set by the tone and the lyrics. The bass lines “oh my darling don’t cry” escalate exponentially until ev­erything absolutely erupts in “blockbuster night part 1.” almost all of the songs flow right into each other like this, giving listen­ers absolutely no time to breathe before run the Jewels forces them under and drowns them in intensity all over again. 
el-p’s production reaches its apex on clos­er “angel duster.” The intro sets a dark, fu­turistic dense tone that continues through the whole track. it features an alien-sound­ing piano breakdown, a string quartet outro and the ever-present repetition of “rTJ” so that it’s absolutely clear to the listener who’s in charge. 
This assertion of dominance by these two industry veterans is a thematic cornerstone of “rTJ2,” and allows for some of the biggest and best brags, disses and rants we’ve ever seen from them. Tracks such as “blockbuster night part 1,” “lie, cheat, steal” and “all due respect” constantly escalate the tension and back and forth trash-talking to levels we never reached in the original “run the Jewels.” 
This time around, el-p seems to have a more defined voice and a bigger presence than last year’s album. This is immediately apparent in “lie, cheat, steal,” where el-p 
i’ve never been the type of person to see the movie before i read the book. in gener­al, i think that’s a poor practice. but i did it for “The maze runner” and i have to admit, i think it’s probably what saved me from being sorely disappointed with the movie. 
The end of “The maze runner” (both the book and the movie) is sort of mind-boggling, one of those cliff-hangers where you race to the bookstore to get the sequel because you just can’t stand to let it hang in your mind for any longer than absolutely necessary. so of course, after seeing “The maze runner,” i went out and purchased the entire book series at Target. 
The book and the movie are the same general plot line, but the movie changes nearly all the little details. i imagine if i’d seen the movie after reading the book, this would have bugged me a lot more than it did. given that i did it the other way around, i had a weird sense of empathy for why the movie changed what it did — cer­tain things, upon reflection, didn’t seem to make sense in a movie context and usually, opens up with some lackadaisical lyrics that slowly snake into some of the new yorker’s more tongue-twisting contributions to this project. his expertise also lies in putting together subtle, genius, witty wordplay in tracks like “all my life” where he mentions that he’s “so high you a hobbit” and that his enemies are “better off dead like paul is, your name don’t ring, go starr-less.” 
This isn’t to say that Killer mike’s work on “run the Jewels 2” isn’t comparable; rather, his work this time is absolutely excellent. his violent, brutal and sometimes just plain ter­rifying atlanta tone is a perfect complement to the sharper, snarkier new york dialect of el-p. This brutality seeps into the ridiculous number of one-liners he has on the album. Firing shots like “Top of the morning, my fist to your face is [expletive] Folgers” on “blockbuster night part 1”and “i’ll beat you to a pulp no fiction, Tarantino flows, new Jules and vincent” on “all due respect” show that there is absolutely no end to the brutal genius that is Killer mike. The tag team efforts of Killer mike and el-p work to make mike inexplicably terrifying and lov­able on every single track. 
even though run the Jewels could have absolutely pulled off an incredible album all on their own, they decided to call on some friends, which had huge payoffs. Zack de la rocha delivers my personal favorite guest 
i decided the way the movie rendered it was probably a better option. 
with that said, i think i still would have enjoyed the movie. it stars two of my fa­vorite actors (dylan o’brien and Kaya scodelario, whose character effy stonem on “skins” is one of my favorite of the se­ries) and it was an enjoyable, if emotion­ally tumultuous, way to avoid the rain for a couple hours. 
The movie does an excellent job at intro­ducing the ideas of “The maze runner” to someone who had only the vaguest idea about what happened in the books. its pre­sentation of the more confusing aspects 
(i.e. the sudden memory loss or the cod­ing within the maze) simplified the ideas so that they made sense on screen. There wasn’t space in the movie for the long ex­planations the book is able to give — there was no voice-over narrator to explain those things that the book gives only in protago­nist Thomas’ thoughts. 
i think this works cinematically. The sto­ry was compelling and kept me on the edge track on “close your eyes (and count to [expletive]).” hearing the infamous rage against the machine frontman pour his angsty, revolutionary heart out all over el­p’s lethal-bladed production is an absolute blast. “rTJ2” also features blink-182’s Travis barker, Foxygen’s diane coffee, mysterious producer boots and the slimily-seductive gangsta boo, whose performances are the sprinkles on the mind-blowing bowl of ice cream that is “rTJ2.” but just as with last year’s record, the tracks are dominated by el and mike, and that’s the only way it should ever be on a run the Jewels record. 
This record also features an insane amount of sharp, poignant social commen­tary on all aspects of the modern world. run the Jewels leaves no stone untouched, blast­ing governments, the social elite and reli­gious institutions with critical, suspicious lyrics. a highlight among these was “early,” which depicts a brutal, horrifying family en­counter with zealous police officers. 
overall, “run the Jewels 2” is an outstand­ing rap album. each element, from the guest verses to the comradery to the social criti­cism, crash together to create an explosively energetic, incredibly fun record that is sure to be a contender for album of the year. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
of my seat throughout the entire movie. it made me want to read the books. This, of course, only made me realize once again what movies always seem to miss out on when they translate a book from page to screen. 
“The maze runner” isn’t “The hunger games” and i’m not sure it will ever quite reach that level. in terms of dystopian ya fiction, i’d place the movie on par with the “divergent” movie and leap years ahead of “The giver” movie (i’m pretty forgiving on cinematic changes, but that was a bit too far). it’s not quite the same story James dashner originally wrote but the underly­ing theme is the same and the finale gave me the same adrenaline rush reading and watching. it’s kind of fun and not too com­plicated in its critiques of our modern soci­ety — in a nutshell, it’s all i could ever really ask from a ya dystopian fiction, novel or movie. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at                                     cmoriari@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 

nothing says “washed-up pop star” like playing nightly shows in las vegas for months on end; once a musician reaches this point, it pretty much means they are done touring for good. however, when i saw that britney spears would be performing a show titled “piece of me” during my stay in vegas, i was not disappointed one bit. To her real fans, spears will never be a washed-up has-been. she is the queen of pop music that our generation has been worshipping since kindergarten, so even though she is now 32 years old with a bad reputation, she is still capable of entertaining a crowd and gathering a fan base, which is why i did not hesitate to purchase tickets. 
upon walking into planet hollywood, the hotel where spears was to play (and had been playing for nearly a year to date), it was obvious that we were headed to the 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

For the past year, npr’s sarah Koenig has pined over every detail she could gather re­garding the 1999 murder of a baltimore high school student, hae min lee. The “This american life” producer compiled various timelines, mined through countless records and documents and tracked down every conceivable witness or player in an attempt to map out the events of Jan. 13, 1999, in baltimore county concerning lee and her convicted murderer, her then-ex-boyfriend adnan syed. 
“serial,” a new podcast spun off from npr’s “This american life” and produced by chicago public radio station wbeZ, chronicles host sarah Koenig’s yearlong investigation into hae min lee’s murder. Koenig researched the 15-year-old case, for which syed has been incarcerated and serving a life sentence plus 30 years in the north branch correctional institution in maryland, and since oct. 3, she has been crafting her findings into serialized, 30-plus­minute podcast episodes released Thursday mornings at serialpodcast.org 
The story is one to this day filled with mystery and dispute. Koenig has developed a connection with syed, speaking with him often for details on the day and its sur­roundings and including the conversations in the episodes. meanwhile, interrogation right place. in typical vegas-style, promot­ers and hotel employees shoved fliers for spears after-parties and show tickets in our faces, assuming we were seeing the pop star based on our age and attire. as soon as we approached the theatre, spears was everywhere. T-shirts selling for $50 lined the walls, “britney-inspired” (whatever that means) drinks filled the bars and fans strut­ted in costumes ranging from schoolgirl­britney to boa constrictor-britney — these were some serious fans. 
i have never been to another performance in vegas, but i would like to think that not all weeknight performances include as much enthusiasm and hype as spears› did. The crowd was lively (including the attendants over the age of 60 — there were more than a handful), and the seats were almost all filled by the time i arrived, 20 minutes before the show. now does that sound like a washed-up pop star’s show to you? 
even though her classics came out in 
recordings and trial accounts from main witness, and at the time syed’s pot dealer and acquaintance — or possibly closer friend — Jay posit that syed had loose, but premeditated, intentions to kill lee after the two broke up. The case features many other contentious points, possible mistakes by the police and attorney processes, red herrings and inconsistencies, cementing the human nature and real-life circumstances regard­ing this investigation. Koenig makes sure to explore each and every piece of data, com­ing at them from all angles, hoping to finally suss out the key details to concretely solve and answer the messy case. 
Koenig’s own involvement and deep curiosity, as well as her comprehensive reporting, play to the benefit of the show. examining everything from syed and lee’s high school lives to the technical strate­gies employed in the court proceedings, Koenig extrapolates upon the elements of shakespearean tragedy, high school melo­drama, suspense thriller, crime mystery and law procedural inherent to the story. so far across the five episodes that have been released, she has covered ample material including Jay’s incriminating testimony, the crime scene, syed and lee’s relationship and syed’s prospective motive, a possible alibi for syed that was never considered during trial and even staging a reenactment of the police’s timeline for syed the entire day of the event to test its plausibility. while 1999, i would argue that most — if not all — 20-somethings would recognize the lyrics to “oops! ... i did it again” and “... baby one more Time.» she produced these pop jams with, i’ll admit, decent lyrics at the turn of the millennium, yet they are still relevant today, 15 years later (man i feel old). This tour included basically every popular song spears ever produced, and the entire time all the younger fans were on their feet danc­ing and singing every lyric to their child­hood favorites — everything from «Toxic» to «everytime.» spears reenacted her famous dance moves with her crew of backup danc­ers; for a woman over 30, she sure can move. regardless of the hiccups she has experi­enced throughout the years (shaved head, rehab, marrying Kevin Federline), she has managed to stay in great shape and keep up her appearance; she looked young and fit up there in her sparkly belly shirts and sequined leotards — just like the spears we know and love from elementary school. 
remaining unbiased in her report, in many instances Koenig sounds exasperated, so captivated and consumed with the case, confounded by its complexness — yet un­able to break it one way or the other. it’s clear that Koenig wants justice, whether in con­firming syed’s guilt, holding the authorities to a higher standard or determining Jan. 13, 1999, baltimore’s true events. 
in fact, now Koenig is nearly as much a player as lee, syed and Jay in the investi­gation. in addition to presenting critical examinations of a high school murder and a possible murderer’s psyche — not to men­tion our executive and judicial systems — the podcast can also be taken as a lesson in ethical journalism. Koenig is without a doubt very close to the case as a result of her recruitment by chaudry, but still presents the case and her findings objectively. while she could easily fall victim to anchoring, availability or confirmation biases as a re­sult of knowing the court’s original verdict, the ease in adopting the current account to explain the entire case or her connection with syed, Koenig remains steadfast in her approach to uncover objective, definite evi­dence to support an indisputable explana­tion for lee’s murder. 
The other most exciting dynamic of “serial” — aside from Koenig’s ability to generate heart-racing suspense and thor­ough investment in the story, as well as her work to keep the case extremely alive and 
more recently, spears has been producing chart-topping songs that are well known, al­though not nearly as popular as her oldies. her last three albums, “circus,” “Femme Fatale” and “britney Jean” have been on the radar, but mostly for their singles. The songs have been catchy and poppy, even bordering on hip-hop and techno, to stay up-to-date with the times. she has also col­laborated with several famous stars, includ­ing will.i.am, rihanna and miley cyrus, keeping her name on the charts. 
spears has gone through quite the ca­reer, with enormous fame at a very young age, severe dysfunction throughout her 20s and now another round of success with her last few albums. she is said to be writing new music at the moment, and if her per­formance in vegas is any indication, she’s planning to keep singing ‘til the world ends. 
Contact Maddie Daly at                           mdaly6@nd.edu 
vivid despite its age — is the unique em­ployment of the medium. by compiling all of her investigation into a podcast, Koenig allows for a fully immersed account and ex­amination. whereas a non-fiction book on tape hinges solely on written material and an hour-long murder mystery show relies on visuals, a podcast can incorporate narra­tion, taped interviews, phone conversations and previously recorded accounts from the time of the case. “serial” even provides supplemental documents relevant to each episode through corresponding posts on its website. These elements add life and weight to even the slighter moments, like meet­ings with dead end witnesses. meanwhile, the episodic calls with syed introduced by a prerecording from the prison offer a sobering reminder that everything about this case has happened and has real life consequences. 
Koenig has stated that her team only com­pletes each episode in the week prior to its release, a luxury — or perhaps crux — of her format, allowing for last-minute deci­sions. as the “serial” producers piece to­gether their discoveries for the second half of the show, it remains unclear the final di­rection and reached conclusions, with the case absolutely suspenseful and entirely open-ended. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

DiMaggio’s legacy will live on 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 

Editor’s Note: This is the sixth in a 10-part series in which our writers debate what is the most unbreakable record in sports. Follow along with the conversation on Twitter using the hashtag #UnbreakableRecord 
Joe dimaggio’s 13 mlb seasons encompassed much more than a stretch of 56 games played in 1941, but 56 iconic games remain the most-talked-about of the yankee clipper’s career. 
dimaggio hit safely in ev­ery one of those 56, and that is a record that will never be broken. 
other “out-of-reach” base­ball records have fallen, such as babe ruth’s career home run total. career totals de­pend in large part upon a player’s longevity and abil­ity to sustain production, so if the right iron man comes along, such records could fall again. if a player falls a bit off the pace of a career record, he can make it up in the next several games with a few ex­tra strikeouts or hits or home runs, whatever the case may be. 
There is no room for er­ror for a player chasing the clipper. with dimaggio’s streak, one game ends the run at history. no one cares about anything less than the pinnacle. only impossible 56 matters. 
dimaggio’s record depends on consistency. To match dimaggio, a player would have to lock in and record a hit every game for about two months. his timing must be impeccable. he must outwit opposing pitchers on a daily basis. bounces on the infield dirt must go his way. 
have just one off night, be fooled by a few pitches, and his streak is over. 
at the highest level of baseball competition, hitless games are inescapable for even mlb’s best. minor in­juries interfere with players’ swings and timing. players get thrown off psychological­ly or make bad adjustments. 
so much can go wrong on any given day for a baseball player. dimaggio avoided all such stumbling blocks for two months and 40 percent of the games he played in that season 73 years ago. 
if a player even wants to think about dimaggio’s record, he must be a com­plete hitter — able to hit for some power, leg out weaker hits and hit to pretty much anywhere to avoid falling victim to defensive shifts. 
These hitters are rare, and even those who fall in this category haven’t been able to match dimaggio. 
mike Trout is arguably be­coming the most complete hitter in the league today. he hasn’t come anywhere close to dimaggio’s streak in his young career, but history says the outlook for him — or any­one else — to break it in the future doesn’t look hopeful. 
The lineup of hall-of­famers who have fallen short illustrates how untouchable dimaggio’s streak has been. 
only five players other than dimaggio have reached the 40 mark: willie Keeler (45), pete rose (44), bill dahlen (42), george sisler (41) and Ty cobb (40). Keeler’s second-place mark leaves him 11 games — a week-and-a-half of elite baseball — shy of dimaggio’s record. with the exception of rose, these play­ers accomplished their feats before dimaggio. 
rose was one the most con­sistent hitters in mlb his­tory. over the course of his career, he hit .303 and be­came baseball’s all-time hits leader with 4,256 hits, but he couldn’t match dimaggio’s stretch of unbelievable reli­ability. rose needed two more weeks of near-flawless baseball to break dimaggio’s record. 
several, including paul molitor with 39 in 1987, have reached the 30s, but many of those streaks fall in the low 30s, only about halfway to legendary 56. 
baseball laughs in the face of streaks. baseball humbles its players every day as they strive for elusive production. baseball lauds players for hit­ting 30 percent of the time, a low bar for success almost anywhere else. 
in that environment, dimaggio’s streak should have been unthinkable, impossible. 
what dimaggio accom­plished was once-in-a-life­time sustained genius. at the highest echelon of his sport, he succeeded every day for the longest stretch ever. That level of brilliance cannot be recreated. 
The next time someone streaks to 30 or even 40, pay attention but don’t get too excited. dimaggio’s record will never be topped. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC SOCCER 

belles defeat rival calvin after early first-half goals 
Observer Staff Report 

results for the saint mary’s soccer team were mixed over fall break, with the belles earning a win, a loss and a tie. 
The week started strong for the belles (6-10-2, 4-8-2 miaa), as they beat calvin (6-9-2, 5-7-2) on oct. 18, 2-1. 
saint mary’s took the lead in the first two minutes when sophomore midfielder Jenn Jarmy rounded the Knights’ keeper and kicked the ball inside the right goal post. calvin soon evened the score, but senior defender and captain mary Kate hussey headed a corner kick from sophomore defender emily rompola for what proved to be the winning goal. 
The belles’ lead was threat­ened numerous times, with the Knights taking a total of 18 shots, but senior goal­keeper chanler rosenbaum’s eight saves allowed them to come out of the game with the victory. 
success for saint mary’s continued with the an­nouncement on monday that Jenn Jarmy had been named miaa offensive player of the week after scoring against both calvin and alma, but this run was stopped by a 2-0 home defeat to hope (13-3-1, 12-1-1). 
The belles were again able to ward off many of the away team’s attacks, with rosenbaum making 11 saves in this game, but they were ultimately defeated by two set-pieces from the Flying dutch, as a 19th minute shot off a corner kick and a header off a free kick in the 68th min­ute both beat rosenbaum. 
The belles did have their share of chances, including near shots from rompola and Jarmy that could have given saint mary’s a lead inside the first three minutes. The op­portunities became less fre­quent in the second half as the Flying dutch closed out the game. 
The week for saint mary’s ended with a 0-0 double overtime result at albion. 
hussey shot over the bar early on, and sophomore for­ward liza Felix had a shot that went wide in the 28th minute, while rosenbaum made saves in the 40th and 67th minutes, but neither side was able to break the deadlock, even after two overtime periods. 
Following a 2-0 loss to olivet on Tuesday, the belles face adrian on saturday for senior night and their final home game. 

NHL | penguins 8, devils 3 
penguins pepper net in lopsided win over devils 
Associated Press 

piTTsburgh — evgeni malkin and sidney crosby scored two of four second-period goals and the pittsburgh penguins net­ted seven straight in an 8-3 rout of the new Jersey devils on Tuesday night. 
Trailing 3-1, the penguins ral­lied behind malkin. he extended his point streak to eight games with a power-play goal, his fourth of the year. crosby scored his sixth and seventh goals, patric hornqvist netted his fifth and pascal dupuis scored in his third straight game, also on the power play. steve downie, blake comeau and craig adams also had goals for pittsburgh, which defeated new Jersey for the ninth time in 11 home games. 
pittsburgh’s top-ranked power play scored three times, the fifth time in eight games it produced multiple goals. 
dainius Zubrus scored his sec­ond of the season nine seconds into the game, but the devils were 

FOR SALE 

HONDA. Alum selling ‘91 SE. Reliable, good cond., 2mi from cam­pus. 574-287-7877 
Red Prius IV 2011. 12,300 miles, mint. $19,500. Call 574-514-4827 
unable to win for the fifth time in six road games. Jacob Josefson and Tuomo ruutu also scored for new Jersey. 
marc-andre Fleury defeated the devils for the fifth straight time, making 16 saves. 
cory schneider stopped 18 of 23 shots through two periods before scott clemmensen relieved him in the third, making 10 saves. 
The teams combined for six goals in the second period. new Jersey netted the first two to take a 3-1 lead before pittsburgh rallied with four in a row. 
Josefson scored a short-hand­ed, breakaway goal and ruutu pounced on a rebound in front, giving the devils a two-goal lead. 
pittsburgh got a boost from its power play, scoring on a two-man advantage as malkin’s slap shot from the left point cut the deficit to a goal. 
hornqvist tied it soon after, rip­ping a shot past schneider on the blocker side during a rush down the right-wing boards. 
pittsburgh jumped ahead with goals in the final 2:25, started by adams who took a lead pass from brandon sutter out of the penalty box and beat schneider on a breakaway. crosby gave the penguins a two-goal lead with 
1:12 left in the period, converting a rebound while uncovered along the right post. 
The devils played Tuesday without mike cammalleri, who leads the team with five goals. cammalleri, who signed a five-year, $25 million deal on the first day of free agency, suffered a jaw injury during Friday’s shootout loss against dallas. he played the following night in ottawa, but did not make the trip to pittsburgh. 
olli maatta was in the lineup af­ter the penguins revealed monday that the 20-year-old defenseman will undergo surgery next week to remove a tumor from his neck that could be low-grade thyroid cancer. maatta, cleared to play until the surgery, is expected to return in four weeks. he had an assist in 18:50 of ice time on Tuesday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT  pretending that I’m at home spending  
quality time with my best friend wish  
Commencement  rental  ­ next  to  the night would never end it’s getting  
campus and Eddy Street Commons.  cold outside putting on a pair of warm  
Walk to everything. Email for addition- socks to avoid getting chapped skin  
al details. nd-house@sbcglobal.net  wish this night would last forever and  
ever wish this night would last forever  
Chilling  in  the  the  endzone  and never end so we can have forever .  




SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles trudge through mud, illness in Oberlin 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
saint mary’s traveled to oberlin, ohio, last saturday and finished 20th out of 40 teams at the oberlin inter­regional rumble with a score of 579. 
at oberlin, the belles faced adverse conditions including mud and the flu. saint mary’s coach Jackie bauters said al­though illness kept the belles from competing at their best, she was still happy with how her team battled it out. 
“it wasn’t our worst perfor­mance,” bauters said. “it was a really stressful week leading up to [the race], and we had a lot of girls that were battling some illnesses. i don’t think we were functioning at 100 percent at all. in that way, i’m happy they ran as well as they did, but i don’t think it’s indic­ative of what we can be doing right now. i take [the race] as a stepping stone for people to learn from.” 
in addition to the illnesses plaguing the belles, a muddy course played a large factor in the race. bauters said in that type of situation, the team just has to make the best of a poor situation. 

“it was just muddy,” bauters said. “you couldn’t really fix [the course]. They just got a lot more rain than the course was able to handle. with four races on [the course] and warmups, [the course] just got pretty chewed up. but everybody ran on it, so it’s not like you have an excuse for anything.” 
a bright spot for the belles was sophomore brittany beeler, who finished 34th in a field of more than 300 run­ners with a time of 23:15.6. bauters said she was happy for brittany but knows she can do even better. 
“i’m very proud of brittany,” bauters said. “we both thought she was going to do even bet­ter than that. she just didn’t have the kick at the end that she wanted to have, so we’re working on that. it was really good for brittany to see how well she can run against some really awesome teams. i hope it was an eye-opening experi­ence for her … to be thinking and dreaming of her goals for bigger things.” 
looking forward, the belles will compete in the miaa championship this saturday, their biggest race of the sea­son. bauters said she feels the team is ready to perform well at the championship. 
“i feel really good about what we got done over fall break,” bauters said. “The team’s real­ly excited. [The inter-regional rumble] is that confidence booster — we weren’t even 100 percent, but we did well. we’re going to use it to help motivate us to race even better. i think we’re really amped up about the race; we’re excited. we’ve got a lot of good energy.” 
The belles’ next race is the miaa championship, which will be held saturday in grand rapids, michigan. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
NHL | Flyers 3, Kings 2 
Flyers end Kings’ six-game streak 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — brayden schenn scored 2:36 into over­time, and the philadelphia Flyers snapped the los angeles Kings’ six-game win streak with a 3-2 victory on Tuesday night. 
schenn beat Jonathan Quick on a breakaway. he was credited with his third goal of the sea­son after a brief replay review, sending the Flyers to their third straight win. 
Former Flyers captain mike richards scored the tying goal in the third period. Tyler Toffoli also scored for the Kings. 
michael raffl and chris vandevelde scored in regulation for the Flyers. 
The Flyers outshot the Kings 41-39 in regulation. 
with center anze Kopitar out with an upper-body injury and defenseman slava voynov sus­pended, the Kings ran into sal­ary-cap issues and had only 19 players dressed for the game. 
raffl pounced when claude giroux’s shot was blocked and scored his fifth goal of the season for a 1-0 lead. 
Toffoli also was in a perfect spot when the Flyers mishandled the puck. it bounced straight to Toffoli, who scored a short-hand­ed goal late in the first. 
vandevelde, playing on the fourth line, scored with 43.7 sec­onds left in the first period for his first goal since 2012, lifting philadelphia to a 2-1 lead. 
he credited his teammates for the go-ahead score. 
“Their creativity, their second effort, it’s just huge,” he said. “They find ways to get you the puck no matter where you are and that’s what happened.” 
The Flyers pounded Quick with 20 shots in the first, but faded with seven in the second. philadelphia’s ray emery had 38 saves. 
Kings-Flyers has become a must-watch game in philadelphia following the 2011 trades that sent richards to los angeles and Jeff carter to columbus. carter was traded only months later to los angeles and paired with his former Flyers teammate to win stanley cups in 2012 and 2014. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




ROWING 

Irish race their way to ninth at Charles Regatta 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
notre dame participat­ed in the 50th head of the charles regatta in cambridge, massachusetts, over the mid­term break. 
drawing more than 400,000 spectators and featuring 55 dif­ferent rowing events, the regatta is the largest two-day rowing event in the world. 
considered an open event, the regatta featured collegiate teams from both american to english universities as well as the u.s. women’s national team. 
irish coach martin stone said this was a great opportunity for his team to compete against the 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
world’s best in women’s rowing. 
“it’s an event where you have the best rowers in the world coming to celebrate the sport, as well as participate at a very high level,” stone said. 
The irish raced in two events at the regatta, the draw for cham­pionship fours and the draw for championship eights, finishing ninth and 16th, respectively. 
notre dame posted a time of 
19:09.60 in the 17-team cham­pionship fours event, featuring junior ellen gleadow, fresh­man Treasa o’Tighearnaigh, junior Katie skorcz, senior rose doerfler and junior coxswain Jill ryan. That time left the irish just 1:40 behind the race’s champion, the u.s. women’s national Team. 
in the championship eights event — which featured ju­nior Joanna mulvey, sopho­more hilary shinnick, senior ailish sheehan, senior anna Kottkamp, junior elizabeth Kelley, junior alexis olson, ju­nior sarah Kappers, senior carlee beckler and senior cox­swain mikaela prego — the irish posted a 17:18.70 time, 1:33.91 behind first-place cambridge. 
notre dame’s next event is a four-team scrimmage featuring the irish, ohio state, michigan and indiana on nov. 8. 
stone said the scrimmage will be very different than the regatta races, as it stretches for only one mile as opposed to the 

notre dame rebounds to post strong season finish 
three-mile championship fours and eights events in cambridge. 
“it’ll be side-by-side racing, so the crews will line up next to each other and race for one mile,” stone said. “in the regat­ta, it was a time-trials event, so there were 17 crews that would race single-file for 17 or 18 min­utes, so they are very different.” 
despite the decreased atten­tion to this upcoming scrim­mage in comparison to the world-renowned regatta, stone said the irish will still focus in on this event. 
“The scrimmage is very im­portant,” stone said. “i mean, last year ohio state won the ncaa championship, so it’s a chance to compete against good competition.” 
This four-team scrimmage will round out the list of fall events for the irish. stone said he looks forward to the team working on its training during the winter months. 
“we’ll make great gains dur­ing the wintertime,” stone said. “we’ll work on our fitness, our strength, our power and pretty much everything except actu­ally rowing in a boat.” 
The all-day scrim­mage against the buckeyes, wolverines and hoosiers takes place nov. 8 at the griggs reservoir in columbus, ohio. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at             bhorvat1@nd.edu 

By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
The final two fall tourna­ments saw the irish sink into frustration before revitalizing their confidence with arguably their most impressive perfor­mance of the season. 
after finishing 10th in the mercedes-benz championship two weekends ago, a sunday surge in the landfall Tradition this past weekend boosted them into third place in a highly competitive field. 
From the first tee at mercedes­benz championship in Knoxville, Tennessee, the team had some difficulties. They fin­ished the front nine at 16-over par. 
The irish ended the first day in eighth place after shooting even-par on the back nine but struggled again the second day, slipping to 10th place with a 19-over-par 303. The downhill trend did not end, however, as a 24-over 308 on the final day would leave them in 10th place. 
“The end result was pretty disappointing — we really just didn’t play very well,” irish coach susan holt said. “The reality in golf is that some days you have it, and some days you don’t, and unfortunately at Tennessee, everyone had some rough days.” 
holt said the poor perfor­mance motivated the team heading into landfall Tradition the following weekend. 
“The girls were upset; they were mad that they played as poorly as they did,” she said. 
with this mindset, the irish carried a chip on their shoulder as they traveled directly from Knoxville to wilmington, north carolina. with several days to spare, they were able to regain their focus and get some prac­tice time at the country club of landfall before the tournament. 
notre dame began tourna­ment play Friday in a highly competitive field that featured 10 of the top 25-ranked teams in the ncaa. 
Tied for fifth after the first day with a 2-over par 290, the irish slipped to eighth after saturday despite playing well overall and shooting a 4-over 292. however, they maintained a strong po­sition in the tightly-clumped field, in which eight teams sat within seven strokes of the leaders. 
“it was a log-jam [on the lead­erboard], and the girls knew that,” holt said. “They were ready to play for sunday.” 
notre dame came out sunday with its best performance of the weekend and propelled it­self into a share of third place alongside no. 2 south carolina, finishing the weekend with a 7-over 871 (290-292-289). 
holt said she would rank the performance among the best she has ever seen by a notre dame team in her nine seasons as head coach for the irish. 
“we’ve won conference championships some other big events, but i felt like this was a huge win with the strength of the field,” she said. 
of the 10 top-25 teams in the tournament, notre dame fin­ished ahead of all of them except no. 11 wake Forest, who won the tournament at even-par. 
“That field was an ncaa regional-type field,” holt said. “it should do a lot for their con­fidence [heading into the off­season], knowing that they can compete with the best teams in the country because they just did it.” 
after wrapping up their fall schedule, the irish will return to competition at the westbrook spring invitational, hosted at the westbrook village golf club in peoria, arizona, on Feb. 22-23. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 




Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
while the irish have faced top-ranked opponents all season, the spartans cur­rently boast one of the top-ranked defensive units in the nation. michigan state has shut out its opponents in 10 of its 17 games this season, holding all of its opponents to just eight goals total. Junior goalkeeper Zach bennett has 46 saves with a 

0.852 save percentage and 
0.51 goals-against average. 
“michigan state might be the stingiest team in the country,” clark said. “They might have the most shut outs of any team in the country. They’re the number one defense so on paper, so you would think this would be a very difficult game to get goals.” 
in their past two acc con­tests, the irish have made scoring seem effortless. notre dame’s offense erupt­ed with four goals against duke on oct. 17 and three against virginia Tech. clark said the irish looked to fin­ish more on goal, and while they netted more goals, they did not hold their opponents scoreless. notre dame al­lowed the blue devils and hokies one goal each, hold­ing the irish shutout record to five on the season, com­pared to the spartan’s nine. 
“it would be terrific if we could get some goals and make it easy, but at the same time, realistically, you just want to get one more goal than they are,” clark said. “i think it would be impor­tant that we don’t concede any goals. we haven’t had shutouts for a couple games now, so i think that is impor­tant for us coming into this game now that we start to get shutouts.” 
with both teams aiming for a shutout, the irish might need to rely on their second-half stamina to deliver the victory. notre dame has out­scored its opponents 17-8 in the second half and over­time this season, with a 142­87 shot advantage. 
“i think that we will have to play at our very best to win this game,” clark said. “if we play well, then we will be fine. if we give anything less than our best, then it will be a very tough game, but if we play to our best, then we should be in pretty good shape.” 
The irish and spartans take to the pitch tonight at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish pair wins Midwest Regional 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
notre dame’s duo of senior billy pecor and junior alex lawson might be one of the best doubles pairings in the country, ranked no. 27 nation­ally. but at the midwest regional championships on oct. 20, soph­omores Josh hagar and eddy covalschi took the spotlight, winning the doubles title. 
at the annual tournament in ann arbor, michigan, hagar and covalschi defeated lawson and pecor in a matchup between two of notre dame’s duos. hagar and covalschi were able to win the contest and move on to the finals after coming back down one set and taking the match, 4-6, 7-5, 10-6. in the doubles champion­ship, notre dame’s duo bested no. 16 redshirt sophomore ralf steinbach and redshirt senior Kevin metka from ohio state, 7-6, 4-6, 12-10. 
“This title is a great accom­plishment not only for me and eddy, but for the program as a whole,” hagar said. “we work hard day in and day out for mo­ments like this. That being said though, while it is a great ac­complishment, we are going to continue to work towards bigger goals.” 
irish coach ryan sachire said hagar and covalschi are capable of being one of the better teams in the country. 
“The biggest takeaway from eddy and Josh winning the dou­bles championship is that they are a pretty darn good team, and we feel like we have two combina­tions [along with alex and billy] that have proven capable to win at any extremely high national level,” sachire said. “eddy and Josh bring an extremely high ath­letic ability to the table, and they have the potential to return serve as well as anyone in the country. when they serve aggressively and play with great energy and focus, like they did all throughout regionals, they are a very good doubles team.” 
The doubles championship win was the first time the irish captured the title at the midwest regional championships since ryan Keckley and sheeva parbhu won it in 2006. 
“it means a lot to us and the program as a whole,” covalschi said. “winning a tournament like that is a great accomplishment, and we are looking forward to the opportunity we have in new york for nationals.” 
although the accomplishment was the highlight of the irish’s tournament play, sachire said there is still a lot for the team to work on. 
“There were some aspects of our team’s performance at regionals that we were very hap­py about, and there were some other aspects that we wish would have been better,” sachire said. “certainly the overall perfor­mance of eric schnurrenberger [reaching the quarterfinals in both singles and doubles], as well as the fact that eddy covalschi and Josh hagar won the doubles championship were highlights. 
“however, we would have liked to have seen our players in the qualifying event perform better than they did, as none of the five guys who were in that stage of the event won the three matches necessary to advance to the main draw. so while we are proud of some of the great accomplish­ments last weekend, we aren’t totally satisfied with our team’s overall performance.” 
hagar and covalschi said they both agreed on that point, re­membering that there is a greater prize that they are aiming for be­yond this accomplishment. 
“i don’t think winning is ran­dom,” hagar said. “eddy and i have put in hours of work week after week to give ourselves the best chance possible to post the result that we did. This gave us confidence, especially later in the tournament, to perform our best in high-pressure situations. 
“given that, in moments where we do accomplish a goal like this, it feels good to see how our hard work is paying off, but we also recognize that it is part of the process of improving, and we will continue to look forward to what’s next down the road.” 
notre dame will next travel to Flushing, new york, to com­pete in the iTa national indoor championships, starting nov. 6. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 





Football 
conTinued From page 16 
instagram on Thursday and said daniels “is now likely to return to notre dame with me next year.” 
Kelly said irish senior safe­ty eilar hardy, one of the five withheld players, practiced with the team monday. Kelly said notre dame is hope­ful hardy could evolve into something more than merely a practice presence. 
“There are things that have to occur for that to take place, and those are above certainly what i can con­trol,” Kelly said. “but we’re of the mindset that we’d like to get him cleared, and that’s a process that is working through right now.” 
Injury updates 
irish graduate student safety austin collinsworth (shoulder) returned to prac­tice yesterday and wore a harness, Kelly said. 
“he’s going to try to give it a shot and see what he can do,” Kelly said. 
Kelly added he doesn’t know if collinsworth will be active saturday. collinsworth, who is his in final season of eligibility, will be making the call on his playing future along with the training staff, team doc­tors and his parents, Kelly said. 
“if our doctors feel as though they can protect him and that he can be produc­tive and all those things line up, they’ll try to get him out there,” Kelly said. “whether that means this week or next, i couldn’t tell you for sure. 
“all i know is that he wants to be out there. he wants to be with his teammates. he wants to try to help the football team right now if he can.” 
irish freshman tight end Tyler luatua (concussion) and senior linebacker ben councell (concussion) have both been cleared to prac­tice, Kelly said. 
Contact Mike Monaco at                      jmonaco@nd.edu 


ZACHARY LLORENS | The Observer 

Irish graduate student safety and captain Austin Collinsworth has been hampered by a lingering shoulder injury all season. 
Streak 
conTinued From page 16 

easy opportunity with 21 seconds remaining in regulation. 
since then, the irish de­fense has conceded just 14 shots on goal, and little has saved them all, putting the memory of the virginia goal far behind her, she said. 
“i wouldn’t say any­thing’s really changed [since virginia]” little said. “it was just a breakdown in the back. we’ve moved on from that, and we’ve learned from that.” 
after the virginia game, notre dame’s goals against average stood at 0.92. now, it is 0.634, good for top 25 in the ncaa. notre dame’s shut­out percentage of 0.647 also ranks in the top 10 nationally. 
little has 11 shutouts on the year, a career high and the best mark for an irish goalkeeper since 2006. she is tied with Florida state red-shirt freshman cassie miller for the acc lead. 
“she really comes up big in some key moments and has saved us quite a few times,” naughton said. “you defi­nitely have to give her a lot of credit for our shutouts. her communication’s really great back there … letting us know what’s going on.” 
little’s job in net has been made easier by the presence of a veteran back line in notre dame’s 4-3-3 formation. naughton, senior sammy scofield and junior brittany von rueden have a combined 170 starts for the irish, while freshman sabrina Flores, the newest addition to the defense, has started all 17 games this season and played the second-most minutes on the team. 
“The whole back four to­gether has been doing a re­ally great job,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “our outside backs have done a great job of pressur­ing and denying service. The center backs [naughton and scofield] as always are just so solid in stepping in and covering.” 
The irish have not only limited goals, but cut down on the number of opportu­nities for opposing offenses. in the past five games, notre dame’s adversaries have had three corner kicks, while the notre dame midfield has dominated possession, putting more shots on goal, 50-14. 
“as a team, we’re doing a better job of picking up 50­50 [balls], so that we’re get­ting a hold of the ball more,” romagnolo said. 
The irish will enter the acc tournament nov. 7 along with no. 2 Florida state, virginia and no. 5 north carolina. For notre dame to have suc­cess in the postseason, the defense will have to maintain its current form, little said. 
“obviously, one of our goals is to keep a clean sheet every game and the last 
paid adverTisemenT 
couple of games, we’ve really been clicking on the defen­sive end,” she said. “we have the mentality that no matter who we’re playing, they’re not going to score on us and that we’re going to take it to them.” 
in addition to their loss to virginia, the irish fell to north carolina, 3-2, in dou­ble overtime sept. 20. Those three goals are the most the irish have surrendered in one match all season. 
notre dame has yet to play Florida state, but the seminoles, as well as the cavaliers, rank in the top 10 nationally for scoring offense. 
“having a great mentality and knowing that we are ca­pable of playing against those teams because we have already played them earlier in the sea­son. we know we can matchup with them,” naughton said when asked how the defense would handle the step up in competition. “That and con­tinuing to communicate and support each other.” 
notre dame closes the regu­lar season on the road against boston college. The eagles (10-8-0, 3-6-0) have lost five of their last seven matches but are fifth in the acc in goals per game (1.83). 
The eagles and the irish square off in newton, massachusetts, on saturday. Kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at             ghadley@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
65 Prefix in some French surnames 
66 Bing Crosby or David Crosby 
67 Condé ___ 
DOWN 
1 Mark for life 
2 See 7-Down 
3 Tierra surrounded by agua 
4 *Precious, brief time with a loved one 
5 Butcher’s wear 
6 Like pickle juice 
7 With 2-Down, book that includes the line “Conventionality is not morality” 
8 Like a soufflé 
9 Word before card or stick 
10 Rote learning, to most people 
11 Where hurricanes originate 
12 “Spider-Man” director Sam 
13 With 61-Across, physicist who studied supersonics 
21 ___ plan 
23 Drink garnish … or a hint to five letters in the answer to each starred clue 
25 Casey of “American Top 40” 
26 Executive branch V.I.P. 
27 Tunnel, e.g. 
28 I as in Ilium? 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: gather knowledge and information and you will gain insight into how to proceed with work-related matters that can influence your position and your reputation. express what you have to offer with visual presentations, not by making verbal promises that may or may not resonate with the people you are trying to impress. a picture is worth a thousand words. your numbers are 5, 11, 13, 23, 29, 32, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let an emotional matter lead to a temper tantrum. you’ll have regrets if you say or do something out of character. Focus on being fun to be with, and do your best to keep the peace and make personal improvements.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put your plans into motion. Take care of emotional issues that need to be addressed. put your heart on the line and show how much you care, but don’t go over budget. you cannot buy love. invest conservatively 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): watch every move that others make, especially if it has to do with money or legal matters. protect your possessions. someone from your past will want to reconnect. make sure whoever you are with contributes as much as you do.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the initiative and get things accomplished. you will feel good when the work is done, and you’ll avoid complaints from demanding people. romance is on the rise and could also lead to an unexpected decision. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take pride in what you do even if someone gives you a hard time. if you are fun to be with, you will attract like-minded people who are eager to try something new. don’t let anyone use emotional blackmail to make you feel guilty.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): an emotional matter will develop at home if you don’t keep busy and take care of your chores. get what needs to be done out of the way and make plans to get out and do the things that bring you joy.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): change your mind or direction if it makes sense to do so. don’t worry too much about what others think you should do. Follow your heart and move forward discreetly to avoid interference. embrace the future.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): money is heading your way. putting what you have to good use and showing moderation in the way you move forward will ensure that you gain greater stability and less stress. creativity is on the rise along with love and romance.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes at home that will help you be more productive. asking questions and learning as you go will prove valuable. don’t hesitate or let mistakes deter you from reaching for the stars. believe, take action and you will achieve.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be careful whom you trust. Keep your personal secrets locked away. offer hands-on help instead of making a donation. don’t disagree or argue, just do what feels right and don’t look back. let your intuition guide you.  

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make financial decisions and invest in something you feel will help raise your income. what you learn will come from experience, not sitting in a classroom. uncertainty will make you question a partnership. be a leader, not a follower.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): be creative with your investments and look for alternative ways to boost your health and emotional wellness. love is on the rise, and making plans that will stabilize an important relationship will bring you happiness and security.  

Birthday Baby: you are unique, entertaining and self-reliant. you are dedicated and daring. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
BOMOL  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CATHW  

FUSYTF DMAYID  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


OF
A: 
A 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: EMPTY GULCH COOKIE PASTRY Yesterday’s 
Answer: When the actor broke his leg on-stage, theyhad to — RECAST HIM 

ACROSS 1 Dos + dos + dos 5 Utterly hopeless 
11 “We ___ the 99%” 14 Dermatologist’s concern 15 Capital on the Vltava River 16 ___ Heels (college team) 17 First name in folk 18 Like a raccoon’s tail 19 Confessional confession 20 *What paper profits aren’t 22 Checkout counter count 24 Counting-out rhyme start 25 Oil-rich nation invaded in 1990 26 Good dishes 
29 Taste whose name means “savoriness” in Japanese 31 *Photo gear with variable focal lengths 

34 Metro map points: Abbr. 38 Kind of clef 39 Like a fugitive 40 Hype up 41 Berate, with “out” 42 *Titularly 44 Lauder of cosmetics 46 Case for Scully and Mulder 47 Torch holder 50 Big Ben sound 52 To a great extent 
53 *Sarcastic remark upon hearing bad news 
58 Ashes holder 59 One passing out 
cigars, maybe 61 See 13-Down 62 “Shoot!” 63 “Seinfeld” woman 64 Hazmat­
monitoring org. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

PUZZLE BY ERIK WENNSTROM 
29 Rte. with a 37 Eyelid woe terminus in Key 
43 Part of a dentalWest, Fla. 

visit 30 Natural table 
45 Act parts 32 A-listers 
47 Nine, in baseball 33 Slim to ___ (poor 
48 Wish evil on

odds) 49 Farm sounds
35 “Mickey” vocalist ___ Basil 50 Hughes’s Spruce Goose, e.g. 
36 Empty, as a math set 51 One with seniority 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

 2  3  4  



53 Olympic skater Michelle 

54 Hippie’s “Got it!” 
55 Friendship org. of 1962 
56 Phil who sang “Draft Dodger Rag” 
57 Word from the hard-of-hearing 
60 QB Manning 


9/5/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Irish knock off bye-week rust for Navy 
Kelly discusses rankings, DaVaris Daniels, Eilar Hardy, Austin Collinsworth injury and other updates 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
Ten days removed from notre dame’s last-minute loss to Florida state, irish head coach brian Kelly said he has been pleased with his team’s response head­ing into saturday’s matchup with navy. 
“They were very disap­pointed, obviously, but they handled themselves in the manner that they weren’t pointing fingers or look­ing for excuses,” Kelly said. “They know they needed to make one more play.” 
The irish fell 31-27 to the no. 2 seminoles on oct. 18 and, following a bye week, notre dame checks in at no. 6 in the ap poll and no. 7 in the coaches poll. however, the only rankings that mat­ter — the top 25 determined by the college Football playoff selection commit­tee — will be released for the first time Tuesday night and will come out each Tuesday for the next five weeks. 
“i’ll be glued to my Tv,” Kelly quipped about the rankings release. “no. i’m not watching that stuff. i’ll be working on navy and try­ing to figure out a way to get some points to slow them down.” 
What does the future hold for DaVaris Daniels and Eilar Hardy? 
Kelly said he has spoken with irish senior receiver davaris daniels, who was one of the five players with­held from practice and com­petition during an academic investigation. Kelly said they did not discuss next year — daniels has one year of eligi­bility remaining. 
“our conversations were strictly about the immediate and what he needed to do to take care of things,” Kelly said. “… but we did not talk about what it would look like next year.” 
irish junior cornerback Keivarae russell took to 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame defensive play finds its groove 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
seven hours, 30 minutes and 20 seconds. 
That’s how long it has been since no. 9 notre dame (12­4-1, 7-2-0 acc) has conceded a goal. That time includes five straight shutouts, the longest streak in program history since 2007. 
“[it’s all about] trusting each other and making sure that we’re giving each other cover and communicating between the lines,” irish junior captain and defender Katie naughton said. “over the years, we’ve got­ten to know each other’s styles and how we play and what we feel comfortable doing.” 
The last time an opponent scored against the irish, no. 3 virginia grabbed a last-minute 2-1 win oct. 5 when sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little made a sprawling save that deflected straight to the feet of cavalier junior forward brittany ratcliffe, who converted the 
see sTreaK PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 
nd readies for postseason foe 
By KiT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish take a break from conference play for a mid­week acc-big Ten showdown. 
The no. 5 irish (9-4-2, 5-1-1 acc) take on big Ten rival no. 12 michigan state (9-3-3, 3-1­2 big Ten) tonight at alumni stadium. The spartans rep­resent notre dame’s third and last regular-season big Ten opponent of its 2014 campaign. The irish fell in two previous contests, 1-0 to indiana last wednesday and 3-2 to michigan on oct. 7, while they clinched a 1-0 victory over northwestern on oct 14. 
“[Tonight] will be a very good acc-big Ten clash,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we’re down 1-2 at the mo­ment … so we better at least square it up for the moment and win this game.” 
notre dame welcomes the spartans back to south bend after its 2-1 victory over michigan state in the ncaa tournament quarterfinal on dec. 7 last year. goals from junior midfielders patrick hodan and evan panken earned the irish their first-ever college cup berth. 
Though the irish and spartans don’t find them­selves in the tournament quarterfinals, the inten­sity remains the same as both teams approach the end of regular-season play. michigan state en­ters the match after tying northwestern 1-1 in double overtime sunday. The irish beat the wildcats two weeks ago and take to the pitch af­ter a 3-1 victory over virginia Tech on saturday, but the spartans still stand as an ob­stacle to overcome. 
“They have a lot of great experience,” clark said. “They have a lot of return­ing players from last year, so i don’t think that we are go­ing to get much out of them there. They’re a tough team. … They’re just a really good team.” 
see soccer PAGE 13 




