THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 47, ISSUE 113 | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Commission to evaluate University 
Administrators arrive Monday to visit,  determine Notre Dame’s accreditation status 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
News Editor 
Notre Dame will welcome six university administrators rep­resenting the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) to campus Monday for a three-day site visit and evaluation that will determine the University’s ac­creditation status for the next 10 years, according to Dan Myers, University vice president and 
associate  provost  for  faculty  
affairs.  
“Every  10  years,  we  go  

through this process of going through this re-renewal of our accreditation,” Myers said. “The University has been accredited continuously since the first time they did it in 1913, so we fully expect to have our accreditation completely renewed. 

“That’s not a big question for us, but it also offers an opportu­nity to take stock of everything that we’re doing and just see where we’re at.” 
Beyond providing an op­portunity for the University to police its own improvement ef­forts, the accreditation process guarantees that Notre Dame students will qualify for federal financial aid, that the University will maintain its eligibility for research grant money and that 
see HLC PAGE 6 




Student robbed east of campus 

Observer Staff Report  
A Notre Dame student was robbed but not injured by two unidentified male suspects Thursday night while walking directly east of campus, accord­ing to an email sent from Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) on Friday morning. 
see ROBBERY PAGE 7 



Runners race for charity at Holy Half and 10K 
By WEI LIN 
News Writer 
On Saturday, 1,500 runners endured freezing temperatures and a short period of snowfall during the 10th-annual Notre Dame Holy Half Marathon and 10K. 
Runners contributed to the efforts of local charities and achieved personal goals, in ad­dition to participating in either the 13.1-mile or the 10-kilometer run, returning runner and soph­omore Teri Dye said. 
“Running the Holy Half is always an amazing experi­ence because its a very unique opportunity to be able to run 
13.1 miles on Notre Dame’s cam­pus with friends who run with you and cheer you on through the finish line,” Dye said. “Every time it feels like such an awe­some accomplishment.” 
Junior Katie Wood, a mem­ber of the Holy Half Program Committee, said this year’s Holy Half saw a much higher level of interest than last year’s. The orig­inal capacity was 1,300 runners, but the student programmers made the decision to increase the capacity twice, to the final maximum of 1,500 runners. 
see HOLY HALF PAGE 7 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Runners in morph suits join hands as they cross the finish line of the Holy Half Marathon on Saturday. 1,500 people, most of them not actually in costume, participated in the Holy Half and 10K. 


Medal winner revealed 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will award the 2014 Laetare Medal to Kenneth 
R. Miller, a cell and molecular biologist who ardently supports the compatibility of Darwin’s 
see MEDAL PAGE 3 



Students compete in Midnight Madness 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

For the fourth straight year, Student Activities Board (SAB) held Midnight Madness, an event featuring games and in-ter-class competition, in Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary’s on Thursday night. 
SAB president Erica Chiarello said Midnight Madness is an event focused on developing a sense of community with class­mates through games and other fun activities. The four classes earn points toward their respec­tive teams, and the winner is an­nounced before SAB announces the year’s Tostal performer at the end of the night. 
Chiarello said Saint Mary’s brought back the event four years ago as a way to unite the four classes. Announcing the Tostal artist at the end of the night is important to get stu­dents excited about spring ac­tivities on campus, she said. 
Chiarello said Midnight Madness also included give­aways, including free parking passes for next year and Saint Mary’s gear. The giveaways have been key to increasing turnout, but the Tostal artist is also a big draw, she said. 
The artist for Tostal this year on April 24 will be singer-song­writer Bonnie McKee. 
Each year, students vote on an artist they want to bring to cam­pus. That protocol continued this year, but, unfortunately, the budget did not allow SAB to bring the selected artist to cam­pus, so SAB selected McKee, Chiarello said. 
“SAB’s decision to have Bonnie McKee as the Tostal artist was one that the SAB committee made with the whole student body in mind,” Chiarello said. “Even if you do not know who Bonnie McKee is, you will definitely leave Tostal remembering her name. 
“Bonnie McKee is an artist 
see MADNESS PAGE 5 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 9 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 20 HOCKEY PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian Hartnett  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 
News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’Mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnett@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What kind of cookie are you? 

Audrey Tatum 
sophomore Welsh Family Hall 
“A big one.” 

Debra Parks 
junior Pangborn Hall 
“Macadamia nut.” 


Justin Bartlett 
senior Morrissey Manor 

“I wish I had a clever answer.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Madeline Bender 
junior 
Lyons Hall 
“Snickerdoodle.” 


Maggie McInerney 
sophomore 
Mcglinn Hall 

“Fresh-baked chocolate chip.” 

Nick Keleher 
senior 
off campus 

“I am a peanut butter chocolate chip cookie.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Meg Handelman Alex Wilcox Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Emily McConville Manny De Jesus Kayla Mullen Vicky Jacobsen 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Maria Massa Caelin Miltko 


Photo Viewpoint 

Porn: On Both Sides Michiana Oil Faith with Benefits Zen Meditation Women’s Tennis 
Zach Llorens gabriela Leskur 
of the Screen Pipelines DeBartolo Hall Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion Hesburgh Library Eck Visitors Center 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Lecture on modern 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 


Corrections 

Panel discussion. Panel discussion. dating and faith. Open to all students. Maryland Terps. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Women’s Basketball Understanding Perks of Being a Forum on Women in I Was Born for This 
strives for the highest standards 


NCAA Regionals Catholicism II Wallflower Leadership DeBartolo Performing 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Hesburgh Library Mendoza College of Arts Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. Heart 7 p.m.-8:15 p.m. Business 5 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on the 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. Lecture by author 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Opening of the art 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Baylor Bears. Analysis of religion, art Stephen Chbosky. Lecture on women in installation “I Was 
we can correct our error. 

and architecture. the life of the Church. Born for This.” 





Club Coordination Council to allocate funds 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News Writer 
Within the next few weeks, the Club Coordination Council (CCC) will disburse funding for the University’s clubs, CCC president Jimmy McEntee said. 
The CCC is a student gov­ernment organization that approves new clubs and allo­cates funding for each club. 
“We have each club sub­mit a budget, and essen­tially, each club will meet with their division repre­sentatives and go over their budget,” McEntee said. “Two weeks from [Monday], we’ll allocate the funds to the var­ious clubs.” 
McEntee said the CCC has approximately $300,000 to allocate to the more than 500 clubs at the University, and the CCC rarely allocates the full amount of a club’s request. 

“It’s very, very rare for a club to receive one hundred percent of their requested amount,” he said. “We go from their requested amount down to the amount that we feel we can give. It’s a tough process, and we try to be as fair as possible.” 
The number of new clubs has increased, while the amount of money available for allocation has remained relatively the same, McEntee said.
 “For example, two years ago, the University changed its policy that if there was a varsity athletic team for a sport, there could not be a club,” McEntee said. “Now, that rule has changed. For in­stance, there is club lacrosse and club soccer, which we really love and think is great for those who want to par­ticipate in sports but not as varsity athletes. But athletic clubs in general need a lot of money to participate.” 
McEntee said the CCC an­ticipates club requests to be a combined $450,000 for the upcoming year, although only $300,000 in funding is available. 
“As the CCC, we’ve strug­gled to solve the problem of not having enough money for our clubs, and I don’t see the University giving us any more money,” he said. “To be fair, I did a little research and compared the funding available at various uni­versities on par with Notre Dame, and Notre Dame was one of the most generous, if not the most generous.” 
The CCC tries to support clubs that submit their bud­gets in a timely manner, as well as clubs that fundraise well, McEntee said. 
“All undergraduate clubs are required to fundraise ten dollars dues,” he said. “We think there are tons of resources available, whether it’s alumni or bake sales, and especially bigger clubs can fundraise to the point where they are really self-sufficient without University funds. 
“If a club fundraises a lot of money and does a lot of work outside and doesn’t rely solely on university funding, we’re much more likely to help them out be­cause of that hard work, but also because they probably won’t need as much money because of the fundraising. The two go hand-in-hand.” 
Clubs are divided into six different groups, catego­rized as academic, athletic, cultural, performing arts, special service or social in­terest. The funding is not pre-allocated to any of the divisions, McEntee said. 
“When going through, it really doesn’t matter what division the club is in,” he said. “We do look at what divisions are getting more, and we do try to keep it across the board in terms of the percent cut from their initial request, so there is consistency.” 

Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Arts and Letters announces new concentration 
the qualitative skills of the eco-
By KAYLA MULLEN 

News Writer nomics majors in combination 
with a growing interest in the 
The College of Arts and Letters economics of financial markets, announced it will add a new Fuerst said. concentration in financial eco-Richard Jensen, professor of nomics and econometrics for economics, said the concentra­the fall 2014 semester, according tion in financial economics and to a Notre Dame press release. econometrics will offer students The concentration will accept practical experience and in-applications from sophomore crease the University’s competi­economics and international tive edge. economics majors, the press re-“This concentration will pro-lease said. vide students not only a thor­
“This year, we had roughly 40 ough understanding of financial applicants,” professor of eco-institutions and instruments, nomics Timothy Fuerst said. but also rigorous analytical and “We are still in the process of econometric training in finan­making choices, but we plan cial markets that is currently to accept about 25 of these stu-available at only a handful of the dents … We anticipate that it top-20 universities,” Jensen said will grow steadily, with likely 50 in the press release. available to students,” Fuerst five additional classes, with economics major and the busi­students being part of cohorts in Although the new concentra-said. “In contrast, Mendoza pro-three newly-created course of-ness economics minor open to the more distant future.” tion might appear to be similar vides a more complete business ferings being required: financial all Arts and Letters students,” 
Admission decisions will be to the finance major available background but with less flex-economics, asset pricing and fi-John Mcgreevy, dean of the based on applicants’ overall in the Mendoza College of ibility in other electives. nancial econometrics, the press College of Arts and Letters, said gPA, mathematical background Business, it will serve a differ-“Second, we approach finance release stated. These courses in the press release. “The finan­and performance in prior eco-ent group of students through from the perspective of an econ-will fulfill the elective require-cial economics and economet­nomics classes, according to the a distinct educational strategy, omist. For example, what is the ments of the economics or inter-rics concentration offers yet press release. The decisions will Fuerst said. best way to model and thus un-national economics major. another terrific option for stu­be made by Monday, the press “The economics major is with-derstand the behavior or market “We’ve been delighted by dents with these interests.” release said. in the Arts and Letters College, actors? How do these behaviors the growing student interest in 
The concentration came so that there is a wider variety affect markets and asset prices?” economics and the strong re-Contact Kayla Mullen at about from a desire to expand of non-economics electives The concentration will include sponse to our new international kmullen2@nd.edu 

Medal 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
theory of evolution and the Christian faith, at Notre Dame’s 169th commence­ment ceremony May 18, ac­cording to a University press release. 
“Kenneth Miller has given eloquent and incisive wit­ness both to scientific acu­men and religious belief,” University president Fr. John Jenkins said in a statement. “As an accomplished biolo­gist and an articulate believ­er, he pursues two distinct but harmonious vocations and illustrates how science and faith can mutually flourish.” 

The Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, annually honors a Catholic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sci­ences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of human­ity,” according to the press release. 
“Miller is a prominent and outspoken critic of pro­ponents of the creation­ism and intelligent design movements who argue that Darwin’s theory of evolution is inherently atheistic and incompatible with Christian faith,” the release stated. 
Miller, a current profes­sor at Brown University, re­searches the structure and function of biological mem­branes. He has appeared on television shows includ­ing “The Colbert Report” and C-SPAN programs to debate with supporters of creationism and intelligent design, according to the press release. 
“Like many other scien­tists who hold the Catholic faith, I see the Creator’s plan and purpose fulfilled in our universe,” Miller said recently, according to the press release. “I see a planet bursting with evolutionary possibilities, a continuing creation in which the divine providence is manifest in every living thing. 
“I see a science that tells us there is indeed a design to life, and the name of that design is evolution.” 
Miller graduated from Brown in 1970 and earned a doctorate in biology from the University of Colorado before teaching at Harvard University from 1974 to 1980 and then returning to Brown. He authored two books, “Finding Darwin’s god” and “Only a Theory,” as well as co-authored biology textbooks for introductory college courses and high school classes, the press re­lease stated. 
Recipients of the Laetare Medal date back to 1883 and include former President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day, actor Martin Sheen and University president emeri­tus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, according to the Archives of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame an­nounces the award recipient each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent, the press release stated. 



Saint Mary’s hosts ‘Little Sibs Weekend’ 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
News Writer 
This weekend, the younger siblings of Saint Mary’s students got the chance to experience college life with their older sis­ters, bonding over karaoke and t-shirt tie-dying at the annual “Little Sibs Weekend,” hosted by the Residence Hall Association. 
Little Sibs Weekend chair­person and sophomore Alayna Frauhiger said the weekend aims to give students an oppor­tunity to share their new home with their siblings of all ages. 
“We tried our best to include activities, events and movies for all age groups, but most were di­rected towards the younger age group,” Frauhinger said. 
The event kicked off Friday evening in Angela Athletic Facility with gym events and a photo booth, Frauhiger said. Numerous events took place throughout the day Saturday, including craft tables, movie showings of “Finding Nemo” and of “The Hunger games” and cookie decorating.
 “Overall, I think the Friday night fun event was a popular event for all siblings to get ac­climated and settle into cam­pus,” Frauhiger said. “Also, on Saturday, the siblings loved tie-dyeing their t-shirts that they re­ceived over the weekend.” 
First year Megan Carswell said she and her two sisters enjoyed the scavenger hunt. For the hunt, the girls were instructed to walk around campus with a list of photo challenges, such as taking a picture near a squirrel or on the Avenue, Carswell said. 
“We walked around campus with some other girls and their siblings and took a bunch of photos,” Carswell said. “It was fun seeing my friends’ siblings interact with mine. My four and 13-year-old sisters traveled from New York to participate in this weekend and enjoyed every moment.” 
First year Emma-Kate Conlin said she and her sister played trivia and painted their nails at home, but having the opportu­nity to replicate those activities in the atmosphere of Le Mans was special. 
“I loved showing [my sister] places on campus she had never seen before,” Conlin said. “She enjoyed seeing what college life was like, meeting my friends and all the options in the dining hall.” 

Conlin said Little Sibs Weekend was significant be­cause it gave younger siblings a chance to see what their older siblings do once they leave home and because it allowed college students to share weekend tra­ditions, such as quarter dogs at LaFortune Student Center at Notre Dame, with their siblings. 
Months of planning culmi­nated in a wonderful event, Frauhiger said. 
“[The] committee and I start­ed planning back in September for the weekend and still were planning up to [last] week,” Frauhiger said. “Overall, the weekend went very well, and great memories were made for all girls.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 







Madness 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
that has written music for very famous musicians many of whom students lis­ten to [including] Katy Perry, Britney Spears and Rita Ora,“ Chiarello said. 
McKee wrote “California gurls” and “Last Friday Night” for Katy Perry as well as “Hold it Against Me” for 
Britney  Spears,  Chiarello  
said.  
Chiarello  said  students  

from Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross should get excited for this year’s Tostal performance because it will be packed with energy and fun. 
“Tostal is SAB’s biggest and last event of the year, and we will go out with a bang, Chiarello said. 

Chiarello said SAB suc­ceeded in bringing students together during Midnight Madness as part of the lead-up to Tostal. 
“We had a really great turn­out, especially from the first year [students],” Chiarello said. “We were hesitant, but all four classes showed up and participated.” 
SAB committee member Emily James said it is im­portant for Saint Mary’s students to go to Midnight Madness and interact with their classmates. 
“[Midnight Madness] is a fun way to promote school spirit and have fun with your Saint Mary’s sisters,” James said. 
James said the games in­cluded a snack toss, during which a student from each class put a shower cap cov­ered in shaving cream on her head, and another student threw cheese puffs at her head, trying to get the most cheese puffs in the shav­ing cream. There was also a dancing contest to see who could do “the worm” the best, James said. 
SAB vice president Allie gerths said she was happy with the turnout from all the classes. 
“We’ve been planning for [Midnight Madness] for a few months,” gerths said. “It gets bigger and bigger every year.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Photo courtesy of Erica Chiarello 

A group of Saint Mary’s seniors pose after winning the Midnight Madness title March 27. The event con­sisted of games, activities and the announcement of this year’s Tostal performer, Bonnie McKee. 
Exhibit honors WWI centennial 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
News Writer 
The South Bend Center for History’s current exhibit “World War I: The War to End All Wars” honors the 100th anniversary of World War I, which begins in June with the anniversary of the as­sassination Archduke Franz Ferdinand, David Stefancic, history professor at Saint Mary’s, said. 
Stefancic and his fellow history professor, William Svelmoe contributed mate­rial to the exhibit.
 “We submitted [infor­mation] for the topics that [the Center] gave us … and then they took what we did and edited it, so the words aren’t necessarily all ours but the basic theme is there,” Stefancic said. 
Together the professors wrote the general copy for the exhibit, which was used by the Center for History to make the information acces­sible to the general public, Stefancic said. Stefancic cov­ered the European side of the war while Svelmoe covered the United States side of the war, Svelmoe said. 
Svelmoe said when put­ting together material for the Center, he tried to focus on the U.S. vision of the war and the actual reality of the war. 
“What you see in World War I is that a lot of the sons of the elites were desper­ate to get into war, any war,” Svelmoe said, “And so they dashed off, the kids who were going to the Ivy League colleges, dashed off to join the French army, the British army because the U.S. of course was very late get­ting into World War I. … The president of Princeton had to come out and beg men to stop running off. 
“Their grandparents had fought in the Civil War, and by then enough years had passed that the brutality of the war had been over­whelmed with the glory, the manliness [of war].” 
However, new technol­ogy challenged the glamor­ous view of the war, Svelmoe said. 
“There’s no glorious charg­es and man-to-man com­bat, it’s just sitting in these trenches cold, hungry, wet, huge rats, being pounded by guns that are miles away … the reality of it was brutal,” Svelmoe said. 
Stefancic said he believes technology largely impacted World War I. New advances such as airplanes being used as weapons instead of obser­vation tools and the presence of rapid fire artillery and machine guns contributed to the brutality of the war as each side tried to get a tech­nological advantage, he said. 
“The result was people be­came secondary to the tech­nology. … Millions of lives were lost which is why [the war] got the nickname ‘The War to End All Wars’ or ‘The great War,’” Stefancic said. 
When writing for the ex­hibit, Stefancic said he fo­cused on technology as well as European alliances, the difference between the Western and Eastern front and what led up to the war. A previous visit to the World War I museum in Kansas City inspired idea contributions, he said. 
“I gave suggestions from what I saw [at the museum] including having a horse with a gas mask. Nobody thinks of the horses and there were a lot of dogs on the battlefield, and they needed to be pro­tected as well the human be­ings,” Stefancic said. 
Svelmoe said this is the first time he has helped put together such an extensive exhibit. 
“It was fun just to see how these things are put togeth­er,” Svelmoe said, “Being in­volved on the ground floor and then seeing the final product was really cool.” 
Svelmoe said he was im­pressed by the staggering amount of work that goes into exhibits, from small things such as figuring out how to fill sand bags with­out heavy sand to having people search for artifacts from other museums and the community. 
The exhibit will be avail­able through Dec. 31 and ath the Center for History in downtown South Bend. More information is available by calling (574) 235-9665 or vis­iting centerforhistory.org 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 


HLC 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
credits will transfer between Notre Dame and other ac­credited universities, Myers said. 
“Sometimes people ask, ‘Why do we even bother with this? This is Notre Dame; this is a great school. Why do we have to have these people come in that are also checking up on University of Phoenix or a chiropractic school somewhere? … Surely we far exceed the minimum kinds of requirements for us to say that we’re a function­ing, viable university,’” Myers said. “That’s true, but you have to be accredited for vari­ous things.” 
Dan Hubert, accreditation program director, said the ac­creditation process includes two parts: a self-study based on HLC criteria and the fol­low-up site visit during which an evaluation team verifies and asks questions about the report. Myers said about 120 people worked on preparing the document for the HLC, a process that took Notre Dame two years to complete. 
“The report itself is about 250 pages and it’s hyperlinked to other documents that the University has already cre­ated for other reasons,” Myers said. “So there’s 250 pages, and then there’s links to 600 more documents for every­thing that’s going on in there. 

“It’s really a massive study, and it’s been very gratifying in a sense to do this because we have gotten this look across the entire University and all the things that this University does. I didn’t even realize half of the things that go on out there despite . I’ve been here for 16 years, I’ve worked for lots of different departments and adminis­trations and still, there’s so much.” 
Myers said compiling the report provided the admin­istration as well as the fac­ulty members and students who participated with an op­portunity to examine Notre Dame’s broad scope of impact and influence. 
“This University has such a powerful impact on the world and on its students, and we’ve really gotten to see that through creating the self study,” Myers said. “It’s impressive. You really real­ize how important the work of this University is and how much of an impact it has when you have an opportu­nity to take that broad look across everything we do. It’s been fun in that way.” 
Myers said the HLC has changed its protocol so that future evaluations will in­volve smaller reports within a 10-year cycle. 

“It’s supposed to be much less of a binge thing than it is now,” he said. 
Hubert said Notre Dame ex­pects to hear a final decision in the fall. 
“[The site visit team has] an exit meeting on Wednesday where they’ll give us the gist of what they’ve seen and whether we need to be con­cerned for anything,” he said. 
Myers said the last site visit team in 2004 identified points for University improvement that include its assessments of student learning, diversity and communication among undergraduates. They also recommended a stronger pro­gram for graduate student health insurance and sti­pends, he said. 
“There’s been some prog­ress on that, but it’s been very difficult to get caught up with that just because health insurance costs have been skyrocketing during this pe­riod,” he said. “We’ve made progress, but we’re not really where we want to be and it’s something that’s a continuing kind of initiative or priority for us in terms of improving the lives of students here.” 
Myers said the University 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

could be fully accredited, placed on probation or not accredited. Although the University expects to earn ac­creditation again, Myers said he anticipates the evaluation committee will suggest con­tinuing the improvements the University has already made. 
“This provides a moment for us to check in on those and reaffirm that those are things that are important to us that we’re going to keep working on for the next 10­year period,” Myers said. 
Hubert said eight to 10 stu­dents helped compile infor­mation for the report, but students can still be involved in the accreditation process by attending an open meeting Tuesday from 5 to 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. He said the ongoing support of faculty, staff and students made the reporting process easier for Notre Dame than for other institutions. 
“We’re blessed to have the resources, the staff and the ability to do a lot of this proactively,” he said. “Other institutions may be more challenged in those areas. This is their big push to get better.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 




Holy Half 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
According to the Holy Half Facebook page, funds raised by the marathon will go toward the Kelly Cares Foundation and girls on the Run Michiana. Although the official numbers have not yet been calculated, Wood said the programmers anticipated raising about $30,000, which was last year’s result. 
Since all of the proceeds go toward charities, finding and contacting potential sponsors to help underwrite costs was a crucial part of the planning process, Wood said. 
Wood said planning for this year’s Holy Half began immedi­ately after last year’s race. When scheduling the date, the com­mittee met with University offi­cials from the Student Activities Office (SAO), Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), Notre Dame Fire Department (NDFD) and RecSports to ensure that the Holy Half would not conflict with many other major campus events, she said. 
Wood said one major obsta­cle for the committee was de­signing the course. Due to two NCAA women’s basketball tour­nament games, which were held Saturday at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, the course had to avoid potential conflicts with large crowds of people near the arena. Snow and ice on the ground also de­layed the certification process, she said. 
“Because the course changed due to the women’s basketball tournament, it was awkward at the beginning, running in the area around Douglas road,” Dye said. 
This was also the first year runners received finisher’s medals. Wood said the com­mittee’s decision to distribute medals was in response to nu­merous requests from runners over the past year. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

 “[The medal] was a nice sur­prise,” junior Amanda Leung said. “I got pretty excited about it when I saw the finished run­ners walking around with them.” 
“The finisher’s medal is be­yond a good idea,” Dye said. “Who doesn’t feel awesome by receiving a medal at the end?” 
Wood said next year the com­mittee hopes to finalize the course earlier. 
“[That way we can] begin planning signage and volunteer placement to avoid any con­fusion for the runners,” Wood said. 
Senior Carolyn green, a member of the programming committee, said there’s a possi­bility of raising the registration fee for next year’s Holy Half.
 “Our event is very inexpen­sive compared to other races offering a comparable experi­ence,” green said. “By just rais­ing the entrance fee by $15, we will generate about $22,000 more and be able to make it an even greater event.” 
Wood said it is not feasible to increase the capacity of partici­pants for next year’s race. 
“In communications with SAO, NDSP, NDFD and medi­cal, 1,500 runners will be the absolute capacity,” Wood said. “Since this is a completely stu­dent-organized event, and the course is contained entirely on the Notre Dame campus, we do not have the capacity nor the re­sources to host a race for more than 1,500 runners.” 
Registration might be lim­ited, but running the Holy Half is a memorable experience that every Notre Dame student should consider, Leung said. 
“I definitely think that this is something that everyone should have on their Notre Dame bucket list,” Leung said. “You never know what you’re capable of unless you try it.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu. 



Robbery 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
The robbery occurred as the student was walking on Vaness Street near Turtle Creek Court, according to the email. Irish Row Apartments are located on that part of Vaness Street. 
The email said the robbery occurred at approximately 
10:45 p.m. after a midsized sedan approached the victim. 
“The victim was walking east when a brown or tan midsized sedan that he had observed driving slowly in the area pulled up in front of him,” the email stated. “Suspects exited the vehicle, approached the student, dis­played a handgun and de­manded the victim’s phone and money. The suspects re­turned to their vehicle and left the area traveling east­bound on Vaness toward South Bend Avenue.” 
The email said both NDSP and local police responded to the incident, and South Bend Police is investigat­ing the crime. The email said the suspects were not apprehended. 
The suspects were de­scribed as black males in their late teens or early twen­ties and approximately six feet tall, the email said. The suspects were also described as wearing dark hooded sweatshirts. 
NDSP regularly patrols all areas of campus, and the email stated that they are making extra patrols of the perimeter of campus. In the email, the Office of Campus Safety said any suspicious activity should be reported immediately to NDSP. 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Senior reflection 
Christian Myers 
Senior News Writer 

As a senior, it is hard to face the fact that I won’t be coming back to Notre Dame in the fall. The last four years have been … blah, blah, blah; feels, feels, feels. 
Much more importantly, “How I Met Your Mother” (HIMYM) is ending, and I simply can’t believe it. Watching HIMYM has been one of the most unique and rewarding experi­ences of my life. I have been watching televi­sion for about as long as I can remember, but only started watching HIMYM in the last few years and didn’t know exactly what to expect at first. 
My HIMYM experience started like my experience with other shows, by which I mean my family was there with me for the decision to watch HIMYM. My mom would probably rather I had started watching “The Office” because it is a bit closer to home, but she had wanted to start watching HIMYM herself, so she was supportive of my choice. 
When I started watching HIMYM, however, I was on my own for the first time. I had some concerns the comedy might be a bit too high­brow, but for every Dante Alighieri quote in the original medieval Italian or Walt Whitman witticism, there are a plethora of Zamboni jokes. I also had to adjust to the drinking  — so much drinking  — and the obsession some characters showed with sex and one-night stands. In the end though, I found I could ap­preciate it while striking my own unique bal­ance of appreciation for those topics. 
I feel that I have learned a lot of life lessons watching HIMYM and have come to know who I am as a person  — which is basically Marshall Eriksen. I have laughed; I have cried; I have had difficult times, and I have had light­hearted times watching HIMYM. I think it has played a huge role in making me the person I am today, and, if I went back, I would not choose a different show for anything in the world. 
For those who are starting to watch HIMYM as I am set to finish, my words of wisdom are that you get out of watching HIMYM what you put into it. That means the more you study the running gags and pick up the various clues about the mother, the more you will appreci­ate watching and the more prepared you will be for bringing those skills to other shows in the future. At the same time, it also means the more you share the experience of watching HIMYM with others and occasionally let your­self binge watch episodes late into the night, the more legendary memories you will make. 
I know I’ll have new and exciting things after HIMYM  — I’ve been preparing to make USA’s “Suits” my new favorite series, so that the law can provide me with entertainment in the future  — but it’s still difficult to accept that there won’t be any new HIMYM. I’ll be able to catch reruns, but inevitably these char­acters won’t have the same presence in my life, and I won’t know about their future lives the way I know about their present. 
I’m really going to miss HIMYM when it’s finally, wait for it, over. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stopping time 
Mike Miklavic 
The Maine Idea 

I never really understood why my dad hated birthdays. As far as I could tell, getting older meant you could do more and more, and birthdays meant pres­ents, cake and maybe even a day where you could get away with not making your bed. I always knew that time moved forward, that we kept getting older. I just always figured it meant life would be the same, just even better. The truth, however, is time doesn’t stop. And as it ticks on, our lives indeed change. 
The Sandlot taught us that heroes are remembered, but legends never die. It also taught us that even the glasses-wearing among us have a chance with the Wendy Peffercorn in our lives, but that’s neither here nor there. 
A bunch of legends will be graduating this spring, and while their influence will remain and their stories will echo forth for new classes to hear, we’ll see them less and less. Legends don’t die, but they do move on to careers other than those on campus and to cities other than South Bend. 
I had the chance to come back to campus this past weekend for my spring break. Needless to say, it was awesome. But as I sit here waiting to board my flight back to study ‘abroad’ in D.C., I know the time I have left with the seniors is no longer measured in semes­ters, months and weeks but in the days and hours until I’ll be back in May. 
As those days and hours tick away, my senior year is no longer inching but rather sprinting toward me. As much as I’m looking forward to being a resident assistant in Siegfried, I know next year will bring a new level of responsibil­ity. I know that on some level, it will change the relationships I have with the underclassmen I’m proud to consider family. While I can’t wait to see all those guys next year, I wouldn’t mind a little more time with them now. But soon, the freshmen will be sophomores; the sophomores will be juniors. I can’t ig­nore the inevitable transition or the fact that the passing of time is responsible for this change. 
Like many other juniors, I decided to leave the friendly confines of campus to study elsewhere for a semester. I am able to take classes that I’m genuinely excited to go to and intern in the heart of D.C. I’ve had the chance to spend more time with my older brother than I have in years. I’ve made a bunch of great friends I wouldn’t have met back in South Bend. If I had to do it all over again, I think I would probably still go to D.C. There are experiences and op­portunities here in D.C. that I couldn’t have had back on campus. But I know, as well, there are also things back on campus I cannot experience because I’m there. 
I knew I would miss the people at Notre Dame, though I’m not sure I real­ized just how much. I miss friends and hate missing out on what’s happening in their lives. As I was reminded last night, I even miss waking up at three 
a.m. to their hijinks as they return from C.J.’s and finding a snapchat of said activities the next morning. But, alas, I know I couldn’t have both my time in 
D.C. and on campus this semester. 
While talking about how quickly our undergraduate years have passed, my friend offered, “I don’t want to be a se­nior. Well, I do, it’s just that I want to be a senior forever.”  I’m not sure I know anyone that disagrees. 
Albert Einstein said that insanity is doing the same thing over, and over and expecting different results. I don’t think Einstein realized that sometimes that type of insanity is exactly what we’re after. Sometimes we don’t want anything to be different or to change. Although, on some level, we know that life moves on  — that our memories are just that, locked somewhere in the past — we still fight against it. As much as we may wish, we know we can’t relive those moments; we can’t go back in time and experience them again. Much as I may wish things would remain the same, I know that life, for better or for worse, changes. Friends are studying in differ­ent countries and continents and will be in different cities and states. Friends will be graduating. Though I can’t wait to have everyone back on campus to­gether, I know I’ll miss those who are leaving. 
No matter how hard my friends and I wish, we can’t be juniors, or seniors or students forever. We’re getting older. Time is undeniably passing. But that shouldn’t keep us from clinging to memories or from believing that we can recreate the greatness of those mo­ments. The knowledge of our transience shouldn’t deter us from the belief that our future holds the same incredible memories as our past. 
I want to be optimistic. I’d like to say that after sharing all these words, I have something comforting or sunny with which to end my column. The truth, however, is that while I’m excited to see what the coming year has to bring, I’m also nervous and maybe even a tad scared too. I hope that time at Notre Dame continues to age well, that it may age more like that bottle of wine we pass up for the Franzia, and less like the two-day-old, half-consumed can of Natty stewing in the corner of our room. 
I want to be a senior, to see all the great things it will bring. But, in truth, I want a little more time as a junior too. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine studying political sci­ence and finance. He’s always confused by the “skills” portion of job applica­tions. He can be reached at mmiklavi@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Citizenship requires participation 
Morganne Howell 
guest Columnist 

Aquinas wrote, “Laws framed by man are either just or unjust. If they be just, they have the power of bind­ing in conscience.” He is talking to you, you as a citizen of your country. Citizenship is not a stagnant title to take for granted. Citizenship is an active bond. Aristotle called it your relationship to the state. Like a re­lationship with someone you care about, citizenship takes nurturing and engagement through commu­nication. The state communicates with laws, and we communicate as active participants in our democra­cy, or at least that is what we should be doing. 
Over the last few years, a num­ber of uprisings have occurred in various countries against unjust regimes. The young, the old, the educated, the cynics, the passionate, the brave, and overall, the hopeful, have filled public places with non­violent protest. These revolutionar­ies have engaged their societies on a profound level. Just as we might have watched a master sportsman win or lose a game, we witnessed an expansion of human possibility through the organization of both successful and unsuccessful revolu­tions. These individuals took active roles as citizens, letting their ideas and hope lead them in action. 
Fortunately, we do not need to overthrow our government to insti­tute democracy. We did that a while ago. However, we must not forget that we are still citizens of that de­mocracy, not merely inheritors of a successful revolution. 
An active role does not necessarily require organizing a revolution. In fact, participation can require very little. For example, Machiavelli ad­vocated taking a side. Educate your­self, form an opinion and engage the opposing opinion in dialogue. 
Compromising that opinion is not a weakness; it is not a betrayal of your ideas or your principles. Rather, compromise is the foundation on which we grow, individually and as a country. Saul Alinksy said, “A soci­ety devoid of compromise is totali­tarian. If I had to define a free and open society in one word, the word would be ‘compromise.’” Mandela and the Dalai Lama are of the same mind. 
Stagnant pools form where compromise is shunned. Steer clear of easy complacency because these pools of fraternity are more danger­ous than they seem. Examine who is nudging you into solidarity and for what motives. Question others, but also question yourself. Who writes the articles on your favorite website? What voice grooms your everyday opinions? Who funds your news source of choice? Did you denounce Occupy Wall Street in 2011? Did you put Kony as your profile picture in 2012? Did the government shutdown come as a surprise in 2013? Debate your own tendencies with freshly-educated opinions. 
On a recent trip to China, first lady Michelle Obama reminded us about the inherent value of hearing all sides of an argument. The best opin­ions are formed by an open-mind that seeks to hear all sides of an ar­gument before coming to a conclu­sion. It is for this reason that Obama advocated studying abroad in a speech about developing citizens and diplomats to move the world forward together. Most of her speech was censored, only reaffirming her words. 
If you can, study abroad to engage and explore your call to citizenship. 
The “battle of ideas” can be messy, but it is crucial to strengthening international student engagement. Battle with your ideas over a pint in Dublin or on the beach in Brazil, whatever it takes: Just go. 
go to lectures that interest you. Fall in love and live in a world of collective compassion for a while. Watch a documentary on Netflix while you workout. Ask your profes­sors to talk about current events during office hours. Whatever it takes, start thinking, start ques­tioning and start participating. As Thomas Paine says in “Common Sense,” “a long habit of not think­ing a thing wrong gives it a superfi­cial appearance of being right, and raises at first a formidable outcry in defense of custom.” To be revolu­tionary in our American society may be as simple as being open-minded, as simple as being informed. 
Morganne Howell is a sophomore studying in the Program of Liberal Studies and Italian, with a minor Philosophy, Politics, and Economics. She can be reached at mhowell5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Explore SCOP with an open mind 
Two years ago, when the 4 to 5 Movement was at its height, I con­fess I found myself suspicious of the motivations and objectives of the group. I did not know, based solely on the signs and slogans, what was truly at the heart of the movement. I could not immediately discern if the movement was guided by the Catholic view of the inherent dignity of every individual and by the mission to lessen and prevent the isolation and alienation many LgBT people feel, which might be particularly acutely felt at Notre Dame. I thought it was equally pos­sible that the movement was pursu­ing an agenda that was ultimately incompatible with Catholicism, particularly with its doctrines on the nature and purpose of human sexuality. 
Although I was suspicious about the intentions of the movement, I had faith that my fellow Notre Dame students had good reasons for their participation, so I decided to look into it more. I read the peti­tion closely, spoke to friends who were involved and even contacted the movement’s leadership. I found that they were arguing in good faith, with good intentions and with strong arguments. Ultimately, I concluded not only that my friends were right to lend their voices to the petition asking the administration to review its approach to address­ing the needs of LgBT students, but also that I could not in good con­science refrain from adding my own name to the petition and my voice to supporting the movement. 
Now, I am a member of Students for Child-Oriented Policy (SCOP), a group of students circulat­ing a petition of its own asking the University administration to strengthen its promotion of greater public understanding of marriage as a natural institution that unites a man and a woman in a compre­hensive sharing of life which is, in the words of the Catechism, “ordered toward the good of the spouses and the procreation and education of offspring.” 
The University’s public sup­port for this understanding of the true meaning of marriage was unequivocally stated in “Beloved Friends and Allies,” the pastoral plan issued in response to the 4 to 5 Movement’s efforts; however, given the continuing develop­ments in the debate over the mean­ing of marriage, the University of Notre Dame should demonstrate ever more clearly . to Americans as well as to the people and gov­ernments of countries like Russia, Uganda, and Nigeria . that there is no contradiction whatsoever be­tween defending the full dignity of our LgBTQ brethren and promoting man-woman marriage as a natural human institution. 
I understand why some people might be suspicious of SCOP, of its petition or of its April 3 conference on the definition and importance of civil marriage. I understand these doubts because they are so similar to the ones I once harbored about the 4 to 5 Movement. I, therefore, encourage anyone who feels doubts about SCOP to do what I did: Talk to us. Attend our events. Understand our arguments for yourself. See whether you are convinced. 
Timothy Kirchoff senior Dillon Hall March 27 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

By KEVIN SALAT 
Scene Writer 

On Monday at 8 p.m., the CBS sitcom “How I Met Your Mother” (HIMYM) ends its momentous nine-season run with an hour-long series finale, culminating in the titular encounter between Ted (Josh Radnor) and his unnamed future wife (Cristin Milioti) and a look into the characters’ lives in present-day 2030. For diehard fans of the show, this sad moment has come too soon. Others are glad to finally have one less show to reluc­tantly watch. 
Personally, I’ve loved the show since the first season, even with all its recent flaws, but I won’t be reaching for the tissues once it’s over. Just like the title’s emphasis on “how” and my life mantra suggest, HIMYM has always been more about the journey than the destination. 
That’s probably not what most fans of the show would tell you. For some, this is the most anticipated end of a series since “Breaking Bad” back in September. In my view, I was disappointed with how neatly Vince gilligan 
By ERIN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 

In light of recent room picks, PB Teen enthusiasts have already started mapping out their grand decor plans for next year. If you’re among them, don’t fret if you didn’t get the quad you’ve always dreamed of — it doesn’t mean your dorm will be a nightmare. With these three tips, a dedicated designer like you can easily spruce up a small space. 
Rule number one: Don’t underestimate the body pil­low. The body pillow, popular with pregnant women and college students alike, offers a therapeutic balance of cushion and support. If you don’t like having layers of fluff piled on top of you while you sleep, you can easily remove the body pillow from your sleeping surface with one fluid arm movement. It takes less time and effort than tossing a zoo of Pillow Pets on the floor, an action that could cause animal rights activists to raise their eyebrows. 
MARIA MASSA | THE OBSERVER 

wrapped up that show, but its too-tidy conclusion didn’t suddenly diminish my love for its previous 61 episodes. Though I’m intrigued to see what happens in Monday’s HIMYM finale, my overall enjoyment of the show won’t ride entirely on the tremendously difficult task of find­ing the right conclusion. 
In the case of this series finale, the questions still to be answered stem primarily from a particular scene in a re­cent episode called “Vesuvius,” in which dialogue from 2021 between future Ted and the mother heavily implies that someone, most likely the mother, could be dying. 
The theories go further, speculating that 2030 Ted has been telling his kids this story to keep her spirit and memories alive, so her kids can cope with having a new mother in Robin, whom the writers have seemingly al­ways planned to be Ted’s lifelong wife. 
The number of links to articles and texts I’ve received from my dad about what I think is just a red herring has been overwhelming. Milioti herself called the theory insane, and I think the writers concocted all of these suppositions to add suspense to an ending that was 
If you and your special friend like to gaze at glow-in­the-dark stars stuck to your ceiling, the body pillow serves as a headrest for two. To let you in on a secret, the body pillow is the loveseat of the twenty-first century. If you don’t have one, you won’t have love, so you better buy one before the St. Ed’s yacht dance rolls around. 
Rule number two: Snag paraphernalia. Don’t steal the posters off the walls in your dorm, but check with your rector to see if you’re allowed to bring the posters from the stairwell into your room after the advertised event occurs. That way, your walls will be polka-dotted with posters to remind you of those life-changing conferences you meant to attend. 
You may not have gone to a single TEDxUND Talk, but simply gazing at the poster will inspire ingenuity and im­press your parents when they come to visit. Did I mention the posters are free? 
Rule number three: Trade the futon for a beanbag chair. Futons work well for game watches or prospie vis­its, but if your room is already crammed with giant jars never meant to be climactic. HIMYM has always set it­self apart from other sitcoms with its novelistic continu­ity, smart writing and sympathetic characters, but I can hardly imagine the show differentiating itself by taking a page from the playbook of “Lost” and ending in a po­tentially morbid fashion. 
It wouldn’t surprise me if I were completely wrong about all of this, however. I initially thought the writers were making huge mistakes in adding the mother to the cast and spanning all 24 episodes of the final season over the course of the wedding weekend. On both counts, I’ve been proven wrong with what has turned out to be a hit­or-miss but still solid ninth season. 
The writers’ spinoff “How I Met Your Dad” coming in Fall 2014 worries me slightly, but I’m guessing the lead actress greta gerwig alone will prove me wrong again. So I’m sure that even if the finale does end up with a widowed Ted marrying Robin in 2030, it will still be very satisfying. 
Contact Kevin Salat at ksalat@nd.edu 
of animal crackers, you may want to opt for the classic beanbag chair. If you bonded with beanbag chairs in the children’s section of the library, plopping down will remind you of those days when you read for fun. Who knows? Maybe you’ll even put down your organic chem­istry book and pick up “Hop on Pop.” 
Just remember: Your pop thought it was cute to jump on him when you weighed 40 pounds, but now that you feast on fro-yo five times a week, you should refrain from hopping on him. Unless, of course, you want to keep Easter Vigil in a hospital bed. 
A large part of the fun of decorating is invention, so feel free to come up with your own decorating ideas. You can glean inspiration from magazines and Pinterest, but never underestimate your own creative power. 
In sum, don’t be afraid of lofty goals. Don’t be afraid to loft your bed. If you’re like me, though, you may want to wear a helmet before you pick up a hammer. 
Contact Erin Thommassen at ethomass@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
Scene Writer 
Nostalgia is a powerful mar­keting tool, especially in the mu­sic industry. Live concerts prove to be reliable sources of income for musicians, even long after their creativity peaks. It’s the rea­son why the Rolling Stones con­tinue to play “gimme Shelter” to sold-out arenas fifty years into their career. It’s the reason why crowds flock to see Jay-Z play the hits, even after his recent string of uninspired albums. And it’s the reason why a crowd of Notre Dame students went to see Mike Jones at Legends on Friday night. 
At this point, the Houston rapper is almost nine years re­moved from his peak in the mid­2000s. Still, the exuberant crowd roared when Jones took the stage dressed in a black hoodie and black sunglasses. A hype man in a striped hoodie with a drink in hand accompanied him on stage, awkwardly rapping along to ev­ery word. 
Curiously, Jones began his set by parading through his biggest hits, running through “Mr. Jones,” “Still Tippin” and “Back Then” in quick succes­sion. Although frontloading a show with familiar hits was an odd strategy, it was still ex­hilarating hearing the familiar sample from “Still Tippin” blast through the speakers at Legends. 
Unfortunately, this was stopped short as Jones yelled, “Hold up, DJ,” harshly ending numerous songs throughout the night. 
Jones’ talent always lay more in self-promotion than in rapping, and this skill was on full display Friday night. Nearly every song found him leading the crowd in his famous chant: “Who? Mike Jones!” His name became some­what of a mantra through its repetition, never allowing you to forget whom you were watching for one second. 
There was a certain power in hearing the crowd scream Jones’ old phone number — 
(281) 330-8004 — in unison. For a generation that has grown up thoughtlessly saving numbers in their cell phones, it was oddly impressive that so many still re­member that phone number by heart. 
It was to his credit that Jones was able to keep the crowd en­gaged during his new material. This was partly due to their re­petitive choruses and Jones’ self-aggrandizing stage pres­ence. These songs included “Polo Boots,” which repeats the titular phrase throughout most of the song, and another with the cho­rus, “I be sippin’ syrup / I be sip-pin’ drank.” 
Yet, there was a sad irony watching Jones perform his hit “Back Then,” which is about people who are only attracted to 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

you for your fame. “Befo’ the ice was in my grill, befo’ I got my ma­jor deal,” Jones rapped on Friday night, “Befo’ my paper came, befo’ I got my game.” Of course, Jones is no longer on a major la­bel and is desperately clinging to his bygone fame. Nine years after his debut album “Who Is Mike Jones?” sold 2.5 million copies, it was rather depressing watch­ing someone whose career is so deeply invested in reliving the past. 
At the same time, however, the crowd was there for the same ex­act reason. As college students incessantly worry about careers and the future, there is some­thing reassuring about any rem­nant of the past. For example, we voraciously consume BuzzFeed lists about the ‘90s and watch Disney movies. Hearing Jones croon “I’m ‘n Luv (wit a Stripper)” out of tune surely evoked memo­ries of middle school dances and first iPods for many in the crowd. 
Reliving the past assuages our fears about a rapidly-changing world, so we seek out nostalgia wherever possible — even at a Mike Jones show. Although Jones is certainly not the best live per­former, his familiar and energetic set Friday night at Legends trans­ported the crowd back to 2005, for better and or worse. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Baseball marks the start of spring 

Greg Hadley 
Associate Sports Editor 
My bracket is not busted. That’s too mild a word for what happened Friday night. It was destroyed. Annihilated. It would have been better if I had just given up at the start and picked at random. Tom Izzo has surely sold his soul for March magic, but I foolishly doubted him and picked Virginia to win.
     So why do I not care? Well, for one, it is 53 degrees outside right now proof that god has not forgotten South Bend. For another, Monday marks Opening Day for Major League Baseball. Please, let’s ignore the opening series in Sydney. It did not make sense and was a pain for all the players and coaches. While we are at it, let’s move past the opening night game between the Dodgers and Padres as well. If the MLB feels the need to add a few extra million to the billions they already make, then I guess Sunday night works, so be it. 
     But Monday is the true Opening Day for baseball fans. It is a day when skip­ping school to catch the day game is not only accepted, but expected. Though, to be fair, day games are always a good excuse to skip school. Opening Day is, unofficially, the first day of spring, when every fan except for Cubs fans thinks that this could be the year.
     With 162 games to go, ev­ery team is in it. Last season’s champions, the Red Sox, were picked to finish last in their division last year by pretty much every expert, while the Blue Jays, the 2013 pre­season World Series favorites, crashed and burned, landing in last place in the American League East. That is the beau­ty of baseball.
     Of course, for every en­thusiast like me, there is a corresponding sports fan who hates baseball because it is too boring, too slow and too low-scoring. The game unfolds so slowly, they say, and, even when something happens, it is nowhere near as exciting as football or bas­ketball. The rules are arcane, and every good player is obviously on steroids.

     There is no point trying to convince these people of the beauty of America’s pastime. Heck, they probably already saw “baseball” in the head­line and flipped to the next page. If you are still reading, you are almost certainly a purist who knows that, some­times, you need an attention span longer than 30 seconds to appreciate a sport. Not to mention an eye that can pick up on the subtleties of a sport that comes down to a margin of inches or even less.
     Baseball fans like this can sound pretentious and a little out-of-touch with what actu­ally sells today. Like it or not, baseball is a business, so it should come as no surprise that if most people find base­ball boring or the ambiguity of the rules frustrating, then baseball executives will try to change the game. Executives want to shorten the length of games. Replay is being insti­tuted for the first time.
     Purists have decried and will continue to decry these changes for ruining the game, and supporters of these changes will respond that they have saved the sport from becoming a relic. For the most part, they are right, of course. Baseball has made plenty of changes over the years, and it is at least in part because of those changes that the sport is still here.
     Still, as a purist, I don’t particularly mind sounding a little pretentious. As much as I like other sports, there’s simply nothing like enjoy­ing a summer night at the ballpark, watching a good baseball game. That may be the most clichéd image in American history, but people still use it today because it rings true. 
     So forget about March Madness, the NFL draft, the playoff chase in the NHL and everything else. When some­one looks irrationally happy this morning, there is no need to ask why. It’s because it is Monday and this Monday, at least, belongs to baseball. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu
       The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Connecticut rolls into the 
Final Four 
Associated Press 
Shabazz Napier owed UConn. He could have trans­ferred when academic sanc­tions barred the Huskies from the NCAA tournament his junior season. But the guard wanted to pay back the school for the joy of a national title his freshman year, for his struggles as a sophomore. 
Napier sure did that Sunday, carrying UConn back to the Final Four in front of thou­sands of roaring Huskies fans at Madison Square garden. He scored 17 of his 25 points in the second half in a 60-54 up­set of fourth-seeded Michigan State. 
The East Regional’s most outstanding player hit three huge free throws with 30.6 sec­onds left, making clutch shot after clutch shot just as Kemba Walker did when Napier was a freshman. The Huskies (30­
8) rallied from a nine-point second-half deficit to become the first No. 7 seed to reach the Final Four since the tourna­ment expanded to 64 teams in 1985. 
“His will to win — you could just see it,” said gary Harris, who led Michigan State with 22 points. “He wasn’t going to let his team lose.” 
The Spartans’ seniors be­come the first four-year players recruited by Tom Izzo to fail to make a Final Four. 
“As the game got closer and closer to ending, it was on my mind a lot, every huddle,” said big man Adreian Payne, who had 13 points and nine rebounds but was repeatedly pushed to the perimeter by UConn’s defenders. 
The undersized Huskies matched Michigan State’s physical play box-out for box-out, holding the Spartans (29-9) to just six offensive re­bounds and six points in the paint. 
“We’re physical, too,” said second-year coach Kevin Ollie, who is now 4-0 in the NCAA tournament after replacing mentor Jim Calhoun. “Don’t get it mixed up. We are preda­tors out there.” 
UConn dared Michigan State to shoot 3-pointers, and the Spartans nearly made enough, going 11 for 29 from behind the arc. Harris was 4 for 9 on 3s, but his teammates were a combined 10 for 32 from the floor. 

Trailing 51-49 with more than two minutes left, Michigan State had a chance to tie or take the lead. Payne threw the ball away, and Napier drilled a jumper on the other end. 
After Payne’s free throws pulled the Spartans back within two, Keith Appling was whistled for a foul — his fifth— for contact with Napier on a 3-point attempt. Napier extended the lead to 56-51, and after Travis Trice missed a 3, Phillip Nolan slipped free for a dunk that clinched the victory. 
“We got what we deserved today,” Izzo said. “I tried to tell these guys that, when you get to the tournament, you got to bring it every second. And today Connecticut did, and we just kind of weren’t as good as we have been.” 
Ryan Boatright made four steals as Michigan State com­mitted 16 turnovers. Some were caused by UConn’s quickness, others by what Izzo called poor decisions by the Spartans. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Arizona students clash with riot police after loss 
Associated Press 
Repeating a scene from 13 years ago, several hundred Arizona fans and Tucson police clashed in the streets late Saturday following the University of Arizona basket­ball team’s loss to Wisconsin in the NCAA tournament. 
Authorities said 15 people were arrested after fans hurled beer bottles and firecrack­ers at officers, who then used pepper spray to disperse the crowd. No officers were hurt, but three people who were arrested had minor injuries in the unrest that lasted more than an hour, police said. Meanwhile, officials at the University of Arizona vowed to punish any students who participated in the fracas. 
The clash began after crowds leaving bars and res­taurants near campus filled University Boulevard after the game, Tucson police Sgt. Pete Dugan said. He said officers fired pepper spray, pepper canisters and pepper balls to try to get people to leave the business-lined thoroughfare. Earlier Saturday, Arizona lost 64-63 to Wisconsin in the West Region final in Anaheim, Calif. 


“We’ve been training for this event for several months now,” Dugan said. “It got a little row­dy and it got a little violent, but no businesses suffered any damage.” 
The melee resembled what happened in 2001, when po­lice arrested 17 people after Arizona lost to Duke in the championship game. But in that clash, a student lost an eye after he was struck by a beanbag filled with lead bird-shot fired by Tucson police and around 22 businesses suf­fered some damage. 
In a statement, Dean of Students Kendal Washington White called Saturday’s dis­turbance “disappointing” and said it was not reflective of the culture of the University of Arizona or Tucson. 

“Our basketball team had a great season, and they exhib­ited exceptional class at every turn,” White said. “They do not deserve the bad actions of these others.” 
White said all students who are found to have violated the school’s code of conduct “will be held accountable.” 
Police brought in cruisers and a unit of officers with batons, helmets and face masks to block the street when people started tossing beer bottles, cans and firecrackers, hitting police vehicles and endangering officers. 
Most of those arrested were cited and released, and one person was booked into jail, Dugan said. 
A witness, David Kitaeff, told The Associated Press that the incident started inno­cently with people taking pho­tos, but then “people got in cops’ faces.” He said fans were throwing drink cans at offi­cers, whom he saw marching down University Boulevard. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



MLB 

Padres top Dodgers on Opening Day 
SAN DIEgO  — For one day at least, the moderate-payroll San Diego Padres are in first place in the NL West, ahead of the big-spending Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Seth Smith hit a towering drive for a tying homer leading off the eighth and Chris Denorfia sin­gled home two runs to give the Padres a 3-1 victory against the rival Dodgers in baseball’s North American opener Sunday night. 
Smith’s first hit with the Padres came on a 2-0 pitch from Brian Wilson, who started the eighth after Hyun-Jin Ryu threw seven scoreless innings. It sailed an estimated 360 feet into the right-field seats. It was his sev­enth career pinch-hit homer. He was acquired in an offseason trade with Oakland for reliever Luke gregerson. 

Wilson (0-1) walked pinch-hitter Yasmani grandal, who ad­vanced when the veteran reliever couldn’t handle Everth Cabrera’s bunt for an error. grandal stole third and Cabrera took second on indifference before Denorfia hit a bouncer up the middle to bring them both in. 
“They’re all just one game, but when you’re facing a team like the Dodgers, full of great players, Brian Wilson, a guy who knows how to get it done in those situations, it’s not easy to do what our hitters did,” said Huston Street, who pitched a perfect ninth for the save.
   “To come back and get three right there in that situation, es­pecially after leaving guys on base early, that’s what this team is going to have to do to win. 
We’re going to have to battle all year long.” 
The Dodgers set a record with an opening-day payroll of $234 million. The Padres are 23rd at just under $90 million. 
Street said he has no problem with the discrepancy. 
“They’ve got a lot of talent and their talent has earned those sal­aries,” Street said. “They’re not just given. At the same time, a lot of guys in this locker room are young guys. They haven’t hit that free agency mark. They haven’t hit those big salary years. We could be sitting on a higher pay­roll team. You don’t worry about it too much just because base­ball is such a game of execution.” 
Dale Thayer (1-0) pitched a perfect eighth for the win. 
Smith was acquired to provide a left-handed bat off the bench. He went deep on a cutter. 

“You get in the box and it’s an at-bat,” he said. “As a profession­al ballplayer you hope that you can kind of flush the fact that it’s your first at-bat with your team or it’s in a big spot or whatever, and just do what you’ve been practicing for the last six weeks.” 
Wilson said it was tough to deal with because Ryu “pitched such a marvelous game. It’s a hard one to swallow.” 
He said he threw a pitch “that was a little bit uncharacteristic of me. Right then and there, the tire deflated.” 
The defending NL West champion Dodgers had started the regular season with a two-game sweep of the Arizona Diamondbacks in Sydney. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Ryu got the start after reign­ing NL Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw was scratched due to a swollen back muscle and then placed on the 15-day disabled list for the first time in his seven-year career. 
In a scheduling quirk, the left-hander started consecutive regular-season games. He made his season debut a week ear­lier, when the Dodgers beat the Diamondbacks in their second game in Australia. 
Ryu retired 16 in a row from the second inning until one out in the seventh. He then walked rookie Tommy Medica, who was then erased in a 3-6-3 double play. 
Ryu allowed three hits, struck out seven and walked three. 
The Dodgers grabbed the lead on a nice piece of hitting by Carl Crawford with two out in the fifth. 
Crawford went the other way with an 0-2 pitch from Andrew Cashner, hitting it over third baseman Chase Headley to bring in Dee gordon from second. gordon had reached on a walk and advanced when Cashner fielded Ryu’s bunt and forced A.J. Ellis at third. 
Cashner allowed four hits in six innings. He struck out five and walked two. 
NOTES: The Padres renamed the broadcast portion of the press box the Jerry Coleman Broadcast Center in memory of the Hall of Fame broadcaster who died on Jan. 5 at 89. His widow, Maggie, and daughter, Chelsea, threw out the ceremonial first pitches. ... Sunday night’s attendance of 45,567 set the Petco Park single-game record. ... Padres man­ager Bud Black said LF Carlos Quentin’s time on the disabled list will go beyond April 10, when he’d be eligible to be activated. He was placed on the DL on Saturday, retroactive to March 25, with a bone bruise in his left knee. Quentin was hurt diving for a ball in a spring training game. ... Monday is an off day. Tuesday’s scheduled starters are Zack greinke for Los Angeles and Ian Kennedy for San Diego. 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | STANFORD 11, ND 10 
Irish upset in back-and-forth contest 
Observer Staff Report 
There were five ties and four lead changes in Saturday’s contest between No. 6 Notre Dame and No. 11/13 Stanford, but Cardinal sophomore mid­field Lucy Dikeou scored her fourth goal of the game with just more than four minutes remaining to give Stanford the 11-10 victory. 
Senior midfield Anna Kim scored the first goal of the game for Stanford (8-1) less than two minutes into the contest, and Dikeou followed with an unassisted goal four minutes later. Notre Dame sophomore attack Rachel Sexton put the Irish on the board with her own unassist­ed score with 22:18 remaining in the first period. 
Stanford’s junior midfield Hannah Farr scored on a free-position shot to put the Cardinal up 3-1 before the Irish scored the next three goals. 
Dikeou ended the Irish run at 10:56 with a goal that tied the game at 4-4 and her teammate, freshman mid­field Laura Klein, added an­other a minute and a half later before Kiera McMullan put the Irish back ahead with her second goal of the game. Notre Dame’s freshman at­tack Cortney Fortunato hit two goals in the final three minutes of the half to stretch the Irish lead to 7-5, and with 16 seconds left in the period freshman midfield Casey Pearsall assisted freshman attack grace Muller to send the Irish into the locker room with a three-goal lead. 
Stanford struck first in the second half as Farr hit a free-position shot at 25:31 to cut the Irish lead to two goals. Fortunato scored her third goal of the game from a free-position shot four minutes later, but the Cardinal scored the next four goals, taking the 10-9 lead with a goal from sophomore attack Alexandra Crerend at 9:49. 
Junior midfield Caitlin gargan tied the game at 10­10 with 8:23 remaining af­ter receiving an assist from Fortunato, but Dikeou made the winning goal four min­utes later on a shot assisted by sophomore midfield Meg Lentz. 
Notre Dame freshman goal­ie Liz O’Sullivan made seven saves, one better than Stanford senior Lyndsey Munoz, who had six stops. The two teams were remarkably similar in many other statistical catego­ries: both committed 16 turn­overs, while Notre Dame just barely outpaced Stanford in shot attempts, 24-21. Stanford grabbed 17 ground balls com­pared to Notre Dame’s 15, and Notre Dame had the slight advantage in draw controls, winning 12 to Stanford’s 10. The Cardinal were successful in 11 of 13 attempted clears, while the Irish were 12 of 14. Even fouls – 35 committed by Notre Dame, 30 by Stanford – were notably comparable. 
The game was Notre Dame’s second home game played outdoors in Arlotta Stadium this spring. The Irish have four regular season games re­maining before the ACC tour­nament begins in late April, and three of those contests are against ACC competitors. 
The Irish have a week to re­group before they return to conference play against No. 20 Virginia on Saturday. The game is scheduled to begin at 3 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





MEN’S LACROSSE | SYRACUSE 11, ND 10 MEN’S TENNIS | DUKE 4, ND 3; UNC 5, ND 2 
ND comeback falls short 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
Sports Writer 
Despite a frantic three-goal fourth-quarter come­back, No. 7 Notre Dame fell just short Saturday as No. 10 Syracuse came away with an 11-10 nail-biting ACC win over the Irish. 
Freshman goalie Shane Doss stopped a career high 11 shots for the Irish, while Irish junior attackman Conor Doyle notched four goals for the Irish, also a ca­reer high. 
“I was extremely im­pressed with how Shane played,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “He’d prob­ably tell you he could have stopped a couple more shots, but he played a heck of a game. They didn’t take many bad shots at all, so he really had to be at the top of his game.” 
Down 10-7 with 9:19 left in the fourth quarter, the Irish rattled off three goals in three minutes. Junior mid­fielder Will Corrigan started the Irish rally, cutting the deficit to two. Two minutes later, senior midfielder Pat Cotter made it a one-goal game. Just thirty seconds after that, senior midfield­er Jim Marlatt knotted the game at 10-10. 
Both teams struggled of­fensively over the next four minutes, before Syracuse junior attackman Kevin Rice took a pass from behind goal from red-shirt sophomore attackman Dylan Donahue, and ripped the game-win­ner past Doss. 

“They just made one more play than us,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “This was a tremendously well-played game with two teams who can beat anyone in the country. We’ll certainly go back and pick out 10 plays we know we’re capable of making, but really, and we told our guys this, we lost that game by one play.” 
Notre Dame controlled possession for much of the first half, as the Irish (4-3, 2-1 ACC) and Orange (5-3, 1-3 ACC) engaged in a back and forth battle. The Orange were up 3-2 after the open­ing quarter, with both Irish goals coming from Doyle. After the Irish tied the game at three, the Orange scored three straight goals to go up 6-3. 
The Irish rebounded with two consecutive goals of their own, the latter com­ing from Doyle, giving him a first-half hat trick, but the Orange scored with 39 sec­onds left in the half as they headed into the break ahead 7-5. 
Opening the third period, Doyle notched his fourth goal of the game to cut the lead to 7-6, but the Orange went on a 3-1 run thanks to two goals from Rice, and Syracuse entered the fourth with a 10-7 lead. 
The Irish outshot the Orange 40-33 on the day, but lost the faceoff battle 15-9. 
“We challenged them on the offensive end all day,” Corrigan said. “But we lost the faceoff battle for the first time all year. That’s something that’s normally one of our biggest advan­tages, so the fact that they were able to erase that and we still played as well as we did is really a testament to our guys.” 
In addition to Doyle’s four goals, Marlatt and Corrigan each added a goal and an assist each. Rice led the Orange with four goals and two assists, while Donahue and senior attackman Derek Maltz each had hat tricks for the Orange. 
Up next for the Irish is a rematch of last year’s NCAA Quarterfinal game against Duke, which the Blue Devils won 12-11. 
“Now that we’re past the halfway point in the sea­son, it’s not about chang­ing things at this point,” Corrigan. “I’ve though we’ve done everything re­ally well at some point this season. It’s about putting it all together now, which I thought we came close to this weekend. We just have to tighten up defensively go­ing into the Duke game, but we’re close.” 
The Irish take on the Blue Devils at noon Saturday at Arlotta Stadium. 
 Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 

Irish drop two to ACC powers 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame dropped two home ACC matches this week­end, losing to No. 14 Duke 4-3 on Friday and No. 8 North Carolina 5-2 on Sunday. 
The No. 9 Irish fell to 13-7 (3-3 in the ACC) as they en­ter the final leg of their 2014 spring campaign. 
Friday’s match against the Blue Devils (12-5, 4-1) was decided in the final singles match when freshman Eddy Covalschi lost in the third set to sophomore Bruno Semenzato. The position is not unfamiliar territory for Covalschi, who had clinched two victories for the Irish against Kentucky ear­lier in the season in the No. 4 singles spot. He had no such luck against Duke, however, falling 7-5, 4-6, 6-2. 
Freshman Josh Hagar and sophomore Eric Schnurrenberger took home the only singles victories for the Irish on Friday in the fifth and six spots, respectively. Senior greg Andrews, sopho­more Quentin Monaghan, se­nior Ryan Bandy and Covalschi dropped their singles matches against the Blue Devils in the first four spots. Of the four losses, however, two were de­cided by a third set. 
The Irish had grabbed the early lead against the Blue Devils after winning the dou­bles point. 
Andrews and sophomore Alex Lawson, who are cur­rently the seventh ranked dou­bles team in the country, won their match in the No. 1 spot. In the third slot, Covalschi and Monaghan clinched the doubles point for Notre Dame. With the point decided, se­nior Billy Pecor and Hagar had their match suspended with the score tied at 6-6. Notre Dame had no such luck in doubles play against the Tarheels (18-3, 5-1) on Sunday. While they swept the doubles matches Friday, the Irish saw the reverse happen against North Carolina, and the dou­bles duos of Pecor and Hagar and Andrews and Lawson fell in quick succession. Covalschi and Monaghan finished their match but also lost. 
The Irish were more compet­itive against North Carolina in doubles play on an after­noon that was warm enough for the team to play outside for the first time all season as the temperature crept above 50 degrees. Andrews and Monahan claimed indi­vidual victories for the Irish as Andrews beat the 10thh­ranked individual player in the country, North Carolina freshman Brayden Schnur. By that point the match had al­ready been clinched, though, as Hagar fell in the fourth spot. Schnurrenberger lost the final singles match on the day, dropping both his sets in tie­breaker6. Notre Dame continues their stretch of competition against national ranked ACC opponents, as they will head east this week­end to face No. 29 Wake Forest on Friday and North Carolina State on Sunday. They are slat­ed to return to the Eck Tennis Pavllion for their home finale for matches April 11-13. 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer  EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer  
Irish junior attack Conor Doyle chases a loose ball during a game against Penn State on Feb. 22 at Arlotta  Irish senior Greg Andrews sets up for a backhand shot during a Feb. 28  
Stadium. Doyle scored a career-high and team-leading four goals during Saturday’s 11-10 loss to Syracuse.  match against Virginia. Andrews lost his singles set but won in doubles.  


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


BASEBALL | WF 1, ND 0; WF 10, ND 2; WF 7, ND 2 
Demon Deacons take three from Irish 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Senior Sports Writer 
Wake Forest used strong pitch­ing Friday and hot bats Sunday to sweep Notre Dame in an ACC series this weekend. 
The Demon Deacons (19-10, 8-4 ACC) won Friday’s game 1-0 before sweeping a doubleheader on Sunday with 10-2 and 7-5 wins over the Irish (9-17, 1-11). 
All three games were played at Four Winds Field after Saturday’s game was moved to Sunday morning because of weather concerns. The doubleheader was Notre Dame’s fifth twin bill of the season. 
Game 1: Wake Forest 1, Notre Dame 0 
Wake Forest rode a first-inning run and 8 1/3 shutout innings from senior right-hander Jack Fischer to a 1-0 win Friday night at Four Winds Field. 
Irish senior right-hander Sean Fitzgerald (3-2) was the hard-luck loser after tossing seven innings, allowing just four hits and an unearned run. It was Fitzgerald’s sixth qualitt startsin seven outings. 
“To me, I think Friday night was kind of the cruelty of base­ball,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. 
The Demon Deacons scored in the opening frame after a sacri­fice fly from redshirt senior first baseman Matt Conway drove in redshirt junior left fielder grant Shambley. Shambley walked and advanced on a failed pickoff at­tempt and a single. 
Shambley’s run stood up for Wake Forest as Fischer (3-2) breezed through the Irish lineup, scattering five hits and walking one. 
Notre Dame threatened in the ninth, putting runners on second and third with one out after sin­gles by junior center fielder Mac Hudgins and freshman third baseman Kyle Fiala. Wake Forest redshirt sophomore right-hand­er Aaron Fossas intentionally walked Irish freshman second baseman Cavan Biggio to load the bases. 
But sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsuils grounded into a game-ending double play to hand Notre Dame its ninth conference loss. 
“That’s one of those things I feel badly for Zak grounding into that double play but at the same time, Zak’s a kid that runs well enough that he needs to hit it hard at somebody in order for that double play to be a possibil­ity,” Aoki said. “He hit it well. He hit it unfortunately at the second baseman and they were able to turn it.” 
Fiala led the Irish in th box-score by going 2-for-3 with a walk. 
Game 2: Wake Forest 10, Notre Dame 2 
Wake Forest’s bats exploded for 17 hits as the Demon Deacont roughed up Irish junior right-hander Pat Connaughton and cruised to a 10-2 victory in the first game of a doubleheader Sunday. 

Connaughton (0-1) lasted just 3 1/3 innings, allowing seven runs on nine hits and five walks. Connaughton struggled with his control, 34 of his 73 pitches going for balls. 
“If there’s an Achilles heel that he has, that’s what it is,” Aoki said. “It’s always been that way. Typically, as he gets more rep­etitions, he starts getting into the strike zone more a little bit. It does take him a little bit of time. 
“It’s tough. As talented as he is, he’s competing against kids that are doing it 12 months of the year.” 
Wake Forest scored in the first inning for the second straight game when lead-off man senior center fielder Evan Stephens scored on a RBI single from Conway. Stephens reached on a throwing error by Fiala and moved to second on a sacrifice bunt by Shambley. 
The Demon Deacons added two more in the second, aided by two Connaughton walks. After freshman second baseman Nate Mondou popped out to short­stop, Connaughton dealt eight straight balls and allowed a bunt single to load the bases with one out. Senior designated hitter Charlie Morgan drove in sopho­more right fielder Joey Rodriguez and Stephens with a two-run single to left. 
The Wake Forest offense scored for seven runs in the middle three innings, hammering out 11 hits and sending 19 men to the plate. 
Morgan led Wake Forest by going 4-for-5 with a career-high four RBI while Stephens scored four runs. Eight of the nine Wake Forest starters recorded a hit. 
Wake Forest redshirt junior left-hander John McLeod (4-1) earned the win by going seven innings and giving up five hits and an unearned run while strik­ing out three. 
Junior first baseman Blaise Lezynski was the lone bright spot for the Irish offense, going 3-for-4 and driving in a run with a third-inning single. 
Game 3: Wake Forest 7, Notre Dame 5 
Notre Dame scored in each of the first three innings but a four-run fifth from Wake Forest doomed the Irish in a 7-5 loss Sunday afternoon. 
Wake Forest jumped out to a first-inning lead again in Sunday’s second game when freshman third baseman Will Craig drove in Shambley with a sacrifice fly to center. Craig drove in Shambley again with a sacri­fice fly to center in the third. 
The Irish tied the game in the bottom of the first behind a Hudgins triple and an RBI double from Lezynski. 
Notre Dame chased Wake Forest junior right-hander Connor Kaden in the third inning after he walked freshman catch­er Ryan Lidge to load the bases with two outs. Kaden went 2 2/3 innings and gave up four runs, all earned, on six hits and two walks. 


Wake Forest junior right-hand­er Matt Pirro walked Irish junior right fielder Robert Youngdahl to give Notre Dame a 4-2 lead. Pirro (2-1) earned the win for the Demon Deacons. Fossas picked up his second save of the week­end and his sixth of the season. 
The Demon Deacons turned a two-run deficit into a two-run lead with a four-run fifth inning, highlighted by Mondou’s pinch-hit three-run double. Wake Forest sent 10 batters to the plate and left the bases loaded when Morgan popped out to shortshop. 
Irish sophomore left-hander Michael Hearne (1-3) gave up six runs on eight hits in 4 1/3 innings ik the loss. 
“Their offensive approach just didn’t match up great with Mike but I thought Mike did a good job battling through it,” Aoki said. “We swung the bat, overall, better today but I think most of this just rests with some offensive prob­lems. We just gotta keep working, gotta keep working at it.” 
Lezynski continued his hot streak with an RBI single in the sixth that scored junior designat­ed hitter Conor Biggio to trim the deficit to one run. Lezynski was 6-for-9 with three RBI in Sunday’s two games. 
“I think without any question, he’s been absolutely, 100 per­cent our most consistent guy,” Aoki said. “I was happy to see him keep it going. He’s done a really good job buying into the approach we’re talking to them about.” 
Notre Dame will face Valparaiso on Tuesday night at Four Winds Field. Junior right-hander Scott Kerrigan will start for the Irish, who topped the Crusaders 4-1 on Wednesday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Hockey 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 20 
minutes of regulation time, the Irish had outshot St. Cloud 36-12, but the Huskies turned the time in the extra period, outshooting Notre Dame 16-6 before Dowd’s game-winner. 
“I think they picked up their game and we started turning pucks over,” Jackson said. “We were doing a great job in the sec­ond and third period of coming through the neutral zone and not turning the puck over, but the overtime was not like that. We had guys trying to beat people one-on­one and making high-risk plays. They had a few odd-man rushes before they actually scored.” 
The game was the last one for 11 Irish seniors, a class that earned a trip to the Frozen Four its fresh­man year and dreamed of bring­ing a national championship to South Bend. 
Despite compiling an impres­sive record of 94-60-13 over four years, falling in overtime of the being on the ice for the last one, NCAA tournament is something it’s something I’m never going to that will be hard to forget. forget.” 


“You stay up at night and have nightmares about it,” senior for-Contact Conor Kelly at ward Jeff Costello said. “Especially ckelly17@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | ND 7, WAKE FOREST 0 
Irish sweep Wake Forest 
By JOSH DULANEY 
Sports Writer 
No. 22 Notre Dame earned its second sweep of the week with a commanding 7-0 victory over No. 70 Wake Forest. The Irish (10­8, 3-6) have started a five-match home stand with two crucial wins and the victory over the Demon Deacons (11-8, 3-7) is their third straight triumph in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
This victory began with win­ning the doubles point, as the Irish rallied to earn the first point of the match. Notre Dame’s top pair­ing of senior Britney Sanders and sophomore Quinn gleason were down 4-1, and then 5-4 before re­grouping and winning four con­secutive games to take the set 8-5 over Wake Forest sophomores Xue Zhang and Kasey gardiner. 

At the same time, Notre Dame seniors Jennifer Kellner and Julie Sabacinski rallied from behind 4-1 to take six consecutive games and ultimately earn the doubles point for the Irish with an 8-6 win. 
Coach Jay Louderback was proud the way his players main­tained their composure. 
“The doubles is key,” Louderback said. “If we go up 1-0, it’s hard for them to win four singles matches against us. So, two doubles (pair­ings) being down 4-1 and coming back was probably the key for the match. Even though they started slow, they did a great job of not panicking.” 
In singles, Notre Dame won on every court, but four of the matches were tight contests. Sanders quick­ly dispatched Demon Deacon sophomore Andrea Retolaza (6-0, 6-1) and gleason also handily de­feated freshman Kimmy guerin (6-3, 6-1), but Notre Dame’s other four players each had to overcome tough battles. 
“We did a good job of fighting them off,” Louderback said. “Wake forest played much better in the second sets. They competed really well, but I thought our kids han­dled it well and did a very good job of not letting them back in.” 
Sophomore Julie Vrabel earned the fourth and decisive point with a hard-fought win over Zhang. Down early in the first set, she managed to force a tiebreaker that she ultimately won 8-6, be­fore pulling away in the second set to win by a score of six games to three. 
With the match already clinched, the Irish still wrapped up the sweep. Freshman Mary Closs won her match in three sets, and Kellner followed suit in clos­ing out the last match on the court. In between those two wins, fresh­man Monica Robinson earned a straight set victory after a long sec­ond set that ended with Robinson winning the tiebreak 7-3. 
Though pleased with the win, Louderback placed an emphasis on continued preparation as the season wears on. 
“We just have to be ready,” Louderback said. “I feel like from here, in the rest of our conference matches, we’ll go into them fa­vored, but that can sometimes be tougher. We just have to take care of business and compete like we have been.” 
The Irish will look to do just that as they continue their home stand this Friday against Maryland, be­fore facing Pittsburgh on Sunday. Friday’s match starts at 4:00pm at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

W Bball 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 20 
“I thought the crowd set the tone today,” Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “There’s no ques­tion, when we came out to see the sea of green and hear the excitement, feel the electric­ity, what a phenomenal at­mosphere. I thought the roof might come off, it was so loud at times.” 
The Irish gave the crowd plenty of reasons to cheer in the early going. Notre Dame grabbed the opening tip, and though senior guard Kayla McBride had her first layup attempt blocked by Cowgirls junior forward Liz Donohoe, Irish senior forward Natalie Achonwa gained control of the ball and put in the layup for the first basket of the game. Achonwa scored again 33 sec­onds later, and Irish sopho­more guard Jewell Loyd got in on the action by hitting a con­tested layup and sinking the ensuing free throw at 18:47. The Irish hit four more shots before senior guard Tiffany Bias hit a 3-pointer to score the first points of the game for the Cowgirls (25-9, 11-7 Big 12). 

“I don’t know if we were in awe or not; it seemed like we were a step behind in every­thing we did the first five or six minutes,” Oklahoma State coach Jim Littell said. “We were sending two back in transition and they were just blowing by us. 
“We haven’t been on this stage, and sometimes you’ve got to live it and go through it before you can really under­stand what it is.” 
But the Cowgirls did re­cover from their initial shock. A jumper from junior center LaShawn Jones at 10:52 pulled Oklahoma State within 10, and though the Cowgirls lost some ground over the final minutes of the half, they finished the period with two players in dou­ble digits. 
“Every team is going to fight back, no matter who you’re playing, and they did a great job of that today,” Achonwa said. Bias scored 11 points in the first half, nearly covering her season average of 13.8 per game. Oklahoma State’s lead­ing scorer — both for the season and the afternoon — suffered a sprained ankle in the second-round game against Purdue on March 24, but Bias still finished the game with 17 points. 
“Coach [Littell] has really helped me out these last few days to try and get me back to 100 percent to where I can play and feel comfortable,” Bias said. “The last two games haven’t been up to my stan­dards, and coming out here and giving it all for my team, that’s all you can ask. I was lucky that my shots were actually falling today.” 
Oklahoma State missed its fi­nal shot attempt in the closing seconds of the half, and junior guard Madison Cable grabbed the rebound to ensure the Irish went into the break with a 49­35 lead. 
The Cowgirls struck first in the second half with a lay-up from Jones, before settling into a rhythm of trading bas­kets for much of the second half. Achonwa made a sec­ond-chance layup, and Bias responded with a steal and a layup of her own. McBride hit a jumper from the top of the key, and Donohoe followed by mak­ing a layup while being fouled by Irish senior forward Braker, then hitting a free throw to complete the three-point play. Any hint of early-game jitters were long gone. 
“We knew they were going to score,” Mcgraw said. “We didn’t think we were going to shut them out. They have a really good player in Tiffany Bias — she’s so fast. I thought early on the crowd maybe got to them, because they missed some easy shots that they nor­mally would make, so I think once Tiffany got off and made a couple of shots I think that re­laxed the rest of the team and they really got into their sets a little bit better.” 
When McBride hit a 3-point­er with just over six minutes re­maining to put the Irish ahead 82-62, it looked as if the Irish might put away Oklahoma State for good. But back-to-back layups from Jones and Atkins brought the persistent Cowgirls back within a respectable mar­gin. But tit-for-tat scoring did not close the gap, and the Irish bench played the final minutes to secure the 89-72 victory. 
The Baylor players watched the end of the game from the stands after beating third-seeded Kentucky in the first game of the day at Purcell Pavilion. The Lady Bears were the last team to beat Notre Dame at home, beating the Irish 73-61 on Dec. 5, 2012. 
“I think we’re really excited to get a chance to play them again, especially on our home court,” Achonwa said. “I know we’ll have the same fan support that we had today, and I think our team’s really excited to play another game at home and con­tinue on in the tournament.” 
The Irish return to their home floor Monday for an Elite Eight match-up against Baylor. Tipoff is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Diggins 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 20 
the Irish played better than anyone expected, becoming the first Irish team to finish the regular season undefeated to go along with a conference title. 
So, are the Irish better than they were with Diggins? 
Oklahoma State coach Jim Littell thinks so. 
“You don’t know where to center your attention when you play this team,” Littell said. “I think Notre Dame is just harder to guard [compared to last year] because they have so many people that can contribute in so many different ways. I think they’re pretty darn good with all the pieces they have.” 
This season, the Irish average 
86.8 points per game, over five more than they did last year with Diggins. They also average more assists, turn the ball over less and shoot at a higher per­centage from the field and from 3-point range, while limiting their opponents to lower field-goal percentages. 
These numbers, of course, do not take away from the enor­mous talent of Diggins or from the impressive standard she set for all teams to follow. But her departure forced Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw to use a more balanced approach, especially on offense. 
Over the course of the season, senior guard Kayla McBride emerged as one of the best play­ers in the country. Sophomore guard Jewell Loyd led the team in points and steals. Senior forward Natalie Achonwa led the team in rebounds and chipped in nearly 15 points per game. Every single player on the roster appeared in at least 15 games. There is no question that, without Diggins, the team has changed and grown. 

“When you have a great player like Skylar, it’s easy just to resort to her,” Achonwa said. “When you need a basket or a stop, you can just resort to the superstar, so this year, without her, everyone had to do that much more and I think the team has done a good job of responding to that.” 
In Diggins’ defense, the Irish have yet to play archrival Connecticut, like they did four times during the 2012-2013 season. They also will not have to deal with a player of Brittney griner’s caliber. And, most importantly, the job is not done yet. There is still an Elite Eight matchup with Baylor, who boasts a superstar of its own in senior guard Odyssey Sims. The challenge of shutting down Sims without a player like Diggins is one of the few tests separating the Irish from becoming the greatest team in Notre Dame history. 
And, of course, the Irish would never have reached the level they have without Diggins to push them there. Mcgraw, Achonwa and McBride are all quick to credit Diggins for forming a culture that has allowed the current team to flourish. 
“She’s still sort of here, in spirit,” Mcgraw said. “She’s left us a legacy of that intensity and competitiveness. You see that in Kayla and Natalie and Jewell.” 
So when the Irish take the court Monday night to face Baylor, with a fourth-straight Final Four on the line, Diggins will be there.
    Some things never change. 

Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM gROUP 

CONTROLLED CHAOS  | HILLARY MANgIAFORTE HOROSCOPE | EUgENIA LAST 

Happy Birthday: Don’t let emotional matters stand between you and your success. Keep your budget in place and work hard to achieve your goals by using what you have. Offering your services in innovative ways will drum up business and help you achieve your goals. The slow-but-steady climb will be your best option. It’s up to you to make things happen. Your numbers are 8, 14, 20, 29, 31, 34, 49. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Opening up to new activities or interests will do you a world of good. getting to know someone through a different avenue will help you recognize where your relationship is heading and how to best prepare. Romance is highlighted. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make choices based on your intuitive insight. Someone may try to mislead you using charm or romantic gestures to win your support. Take the time to ask questions and run a background check to put your mind at ease. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Offering help might be misconstrued as meddling in other people’s affairs. Avoid getting too close or personal with someone you do business with. Pay more attention to what’s going on in your own personal life and make positive changes that will improve your relationships. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Sign up for activities that help you expand your friendships and bring you pleasure. Sharing your knowledge, experience and memories will attract someone who can open your mind to all sorts of interesting people, cultures and pastimes. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t let your emotions lead to financial loss. A fast-cash scheme may tempt you, but the stress and cost involved aren’t worth it. Put your effort into having fun with the people you love as well as building a secure home base. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at new alternatives. Sometimes it pays to take an unorthodox approach to a problem or issue you face. Don’t rule out any suggestion without giving it a fair chance. An unusual partnership will help broaden your outlook. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Share your thoughts and plans for the future. Taking steps that will bring about an upgrade mentally, physically or financially will pay off and bring in compliments. Romance is in the stars, and making positive lifestyle changes will lead to happiness. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the road less traveled and you will find all sorts of interesting options. Being creative and in touch with your feelings will help you make wise and happy choices. Make changes to your living quarters to encourage originality. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will face opposition. Uncertainty and confusion is likely to set in when dealing with a friend or colleague offering vague and confusing information. Don’t make a decision until you feel satisfied with what’s being said. Focus on home and family. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An unexpected situation will arise. Communication is likely to be misconstrued, leading to a poor choice or mishap. get all the facts and protect personal information that you feel may be used against you. Rely on past experience. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Offer a new twist to a service or skill you have, and you will find a way to bring in extra cash. Working at self-improvement will result in compliments as well as bringing a little love and romance into your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A group effort will pay off. Look for people sharing your concerns, interests or thoughts regarding an investment or service. Offer a strategy that will encourage others to join, thereby multiplying your chances to become a success. 


Birthday Baby: You are smart and curious. You are experimental, trendy and progressive. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 



Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 89, OKLAHOMA STATE 72 
Irish earn Elite status 
Irish jump ahead 


Greg Hadley 
Associate Sports Editor 
early, advance to Elite Eight 
It just would not be the Sweet 

16 without Skylar Diggins. 
It does not matter that the 

superstar guard has not played 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 

in a Notre Dame uniform for almost a year. When her team Maybe it was the noise of 
Sports Writer 

returned to South Bend for the crowd at Purcell Pavilion. 
the NCAA Regional semifinals Maybe it was the pressure of 
and make no mistake, the top-the Sweet 16, or the pedigree 
seeded Irish are still very much of the Notre Dame program or 
her team Diggins was there, simply the talent and speed of 
naturally. Watching from the the opposing Irish. But what-
stands, she saw her former ever the reason, fifth-seeded 
teammates put in yet another Oklahoma State found itself 
solidly spectacular effort to buried under an 18-3 deficit less 
defeat Oklahoma State, 89-72, than five minutes into the game 
and advance to the Elite Eight against No. 1-seed Notre Dame 
for the fourth-straight year. on Saturday afternoon, a mar-
Diggins’ legacy looms large gin the Irish guarded en route 
over this year’s team. Three to an 89-72 victory. 
straight Final Fours, two cham-The win advances the Irish 
pionship game appearances (34-0, 16-0 ACC) into the Elite 
and 130 wins tend to do that. Eight, where they will face No. 
But this team has accomplished 2-seeded Baylor (32-4, 16-2 Big 
much in its own right. Facing a 
brutal first season in the ACC, 12) at home Monday night. 
see W BBALL PAGE 18 see DIggINS PAGE 18 
HOCKEY | ST. CLOUD STATE 4, ND 3 (OT) 
Season ends in overtime heartbreaker 
matchup with Minnesota. past the Irish netminder. 
By CONOR KELLY 

Sports Writer A year after St. Cloud defeated “This time of the year you can’t 
the Irish 5-1 in the first round of make those kinds of mistakes,” 
For the second year in a row, the 2013 NCAA tournament, the Jackson said. “We were running the Irish had their season ended loss brings Notre Dame’s season five defensemen for most of the at the hands of the St. Cloud State to a disappointing close. game, and sometimes our guys Huskies, falling 4-3 in overtime in “I think this team had visions get a bit tired and that may have the first round of the NCAA tour-of getting back to the frozen four,” been the case there.” nament at the XCel Energy Center Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We The Irish came out with a ven­in St. Paul, Minn., on Saturday knew it wasn’t going to be easy, geance in the second period, pep-night. being in a bracket with St. Cloud pering junior goaltender Ryan 
Despite outshooting St. Cloud and Minnesota, but we really felt Faragher with 18 shots but leaving 42-28, Notre Dame (23-15-2) was like we could go up against any-the period still down a goal with forced to play from behind the one in the country and win.” just one goal to show for their ef­entire game as the Huskies (22-10-The Irish came out sluggish in forts, senior defenseman Kevin 
5) took advantage of a number of the first period, surrendering a Lind’s third of the year that tied 
Irish miscues. goal at 6:54 as poor defensive zone the game at 8:18. St. Cloud again The final mistake came with coverage left freshman forward found the Irish net in the last min­
2:39 remaining in the overtime Ryan Papa alone at the left post for ute of the period as sophomore for-period as St. Cloud senior center an easy tap-in goal. ward Jonny Brodzinski’s screened Nic Dowd corralled the puck at Notre Dame tied the game up shot from the top of the circle beat the Irish blue line after a Notre just a few minutes later on a goal a bewildered Summerhays, who Dame turnover and whistled from senior right wing Bryan Rust seemed to never find the puck. shot through the screen of Irish but gave it back in the final min-Sophomore forward Thomas senior defenseman Kevin Lind ute of the period as senior forward DiPauli scored the only goal for ei­that beat senior goaltender Steven Brooks Bertsch found a soft spot ther team in the third, sending the Summerhays and clanked off in front of Summerhays, taking game to overtime. In 60 the right iron and in to send the a pass from senior forward Cory Huskies into a second-round Thorson and slipping the puck see HOCKEY PAGE 17 



ND W Basketball vs. Ok. State  W 89-72  Baseball vs. Wake Forest  L 10-2  ND W Basketball vs. Baylor  Monday, 7:30 p.m.  
Hockey vs. St. Cloud State  L 4-3 (OT)  Baseball vs. Wake Forest  L 7-5  Baseball vs. Valparaiso  Tuesday, 5:35 p.m.  
ND W Lacrosse vs. Stanford  L 11-10  ND W Tennis vs. Wake Forest  W 7-0  Softball vs. Ball State  Tuesday, 4 p.m.  
Men’s Lacrosse vs. Syracuse  L 11-10  Men’s Swimming  30th  Softball vs. Michigan State  Wednesday, 6 p.m.  
Men’s Tennis vs. North Carolina  L 5-2  Men’s Tennis vs. Wake Forest  Friday, 3 p.m.  





