The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 45 |  Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
duke president defends the liberal arts 
Notre Dame Forum lecture examines curriculum standards and students’ focus on requirements 
do notre dame graduates need to component of yale university. This requirements harms the university only guarantee conformability of 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer know?’ experience taught him that a pow-and its students. transcripts.” 
erful vision of what students should “we have all had the experience students’ desire to fulfill require-
learn is most crucial when review-of asking students what they want ments can stifle their pursuit of 
ing core requirements, brodhead to study that term and having them true knowledge, brodhead said. said. rattle off the requirements they “i went to a college that had eight 

duke university president 
richard brodhead called for “an 
energetic and aggressive defense 
of liberal arts education” in a lec­
ture Tuesday that discussed notre 
dame’s recent curriculum review. 
brodhead is the third speaker to 
address notre dame students and “as you perform this self-as-planned to meet, as if checking the requirements you had to meet, 
sessment, if i could offer a word of boxes were the aim of education,” all of which could be met with ap 
wisdom, it would be this: do be ide-he said. “if a school doesn’t have a courses,” brodhead, a yale gradu­
alistic, but don’t imagine that per-culture of active inquiry and intel­ate, said. “[…] and actually, in 
fection is just around the corner,” lectual engagement supporting its retrospect, i think that is horrify-
faculty as part of the university’s annual notre dame forum. because of the recent focus on cur­riculum change, this year’s forum has examined the question, ‘what 
brodhead has experience with changes in curriculum — he was involved in a curriculum over­haul when he served as dean of yale college, the undergraduate he said. “it’s the fate of every curric­ulum to slip from aspirational in­tentions into operational routines.” 
brodhead said losing this broad vision and focusing too closely on curriculum, if going to college X doesn’t mean entering into a force field that boosts each student’s will to learn, grow and discover, then the best rules in the world can ing. what it means is that i was free at age 17 to decide that i never wanted to learn anything further 
see forum PaGe 5 


humans vs. vampires celebrates dracula 
By KATIE GALIOTO  By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI  
news writer humans vs. vampire s pits two riddles in foreign languages and  and EMILY McCONVILLE  
teams against each  other. The survive a vampire invasion.”  editor-in-chief and news writer  
The center for the study of humans and vampire s, each des­denise ayo, assistant director  
languages and cultures (cslc) ignated by bandana s, compete for academic programs for the  incumbent republican u.s. rep.  
kicked off a campus-wide as they walk from cla ss to class. cslc, said she first had the idea  Jackie walorski defeated democrat  
humans vs. vampires competi­vampires try to tag hu mans with to link the popular game with  Joe bock by about a 20 percent  
tion Tuesday, which will revamp the ultimate goal of tu rning every foreign language studies during a  margin in the race to represent  
the popular humans vs. Zombies human into a vampire  by the end conversation with a fellow faculty  indiana’s second congressional  
game by incorporating foreign of five days. humans  can defend member about the many transla­ district.  
language elements. The cslc themselves using ne rf guns or tions of dracula.  The ap reports walorski earned  
version celebrates bram stoker’s balled up socks to stun  vampires. “humans vs. Zombies is a  85, 119 votes, or 58.9 percent. bock  
dracula, one of literature’s most an advertisement fo r the game  won 55,331 votes, or 38.3 percent.  
widely translated texts. invited students to “c elebrate the see vampires PaGe 5  “it’s so humbling to stand here  

similar to a game of tag, dracula story and legend, solve 
Walorski keeps 


U.S. House seat 
and see what just happened,” walorski said in an acceptance speech delivered around 8:40 p.m. Tuesday in south bend, wsbT re­ported. “i want to thank every sin­gle one of you because i’ve told you so many times  — it’s your seat, it belongs to you — it’s not mine, it’s yours.” 
sophomore louis bertolotti, di­rector of political affairs for notre dame’s college republicans, said 
see elecTion PaGe 5 

political scientist examines women in combat 
By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 
news writer 
reed wood, assistant professor of political science at arizona state university’s school of politics and global studies, discussed the role and impact of women in armed conflict in a lecture Tuesday at the hesburgh center for international studies. his research is one of the first large-scale systematic data collection of women’s participation in combat. 
wood, a kroc institute visiting research fellow, opened the lec­ture by emphasizing that war and conflict are typically male dominated. 
“There is a large focus on war being men’s work,” wood stated. 
“while occasionally women are seen as heroes, these stories are typically narrative accounts, in which the woman’s participation in war happens by chance, rather than her own decision.” 
using his research, wood aimed to revise the perception of women in armed conflict, demonstrating their roles and the importance of these roles. his research focused on two questions: what factors contribute to women’s participa­tion in rebel groups in insurgen­cies and what impact do they have on group behavior and conflict outcome? 
To better understand what motivates women to enter into 
see combaT PaGe 5 








ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite pump up song? 

Nicole Zolman 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“shake it off by Taylor swift.” 

Andrew Spitzer 
freshman 
keough hall 
“i’m ready by aJr.” 

Sawyer Williams 
freshman 
fisher hall 
“hollaback girl by gwen stefani.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Allison Angeli 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“black widow by iggy azalea.” 

Curtis Stokes 
freshman 
stanford hall 
“blood on the leaves by kanye.” 

Kevin Best 
freshman 
keenan hall 
“There are my people by rodney atkins.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 






Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: emily mcconville alex carson alex winegar 


Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Women’s Basketball “Fatal Assistance” Swimming and Diving Vigil Mass Basilica Sunday 
wei lin bianca almada 

Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Rolfs Aquatic Center Basilica of the Sacred Mass 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Basilica of the Sacred Exhibition game vs. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. The Irish face 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Heart 
Corrections 

Ferris State. Film about post-Pittisburgh and Music by the Women’s 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. 
The observer regards itself as earthquake Haiti. Virginia Tech. Liturgical Choir. Music by the Notre a professional publication and 
Dame Liturgical Choir. 
strives for the highest standards 

Grotto Trip ISI Fellowship Men’s Basketball “Six Characters in Film showing: The 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Bond Hall Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion Search of an Author” Sword and the Stone 
however, recognize that we will make 

10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

Open to all. 10 p.m. -11:30 p.m. Exhibition game vs. Arts Center Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Open to all Christian Lewis. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 3 p.m.- 5 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

faith denominations. Student tickets are $7. Free for students. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | The observer 

Presentation at SMC addresses victim blaming 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
catharsis productions, the the­atre group responsible for bring­ing the informative production “sex signals” to both saint mary’s and notre dame first-year stu­dents, returned to saint mary’s carroll auditorium on Tuesday evening for an interactive dis­cussion titled, “beat the blame game: silence the snark — how you can be a voice and speak up for victims of rape.” The talk comes as part of the belles against violence office’s week of activism and the #yesallbelles campaign, addressing victim blaming and rape culture. 
amber kelly from catharsis productions led the audience of students and faculty in discus­sion, beginning with the under­lying societal forces that prevent a supportive culture for rape vic­tims and how many people tend not to realize the impact of sexual violence when it occurs. 
“not only does victim blam­ing put the responsibility on [the victim], but we are also support­ing some abusive and horrible be­havior,” kelly said. 
kelly first projected an example of victim blaming from radio per­sonality bill o’reilly, showing a transcription of his commentary on the topic of the rape and mur­der of teen Jennifer moore. she then invited students to examine the text and decide who o’reilly was really blaming for the rape and murder — the audience col­lectively agreed on moore herself. 
kelly then gave a brief overview of the Just world hypothesis, the cognitive assumption that a per­son’s actions are ultimately des­tined to bring morally fair and fitting consequences to that per­son, kelly said. 
“The Just world hypothesis is when people believe the world is a just place,” kelly said. “have you ever heard, ‘good things happen to good people, and bad things happen to bad people?’ 
when people victim blame, the first thing people attack is char­acter. ‘This thing that happened is bad; therefore, this is a terrible person.’” 
kelly also led the audience in an interactive exercise in which she asked what adjectives people typically use when describing a woman who has sex. she then asked them to do the same for men. 
“‘girls is negative,” kelly said. “‘boys is positive. how do guys feel about being called these things? proud, good, confident. on the other hand, i don’t think you have any friends who want to grow up to be a ‘slutty thot.’” 
variations of many terms de­termine their usage in culture on different genders, kelly said. 
“‘man whore’ is a good exam­ple,” kelly said. “if you just say ‘whore,’ what list does it go on? The women’s list. we have to put a modifier in front of the word for the man.” 
an important element kelly highlighted was the fact that not all men are defined by the words society and popular culture asso­ciates with them, such as “player,” “stud” and “the man.” 
“i will argue that this doesn’t actually define all men,” kelly said. “what does this say about men? how often do they have sex? all the time. how do they feel about those women who they’re having sex with? They couldn’t care less. it gives a really limiting and negative perception of men in general.” 
derogatory terms such as “slut” and “whore” are often thrown around carelessly without conse­quence, kelly said. 
“why do people still use [them]?” kelly said. “[a slut is] ... a girl who sleeps with anyone, on the first date, with multiple peo­ple. what’s the number of times a woman has to have sex to cross over into that area of ‘slut-dom?’ four? one? Zero? we use these to create the bad category, and it’s not just men using this language on women. it’s women using this language on women. if we kept going, we could have gotten vari­ations of these words like ‘town bikes’ and ‘door knobs.’” 
“here’s the thing, i’m sure you guys have heard ‘don’t objectify women,’” kelly said. “what is the job of a whore? To have the sex. all i asked for [were] words that de­scribe women who have sex, not negative or objective.” 
not only does consent from both parties make for a more en­joyable time for people, but the point of it is to respect another’s boundaries, kelly said. 
“people think that asking peo­ple to have sex is awkward, like asking a chair for permission to use it,” kelly said. “when we use this language, we’re valuing peo­ple less, and we really want to get rid of this because this is the way we attack people in our current culture.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

memorial reading to feature pulitzer winner 
in mckenna hall at 7:30 p.m. The in keeping with sandeen’s stand out from other kinds of po-christina pugh.” 
By DAN DeTORO 

news writer reading will honor sandeen, a legacy as a poet and a teacher, etry reading,” professor of english pugh is a consulting editor for former notre dame faculty mem-the english department selected william o’rourke said. “To make the publication “poetry,” accord-
The department of english’s ber, and will feature u.s. poet levine, who in turn selected a [sandeen’s] readings stand out … ing to a press release. pugh will inaugural ernest sandeen laureate and pulitzer prize-win-younger poet, pugh, to read on we select an older poet and then be reading from her latest work, memorial reading will bring to-ner philip levine and university the same night, according to a the older poet gets to choose a “grains of the voice,” and another gether both established and up-of illinois at chicago professor university press release. younger poet to come read with work, “restoration.” and-coming talent wednesday christina pugh. “The idea behind it is to make it the older poet and that gives it a “i am thrilled to be reading with 
little bit of distinction.” philip levine,” pugh said.  “… i’ve paid adverTisemenT 
“philip levine was available, enjoyed his work for many years and he’s about as distinguished and have found it to be some of an older poet as we have in the most moving work that’s out america right now,” o’rourke there. i can strongly remem­said. “he also comes from ber my first experience of hear­michigan and has a kind of work-ing him read in boston and how ing class background, more so overwhelming an experience than is sometimes true in the po-that was, and it’s just wonderful etry world, and so his poetry has to have the opportunity to read some of the same social concerns with him. i’m really grateful.” as [sandeen] did. we figured he would be a good one to start Contact Dan DeToro at the series with, and he selected ddetoro@nd.edu 
student Government Weekly uPdate 



paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | The observer 




Combat 
conTinued from page 1 
combat, wood analyzed partic­ipation through two approach­es. first, he looked at motivators that cause individuals to par­ticipate in combat. next, he ex­amined groups’ motivations for recruiting individuals. his find­ings showed that women, like men, typically join insurgency groups due to fear of violence and repression, revenge and the ideology of the group. 
“in general, men and women join insurgency groups for the same reason on an individual level,” wood said. 
finding this similarity, wood examined female participa­tion from the perspective of the group by investigating what makes certain groups more likely to recruit women. on this level, wood found that groups recruit women based on their demand for resources, tactical and strategic benefits and pre­existing ideologies. 
“women are less likely to be scrutinized in society and are therefore often used in covert operations,” wood said. 
for this reason, terrorist groups are more likely to re­cruit women for operations like suicide bombings, in which the bomber must get close to the victim and remain unnoticed. wood cited the late 1950s battle of algiers, in which the national liberation front used women to plant bombs in crowded french cafes. 
after discussing what factors motivated women to join and be recruited to armed conflict, wood explored the direct and indirect impact that women have on armed conflict. 
in discussing the indirect impact that women have on conflicts, wood highlighted the essentialist perspective ap­proach, which focuses on the perceived inherent nature of women. 
“There is a general argument that women are less aggressive and violent and more compas­sionate and caring than men,” wood said. 
analyzing the impact of women through this essential­ist perspective, wood proposed that the inclusion of women in a group would make the group appear more favorable and less violent, consequently leading to earlier peace negotiations and help the group to gain more fa­vor both nationally and interna­tionally. additionally, images of women in war can help to solicit international sympathy and alliances. 
in this sense, the inclusion of women could act as a sort of propaganda, demonstrating the legitimacy of the group’s cause. 
“it is hard to overstate the symbol of women in insurgent groups,” wood said. “The inclu­sion of women can shape the public opinion by demonstrat­ing solidarity and legitimacy for the group.” 
within a country, the inclu­sion of women can also be used to shame men into joining the cause, wood said. 
“it send the message that if women are fighting, men should be fighting too,” he said. 
in contrast to the power of the essentialist view of women, factors such as socialization, se­lection effects and compensa­tion could limit the impact that women have on changing vio­lent dynamics of a group, wood said. 
additionally, given that war is seen as “man’s work,” women may feel the need to overcom­pensate and act more violently than men, wood said. he con­cluded with the concession that the direct impact of women in combat is difficult to measure; however, although they are of­ten overlooked, women greatly impact the outcome of conflicts. 
Contact Hannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 
election 
conTinued from page 1 
walorski’s victory was the group’s “main success this year.” 
“we were very, very, very con­tent with people able to get Jackie walorski in for another term,” he said Tuesday night. “she did a great job down in washington, and she’s going to keep doing it. 
“Joe bock was not a very exciting candidate. people understood that, they really want what’s best for the county, for the district, and it’s all thanks to hard work and dedica­tion, which is great.” 
The south bend Tribune reported bock expressed disappointment over the outcome, especially the im­pact of campaign finances. walorski outraised him by more than $1 mil­lion and outspent him by a 2-1 mar­gin, according to the Tribune. 
“money is so dominant now in our political system it’s pathet­ic,” bock said, according to the Tribune. “i can say i wish i would have had a better message or that i would have shook more hands, but the bottom line is i needed more 
paid adverTisemenT 
money.” 
The ap reported indiana re­elected all nine incumbent u.s. house representatives for the first time since 1986. 
“i’m just a small part in helping to turn this nation around, but i care so much — i love this district,” walorski said, according to wsbT. “i said when i went to congress i would take hard-working, hoosier common sense and values, and i did. and i’m going to go back there with the same kind of passion and conviction that i carry on behalf of the greatest district in the united states of america. i’m going to go there and continue to fight for hoosiers, fight for jobs, fight to get the government off the backs of our companies and to do what you elected me to do.” 
college republicans officers and members involved with election day attended the victory celebra­tion for walorski. senior mark gianfalla, president of college republicans, said they were happy to see her success. 
“it just goes to show you that she’s doing a great job in the house, and they were rewarded in this district, which we’re happy to see,” he said Tuesday night. “The house leader­ship … had a lot of great things to say about her. 
“she’s done a lot for the local resi­dents. … she goes to both sides of the aisle in voting and getting bills passed, which is fantastic.” 
volunteers from the bock cam­paign were less exuberant, but still expressed pride in bock’s effort. 
“i think the bock campaign put on a good fight,” college democrats co-president junior michelle mccarthy said. “i think this district has been real hard for a democrat to win … but i think Joe bock tried to get at issues that are really impor­tant to a lot of americans. 
“Jackie walorski had a lot of mon­ey — you know, campaigns these days are so expensive … and that’s how politics works nowadays. but overall, i think it was a good cam­paign, and i’m really proud to have worked on it.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo@nd.edu and Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
for each student, one that especial­ly stresses the importance of criti­cal thought and the humanities, brodhead said. 
“This is the time for reassert­ing the why and wherefore of the liberal arts,” he said. “not just re­formatting requirements, but re­asserting the qualities of mind we aim to promote deep down.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 
Forum 
conTinued from page 1 
about vast domains of knowl­edge. but the trouble is your free­dom can condemn you to a life of ignorance.” 
brodhead said many today see the liberal arts as a luxury instead of a field that leads to employment. but this field is crucial for each stu­dent’s education, he said. 
“it’s easy to see why people might get anxious about some­thing whose payoff is not immedi­ate and the path to whose payoff is so oblique,” brodhead said. “but the fruits of such education can only be reckoned over long time-horizons, as they enable people to rise to challenges and seize op­portunities they could not foresee at first.” 
notre dame should focus on creating a well-rounded education 
“humans vs. Zombies has been around for almost four years now,” mendoza said. “Through our cooperation with the cslc, we have access to new resources and a more stable base for the fu­ture of the event.” 
according to the cslc web­site, the humans vs. vampires game at notre dame will last from Tuesday through sunday. additionally, there will be games or missions held every night, pro­viding chances for players to win rewards and advantages for their team. 
according to ayo, the eight stu­dent moderators added foreign language elements to the nightly missions in order to raise aware­ness of the 13 foreign language majors and minors offered at notre dame. 
“we’re really excited about this event,” ayo said. “it’s help­ing to bring attention to the im­portance of language learning. The college of arts and letters is highly committed to making this language learning more central to a student’s education.” 
The event will conclude with a public reading of dracula in multiple languages monday in the lafortune ballroom at 5 p.m. awards will be given to the player with the most tags, mvps from the missions and the players with the best costumes. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
vampires 
conTinued from page 1 
game played at college campuses across the country,” ayo said. “i knew it was played here on notre dame’s campus. i figured [the cslc] could sponsor this event and shift it a little to suit our language purposes. after all, vampires and zombies aren’t all that different.” 
Junior erik mendoza, one of the moderators for this fall’s game, said he was excited about the new relationship between the cslc and humans vs. vampires and the hope it provides for the game’s future on campus. 



InsIde Column 
how to look calm 
Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 
The other day i tripped up the steps right in front of someone and casually brushed it off, saying: “unfortunately, this is just how my life is going. sorry you had to see that.” 
The encounter inspired me to share some ways to disguise the effects a crazy week has on your presentability, health and sanity. 
1) drink cold-pressed juice (extra points if it’s green). raw, organic, gluten-free — wait, are you gwyneth paltrow? 
cleansing juices clean your cluttered life right up. for example, i came to the real­ization the other day that i had eaten only cheese-based products for a 24-hour period. i had 3 a.m. queso after the huddle lacked “microwaveable burritos,” 1 p.m. cheese sticks on the way to class, 7 p.m. microwav­able mac and cheese and, to top it off, a 3 a.m. Taco bell Quesarito. however, my synergy juice helped me ward off the high cholesterol and anyone who might protest that my life is not chronicled on goop. 
2) read tangible things(books, newspa­pers, magazines—besides your subscrip­tion to us weekly) in-between buzzfeed, tweets, fan fiction or whatever online words you peruse. The physical appearance of reading material leaves no question as to what you are doing — casually indulging in literature over netflix. 
also, stay informed. i have 11,589 unread emails, but i am up to date on the new york Times — at least i read two articles per day. it’s not the whole paper, but if i had time for that would i really have 11,589 unread emails? 
3) do yoga. nothing balances your life better than actual balancing — until you try a headstand. yoga is a great alternative to running that doesn’t require an immediate shower, makes you feel productive and is better for the morning after you dressed up as “a periodic table dancer” for halloween, but got a carried away to be more like “a perpetual table dancer that now has a swol­len knee.” 
4) drink tea. The packaging literally says things like “calm,” “restore,” “get an a on your exam and never get a pimple again”. it also advertises things like, “a balanced swirl of rich pumpkin, caramel, toffee, but­terscotch and creamy vanilla” — don’t fall for this hyperbolic advertising. 
even if tea leaves your taste buds less than satisfied, you will feel sophisticated and people will notice that. you drink tea with a purpose: to better your health and to justify why you’re awake at 4:30 a.m. no, you did not take a “20 minute” nap at 11 p.m. and not wake up until 2 a.m. to continue study­ing. you just wanted to get up and drink some tea while you wait for the sun to rise with your accounting book on your lap — and then you might follow it up by reading the paper, doing some yoga and drinking some juice . 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Living with deadlines 

Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 
“in total, 15 students will be selected for the course. if you are interested, apply by november 7.” 
deadlines. most mornings, i wake up, check my email and am immediately informed of a few more. They’re added to an interminable list of things to do. There’s a deadline for this as­signment, or this dorm event or this career center night. once in a while there’s a random campus event ad — i’m looking at you, hip hop night — that pretends it’s a deadline to trick you into signing up and attending, but i’m too smart to fall for that. 
we live in a world that dictates we move from task to task, a world in which by the time you’ve completed one thing you’ve added several more, perpetuating a vicious cycle. somewhere in the back of my mind, i know this isn’t ideal. i know that mendoza has told me multiple times to think about the long-term, to think strategically. but these days the extent of my strategic thinking about the future is deciding my chipotle order during the walk to eddy street. most days, we’re not swimming towards a finish line or a new movement. most days, we’re trying to stay above water. 
we face deadlines about problem sets, reading responses and group projects. we face deadlines about job applications and study abroad. we each faced a deadline in applying to notre dame and crafting that ‘perfect’ application essay, complete with a typo or two. oops. we face deadlines that force us to wake up at 8 a.m. and write while we eat breakfast. at least ndh has chocolate chip pancakes right now. we face deadlines we create ourselves, which would explain how i misread the calendar and wrote this column a week early. 
we face deadlines about making decisions on things with no easy answer, like how to best spend our life, what career we want and whether we really need to wear pants today. i face an eight-week deadline to rescue some uninspiring grades — apparently my midterm answers got into a bit of a kerfuffle with the alleged answer key. 
i set out and surveyed others. They noted their apprehension over coming milestones like grad school applications, the end of their teenage years and “this damn paper.” They noted pressures to achieve certain things — to find someone special, to make a difference, to prove themselves. one senior noted the challenge of settling on a halloween costume in time for amazon to ship it in time for feverween. a recent graduate turned ph.d. student noted “This is the real world, matt” as he detailed the challenge of two deadlines within a three hour span: handing in his project recap and procuring both a keg and costume before his 9 p.m. 
edItorIal Cartoon 

party. on the bright side, i haven’t faced a maternally-set dead­line to clean my room in years. score one for pseudo-adulthood. 
we face looming deadlines, like the end of our college years and the dispersal of friends across the country and the globe. for me and most of my friends, the countdown is six or seven months. for some of our friends, it’s six or seven weeks. 
we face unknown deadlines about the time we have in our lives to do something substantive, whatever that may be. 
so yes, people everywhere face deadlines and challenges. but these challenges also breed immense opportunity. 
deadlines can be paralyzing, but they can also be motivating. like many, i find i do my best work when facing deadlines. i’d argue my best columns have been those written right up to the last minute, but my editor might disagree. The best papers i’ve ever written have been born out of immense caffeine and 4 a.m. playlists prominently featuring blink-182 and early 2000s avril lavigne. 
right, like i’m the only one. 
deadlines that impact your g.p.a., or lack thereof, can be hor­rifying. but they also help you find the library, and maybe even stay there for a bit. 
deadlines around life events and departures can come with a tinge of gloom, but they can also remind you about what’s important. They can prompt you to make sure you go out for a night with your friends or spend a week together on a beach, blasting tunes and displaying hand written signs to drivers on alabama back roads during the road trip. 
deadlines tell us what we need to do and the time we have to do it. They can be daunting. but they can also be liberating. They can inspire you to apply for something out of reach, to push yourself further than you thought you could. They show us that time is not infinite, and insofar as we have opportunities, we should seize them. our time to truly influence the world, and people around us, is ticking, and this is an opportunity we can­not afford to squander. 
deadlines can have a certain sense of finality, but that very fi­nality can also force you to do your best, knowing you don’t get a second chance at everything. They can help you remember what you want to do, who you want to spend time with and where you want to go. and they can help you refuse to settle for something less. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior studying political science and finance from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He has been ruining otherwise great pictures since 1993. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
See us in the Prius 
Sarah Morris 
left of center 
chances are that if you follow a prius long enough, you will end up at a farmer’s mar­ket, indie movie theater or startup company’s headquarters, which is comprised of far too much glass and “repurposed materials.” while trucks, suvs and sports cars have all enjoyed the role of representing specific populations for decades, the prius has come to stand for an entirely new group of people: yuppies. what began as a relatively risky and unpopular move by Toyota has evolved into much more than a simple hybrid vehicle. The prius has come to be one of the most prolific cultural symbols of the decade, carrying with it an incredible weight that speaks volumes about its drivers. 
To an outsider, a prius would appear to be a rather unremarkable car. moderately sized and neutrally colored, its first impression hardly differs from any other mid-sized, sedan-type car. in fact, many have claimed that the prius is far worse-looking than its supposed coun­terparts like the camry or corolla. its pecu­liar hatchback stands out and differentiates it from more conventional cars in a way that some have called unaesthetic in the slightest. however, due to the combination of its hybrid nature, targeted marketing and steeper prices, the prius quickly leaves its inferior counter­parts in the dust...or rather, a low-emissions electric field silently emitted from its tailpipe. 
it is evident throughout american culture that a prius represents far more than a simple mode of transportation, as most other cars do. while its basic physical attributes are far less unique or spectacular as other symbolic vehi­cles (e.g. hummers, porsches, etc.), its cultural significance is perhaps the greatest.  if asked to describe prius drivers in one word, nearly every american could answer with ease. across the nation, the prius has become a symbol for environmentalism and “being green,” but in a socially acceptable way that the mainstream tolerates. purchasing a prius is just radical enough, but still comfortable for the culs-de­sac and four-car garages across the land. 
yet, in spite of this breach into mainstream america, the prius still remains on the fringes, for its connotations and accompanying myths are deeply ingrained in the nation’s psyche. many prius drivers perpetuate and embrace these connotations by slapping on “obama 2012” and “coexist” bumper stickers, tossing their reusable grocery bags next to the $350 car seat in the back and cranking up steve inskeep on morning edition as they sip their peet’s coffee on the commute. such patterns of behavior are only widespread in limited ar­eas of the united states, specifically in or near urban areas. but this is where the prius flour­ishes. sure, they’re tolerated by expedition-driving neighbors in smaller towns throughout the fifty states, but priuses truly live their lives to the fullest when driven by unabashed yuppies. 
The prius has come to represent an entire subculture of american citizens. a prius sig­nifies affluence, but not in the same way a mercedes or bmw does. The affluence of a prius driver is recent, conscious, “hip.” a prius signifies youth, but not in the same way a beat-up craigslist car or a mom’s hand-me-down minivan does. prius drivers are young parents, young professionals and usually successful. a prius signifies white people or “trendy mi­norities;” asian-americans and mixed race gap-commercial types most definitely fit the stereotype while poor blacks and latinos are never associated with the car. a prius signifies liberal, “sustainably-minded” folks who care about things like organic food, half marathons and the keystone pipeline. 

The prius represents other, darker elements of society as well. as the signature vehicle of yuppie culture, it serves as a representation of its flaws as well as its attributes. as previously mentioned, the prius is largely reserved for the rich. it is the epitome of gentrification and the changing demographics and economics of america’s cities. while it is not as excruciat­ingly blatant as a range rover or a bentley, the prius, in spite of its socially conscious persona, is a sign of the increasing income disparity in the u.s. — the ever-growing gap between rich and poor as the middle class slowly erodes. 
like other symbols of subculture that have broken the seal into the mainstream, the prius is evidence of progress. The fact that anything in the united states symbolizes environmental consciousness, among many other things, is encouraging in itself. despite its flaws, yup­pie culture embodies elements of idealism, sustainability and consciousness that are im­portant to the future of both our country and world. These and other elements, through the power of cultural symbols and universal codes, are embodied by the prius: yet another exam­ple of the undeniable power that “things” have in our cultural landscape. 
Sarah Morris is junior studying political sci­ence and American studies. She is a proud Ryan Hall wildcat and originally hails from Monterey, California. She can be reached at smorris8@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letters to the edItor 
here’s to the losers 
yesterday, obviously, there were elections. in elections you get winners, and many of those po­litical winners were winners for the first time. i hope some students from notre dame got to be part of those campaigns, especially the first-time winners. congratulations to all of those affiliated with any of the winners. i hope you have the abil­ity to savor your win and truly take it in. There are few feelings better than the culmination of a year (or more) of work coming to fruition and the principles you believe in winning out. sincerely, i hope it was a very positive experience, and that you’ll stay in politics because of feelings like this. but i’m not worried about you. 
i’m a loser. when i lost my campaign two years ago for student body vice president running alongside bill christy, one of the best men i know, it didn’t feel good. devoting the same amount of work and time the winners put in and having nothing to show for it really hurts. while i wish everyone on campus went and worked for winners this cycle, i’m sure some did not, and this is for them. 
i hope that anyone who worked for a loser, or lost in any way yesterday, stays with politics. you fought for a cause you believe in. i hope you continue to fight for that cause, whatever it may be, because it’s still a worthy one. politics needs more resilience today — that resilience comes from losing. abraham lincoln was fighting a very worthy anti-slavery cause when he lost the 1858 senatorial race in illinois. he kept fighting after a loss. in fact, many of the most successful poli­ticians have experienced losing. To find the last 
u.s. president to never have lost an election, gen­eral or primary, you have to go all the way back to John kennedy. learning from mistakes in politics and becoming a better and stronger politician are skills most effectively learned from being a loser a few times. 
i hope you stay with it. The fortitude, strength of character and grace you’ve shown up to this point — and hopefully will continue to show — is precisely the standard to which we want to hold our elected officials and those who work for them. political courage isn’t running uncontested; it’s going into adversity and tirelessly working de­spite the difficulty of the task at hand. don’t get jaded, don’t wallow. instead, hold the winners accountable for the promises they made. 

politics needs people like you who stand up to failures, people who keep fighting instead of con­tinually accepting the new normal. we can always do better. please keep fighting for your cause as long as you believe in it. in the words of winston churchill, you’re a winner: “success is going from failure to failure without losing enthusiasm.” keep that enthusiasm because politics needs you. 
Patrick Roemer
            senior
                 off-campus 
nov. 4 





The observer |  Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
scene writer 
if you were to list the sound effects you’d least expect to hear on "ruin," grouper's latest album, a stern beep of a mi­crowave oven would be somewhere near the top, probably behind a novelty singing large mouth billy bass, but nar­rowly ahead of a kanye west, “haah.” 
but as the repeated, slow and subtly-changing  nine piano notes on “labryinth,” the album’s fourth track, move toward an end, a microwave beeping can clearly and unmistakably be heard, shocking you away from the images that had been created only by the gentle sounds of liz harris’s voice, her pi­ano and the distant sounds of frogs and crickets. The album remains microwave-free from then on, but the surprise of the beep is hard to forget about for the final 25 minutes of "ruin." 
The reasons such a sound seems so out-of-place are ob­vious at first listen: even for an artist like grouper, who has been known since 2008’s “dragging a dead deer up a hill," for her eclectic music that can build worlds for the listener, “ruins” is a subtle and delicate album. There are no looping pedals or other effects this time to drown out her voice, but harris’s piano and perfectly-placed silences accomplish that feat more than ever before. 
The world harris creates this time seems at first to be one in which microwave ovens obviously do not exist. it’s right there in the album’s title; the songs do seem to perfectly soundtrack thoughts of ancient ruins, and few — if any — an­cient ruins contain microwaves. but hearing the microwave briefly allows the listener to step away from these pictures 

and realize so much more about harris and her songs.  you’re eating microwave dinners alone every night, your  
make no mistake, harris did not decide that what her  thoughts eventually wander to what you were afraid of  
latest album as grouper needed was the sound of a mi- thinking. on “clearing,” the album’s magnificent sec­ 
crowave. it appeared purely by accident, when a micro­ ond track and first real song after a two-minute intro,  
wave in the house she recorded the album in turned back  she just about gets out the line “maybe you were right  
on after a blackout, but she may well have realized how it  when you said i've never been in love,” but the final word  
underscores her songs when she chose to leave it in.  is barely audible and follows a long pause, like she knew  
The startling beep fits so well because it creates a  she changed her mind, but that complete silence would  
whole new picture, which couldn’t be further from the  admit even more about her loneliness.  
images that harris’s music initially invokes. when liz  it’s this combination of silence and words, which  
harris wrote and recorded these songs in 2011, she was  harris doesn’t want you to hear, that makes "ruins"  
in a house somewhere in portugal, and all i know for sure  sound like earlier grouper albums, or like many other  
about that house was that it contained a microwave.  ambient musicians; however, “ruins” is something else.  
The microwave has come a long way in music since  her music doesn’t just build worlds for their own sake  
dire straits dreamed of having them installed in 1985’s  this time; she tries to build somewhere to hide from her  
“money for nothing.” when radiohead acknowledged  own thoughts, although she never fully succeeds.  The  
the unhealthiness of microwave dinners on “fitter  album doesn’t soundtrack liz harris among ancient ru­ 
happier,” the convenient kitchen appliance was already  ins; it simply soundtracks liz harris in ruins.  
a synonym for all that is depressing. maybe liz harris  
never actually used the microwave while recording  Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu  
"ruins," but when you hear her softly mumble some of  “Ruins”  
the most human lyrics she’s ever written over a piano  
that’s often a little out of time, it’s hard not to think of her  Grouper  
alone eating yesterday’s leftovers in a house is big enough  
to carry every echo of every note she plays.  Label: Kranky  
“ruins” is by far harris’s most personal record. she  Tracks: “Clearing,” “Labryinth,” “Holding”  
announced on its release that she was processing some  
“emotional garbage” while recording it. she trails off at  If you like: Xiu Xiu, Julianna Barwick, The Caretaker  
some point in almost every line, like she doesn’t want  
to admit to herself anything that she sings, but when  


By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 
The musical hipsters have lost. with the phenomenon known as “aphex swift,” a mashup of choice aphex Twin (birth name richard d. James) cuts and Taylor swift a cappella, comedian david rees has unintentionally revealed that the backbone of music transcends genre, fame and critical acclaim. The Taylor a cappella, rang­ing from breakout hit "you belong with me" to recent smash "we are never ever getting back Together," seamlessly fit over the famed electronic producer’s frac­tured experimental jams. it’s not new for mainstream music to be fused with obscure indie music via mashup 
— just check out the list of samples used in girl Talk’s latest lps — but “aphex swift” is perhaps the most suc­cessful fusion of diametrically opposed styles of music. 
on paper, James’ glitchy, dynamic compositions don’t seem suitable as a backgrounds for any pop star’s voice. James' work is often anti-commercial, sporting freakish album covers and unforgivingly harsh sounds. Taylor’s is relentlessly poppy, sporting straightforward rhythms and unabashed hooks around every corner. however, the two artists work when combined by amplifying each others’ hidden strengths. when isolated as a cap­pella, Taylor’s vocal performances shine; the unique­ness of her voice and its origins in the country genre are highlighted in James' electronic compositions. The 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
effect works in reverse as well; the emotional potency of James' works are often shrouded in clutters of unusual notes and foreboding synthesizer tones. with swift’s straightforward, emotive singing layered over them, the warm emotional undercurrent and subtle beauty of each aphex Twin song selected is highlighted and amplified. 
oddly enough, the first composition on the record is the weakest. a fusion of Taylor swift’s “i knew you were Trouble” and aphex Twin’s “4,” “T4ouble” suffers because the two source tracks are in different (but still related) keys. because of this, Taylor’s a cappella doesn’t reach its potential heights; neither track can make up for this foundational split. however, the record takes off right from the next track, “starlicker”. The throbbing pads and vocal samples of “windowlicker” provide an amazing backdrop for swift’s “starlight." “you’ll spend your whole life singing the blues if you keep thinking that way” dives into harmonious sadness when paired with richard’s falling vocal sample, evoking far more emotion than either track separately. Then there’s the so-called "drop" into distortion immediately following “we could have 10 kids and teach them how to dream,” which seems to blow the ceiling off the track in a way that complicates the oft-referenced "impossible dreams" in a way that is both mesmerizing and haunting. 
The rest of "aphex swift" continues to squeeze the most out of every swift lyric. The soft rhythmic retreat in “boy/girl” opens up space for Taylor’s spoken word section in “we are never ever getting back Together,” casting it an engagingly sincere and dismayed light. “why you gotta be so mean?” sounds even more plead­ing over the gorgeous backdrop of aphex Twin’s “flim,” as does the entirety of “you belong with me” over “avril 14th”. The chemistry between each a cappella/ composition pairing is mind-blowing; these elements are truly better together. 

That’s not to say that "aphex swift" is for everyone. Taylor’s lyrical and vocal style remain highly intact throughout the record, as does aphex Twin’s pen­chant for shuttering, often difficult beats. however, anything else would be a travesty — the most impres­sive part of "aphex swift" is how it manages to both preserve and enrich the elements it brings together. "aphex swift" is an essential listen for any fan of ex­perimental pop music and anyone who’s searching for an engaging new sound in the crowded musical scene. it works because in the end, music is music; it's a product crafted from melodies, rhythms and human emotion. "aphex swift" proves that hipsters and tee­nyboppers have a lot more in common than either one may think. maybe the era of your song and my song is over, and now there’s only our song … and minipops 67 [120.2][source field mix]. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 



Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 
while many students were off celebrating “feverween” in costume, i had a significantly tamer Thursday evening last week. homework and preparations for meetings took pre­cedence over kicking off the halloween weekend early, so i found myself at home on all hallow’s eve eve (or “mischief night” for all you new Jerseyans out there). 
still, i tried my best to stay in the spirit, and my friends and i did our part by watching one of my favorite recom­mendations from netflix’s “halloween favorites” list, the 1991 movie “The addams family.” full disclosure: this was after attempting to ironically watch the “air buddies” halloween special "spooky buddies," which is hilarious but still entirely unbearable. 
i hadn’t seen “The addams family” in a few years, and while i knew it wasn’t comparable to many of the horror films and thrillers on the netflix halloween list, i started watching with the memory of loving the film as a child for its dark and weird comedy. what i didn’t remember in my affection for the movie, however, was the absolutely won­derful marriage that is morticia and gomez addams. 
i watched adoringly as their perfect relationship played out on screen and began racking my brain for other movies with long-term couples who have great relationships. in a time when both comedies and dramas about dysfunctional families reign supreme, i realized it’s not easy to find a hap­py marriage or partnership in film. There’s also still plenty of work to be done in hollywood before we see more diverse happy couples on screen, including same-sex partners and blended families. still, i did my best to pick out some of the best movie marriages and partnerships on screen. 
morticia and Gomez – “the addams Family” 
as mentioned in the introduction, morticia and gomez (played by anjelica huston and raul Julia, respectively) have what may be the perfect marriage. sure, they let their kids play with knives and are into some weird stuff them­selves, but their affection for each other is unending. They’re also great parents who support their children uncondition­ally. finally, they do everything they can to keep a spark alive. in one scene, the two of them giggle and lock eyes in conversation when the bermuda Triangle is mentioned, only to explain to their company, “excuse us. second hon­eymoon.” The couple may be dark and spooky to everyone else, but they’re perfect for each other. 
sybil and kelly – “the Family stone” 
while the christmas movie “The family stone” cen­ters on the crumbling relationship between meredith (sarah Jessica parker) and boyfriend everett stone (dermot mulroney), everett is the child of a fantastic marriage. diane keaton and craig T. nelson play sibyl and kelly, who host their adult children for the holidays in the film, and the couple are perhaps the most stable, strong and understanding in movie history. besides be­ing awesome parents, emotional revelations later in the film show just how much they care for each other. 
thad and Patrick – “the Family stone” 
The stone parents aren’t the only heartwarming cou­ple in “The family stone.” it appears that their son Thad (Tyrone giordano) inherited the fantastic relationship gene. while it’s not entirely clear that Thad and his part­ner patrick (brian white) are married (or if they even could be), i’m including the couple on the list. even with relatively little screen time, the two come off as loving and supportive couple thrilled to adopt a child together, and their scenes together steal the show. 
rosemary and dill – “easy a” 
i can’t shake the feeling that rosemary (patricia clarkson) and dill (stanley Tucci) are the funniest parents ever written for film. Though it’s clear they are easy­going and loving parents, the two characters also have the rare characteristic of being their own individual and hilarious people while also being parents. rather than fall into a trope of anonymous, clueless parents in a teen movie, the two have distinct personalities and lives. it’s hard to choose a favorite scene, but the one in which dill gets to pick the movie because he is the “family member of the week,” only to find out rosemary picks him as “family member of the week” every week. 

molly and arthur Weasley – “harry Potter” 
for fans of harry potter, little explanation needs to be given for this fictional couple. molly (Julie walters) and arthur (mark williams) not only raised an impressive number of children on a tight budget, but also opened their home to those in need and, oh yeah, spent their lives fighting evil. 
mac and kelly – “neighbors” 
so, maybe “neighbors” wasn’t the greatest movie of 2014, but the on-screen dynamic between new parents kelly (rose byrne) and mac (seth rogen) was easily the highlight of the film. when most movies about neighbor rivalries or frat bros center on men protect­ing their lawns or some other trope, “neighbors” was exceptional because it brought rose byrne’s char­acter fully into the picture — both byrne and rogen are equally invested in taking down their annoy­ing neighborhood frat house. The two are hilarious whether or not they’re plotting against their neigh­bors; they make an excellent pair and aren’t afraid to joke around, make fun of each other or have a good time. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


sPorts authorIty 
Lords and Jacks; London NFL names 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 
in 2007, the nfl began test­ing whether or not american football would be feasible in england. more specifically, london. if these trial runs went well, the nfl’s plan was to have a team permanently in london by 2022. 
halfway through this plan, there have been 10 nfl games played at wembley stadium in london, with the 11th coming this sunday. 
There were hesitations about these games: how the nfl would be received in a football (read soccer) nation, how teams would play dur­ing and after long flights and changing time zones and if games were even logistically possible overseas during the regular season. 
The nfl found these over­seas games were possible and garnered a lot of attention. according to sportsbusiness­daily.com, in 2013 and 2014 only three percent of the people surveyed who attended games in london had ties to the u.s. Twenty-two percent were from london, and 60 percent were from elsewhere in the u.k. 
if it is only a matter of time before we see an nfl team in london, it will need a name. we don’t want to end up with something ridiculous like the new orleans pelicans, espe­cially when it could have been the voodoo. 
so here are some names to consider for an nfl team in london: 
the london monarchs 
The most obvious name would probably be the kings. but with an nba team and an nhl team already holding that, it doesn’t seem likely. 
The same goes for the royals. kansas city’s mlb team probably wouldn’t be too keen about that. let’s also not forget that two of england’s greatest rulers were Queen elizabeth and Queen victoria, so the kings won’t do. 
The monarchs, however, is a great team name honoring great britain’s long history of kings and queens, and it was the name of the team in london in the former nfl europe. so it has history. Then again, the former monarchs didn’t last long. 
the london Guards 
if you visit london, you likely will see at least one of london’s famous guards. There is a whole hierarchy of guardians in england, and all of them have unique red outfits, which would make for a great mascot and uniforms. whether it be the footguards with the giant beaver-fur caps or the famous beefeaters at the Tower of london, the london guards would be a viable name. beefeaters would be a good team name by itself, but it probably would be mis­construed too often. 
the london towers 
speaking of famous land­marks in london, the Tower of london and the Tower bridge are instantly recogniz­able monuments. historically speaking as well, both landmarks have prominent places in english lore. The idea of towering over other teams might also be appeal­ing. naming a team after an inanimate object could be weird, but the los angeles lakers and the chicago fire have managed to pull it off. however, the fire might not be the best name for a chicago team. or london for that matter. 
the london lords 
i have always been a sucker for alliteration, and the london lords appeals di­rectly to that. it would honor the house of lords, the up­per house of great britain’s parliament. it would also give a nod to england’s former feudal system based on nobil­ity. it might be too stuffy as a name though. and everyone knows great britain is not at all stuffy. 
the london Jacks 
one of the most iconic things about england is its flag, the union Jack. Just off the bat, the uniforms would easily be the best in the league. with scotland stick­ing around in great britain, the union Jack will remain the same. The Jacks would be an excellent name for american fans to identify a london team by because the london redcoats, Teapots and colonizers probably won’t do. 
the london Wizards 
england is probably most known for J.k. rowling and harry potter, so obviously the best name is the london wizards. or the london 9 and 3/4’s or anything that refer­ences the world of hogwarts. it doesn’t even matter if the washington wizards have the name already. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
bouts 
conTinued from page 11 
mcgovern gained control of the match. The second round opened very defensively, before a flurry from mcgovern put kau on the ropes. kau attempted to fight more aggressively, but mcgovern put up a strong defense and landed punches. kau started the third round with a very strong flurry that kept her in the fight, but mcgovern replied with a combi­nation of jabs at the end to secure the unanimous victory. 
ava stachelski def. Caitlyn “be a Champ” beauchamp 
both fighters began defensively, but senior ava stachelski took the early advantage. stachelski dodged many of junior caitlyn beauchamp’s punches and con­nected on multiple jabs of her own that were well timed. stachelski continued to avoid the pasquerilla west resident’s attacks while landing precise jabs for most of the fight, showing off her quick footwork in the second round. although beauchamp managed to corner stachelski and land a combination of punches in the third round, stachelski held on to win by unanimous decision. 
emmie “drop, lock and” Popovich def. lauren mathias 
lewis junior emmie popovich and pasquerilla west sophomore lauren mathias showcased their tough defenses throughout the match. early in the first round, both fighters managed to land a few quick punches, but each box­er focused on holding back early. popovich started to seize the ad­vantage in the second stanza, as she connected on occasional jabs while remaining strong defen­sively. she continued to defend well in the third round, and at the end of the fight, she landed a pair of strong jabs to ensure the win by unanimous decision. 
rachel Francis def. mackenzie “mac attack” smith 
The fight began with impres­sive footwork from both fighters, but walsh sophomore rachel francis took control of the fight late in the first round. despite sophomore mackenzie smith’s quick movements and defense, francis connected on several jabs. her momentum continued into the second round, as she landed more right hooks. smith started the third round aggressively but francis’s defense remained strong. as both fighters slowed down late in the match, francis landed the necessary blows to earn her the victory by unani­mous decision. 
maggi “magi” long def. maleina Cook 
badin junior maggi “magi” long took on off-campus gradu­ate student melinda cook. long commenced the bout with force, throwing six to seven jabs at a time while cook responded with a combination of hooks and crosses. in the second and third rounds, long and cook continued to throw combina­tion punches. long’s focused on throwing several jabs and cross combinations aimed at her oppo­nent’s head and moving down to the abdominal area. cook put in a good effort, at one point throw­ing an uppercut that forced long into the corner of the ring, but she fell short of gaining an advantage. long won the bout by unanimous 


decision.  
kathryn  “the  kicker”  
thompson  def.  arantxa  
“the  hispanic  Causing  

Panic” Garcia escobar 

lewis sophomore kathryn “the kicker” Thompson faced farley sophomore arantxa “The hispanic causing panic” garcia escobar in one of the most intense bouts of the night. in the first round, escobar came out strong, throwing sets of jabs and hooks to attack Thompson’s head. in re­sponse, Thompson threw a coun­terpunch, knocking escobar’s headgear off. The second and third rounds followed a similar pattern of jab and cross combi­nations by escobar. each time escobar drew back, Thompson responded by counterpunching, knocking off escobar’s headgear twice more. in the third round, Thompson threw a body shot at escobar, who proceeded to stumble towards the edge of the ring. Thompson won the bout by unanimous decision. 
molly allare def. karlee blanchard 
off-campus senior molly allare dominated pasquerilla east sophomore karlee blanchard. allare threw the first punch be­fore blanchard responded with a combination of uppercuts and jabs. both fighters ended the first round in a standstill. in the sec­ond round, allare’s slight edge grewt as she threw jab and hook combinations. blanchard threw triple uppercut combinations, but  her inability to match the punches thrown by allare made the outcome clear. The third round proved to be decisive, with allare’s consistency and endur­ance resulting in her victory by unanimous decision. 
megan “Ferocious” Fuerst def. mylan “mylance” Jefferson 
off-campus senior megan “ferocious” fuerst used a con­servative strategy against ryan sophomore mylan “mylance” Jefferson. Jefferson took the early edge with numerous triple com­binations. fuerst held back at first, throwing combinations of controlled jabs and a single powerful hook for the head. in the second round, fuerst contin­ued the combinations but with greater force, causing Jefferson to stumble. after this, Jefferson threw combinations with little accuracy. Jefferson did, however, successfully dodge fuerst’s jabs. ultimately, fuerst took the bout by unanimous decision. 
shannon “shake down” hodges def. laura “dairy Queen” lebrun 
The intrahall tension was high as sophomore shannon “shake down” hodges faced fel­low cavanaugh resident junior laura “dairy Queen” lebrun. lebrun concentrated her early jab-hook combinations on the sides of hodges’ head. in the first round, le brun defended herself with quick hooks and upper­cuts against hodges’ strategy of throwing few punches with im­pressive force. in the second round, hodges showed off her endurance by increasing her number of hook-hook-uppercut­uppercut combinations aimed at lebrun. at one point, lebrun appeared to mount a comeback as she pushed hodges across the ring. however, le brun’s efforts fell short, as hodges took the bout by unanimous decision. 
rebecca “brick house” hauserman def. Carly “knock ‘em outta” syta 
off-campus senior carly “knock ‘em outta” syta started out strong against pasquerilla west sophomore rebecca “brick house” hauserman. syta kept her hands up early and threw mostly uppercuts to the sides of hauserman’s head, while hauserman retaliated with hook­jab-hook combinations. in the second and third rounds, the bout turned into a battle of endurance. syta increased her combinations in the middle of the match, utiliz­ing a series of controlled hooks followed by a strong jab. however, syta eventually succumbed to hauserman’s quick uppercuts and jabs and the bout ended with syta pushed against the edge of the ring. hauserman came out with the victory by unanimous decision. 
kim “kimbo slice” smith def. Claire “Princess” Purcell 
lewis senior kim “kimbo slice” smith defeated pasquerilla west junior claire “princess” purcell. in the first round, purcell came out strong, forcing smith against the edge of the ring. purcell did not waver, endlessly throwing combination after combina­tion while smith retaliated with a couple of hook-and-jab com­binations. midway through the second round, smith turned the bout around by taking advantage of purcell’s exhaustion. by the end of the third round, smith was throwing approximately three times as many jabs and hooks as purcell. with both fighters push­ing themselves until the end, it was unclear if smith’s endurance would overcome purcell’s im­pressive first round. ultimately, smith won by split decision. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | The observer 

bouts 
conTinued from page 12 
as mckown dominated. mckown was given a unanimous-decision victory over baumann. 
Jessica “Cold as Ice” Frio def. anneliese “the reach” rinaldi 
This fight initially looked like a draw, with sophomore Jessica frio and junior anneliese rinaldi matching up in height, reach and skill. both fighters had their own impressive moments in the fight. in the second round, rinaldi land­ed blows to the face but was unable to take control of the match. in the third and final round, frio and rinaldi each made their case to advance to the finals, but neither did so in dominating fashion. The judges eventually gave the split-decision victory to frio. 
Jenna Ivan def. yomara “Puerto rican thunder” acevedo 
Junior Jenna ivan and sopho­more yomara acevedo opened their bout by trading punches at the center of the ring, with nei­ther boxer showing any superior­ity. in the second round, the two evenly-matched fighters traded punches. near the end of the third round, ivan landed a strong punch that caused the referee to stop the fight and check on acevedo. The two fighters met in the center of the ring for a hug moments be­fore hearing the judges’ decision, which was unanimous in favor of ivan. 
shannon “shagedorn” hagedorn def. kathryn “kitty kat” Cotter 
senior shannon hagedorn de­feated sophomore kathryn cotter by unanimous decision, land­ing a series of hard right blows to cotter in the second and third rounds. The momentum volleyed back and forth between the two fighters in the opening round as neither fighter was able to land particularly strong punches. in the final two rounds, however, hagedorn took over, as she landed a series of jabs with her right hand. The judges unanimously deter­mined hagedorn to be the victor. 
kristen “Power house” Pieczynski def. Izzy “I-Z­Z-y Put my name in bold” hillberg 
in a closely fought match, soph­omore kristen pieczynski from pangborn defeated junior izzy hillberg in a split decision. both fighters were evenly matched in the first two rounds of the fight, as the two traded a series of right punches and jabs with each other in the early going. coming out with more energy in the final round, pieczynski’s endurance gave her an advantage, as she was able to finish the fight with a strong right-hand punch and ultimately tilt the bout in her favor. This concluding round effort secured a victory for pieczynski, as she won the match by split decision. 
morgan mcCann def. Jessica “the Princess” balko 
senior morgan mccann used ju­nior Jessica balko’s height against her, as she delivered a series of punches to balko’s midsection while staying low to the ground. balko responded by using her long reach, landing a few jabs with her right glove, but mccann avoided balko’s offensive attack. by the con­clusion of the third round, mccann had captured the fight’s momen­tum. The judges unanimously awarded mccann the victory. 
therese “the beast” Cushing def. mary “mare the bear” brosnan 
sophomore Therese cushing came out with strong energy in the first round, as she backed fellow sophomore mary brosnan against the ropes multiple times by de­livering a series of hard right jabs. The referee was forced to stop the match three times during the first two rounds because of cushing’s onslaught of punches. cushing 
paid adverTisemenT 

was able to sustain this energy throughout the remainder of the fight, as the sophomore delivered a decisive hard right jab in the match’s final round, securing the victory. cushing defeated brosnan by unanimous decision. 
sam “I am” davies def. michelle “It’s hot in here” summers 
sophomore sam davies out­lasted junior michelle summers in this bout, as she was able to pull away from summers in the fight’s final round. both fighters seemed evenly matched in the fight’s open­ing two rounds, but davies took control and came out of the gates strong in the final stanza. she had more energy than summers, con­necting on a number of jabs to secure a victory by unanimous de­cision over summers. 
Colby  “hammer  down”  
hoyer  def. sarah “Peaches”  
toner  

with a clear height advantage over junior sarah Toner, senior colby hoyer started the fight with tremendous energy, landing a number of hard jabs in the round’s opening seconds. This forced the referee to end the match early and declare hoyer the victor. hoyer will advance to the next round of the tournament after winning a refer-ee-stopped contest. 
katie martin def. erin sweeney 
Juniors katie martin and erin sweeney were both able to land powerful punches on one another in the first and second rounds. martin gained some momentum over sweeney towards the end of the second round. she carried this into the final round, when she forced sweeney to fight defen­sively throughout the last stanza. by landing a series of punches in the match’s final minute, martin earned a unanimous-decision vic­tory over sweeney. 
val “valliswag” Williams def. mercedes “merciless” de la rosa 
The fight started defensively, with both fighters showing im­pressive footwork and movement. neither fighter was able to land many punches. val williams, a senior from pangborn, eventually seized the advantage in the match, but fellow pangborn sophomore de la rosa used her quick feet to prevent williams from landing many punches. williams managed to land some well-timed punches in the first two rounds, and as the fight opened up in the third and both fighters boxed far more ag­gressively, williams got the better of de la rosa to win by unanimous decision. 
maddie mcGovern def. Jennifer kau 
senior Jennifer kau and sopho­more maddie mcgovern, both from pasquerilla east, started the fight offensively and traded sev­eral jabs. kau was more effective early on, but both fighters slowed down towards the end of the first round. before the end of the round, 
see bouTs PaGe 10 The observer |  Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



m soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
irish have pitched just one shutout in their last nine games. after four in the first eight games of the sea­son, clark and the irish defenders will surely want to record a clean sheet or two in the postseason. 
but on the flip side, notre dame has only twice allowed its op­ponents more than one goal in a game — in back-to-back matches last month against michigan and louisville. 
and to be honest with you? i’m not sure the irish need to keep regular clean sheets in order to find postseason success. for me, not conceding first — and limit­ing it to conceding just once — is more important. “goals change games” is one of those tired clichés in the soccer world but it is often true, especially when one team is a clear favorite — a situation the irish are likely to face on multiple occasions this postseason. if the irish score first in such a game, they force their opponent to open up a little in search of a goal. That in turn leaves the opponent more open at the back — and as time goes on, the irish are more likely to stretch the lead to 2-0 or even 3-0 than their opponent is to level scores. 
but if notre dame goes behind early, it will have to chase — and its opponent can sit behind the ball the rest of the game. it’s a situation the irish have had some struggles with this year and it brings us to the last part ... 
a bit of luck 
if you look at notre dame’s loss­es this year, two of them are nearly mirror images of one another. back on sept. 8, the irish fell 1-0 to kentucky despite outshooting the wildcats 18-5. kentucky scored on its only chance of the half, a coun­terattack with less than a minute remaining in the match. 
oct. 3 produced another similar game against a lesser opponent. This time, the irish outshot boston college 19-3 — and while the eagles’ goal came in the first half rather than the final seconds, it still represented another night in which notre dame couldn’t get the “luck of the irish.” 
a pesky opponent with an organized defense and a quality goalkeeper can keep even the best attacking teams at bay — and on the flip side, a good counterattack can be very, very hard to defend. 
it is a year where no single team has really staked a claim to being title favorites. The irish have three losses and four draws, yet still at no. 4 in the coaches’ poll. no team in the country has fewer than two losses. a team like last year’s one-loss notre dame team is just not out there. 
so, what are the chances the irish run the tables? 
i’m not sure. but i wouldn’t feel all too confident betting against them. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
bouts 
conTinued from page 16 
Griffin 
The second match of the night featured off-campus senior dionne sandoval against renee griffin, a farley sophomore. sandoval got going early by land­ing multiple blows within the first ten seconds of the fight. This flurry set the tone for the rest of the match, forcing griffin to fight de­fensively. The second round was similar to the first, with griffin struggling to keep sandoval at bay. sandoval started the final round by pummeling griffin with a combination of blows to the head and body, which prevented griffin from rallying. sandoval was de­clared the winner by unanimous decision. 
erin o’brien def. Courtney Wright 
The third bout of the night pit­ted erin o’brien, a  lewis senior, against courtney wright, a farley sophomore. The taller wright tried to go on the offensive early, but o’brien matched her jab for jab. after one round, the two were evenly matched. wright started the second round strong, but o’brien battled back, keeping the bout in a stalemate. during the fi­nal round, the fighters went punch for punch, with o’brien landing a right hook in the final seconds. The winner of this bout was o’brien by unanimous decision. 
victoria White def. Cecelia allison 
The fourth match-up was be­tween victoria white, a ryan se­nior, and cecelia allison, a  welsh family freshman. white started the bout strong with an early up­percut. white performed at a high level in the first round by con­necting on jabs to set up strong punches to allison’s head. white continued her dominance in the second round by landing two quick uppercuts, which stopped the fight as allison was treated for a bloody nose. white did not slow down in the third round and went on to defeat allison by unanimous decision. 
rachel nave def. shelby Clingen 
The fifth bout of the night saw rachel nave, a graduate student, fight against ryan junior shelby clingen. The smaller nave found success with a unique technique. nave kept her left hand in front of clingen’s face to obscure her vision while connecting on jabs with her right hand. in the second round, nave came out strong, but clingen managed to fight her way back. The third round was largely a stalemate, with nave land­ing a few body shots only to have clingen answer back with a few shots of her own. after three hard rounds, nave was declared the winner by unanimous decision. 
hannah skrbis def. maggie best 
The night’s sixth match fea­tured lewis junior hannah skrbis against maggie best, an off -campus senior. skrbis started the fight vigorously, connecting on multiple jabs to best’s head while dodging her attempted punches. Twice in the first round, the of­ficial had to stop the fight for best to readjust her headgear. skrbis carried her dominance into the second round by forcing best onto the ropes twice. skrbis’ powerful right hook proved to be too much for best and at t the end of the third round, skrbis was declared the winner by unanimous decision. 
amanda “boxing Panda” leung def. mia “the hulk” hogan-davis 
The night kicked off in ring a with a bout between senior amanda leung of lyons and sophomore mia hogan-davis of pasquerilla east. as soon as the bell sounded, both fighters came out swinging. each landed several good sequences. after a flurry of jabs, the two backed off for the rest of the round. The second round featured much of the same, with leung landing a nice sequence of punches. in the third round, leung came out firing and had hogan-davis pinned against the ropes on two separate occasions. leung won a by unanimous deci­sion against hogan-davis. 
victoria Janssen def. kiley “khaleesi” Cox 
The second fight in ring a pit­ted badin junior kiley cox  against lewis junior victoria Janssen. Janssen had a very strong start to the first round and landed mul­tiple shots to the head along with some body blows. cox countered with a sequence of blows to the head at the end of the round. cox continued the momentum she had built into the second round and put Janssen on the defensive. The third round was very even, as both fighters opted for quick punches instead of holding out for one big one. when the decision was announced, Janssen won a split-decision victory. 
Grace “In your Face” Choe def. Caroline “string bean” skulski 
Junior grace choe from ryan battled sophomore caroline skulski, from lewis. in the first round and throughout the match, both fighters were very quick on their feet. in the second round, choe gained a slight advantage with her excellent footwork and speed. she employed the strategy of allowing skulski to attack her and then counterattacking, catch­ing skulski off balance.  at the end of the third round, choe won by unanimous decision. 
liz “beast from the east” Zolper def. lauren “Fierce” Pierce 
pasquerilla east senior liz Zolper took on farley lauren “fierce” pierce. in the first round, Zolper put pierce on the defensive and used her aggressive fighting style to land multiple body blows. in the second round, Zolper con­nected on two low blows and was reprimanded by the referee both times. pierce started strong in the third round, and Zolper moved away from the body blows she used in the first two rounds, opt­ing instead for head shots. even though pierce gave a strong ef­fort, Zolper won by unanimous decision. 

elizabeth “tiny texan” vista def.  monica ulrich 
lyons monica ulrich, a sopho­more took on mcglinn sopho­more elizabeth vista. The first two rounds were very even, with ulrich landing some solid punch­es, even knocking vista’s headgear off-kilter and forcing the match to be halted temporarily. vista came out swinging in the third round, but ulrich countered with a strong sequence of her own. both fight­ers ended the bout strong, and the judges took a long time before crowning a winner. when the decision came down, it was an­nounced that vista had won by split-decision. 
nikki murgas def. margaret “boom boom Pow” Zhao 
in the sixth fight of the night in ring a, pangborn junior nikki murgas, fought fellow ju­nior margaret Zhao from farley. murgas came out very strong in the first round and landed mul­tiple hard punches. she favored her right hand, using strong up­percuts and hooks. Zhao ducked a few punches to start the second round, but murgas recovered and kept Zhao on the defensive. The third round was much of the same, and murgas won by unani­mous decision. 
“Wouldn’t Want to meet her in an” ali Gibson def. kat “Claws out” Gonzales 
This all-pasquerilla east matchup saw an even matchup as junior kat gonzales danced around and tied up gibson, a fel­low junior, several times. after a first round in which neither fight­er had a clear edge, both boxers came out in the second throw­ing a flurry of punches, going toe to toe. gonzales began the third round with another maelstrom of punches, but gibson coun­tered in a strong fashion, landing a ferocious right hook that caused gonzales to wobble momentarily. moments before the final bell, the referee stopped the fight to ensure gonzales could continue. The limited number of strong punches that gibson landed ultimately proved enough to earn her the unanimous decision victory. 
katie “house” heussman def. elia Castillo 
Junior katie heussman had the clear height and reach advantages over fellow junior elia castillo, and she used it to her advantage in the opening round. nevertheless, castillo pushed her opponent to the ropes on a number of oc­casions. heussman and castillo danced around each other for the entire second round. The final round followed the same story, as each fighter landed a few blows and pushed her opponent back, but neither took control. The fight came down to the judges, who gave a split-decision victory to heussman. 
shannon “the Glommer” bugos def. ellen “de dangerous” mcCourt 
in another well-fought bout, junior shannon bugos came out landing every punch she threw. between  flurries of punches from bugos, sophomore ellen mccourt danced out of trouble and landed a number of punches. mccourt opened the second round pas­sionately and made the bout up-for-grabs. bugos responded with a strong start to the last round, forc­ing the referee to stop the fight at one point. once action resumed, the fighters traded punches, with bugos earning an advantage over mccourt. at the final bell, the fighters embraced while an­ticipating the judges’ decision, a 
unanimous-decision  victory  in  
favor of bugos.  
allison  “knock  down”  
mckown  def.  Grace  
baumann  

Though both fighters were even in reach, senior allison mckown opened the fight on the offensive, pushing junior grace baumann into the corner almost immedi­ately and forcing a stoppage less than 10 seconds into the bout. mckown forced a second stop­page in the first round. The second round followed the same story­line, as mckown landed shots to both the body and the head. The final round continued this trend, 
see bouTs PaGe 11 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT The observer |  Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 





attack the basket, mcgraw said. 
W bball 
allen’s biggest challenge, howev­
conTinued from page 16 
er, will be guiding a younger team mcgraw said. as point guard. 
mcgraw added she was pleased “i think for her, this year is ac-with the progress the freshmen tually going to be harder in some made during the preseason. ways because last year, playing 
“i’m so happy with the fresh-with a veteran team who knew men right now,” mcgraw said. “… where to be and always in the i think the more comfortable they right spots, she didn’t have to lead get — and they’re not there yet — or direct them,” mcgraw said. but the more comfortable they “now, she’s looking at really help-a tough acc schedule, but also a dynasty is a program whose 

hadley 

matchups with two of last year’s success extends beyond the ef­get, they are really going to be re-ing people get in the right spots … 
conTinued from page 16 

final four teams, maryland and forts of one or two great players. Johnson dealt with injuries dur-bigger challenge for her this year.” 
ally good players for us.” so i think mentally, it’s gonna be a 

up all that slack herself. connecticut. brittney griner led baylor to two ing the preseason, so she hasn’t The team’s chemistry has not 
The squad’s returning point Those grudge matches come final fours, but once she gradu­had as much of an immediate been tested in regular-season 
guard, sophomore lindsay allen, back-to-back dec. 3 and 6, early ated, the lady bears struggled. impact in practice as Turner and competition yet, but so far, the 
started 37 games last season, but on in notre dame’s schedule. on the other hand, teams like westbeld, mcgraw noted, but all signs point to a positive group dy­
will have to take on a significantly if the irish want to prove they connecticut and Tennessee three have potential to contribute namic, loyd said. 
expanded role after a year of play-deserve their no. 3 spot in the ap consistently found ways to stay this season. “we’re goofy,” she said. “we 
ing in the shadows of veteran preseason poll, they need to be competitive year after year, no Junior guard Jewell loyd, a have a group text going around; 
players. ready. These two games will de-matter who graduated. There scoring leader for the irish since we stay in contact with each oth-
The irish will also have to fine notre dame’s regular season. is no rebuilding year in storrs, her freshman campaign, said she er; we make jokes, and even when 
integrate three freshmen who similarly, this season has the connecticut. That’s what the irish is not too worried about the fresh-things get hard, we know some-
are undeniably talented, but will potential to define the program as need to prove this year – that they men taking on their first colle-one’s going to make us laugh and 
almost certainly have a learning a whole. if this team can weather can still win even when they lose giate-game action. kind of loosen up the air and loos-
curve. forwards brianna Turner the loss of stars like mcbride and three great starters. “i think the freshmen that we en the tension up a little bit, and i 
and kathryn westbeld are both achonwa, and advance to fifth building a dynasty is increas­have now, they aren’t intimidated think with this group, no one’s re-
five-star recruits that add valu-straight final four, notre dame ingly difficult. as the women’s by anything,” loyd said. “i mean ally scared of anything.” 
able length to notre dame’s front will be more than a great team or game develops and grows, better obviously you walk in the gym, mcgraw agreed the team has 
court, but they need time to accli-a one-hit wonder. it will be a full-and better players increase the and you see everyone cheering, meshed well. 
mate themselves into mcgraw’s fledged dynasty. talent pool and go to different and it’s really loud, that’s some-“They get along great,” mcgraw 
princeton offense. ncaa women’s basketball has schools, giving more and more thing that’s overwhelming. but said. “The chemistry’s terrific. 
all of this is not to say that plenty of perennial contenders. programs the opportunity to once the ball’s in the air, and you actually, i would like to see a little 
notre dame cannot win a na-squads like maryland, duke and crash the party. every game is tip, it’s go time, and i think that more intention, a little more com­
tional championship. i would baylor are highly ranked in pre-tougher now. we do a great job in practice of peting. i think i would like to see 
never bet against mcgraw’s abil-season polls year after year. but This makes the possibility of an making sure that they’re ready for that more because this is just a 
ity to coax the very best out of her notre dame has the potential to irish dynasty all the more impres­that.” team that really gets along so well. 
players. Just don’t expect another go beyond these teams and reach sive. it certainly won’t be easy, but loyd is positioned to serve as They’re so nice. i’d like to see that 
37-game win streak this season. rarified air. like i said, don’t bet against muffet one of the leaders for this group, mean streak every now and then.” 
mcgraw certainly doesn’t an-only three teams have reached mcgraw. along with junior guard michaela The irish tip off for their ex­
ticipate a smooth ride to the final five final fours in a row: lsu, mabrey and sophomore guard hibition against ferris state on 

four. at the media day, she said stanford and connecticut. even Contact Greg Hadley at lindsay allen, mcgraw said. wednesday at 7 p.m., in purcell 
that the team’s inexperience will mighty Tennessee, one of the ghadley@nd.edu last year, allen impressed pavilion. 
be a big challenge early on in the greatest programs of all time,     The views expressed in this as a first-year point guard and 
season. couldn’t manage the feat under column are those of the author strengthened her game in the off-Contact Samantha Zuba at 
it doesn’t help that the irish legendary pat summitt. notre and not necessarily those of season, improving her ability to szuba@nd.edu 
will not only have to deal with dame is just one step away. The Observer. 
paid adverTisemenT the country,” kelly said. “nobody 
Football 
else does it that way. They put on 
conTinued from page 16 
teams that are clearly glorified kelly said. “i think we said to him byes. we don’t operate that way. about three weeks in, you’re ei-That to me is strength of sched­ther gonna quit, or you’re gonna ule in terms of the way we put be one of the best players that’s it together. if it’s not evaluated ever played here because we’re that way, there’s nothing i can do hard on him. i mean, really hard about it.” on him.” 
kelly said after being injured Injury and academic and after alerting his parents updates and determining a plan for sur-sophomore linebacker James gery, schmidt’s next focus was onwualu (concussion testing) working with morgan. was cleared for practice monday, 
“That’s just Joe, he’ll absolutely kelly said, and junior defensive be working with us as soon as we lineman Jarron Jones (ankle get him out of surgery and get sprain) responded well to treat-him up and around,” kelly said. ment and will be “full-go” at it’ll be a coach on the field for us.” practice Tuesday. 
Junior defensive lineman top-15 tussle sheldon day (brachial plexus) 
a win on saturday against the is cleared for practice, kelly sun devils (7-1, 5-1 pac-12) would said, and senior linebacker ben give the irish its first win against councell (slight calf sprain) and a team still ranked in the top 25. graduate student cornerback notre dame, though, is one of cody riggs (foot strain) will three teams in the nation to have practice Tuesday. never played an fcs program. senior safety eilar hardy, who 
“i think you’d take [our first had been withheld from prac­eight games] versus other teams tice and competition during the that have really had glorified academic investigation, has not byes in their schedule,” kelly been fully cleared, kelly said. said. “we’re hoping to get that this 
The irish were ranked 10th week,” kelly said of the clear-in the initial rankings by the ance. “we’ll see how that pans college football playoff selec-out. if we can get clearance on tion committee Tuesday. The eilar, he would be prepared and next batch of rankings will be re-ready this week to play.” leased Tuesday night at 7:30 p.m. 
“we go into this putting to-Contact Mike Monaco at gether the toughest schedule in jmonaco@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | The observer 

CrossWord | will shorTZ 
Across 40 K2 and 66 Part of the U.S. 1 Muslim pilgrim’s Kilimanjaro: Abbr. that’s usuallydestination first with election
43 Pitcher Hershiser 
6 Indian prince returns 10 Kemo ___ 44 Prefix with 
67 Some Scots 14 Map collection dynamic 68 One giving orders 15 “’Tis a pity” 48 Tennis champion 69 Alimony givers or 
16 Shortly, to a poet with a stadium receivers 17 Bloodhound’s trail named after him 70 Precipitationaround 32°
18 Move like a 
52 ___ the Impaler 
butterfly 53 Largest asteroid Down
19 Watch chains in the solar 1 Pas’ mates 
20 Second first lady 
system 2 Catchall abbr. 
23 Daydream 
3 Butcher’s knife 
54 Digestion aids 
25 Doctorate grillings 
4 Down Under 27 Declare 56 Achieved great capital 28 American Dance fame … or what 5 Up and about Theater founder 20-, 28-, 35- and 6 San ___, Calif. 
32 Mister : English :: 48-Across did? 7 “That’s ___ ask” 8 First corner after 
___ : German 60 Erica who wrote 
“Go” in Monopoly
33 Part of the eye “Fear of Flying” 
9 Dashiell Hammett 
around the pupil 
61 Winter frost hound 34 Football field 
10 African big-game 
62 ___ Circus 
units: Abbr. (ancient Roman hunt 
35 Oscar-winning 11 Deviation from 
stadium)
actor for “Little the standard Miss Sunshine” 65 Ye ___ Shoppe 12 Winter Olympics vehicle 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Officer on a PT boat: Abbr. 21 Actress Scala 22 “___ say!” 23 Cheerleader’s cheer 24 Garden of Eden woman 26 The “S” of GPS: Abbr. 29 Lab containers 
30 Like the verb “be” in manylanguages: Abbr. 
31 Suffix with no-good 36 No-good sort 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

Puzzle by Susan Gelfand 
37 Airport info: Abbr. 46 Comic Charlotte 57 “My country, ’tis 38 Grant-giving org. of ___”
47 Gets too high, for 39 Special short? 58 April 1 news Operations story, maybe
warrior 49 Property dividers that may need 59 Comfort
40 PC alternative clipping
41 Vibrating effect 60 Occupation 42 Leaves high and 50 Card game for 63 Corrida cheer 
dry romantics? 64 Across-the­
45 Target for a 51 Photo lab abbr. 
certain bark Atlantic flier of beetle 55 Witty put-downs old, briefly 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
hIGhly PunlIkely | chrisTopher brucker 
sudoku | The mepham group 


dome nuts | aleXandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: keep an open mind, but be realistic when it comes to your goals this year. listen to what others say and observe what’s going on around you and you will find a unique way to express what you want and carry on with your plans. communication will make the difference between failure and success. ask questions and avoid mistakes. your numbers are 6, 17, 13, 27, 34, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): consider your motives before you ask for something that may be unreasonable. you stand a better chance of getting what you want if you are willing to give something in return. offering an incentive can make your plans move forward faster. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you may want to look into upgrading your skills or discussing opportunities with your colleagues or boss. an opportunity to make a move that will help you explore new avenues is apparent. don’t settle for less when you can have more. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen carefully, but don’t make financial, medical or legal decisions until you see enough proof that you are making the best choice. nothing is as it appears, and time is on your side. a home improvement project will make your life easier. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): refrain from making changes based on what others do or say. Trust your own judgment and believe in your abilities. a romantic adventure will help you revitalize an important relationship that can be so much more. choose equality over giving up. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t give in to depression when you have so much going for you. expand your interests and visit destinations that provide hope and offer you incentives. don’t let anyone or anything drag you down. you have what it takes to excel. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): community events will be exhilarating. express your thoughts, and the changes you want to make will draw some people in and push others away. it will be a quick way to weed out who you want or don’t want in your life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotions will spin out of control, disrupting your day. Try to get along with everyone and step away from anyone looking for a fight. an intelligent approach and generous, well-meaning people will keep you out of harm’s way. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t give in to big talkers trying to sell you something you don’t need. focus on home and conserving rather than spending and adding to your stress. uncertainty regarding a job is best treated cautiously. look for ways to lower your overhead. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can raise your standard of living if you make the right moves. opportunity knocks and travel or relocation can play a role in what you learn, gain or change to improve your lifestyle and future prospects. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): indecision will strike if someone puts pressure on you. back away and take a moment to figure out how you want to handle what’s going on around you. being productive and doing the best job possible should be your main concern. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look at potential opportunities and partnerships, but don’t make a commitment until you have had a chance to consider doing your own thing. don’t fold under pressure or you will lose equality as well as control. protect your health. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look for a deal or draw up an agreement. negotiate and take control of whatever situation develops. you have more going for you than you realize. put your plans in motion. celebrate your win with someone you love. 


Birthday Baby: you are an instigator, an organizer and a planner. you are adaptable and proactive. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
VAYEH  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CLIRE  

ICAEEP PINOOS  
 


Print answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: EVOKE MADLY MIFFED DRENCHSaturday’s 
Answer: When the Rebel Alliance took on the Empire in softball, they played on a — FORCE FIELD 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer |  Wednesday, november 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
men’s soCCer 
irish need a little luck to repeat 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 
what makes a championship team? 
when it comes to soccer, three traits rise to the top as being the most important — a consistent goalscorer, a quality defense and a bit of luck. 
so, as no. 4 notre dame prepares to enter the acc Tournament this week, which of those traits does it possess — and is it enough to make the irish na­tional title contenders once again? 
the consistent goalscorer 
almost every top team has one. real madrid has cristiano ronaldo, barcelona counters with lionel messi. last year atlético madrid soared to new heights thanks to diego costa. psg has Zlatan, bayern munich has robert lewandowski and man city has sergio agüero. 
The point? To win in this sport, you almost have to have one (or two). Take last year’s irish outfit for example — once the postseason started, junior midfielder patrick hodan was as consistent as a play­er can be. en route to the national championship, the irish played six tournament games — two in the acc tournament, four in the ncaa — and hodan notched a goal in every one, even scoring twice in the team’s ncaa semifi­nal win over new mexico. when it mattered most, coach bobby clark’s team was able to count on hodan popping up with a goal to advance to the next round. 
This year? hodan’s started his scoring run earlier. over the last eight games, the midfielder has seven goals, including one in saturday’s 4-1 win at pittsburgh to clinch the acc regular-season title. if his scoring run can con­tinue, it puts the team in a great position to run the tables — taking the acc regular-season title, acc tournament title and a repeat of the national championship. 
the solid defense 
clark said just last week his team has not defended well enough. The 
see m soccer PaGe 12 
Football 

Morgan to start against ASU 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
with irish senior linebacker and leading tackler Joe schmidt sidelined for the season with a fractured and dislocated ankle, the already-green notre dame defense will be even younger saturday when it squares off with no. 11 arizona state. 
irish freshman linebacker nyles morgan is listed as the starter in place of schmidt on this week’s unofficial depth chart. 
“i think everybody will pick up the slack there for the loss of Joe,” irish head coach brian kelly said Tuesday. “i think we’ll make it so nyles doesn’t have to do too much. but he’s going to have to do something as well.” 
schmidt, who handled a bulk of the communication and play-calling responsibilities from the “mike” linebacker position, suffered the injury in the third quarter of notre dame’s 49-39 victory over navy on saturday at fedex field in landover, maryland. Through eight games, schmidt leads notre dame (7-1) with 65 tackles. kelly said the irish will experi­ment Tuesday and wednesday with different communication methods. morgan notched four tackles after schmidt left the game. The 6-foot-1, 230-pound bruiser was the no. 3 inside linebacker and no. 53 overall player in the country in the class of 2014, according to 247sports’ composite rankings. 

“nyles has been here 12 weeks. he’s had 12 weeks of coaching, and [defensive co­ordinator brian] vangorder is 

nd Women’s basketball 
Carrying on a legacy 
Freshmen, vets develop chemistry before exhibition 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
you have to dig back to the 2009­10 season to find the last time notre dame didn’t make at least the final four. 
in three of the four seasons since then, the irish have reached the championship game, missing it just once with a loss in the final four. 
This year, notre dame’s ex­pectations remain as high as always with a roster full of under­classmen. The three irish fresh­men, guard mychal Johnson and forwards brianna Turner and kathryn westbeld, get their first taste of home-game action and atmosphere wednesday in an ex­hibition against ferris state. 
“i think for us, we’re so young that i’m just excited to get the uni­forms on, have a game-day expe­rience, what it’s like in the locker room and how we come out and the fans, really the big picture for the freshmen,” irish coach muffet 
see w bball PaGe 14 


Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
The end game for irish coach muffet mcgraw and notre dame is still the same. nothing’s changed when it comes to how far she thinks her team can go. 
“we’re competing for a national championship,” mcgraw said at the team’s media day oct. 8. “That’s our main goal.” 
Things couldn’t get much dif­ferent for the irish as they begin a new season. if you thought the team faced a tall order replacing skylar diggins in 2013, prepare yourself. This year presents a much tougher challenge. 
The irish have to replace three graduating starters. forwards natalie achonwa and ariel braker and guard kayla mcbride. mcbride and achonwa were both all-americans. 
at guard, traditionally notre dame’s strongest position, junior Jewell loyd will have to carry the offense without the help of mcbride or achonwa. achonwa and mcbride combined with braker to produce over 42 percent of notre dame’s offensive produc­tion last season. loyd can’t pick 
see hadley PaGe 14 
extremely confident in nyles’ ability to go in there and play,” kelly said. “his traits are pretty clear. he’s extremely athletic. we’ll put him in a position where he can help us win a foot­ball game on saturday.” 
kelly said morgan has been “unbelievable” with his prepa­ration this season. 
“we’ve been so hard on him,” 
see fooTball PaGe 14 
baraka bouts 
Boxers 
fight in 
semis 
Observer Sports Staff 
Casey Gelchion def. Judy scharf 
The first bout of the night in ring b was between casey gelchion, a sophomore from badin, and Judy scharf, an off-campus senior. gelchion landed two strong jabs to scharf’s head to start the bout, but scharf countered with a flurry to force a stoppage at the end of the first round. The second round opened with both boxers landing multiple body blows. gelchion’s chinstrap came undone, forcing another stoppage, but once the fight resumed, the barrage contin­ued with both boxers connecting jabs to the head. The third round opened with two powerful jabs to the head by gelchion, but scharf used her long reach to fend her off. as fatigue set in, both boxers traded punches. gelchion was de­clared the winner by unanimous decision. 
dionne sandoval def. renee 
see bouTs PaGe 12 






