THE IndEPEndEnT nEWsPAPER sERVIng nOTRE dAME And sAInT MARy’s 



Administrator analyzes tuition costs 
University Vice President for Finance explains factors behind 3.8 percent tuition increase 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news Editor 
In 1991, when many current seniors were born, undergradu­ate tuition at notre dame cost $13,505. Each year since, notre dame has expanded, and so has its price tag. 
In a Feb. 18 press release, university President Fr. John Jenkins announced that under­graduate tuition at notre dame would increase by 3.8 percent for the 2014-15 school year, bringing the total to $46,237. After room and board, that total is $59,461. 
The increase itself is routine. According to a chart provided by university spokesman dennis Brown, this marks the fifth year in a row in which the change is limited to 3.8 percent, compared to increases recorded as high as 9 percent in the past 10 years. 
Vice President for Finance John sejdinaj said the process of setting tuition for each year is just one dimension of the university’s annual budget plans, which are approved by the Board of Trustees. Jenkins, university Provost Thomas Burish and Executive Vice President John Affleck-graves set goals for the year ahead be­fore beginning the budget cre­ation process, sejdinaj said. 
“We have tried to get guide­lines in place about how we want to think about tuition … and other aspects of the budget,” sejdinaj said. “It’s really tuition, financial aid, salaries [and] ben­efits that are the big drivers. And once we’ve done all those, we see what money is left for other priorities.” 
sejdinaj said the budget com­mittee takes into account the cost of similar “peer institu­tions” when determining tuition guidelines. 
“We don’t want to be too high, and we don’t want to be too low versus our peer groups,” he said. “so we’re always watching what our peers are doing and where we’re at. 
“In the last four years, we’ve been able to look at what we ac­tually need to fund the needs of the university, and we’ve been able to keep it down.” 
specific factors that affect the percent increase each year include compensation and benefits for all employees, “non­salary” components, such as utility costs or information tech­nology services, and building and operational costs of new facilities, according to sejdinaj. The expenses associated with these dimensions depend largely on inflation or other factors out­side the university’s control. 
One behind-the-scenes group that works to streamline 
see TuITIOn PAGE 5 




Archbishop discusses faith 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news Writer 
Archbishop salvatore Fisichella, president of the Pontifical Council for Promoting the new Evangelization and tit­ular archbishop of Vicohabentia, discussed the role of the Church in contemporary culture dur­ing the 2014 Terrence R. Keeley Vatican Lecture on Wednesday. 
Fisichella, who was award­ed an honorary doctorate of law from notre dame in 2006, addressed the Church’s rela­tionship to politics during the lecture in the Hesburgh Center for International studies. He said Catholicism is not an oppo­nent of democracy. 
“On doctrinal matters, Catholicism places human intellects on the same level,” Fisichella said. “It applies the same standard to each person. It likes to blend all social classes at the foot of the same altar, just as they are blended in the sight of god.” 
Believers should avoid a sense of indifference to questions of culture, politics and society, Fisichella said. 

“[They] are not something ex­traneous to us, but something to which we are called to give an answer,” he said. “In every part of the world, Christians are called to bring with their witness a world of love, which would allow us to go beyond the difficulties and the contradic­tions of the moment, in order to restore confidence in every person.” 

Fisichella said the Church today faces many of the same challenges that it has in the past. 
“We are in front of a great chal­lenge between Christianity and the new paganism,” he said. “As in the past, and, unfortunately, also today, those in power try to 
see VATICAn PAGE 3 


Week recognizes women leaders 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news Writer 
To kick off March as Women’s History Month, saint Mary’s student diversity board contin­ued its celebration of Women’s Appreciation Week by recog­nizing women leaders, their accomplishments and their shared history with two on-campus panels. 
during this week, the stu­dent diversity board strives to celebrate the women “within us” rather than implementing a specific stereotype that wom­en must fit, chair of the event 
see WOMEn PAGE 5 

Reporter addresses climate change 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news Writer 
Justin gillis, an environmental reporter for The new york Times, said at a lecture in Hesburgh Library on Wednesday that he wants to awaken people to the ur­gency of the climate change. 
gillis, one of only six American reporters covering the climate crisis full-time defined climate change as “a big, slow-moving, long-term problem.” 
“scientists do not know with any great certainty what will happen if we continue on with business as usual,” gillis said. “scientists can tell us one thing with absolute certainty: That we are running a huge risk.” 
He said rising temperatures in 
see CLIMATE PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining Hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du Lac and saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 south dining Hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices POsTMAsTER send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your pump-up song? 

Ricky Neville 
senior 
Fisher Hall 
“‘I don’t Wanna Be,’ sober sinners.” 
Tyler Sonsalla 
senior 
duncan Hall 
“‘Higher’ by Jay-Z.” 
Joel Hlavaty 
senior 
duncan Hall 
“‘get Free,’ Major Lazer.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Garrett Schmelling 
freshman Fisher Hall 
““Bad Company,’ Five Finger death Punch.” 
Ben Eichler 
senior st. Edward’s Hall 
“‘The Champ,’ ghostface Killah.” 
Chris Tricarico 
junior off campus 
“‘dream Come True,’ Hall and Oats.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Carolyn Hutyra Jack Hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Rebecca O’neil Kit Loughran Abi Hoverman Evan Anderson 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
steph Wulz Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Women’s Basketball Blood Drive Cultural Show: Men’s Boxing: Bengal Spring Town Hall 
Karla Moreno Caroline Lang 
Joyce Center Hammes Bookstore “Fiestang” Bouts Meeting 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Stepan Center Joyce Center Washington Hall The Irish take on North Walk in or by 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 
Corrections 

Carolina. appointment. Filipino dance show. Final matches. With Fr. Jenkins. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Talk: “Discover the Lecture: “Beyond 56th Annual Keynote Address: UK Fellowships 
strives for the highest standards 
Reward in Risk” Text: The Power of Collegiate Jazz “The Catholic Church Screening 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Snite Museum Student-Created Festival and Immigration” Application 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Media” Washington Hall McKenna Hall Workshop 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
By Broadway Actor Hesburgh Library 7 p.m.-11 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
and TEDx speaker 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Tickets sold at the door By Guatemalan Bishop 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Charles Holt. By Curtis Bonk. for $5 for students. Alvaro Ramazzini. In room 242. 


Vatican 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 1 
discredit the adversary through all possible means. 
“From calumny to scandals, from the trivialization of its con­tents, to the isolation and dis­crediting of those who believe, from the marginalization to the derision of what is most pre­cious for the faith. All of these, of course, [occur] under the absent gaze of those who invoke ‘toler­ance,’ which, strangely enough, is a one-way street.” 
Fisichella said Catholics have a great and immediate responsi­bility to society. 
“This is a task which cannot be procrastinated or left only to academic classrooms,” he said. “Of course, the university con­tinues to be the privileged place where thought is formed and where critical reason provokes us to reflect and discover coher­ent solutions. 
“And yet, if we do not find the necessary mediations so that thought becomes a living culture among all peoples, then even the most profound and insightful thought will be ineffective. The thought of being challenged by such an important task should gladden the soul of believers.” 
The life of the Church will always remain bound by the obedience of the word of god, Fisichella said. 

“This constitutes the cause and the primary condition of our existence,” he said. “Without such a constitutive principle, the Church will be simply one of many institutions incapa­ble of being distinct from any other type of social, economic 
“We realize, in fact, that our principal task is to bring the Gospel to all.” 
Salvatore Fisichella 
archbishop 

or political group. The second Vatican Council has many times confirmed this specificity of the Church.” 
Fisichella said the strength of the Church does not come from its number of believers. 
“We are not like those who make the vitality of the faith de­pend on statistics,” he said. “We realize, in fact, that our principal task is to bring the gospel to all. We will never be content until it has reached even the last person on this world.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 

sgA candidates present platforms 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news Writer 
The three tickets running for saint Mary’s student body presi­dent and vice president presented their platforms in the dining hall Wednesday night. 
Juniors nicole O’Toole and Marissa Pie’, who are running for president and vice president, respectively, shared a platform based on increasing commu­nication and voicing students’ concerns. 
O’Toole, who is currently the junior class president, said she was inspired to run in the election after she heard the quote “honor tradition and pioneer change.” she said her ticket seeks to serve as a liaison between the students and College administration. 
“I firmly believe that my experi­ence has prepared me to take on this role,” O’Toole said. “We will work hard to improve commu­nication. We promise [that] stu­dents’ voices are heard.” 
Pie’ currently serves as mar­ket research and media com­mittee co-chair for the student government Association (sgA). she said placing a suggestion box in the dining hall could ben­efit communication between sgA and students. 
Juniors McKenna schuster and sam Moorhead, who are running for president and vice president, also spoke about their platform. schuster, currently the vice presi­dent of internal affairs for sgA, said she aims to emphasize the College’s mission statement. 
Moorhead, currently the social Concerns Committee chair for sgA, said her ticket also plans to explore administrative transpar­ency, an increased role for senate, improved communication and the use of dalloway’s Coffeehouse as a study space or café. she said senate meetings enable stu­dents to provide input on major decisions. 
“Our priority is to promote meetings and ensure students have a way to make their voices heard,” she said. 
Moorhead said she and schuster also want to enhance the saint Mary’s community by increasing attendance at sporting events. 
“It’s important to support each other in endeavors outside of the classroom,” she said. 
Junior presidential and vice presidential candidates Anna ulliman and Elizabeth Kenney presented a platform focused on the legacy of each Belle. They have no prior sgA experience, but they said one of their goals is to foster a more connected community. 
ulliman said her ticket plans to implement Belle Legacy days for students to engage in service one day per semester. ulliman and Kenney said they also plan to host a dinner symposium dur­ing the school year that includes a weekend of alumnae visits as a networking experience for cur­rent and past Belles. 
Kenney said another of her tick­et’s priorities is placing a physical calendar of campus events in the lobby of each residence hall. 
ulliman said each student should be able to make the College her home. 
“We hope we can make [saint Mary’s] a place that is great for the next four years, but also far into the future,” she said. 
Voting opens Monday morning and ends at 11:45 p.m. students can submit their vote on Belle Tower through Orgsync. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


SENATE 
Officers discuss grass­roots action 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news Writer 
At this week’s student senate meeting, student body president Alex Coccia talked about the newest component of student government’s “One is Too Many” sexual as­sault prevention campaign, a series of videos slated for re­lease after spring break. 
“[For the first film,] we’re working with a few [sexual assault] survivors who are willing to talk about their ex­perience,” Coccia said. 
Coccia said an “institution­al support video” will high­light various people at the university who aid victims of sexual assault, and it will also include other resources avail­able to students. Another vid­eo will showcase bystander intervention, Coccia said. 
student body vice president nancy Joyce said she and Coccia do not plan to release the videos through the stu­dent government website. 
“We would like it to be a more grassroots effort,” she said. “We think it will be more meaningful if it comes from the student body.” 
The senate also approved a new student union Board (suB) executive director and passed two resolutions. 
sophomore scott Copeland will replace senior Kaitlyn Keelin at the end of her term as executive director of suB. Keelin said Copeland served as a controller for suB this year and managed the budget and purchases for different suB programs. 
The first resolution passed expresses the senate’s sup­port of “the creation and ac­tions of the food services’ student advisory council.” The council chose its 12 stu­dent members earlier this month. 
The second resolu­
tion  amends  the  wording  
in  student  government’s  
constitution  concern­ 

ing the description of the department of gender Issues. The amendment adds “sexual violence” to the list of stu­dent needs the department of gender Issues pledges to address. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 

Institute 
LIFTs people out of poverty 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news Writer 
Ben Reuler, executive direc­tor of LIFT-Chicago, lectured on the non-profit organization’s work helping people to escape poverty Wednesday in geddes Hall.  
Reuler, a licensed social work­er, leads the Regional Advisory Board at LIFT-Chicago and di­rectly supervises the program team as well as the development and communication team. 
yale university students Kirsten Lodal and Brian Kreiter founded LIFT in 1998. Lodal and Kreiter wanted to establish a neighborhood center where families could receive assis­tance from trained volunteers in their searches for jobs, hous­ing and public benefits. 
sixteen years later, LIFT has spread across the country with 100,000 members in six major cities all with the goal of build­ing personal, social and finan­cial foundations that people need to get ahead. 
According to LIFT’s pam­phlet, “The challenge is to sys­tematically listen to the people you serve and design solutions around what they tell you they need. At LIFT, we call this a human-centered approach to social change.” 
“Every one of us experiences shaky ground moments dur­ing life,” Reuler said. “We all need the same thing: support. For many people, this support comes from LIFT.” 
Reuler specifically described the struggles of Angela Allen, a former beneficiary of LIFT. Allen was experiencing a major “shaky ground moment” when she divorced, received a breast cancer diagnosis, and lost her job. Reuler said LIFT supported Allen’s medical bills, and to­day, she is healthy, employed and an active member in the community. 
Reuler said there were three important goals to address when working to eradicate poverty today. society needs to change the narrative of poverty in this country, disrupt the sta­tus quo and hit for singles be­cause the home runs will come, he said. 
“We all have the power to in­spire change and we certainly all have the power to lift,” he said. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 

Lecture discusses Mexican freedom 
“Today, in the whole world as in Mexico, there is a huge debate on the relation between society, state and religious freedom.” 
However, in 2011, after the issue of abortion was brought into the public arena, the protection of re­ligious freedom as a human right was more seriously discussed, he said. 
“The right to religious freedom stands to every human being, protecting equally unbelievers, agnostics and atheists,” he said. “It is the freedom of professing not-a­religion. It is a right to lead and ex­press our own culture publicly or privately without having to suffer any violence or limitations.” 
In 2012, Article 24 of the Constitution was amended to ensure religious freedom for all. However, certain things are still 
a kind of clarity on the situation that is lacking in their elders.” 
gillis wrote a series on climate change for The new york Times called “The Temperatures Rising,” that is now available as an e-book. He said he is beginning a new se­ries that analyzes whether or not mankind can undo the damage on the climate and how. 
“It will critically vet six or eight of the major proposed sanctions on global warming,” he said. 
In the meantime, gillis said climate justice, a problem root­ed in the fact that those people most directly affected by climate change are not the same people 
PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 
withheld from religious institu­tions, Traslosheros said. 
“Religious organizations cannot own radio or television stations, and members of the clergy can­not hold office, advocate political views or support political candi­dates,” he said. 
The reforms represented a solid first effort at amending the ani­mosity between secularism and religion, he said. 
“Many things are pending in Mexico … This is a very far-reach­ing reform,” he said. “We would be lying if we said that the issue of religious freedom has been solved. It constitutes a first step, a very im­portant one, but also a long way to go.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news Writer 
Jorge E. Traslosheros of the universidad nacional Autónoma de México gave a lecture titled “Constitutional Reform and Religious Liberty in Mexico” on Monday afternoon in the Biolchini Hall of Law. 
The lecture was co-spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute for International studies, the Mexico Working group and the notre dame Law school. 
Traslosheros discussed the his­tory of religious persecution in Mexico and the ongoing struggle in Mexico to achieve religious lib­erty for all. 
“We have gone from calling reli­gion the people’s opiate, as Marxists did, to treating it as the people’s tobacco” Traslosheros said.  “[We now] think it has to be eliminated, an evil that has to be fought against and preferably eradicated, at least from public spaces, because it is harmful to one’s health.” 
After religious freedom was severely restricted by the Constitution of 1917, Mexico be­came a secular state, he said. 
This transition from a Catholic government to a secular one helped contribute to 24 years of religious persecution from 1914 to 1938, which was then followed by cultural persecution that still con­tinues to this day, he said. 
“The constitutional reform of 1992 clarified the legal confines of the different churches in relation to the state, but left unattended the issue of religious freedom as a human right,” Traslosheros said. 
damaging the environment, in­trigues him and his editors. 
gillis said the world’s poorest people, living in coastal places like the Philippines, are in line to be devastated by climate change, but the highest emissions come from urbanized cities. 
gillis said his biggest fear is peo­ple will not start learning about climate change and understand­ing the risks until it is too late. 
“Collective action always be­gins with individual people,” he said. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
Climate 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 1 
the Arctic Circle pose a huge risk for the future, but people fail to see the urgency of the problem, and fossil fuel emissions continue to rise at an accelerating pace. 
“The government is not ad­dressing the problem because they are not being pressured by the people,” gillis said. 
The potential consequences of the climate crisis range from bad to worse, gillis said. At the lower end of the spectrum, peo­ple might have to flee rising seas, he said. On the upper end, a high portion of the Earth’s wildlife might go extinct and humans might reach a point at which they can no longer grow enough food to feed themselves. 
According to gillis, despite a national understanding that cli­mate change is a pressing crisis, there is a lack of motivation to act. In addition, the climate story is not changing much, slowing the issue’s journalistic coverage, he said. 
“The average reporter has real trouble understanding the sci­ence and getting the basics right,” gillis said. 
He said people will inevitably understand the immediacy of cli­mate change’s consequences, but it is important to recognize this sooner than later. 
“I fear it will not be brilliant journalism that finally awakens people, but a sense of danger,” he said. 
gillis said the best way to com­bat this problem is through edu­cation, and he called on college students to help. 
“American universities have been the world’s leader in helping change this problem,” gillis said. “you discovered it, and now you must help find a way out of it.” 
The notre dame Environmental Change Initiative (ECI) is dedicated to the cause of climate change, providing money for faculty to spearhead research programs to solve complex envi­ronmental problems, according to their website. 
The ECI funds research grants for undergraduates interested in climate change, and it is also con­nected to minors in sustainability, energy studies and science, tech­nology and values, according to their website. 
gillis said it is up to the young people of today to take up the ba­ton of climate change because the older generation has failed. 
“To the young people in the audience: This is not a hopeless situation,” gillis said. “As small as you may feel and as big as this problem may seem, you can make a difference. 
“I find among young people 



Women 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 1 
Christin Kloski said. 
As part of the weeklong event, students host speakers and participate in discussions and panels, student diversity Board president Maria del Cardenas said. 
More than anything, the event was meant to celebrate and empower women around the saint Mary’s campus and community, del Cardenas said. 
“I think that we all feel the importance of giving a woman the attention and praise she deserves,” she said. “Especially saint Mary’s women, we have high levels of achievement and participate in an extreme amount of activities on cam­pus, we are making history year after year.” 
saint Mary’s held a professor panel on “Her story” at 6 p.m. in the student Center Lounge on Tuesday to demonstrate the depth of character that de­fies the stereotypical image of women and to discuss what makes professional women who they are today, Kloski said. 
“We want to show that our journey of becoming women is never ending,” she said. “Each student could learn something from the women and use them as a resource to guide them on their own path to becoming a strong, independent women.” 
The panel focused on the empowerment of women, Kloski said. 
“It is acceptable to be vul­nerable, but a woman is also resilient,” Kloski said. “Through a journey, emotion and unknown outcomes, a woman is transformed by each experience.” 
The panel included philoso­phy professor Adrienne Lyles Chockley and communica­tions professor Marne Austin, and each shared her “life sto­ry” with students, Kloski said. 
“[They] are awesome ladies,” Kloski said. “The two were the best options for the panel. Both simply explained that life is full of imperfection, and as women, we must understand that concept.” 
The two women also dis­cussed how life and plans can unexpectedly change, just by the nature of the universe, Kloski said. 
“If life were a set plan, then it would be boring,” she said. 
Austin said she was ap­proached by the student di­versity board to partake in the panel because she lives for women’s empowerment everyday. 
“The reason I’m here at saint Mary’s College is because I believe in the inherent power, brilliance, resilience, heart and compassion of, for and with women and those who identify as gender minorities,” Austin said. 
Kloski said women could act as a huge presence in today’s world every day. 
“What we do in our every­day life guides us to find our path to becoming a woman,” Kloski said. “It is okay to be vulnerable. It is normal to be imperfect.” 
As members of an all wom­en’s college, students at saint Mary’s should build one an­other up and unite to form a place where they can fully ex­press and develop their emo­tional, mental and physical identities, Kloski said. 
“We need to support one an­other as women because we each go through the same dis­crimination,” she said. “It is a recognition that we are all vul­nerable and it is a need for uni­ty to understand perfection.” 
Kloski said an ambition board was held during lunch hour in the noble Family dining Hall on Wednesday to discuss the theme of, “I will be… I am… I admire…” 
“Women live in a patriarchal society in which are voice is limited or hushed,” Kloski said. “This week, we want to hear the ‘hushed’ voices. 
“The week goes in full depth on how to become a woman with not only a voice, but a mind that is not limited but opens it­self to all opportunities.” 
Austin said she has all the hope and confidence in the world for the students of saint Mary’s. 
“[The students] all are full of brilliance, tenacity, and resilience,” she said. “Where we can improve is in the area of perfectionism. There is no such thing as perfect. 
Though Women’s Appreciation Week only runs through Feb. 28, there will be a showing of the film, “Women, War & Peace” on March 5 to cel­ebrate International Women’s day, del Cardenas said. 
“We hope that by the end of the week, students are empow­ered to continue to be catalysts of change, both locally and internationally by hosting di­verse point of views on leader­ship,” del Cardenas said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
Tuition 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 1 
expenses is the Office of Continuous Improvement, which sejdinaj said works across campus to control costs. 
“They look at how we can [streamline] our work flows and our processes to try to save people time, so we don’t have to hire additional employees and we can save hours just by adjusting how we do these processes,” he said. “We have the Office of sustainability that works with buildings like the power plant … to save on our utility costs. 
“There are a lot of things at work. yes, we’re doing tu­ition increases, but we’re also doing these other things and trying to hold down the costs.” 
sejdinaj said in recent years, the budget committee has prioritized investment in financial aid. Available aid has increased at a higher rate than tuition costs, he said. 
“In fiscal year 2000, we were spending about 28 mil­lion on financial aid, and next year we are budgeting 120 million,” he said. “so tuition is going up, but the increase in financial aid is growing three times what tuition is 
PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 
growing.” 
notre dame’s financial aid endowment is relatively high compared to peer universi­ties, and more than 60 per­cent of financial aid comes from this endowment, which is close to $1.5 billion. Having this money allotted for finan­cial aid “takes a lot of pres­sure off tuition increase so the tuition can be used for bigger projects,” he said. 
“Financial aid will still con­tinue to be a priority because we’d like to get that 60 per­cent up closer to 80 percent, so that even more [money] is coming from scholarship en­dowment and that puts less pressure on tuition,” he said. “From a university stand­point, we’ve got to work to keep tuition low, and we’ve got to work to increase finan­cial aid.” 
sejdinaj said the goal is “not to have anyone graduate with more than 10 percent of the cost of four years here in need-based loans.” 
It is impossible to deter­mine exactly what is or is not funded specifically by tuition because that money is just one stream into the larger “pot” of the overall budget, he said. 
“It’s hard to divide the pots, because there’s tuition but we also budget the net in­come from our auxiliaries, so athletics, the various food services and so on,” he said. “It [goes into] one big pot of money, and then we divide it out.” 
The bottom line when ap­proaching the budget model is to think about it in both percentages and actual dollar amounts, sejdinaj said. 
“When we look at the bud­get model, we take the last five years or so and say ‘Okay, where are all the revenue sources? Well, if we increase tuition by this, and salaries go up by this, and inflation goes up by this and so on, how do we make a balance?’” he said. “you do a little back and forth … and you look at it as percentages to see what’s going to happen, and then you look at it in dollars, too, to see what the actual tuition is then. 
“It’s a matter of balance and looking at it from different perspectives.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Puppies and prodigies 
Keri O’Mara 
graphic designer 
Let’s talk about Air Bud. 

Most of us are familiar with the ‘90s film that documents the unexpectedly impres­sive athletic abilities of America’s most loveable golden-Labrador mix and the charming human-animal friendship that comes along the way. 
seems harmless, right? 

not quite. I’ve spent an embarrassing amount of time this semester considering Air Bud through an analytical lens. When you take a step back, disregarding nostal­gia for Buddy and his basketball sneakers, the entire concept of Air Bud becomes ridiculous. 
First, let’s just think about the premise of the movie itself. The yahoo! Movies plot summary reads as follows: “Josh meets a golden Retriever and finds out that he can play basketball.” Even though the plot is based on the athletic abilities of a real-life rescue dog, I’m sure someone must have addressed the fact that it was slightly unrealistic. 
But not only did this movie get pro­duced, it became a franchise. As of this year, there are 14 movies in the franchise. Fourteen. Buddy showcased his talents in a variety of sports and produced equally gifted offspring, stars of the ever-popular spin-off series “Air Buddies.” In addition to being canine athletic prodigies, these puppies also conveniently have the abil­ity to talk. What’s even more impressive is that these English-speaking puppies go on adventures, ranging from visiting Alaska to traveling to outer space, even managing to develop supernatural abilities in the 2013 smash-hit “super Buddies.” 
The topic of Air Bud has become way too important to me recently, much to the an­noyance of anyone who interacts with me. It’s not that I’m angry that a movie about a golden Retriever who loves pudding and sports made somewhere around $23 mil­lion. I’m not even jealous that a four-legged creature is better at sports than I’ll ever be. 
More than anything, I have a newfound appreciation for the film. In a modern society characterized by rationality, it’s refreshing to see the success of a film series based on an absurdly unfeasible portrait of canine athleticism. I’d even go so far as to say the producers of “Air Bud” are cin­ematic revolutionaries. They ingeniously used the loveable charm of Buddy the basketball-playing dog to distract an entire generation of American audiences from the fact that they were watching a movie about a basketball-playing dog. 
I recently discovered that a new “Air Buddies” film is being released in 2015. When asked if I have the desire see what the next outrageous adventure of the canine sports sensations will be, the answer is ‘defi­nitely.’ I’m committed to doing my part in making sure the film legacy of Buddy lives on in all of its blatantly unrealistic glory. 
Contact Keri O’Mara at komara@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bianca Almada 
This is Real Life 

Eurocentrism is the practice of viewing the world from only a European-centered or Western-centered perspective, over­looking the importance of the views and achievements of other cultures. Though everyone’s worldviews are obviously af­fected by their own culture and national identity, refusal to attempt to understand other worldviews or perhaps even to adopt some of their principles is extremely self-centered and ignorant. 
unfortunately, many forms of Eurocentrism are embedded in daily life in the united states, and they are embedded so deeply that most fail to recognize it. 
Through my studies of spanish-American/Latin-American literature with notre dame’s department of Romance Languages and Literatures, my eyes were opened to the value of literature that draws from different cultures and historical tradi­tions. What is deplorable, however, is that without my pursuance of a degree in this field, there is a very good chance I would have never been exposed to these kinds of writings throughout my academic career. 
The focus of the majority of high school literature and history classes in the united states is Eurocentric — on north America and Western Europe. I do not wish to argue that this is necessarily completely negative, as this focus is vital for educating students about the united states’ national and cul­tural identity, as well as fostering an appre­ciation of this identity. 
However, refusing to include sizeable education about the literature and history of other cultures — such as Latin America, Asia, Africa or Eastern Europe — can create ignorance and closed-mindedness. The practice perpetuates the idea that high art only stems from the Western world, while everything else is shoved into a completely different category, perhaps “ethnic,” “inter­national” or even “indigenous.” By the very fact that this kind of literature is viewed as separate, students are subconsciously encouraged to view it as inherently un­equal to that of the Western tradition and therefore as less important, less interesting or less relatable. 
I know it is impossible to cover the key­stones of every culture throughout the course of a school year, or even four or more. However, it is unacceptable that the majority of students graduate from high school with little to no exposure to the lit­erature, history, etc. that comes specifically from cultures other than those of north America and Western Europe, especially when countless works from other tradi­tions are masterpieces in their own right. 
For example, nearly every high school student in the united states is required to read “Huckleberry Finn” by Mark Twain, but very few are required to read even ex­cerpts of “100 years of solitude” by gabriel garcía Márquez, which is considered by multiple scholarly circles to be the great­est novel of the 20th century. The study of literature from other cultures should not necessarily supersede that of American culture, but certain important works should definitely be included in curricula, if only to alert students that intellectual­ism and high art come from places besides north America and Europe. 
Especially in the last five years, various high schools in the united states have attempted to address this problem by adding International Baccalaureate pro­grams. These programs aim to “promote intercultural understanding and respect, not as an alternative to a sense of cultural and national identity, but as an essential part of life in the 21st century.” They do so by offering courses such as “History of the Americas,” “World Religions” and “global Politics.” unfortunately, access to the pro­gram in public schools is still limited. 
The study of literature in the American education system is only one example of the Eurocentrism that is so prevalent in this society. The fact that the term “American” is exclusively used to de­scribe united states citizens, inherently excluding the many other countries that comprise north and south America, is Eurocentric. The fact that places like south America, Asia and Africa are continually stigmatized solely by images of poverty or differing political systems, causing a com­plete overlooking of their positive cultural and intellectual contributions to the world, is Eurocentric. 
In a rapidly globalizing world, it is im­perative that American students get some world perspective. 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
It’s a wonderful life 
Amanda Pea 
The Bubble 

Feeling out of place is a common senti­ment. My parents recently told me about a recruiting event they participated in for my younger sister, Ariana’s, university. My mom loved the chance to brag about her daughter, and my dad was inspired by the conversa­tions he had with alumni. In spite of how much they enjoyed the event, though, my parents explained how they couldn’t help feel ing out of place — like foreigners in a country who don’t know the language or culture. I understood their exact feeling. 
I first felt this type of displacement dur­ing the mandatory diversity week through notre dame’s Contemporary Topics course. Our speakers asked each of us to raise our hands when our family’s salary range was called. I can still feel the sharp pangs of em­barrassment when my hand was the only one raised in a range below $100 thousand. 
This situation brought me back to a story my mom once told me about her first middle school dance. unable to afford a dress for the occasion, my aunt made one for her in a sewing class — a dress my mom absolutely loved and felt beautiful in. Proud and confi­dent, she arrived at the dance and was ridi­culed and teased for her outfit until she left in tears. While no one made fun of me in the moment when my raised hand admitted my family’s income, I felt that what I had been proud of no longer mattered. My backstory was reduced to a statistic the speaker used to prove that “not everyone at notre dame is rich and white.” notre dame wasn’t the place I was promised it’d be. I felt branded, degraded and on display. I felt out of place. 
The speakers had good intentions, and I understood the point they were trying to make. One of the most difficult things to keep in perspective, though, is how to preserve the human dignity and value of the people you talk about or try to help. sometimes, while our intentions are good, we fail to reach true solidarity with another group and miss some of the most important aspects of the problem. 
Like my mom of her dress, I was proud of my life. I celebrated a momentous occasion being the first in my family to go to college. Friends and family shared in my excitement and placed the weight of inspiring their kids on my shoulders. My parents came from a poverty that showed them racism, low-wage jobs and times without food. They dropped out of high school to support their growing family and sacrificed everything to give us what they never had. Because they were always working, my two older sisters essen­tially raised Ariana and me. yet, dad never missed a basketball game and Mom was my girl scout leader. Like anyone else’s, my backstory, and not my family’s income, is an important way to understand true diversity. 
College ultimately made me two differ­ent people. When I’m home, I simplify my speech to avoid seeming pretentious, and at school I try to have enriching experiences on a budget my peers can’t relate to. It’s embar­rassing when your card is declined at a res­taurant and stinks having to opt out of going out because you know there’s not enough money for it. I hurt when my family needs to borrow money, and I’ve broken down when I ran out of flex points because there was no extra money after my car payment kicked in. 
Without financial aid, I couldn’t even dream of being at notre dame. My high school did not prepare me well for college, and working multiple jobs on top of these 15-credit semesters, sports and extracur­riculars exacerbated my eating disorder. All of these stresses are exhausting, and my gPA felt it. Thankfully, I’ve made incredibly sup­portive friends whose light inspired the life I’d like to create for my own children. We’ve learned from each other and helped shape the adults we are turning out to be. 
I still feel displaced, but my perspective certainly has evolved. Lately, I’ve been feel­ing out of place abroad because I can’t afford to enjoy Brazil the way my friends can. But if I ever cry, it’s because my family demon­strates a selfless love that continues to teach me the meaning of Christianity. My dad gave up his dreams of traveling so I could see the world instead, and my mom miracu­lously finds a way to put a little extra in my account. I may feel out of place in the world my parents wanted for me, but their love is all I need to understand my privilege and know that I truly have a wonderful life. 
Amanda Pea is a junior sustainable devel­opment studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 
strong bodies fight, so can you 
Matthew Boomer 
guest Columnist 

This sunday, notre dame’s 84th Annual Bengal Bouts tournament comes to its epic conclusion with championship matches in each weight class beginning at 2 p.m. in Purcell Pavilion. 
I was eliminated by a split decision Tuesday night in the semifinal round in the heavyweight division, but I’ll still be there, because this club is about much more than winning and losing. After the final bell rings and the last victorious hand is raised in the air, the season will be over and notre dame Men’s Boxing will shut its doors until October. But far away, in the streets of dhaka and srimangal and Khalippur in Bangladesh, the impact of our work will be felt long after the lights go out in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The tournament has been heavily pro­moted, and, by now, most of you are sure­ly aware of it. To be honest, I am mostly writing this because these Viewpoint pages are normally full of petty bicker­ing and self-righteous political grand­standing (you know who you are) that I think they could use a healthy dose of perspective. 
Before I begin, I am not at all suggesting we do not have problems in this country. There are people even on this very campus who have had to face poverty, hunger and disease, been vic­tims of crime or natural disaster, endured heartbreaking family hardship or faced harassment, discrimination, even hatred, simply because of who they are. I am not in any way trying to denigrate these people or discount the challenges they have overcome. 

That aside, speaking broadly, if we were to organize problems around the world into weight classes similar to those used in boxing, American problems would generally be bantamweight prob­lems. notre dame students’ problems would generally be flyweight problems. Bengali problems, on the other hand, are heavyweight problems. They are the face-tattooed, ear-munching Mike Tyson of problems. 
Bangladesh is about the size of Wisconsin. Many of you probably live in Wisconsin. It’s a beautiful state. But as an experiment, let’s take Wisconsin and have half the population of the united states move into it, with 80 percent of them living in extreme poverty (less than $2 a day). Wind the economic de­velopment clock back approximately 100 years so there is so little work that the most profitable way to spend your day is digging through the trash for scraps that you can sell in the streets. Throw in a bevy of tropical diseases and flooding that every now and then turns streets into canals because of poor infrastruc­ture. What’s more, you have little-to-no opportunity to escape this situation. There is no pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps — you don’t even have boots. 
What seems to an American like an im­possible carnival of horrors plagiarized from the Book of Job is everyday life for tens of millions of people in Bangladesh. 
That’s the bad news. 
The good news is that you have a chance to help remedy this situation. The price of your ticket to sunday’s Bouts, as well as any donations you make at bengalbouts.nd.edu/donate will support missions working to end poverty and hu­man suffering in Bangladesh. They will fund schooling from elementary to col­lege level that helps people to gain skills necessary to finding employment. They will support medical facilities that treat debilitating and/or deadly diseases. Each year, with ticket sales, donations, ads in the tournament program and merchan­dise, we raise approximately $100,000 to support these causes. If that doesn’t seem like a lot in the face of such enormous suffering, ask your friend the economics major (everyone has one) about the dif­ference between what $100,000 can do in the united states and what it can do in Bangladesh. 
despite how hard we train and how much pride we take in our performance, the heart of the Men’s Boxing club is ab­solutely and unequivocally supporting the missions. Our club has one simple, definitive creed, attributed to dominic “nappy” napolitano (sort of the Knute Rockne of notre dame Boxing): “strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished.” Every single one of us steps into the ring knowing we are not fighting for ourselves, but for millions of people halfway around the world. We all joined this club because we wanted to be a part of something greater than ourselves. If you want to be a part of it, too, or if you just want to watch 22 buff, shirtless men beat the crap out of each other for a cou­ple hours, come out sunday afternoon. you may not be able to step in the ring, but you can still join the fight. 
Matthew Boomer is a sophomore political science and history major in O’Neill Hall. He can be reached at mboomer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Crossroads’ cross-country impact 
Paul Browne 
guest Columnist 

When the university of notre dame an nounced its intention to attach state-of­the-art academic buildings and a student-life center designed with an exterior skin inspired by its tradition-rich campus to the bare concrete and brick exterior of its iconic football stadium, hundreds of newspapers and other media outlets described it as a bold solution for a university looking to in­tegrate uses and to build without the sprawl that has turned other pedestrian-friendly places into ones where cars were king. some accounts included the fact that the Campus Crossroads Project included re­hearsal space for the sacred Music at notre dame program, whose leadership includes the field’s top scholars, lured from yale and Princeton to Our Lady’s university. For the most part, however, the accounts were mainly brick-and-mortar stories. 
One exception was a remarkable piece by Matt Emerson, a 2008 alumnus of notre dame Law school and a teacher and ad­ministrator at Xavier College Preparatory, who writes “The Ignatian Educator” blog for the Jesuit magazine “America.” In his Feb. 3 article, “Lessons from Crossroads Project at notre dame,” Emerson acknowl­edged a predictable reaction but then stepped back to appreciate something much larger than Crossroads or even notre dame itself. 
“When I first heard of the university’s intentions, my first reaction was similar to many others, a reflexive ‘wow’ at the magnificence of the project and a mar­veling at the cost,” Emerson wrote. “But it would be a mistake to see the Campus Crossroads Project as a mere expansion, as simply another sign of progress at a leading school. In implementing the Crossroads Project, notre dame is making a dramatic statement about the nature and future of education.” 
To understand why, Emerson wrote, “one has to understand the landscape of modern education. An array of voices and forces are destabilizing the traditional uni­versity model, the model that has sustained Western culture for hundreds of years. This model features a centralized campus uniting academic departments, athletic programs and all the activities, offices and services that coalesce into a teeming community. It has evolved, today, into the model of large quads, dorm life and the frenzied game days of college sports. It’s the ‘total immersion’ model, whereby the learner fully situates him or herself in an educational community.” 
Emerson said the model still defines American college life but that, in recent years, “the Hubble-like reach of the Internet has reconfigured the status quo,” with the rise of Massive Open Online Courses en­abling “people from around the world to access lectures and coursework formerly offered only on a specific campus, often at a prohibitive cost. “ 
Then Emerson poses a worrisome question: “If you can take Introduction to Psychology online for free, why sit in a 100-person lecture hall where the profes­sor doesn’t know your name?” He quotes nathan Harden in the January-February 2013 issue of “The American Interest” in saying that “The future looks like this: Access to college-level education will be free for everyone; the residential college campus will become largely obsolete; tens of thousands of professors will lose their jobs…” 
so, with Crossroads, is notre dame boldly going where angels fear to tread? Or are we visionaries, as Emerson suggests? He writes: “Into this milieu, into the winds of this pessimism, comes the bold vision of notre dame. notre dame is one of the country’s most important Catholic schools. notre dame’s decisions influence not only other Catholic colleges, but high schools and primary schools. People look to notre dame for what Catholic education is and what it should be. What are some lessons, what are some insights, from notre dame’s Crossroads Project? 
“1) notre dame’s Crossroads Project expresses total confidence in the viability of the residential college system; not nec­essarily in all residential college systems, but at least in the residential system that notre dame offers. Though online learning venues will continue to grow, notre dame is not abandoning the merits of being on campus. university officials believe that living and studying at notre dame delivers benefits that cannot be gained elsewhere — and that students will continue to pay for it. notre dame is optimistic that students will continue to seek the fellowship and edifica­tion which can only be gained in commu­nity. This doesn’t mean online alternatives have no value, but it does indicate notre dame’s belief that there is no substitute for an environment dedicated to a vibrant, consistent pursuit of truth, where scholars from disparate fields regularly converse with one another about the commonalties of their endeavors. 
“2) The Campus Crossroads Project expresses the classic Catholic belief in the unity of knowledge. … notre dame stadium will no longer stand in isolation as a cathedral of competition, as some­thing apart from or better than the rest of the university. The football stadium will now be connected to notre dame’s sacred Music program, which will be connected to the psychology and anthropology depart­ments. notre dame is making a statement that all of these fields of study relate. … Connecting athletics, academics and spiri­tuality signals to a visitor that notre dame football is set against a broader horizon of activity and meaning. Athletics, in other words, is one of many pursuits through which the human being realizes the dignity of his or her creation.” 
Emerson doesn’t suggest that notre dame is alone in advancing the belief in the unity of knowledge, but, he says, “it’s really heartening to see an institution as well-known as notre dame undertake such a prominent, innovative move in service of an on-campus education and the unity of the human experience.“ 
Matt Emerson is, in fact, an Ignatian educator, who made these observations from afar, in Palm desert, Calif., where he teaches and is director of admissions and advancement at Xavier. He found a calling in service to Catholic education to be ap­parently more spiritually-enriching than the commercial litigation he formerly prac­ticed. One would think, however, he had spent hundreds of hours in the meetings of notre dame faculty, architects and others whose vision and aspirations he captured better than anyone who has written on the subject to date. Emerson thinks big, and he understands those at notre dame who think big, too. 
Paul Browne is the vice president for public affairs and communications. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 
FRENCH 
ALTERNATIVE 
PLAYLIST 
do you like clearing your throat loudly and looking down at people? do you need to justify your obsession with baguettes or to fulfill your lifelong dream of becoming 
IF YOU LIKE...  
01  “Everything Has Changed”  
Taylor Swift with Ed Sheeran  
02  “I Don’t Know Why” Norah Jones  
03  “Make You Feel My Love”  
Adele  
04  “Banana Pancakes” Jack Johnson  
05  “Cheetah Sisters” The Cheetah Girls  
06  “Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star”  
English Lullaby  


“Brave” 
Sara Bareilles 


“Maybe This Time” 
Cabaret 


Belle from “Beauty and the Beast?” If so, take some time to cultivate your French side by checking out these chansons (French songs). you will be chic. 
YOU MIGHT JUST LIKE... 


“Je ne sais pas” Joyce Jonathan  
02  “Quelqu’un m’a dit” Carla Bruni  
03  “Francis” Coeur de Pirate   
04  “Belle” Jack Johnson  
05  “Tout va de travers” Juliette Katz   
06  “Blanche” Enzo Enzo  



“Fleur de saison” 
Emilie Simon 


“Je ne regrette rien” 
Edith Piaf 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Associate scene Editor 
This evening, a preview for the up­coming notre dame Collegiate Jazz Festival (CJF) will feature some of notre dame’s most talented jazz musicians in the ballroom of the LaFortune student Center at 7 p.m. The CJF Preview night will include performances from notre dame’s very own Jazz Band II, as well as the Brass Band, and will give a taste of the fantastic weekend to come with one notre dame’s most unique and notable events. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival will take place Friday and saturday, and it will feature not only the talented jazz musi­cians of notre dame, but also collegiate jazz bands from around the country. The annual event, now in its 56th year, is the oldest collegiate jazz festival in the country and has gained a nationwide reputation of hosting remarkable bands and guest judges. 
These collegiate bands, including en­sembles, brass bands and percussion groups, will gather in Washington Hall to play and celebrate the rich history of jazz music in what the programmers have described as a “noncompetitive setting.” 
still, the event’s guest judges, a group of notable jazz musicians, will review the bands and participate in the beloved “Judges’ Jam” as Friday night comes to a close. Judges also will host a clinic for musicians of all skill levels saturday at 2 p.m. in the Ricci Band Building, bringing their expertise to any and all aspiring musicians on campus. In the festival’s incredible history, judges have included such influential musicians as Herbie Hancock, Roberta Flack and Quincy Jones. 
Judges this year include Jeff Clayton, a jazz saxophone player who has worked with an amazing variety of musicians, ranging from Frank sinatra to Michael Jackson. Another judge is trombonist Wycliffe gordon, who has won the Jazz Journalists’ Trombonist of the year award eight times in the last 13 years and is a celebrated music educator. 
string bassist Marion Hayden will also bring her expertise to this year’s CJF, as well as her creative songwriting, teach­ing experience and unique role as one of jazz’s few female string bassists. Fellow judge Tim Metz will bring almost a life­time of experience in the jazz world, as he began playing professionally by age 
11. He has toured internationally, as well as taught students. Reggie Thomas completes the judges’ panel with more than 20 years of jazz piano instruction at various colleges. He has toured inter­nationally with various bands and re­corded his own compositions. 
Friday’s events include performanc­es from the notre dame Jazz Band I, university of Illinois at Chicago, university of Portland and Western Michigan university, as well as the Judges’ Jam, which is sure to be an in­spiring show. saturday features the Judges’ Clinic in the early afternoon, followed by performances by the Alma College Percussion Ensemble, the Western Illinois university Jazz Combo I and II, Columbia College and the notre dame Brass Band. 
Tonight’s preview and saturday’s Judges’ Clinic are free and not ticketed. The Collegiate Jazz Festival begins at 7 
p.m. Friday and saturday. 
Tickets are free for students. Tickets for members of the public cost $5 per day or $8 for two days. They can be pur­chased or picked up from the LaFortune Box Office or at the door, but with such a fantastic lineup of performers and judges, you may want to consider get­ting those tickets early. you won’t want to miss this chance to hear some of the most talented and entertaining jazz musicians of our time. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: Collegiate Jazz Festival  What: “Captain Phillips”  What: Thomas Rhett and Jon  
Preview  When: 8 p.m.  Pardi  
When: 7 p.m.  Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall  When: 10 p.m.  
Where: LaFortune Ballroom  How Much: $3  Where: Legends  
How Much: Free  How Much: Free  
In preparation for notre dame’s  Tom Hanks stars in this true-life  Legends nightclub hosts Country  
56th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival,  thriller of a ship captain taken hos- Fest this saturday, featuring country  
come see the preview night for free  tage by somali pirates, based on  stars Thomas Rhett and Jon Pardi.  
Thursday. The preview features stu- Captain Richard Phillips’s 2010 mem- Rhett is best known for his platinum- 
dents in Jazz Band II and Brass Brand.  oir, “A Captain’s duty: somali Pirates,  certified single, “It goes Like This,”  
One of the most storied traditions in  navy sEALs, and dangerous days at  and Pardi for his Top Ten Country  
notre dame’s musical history, the  sea.” The film has been nominated  Charts hit, “up All night.” The party  
jazz festival continues Friday and  for six Academy Awards, including  continues after the show with dJ TX  
saturday.  Best Picture.  at midnight.  

FRIDAY 

SATURDAY 

SUNDAY 

What: “Clybourne Park” When: 2:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $7 
The sunday matinee is the last chance to see “Clybourne Park” in its run at notre dame. The play, written in response to Lorraine Hansberry’s 1985 “A Raisin in the sun,” examines gentrification and racial tensions in an urban Chicago neighborhood over the span of a few generations. 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene Writer 

In Annie Clark’s brilliant, hilarious re­view of Arcade Fire’s “Reflektor” for the online forum “TheTalkhouse,” she fixated on the simultaneous wonders and hor­rors of technology — specifically focusing on the Internet. Then, on her self-titled, fourth studio album, Clark, under the stage name st. Vincent, expounds upon this obsession with the digital age. The effects and implications of our techno­logical progression infiltrate her markedly anxious writing and delicately precarious sound. 
Like her usually unsettling album art­work — Clark’s porcelain-skinned face always graces her covers and accompa­nies some slightly creepy imagery, or her face itself is the source of unsettlement — on the album, titled “st. Vincent,” the artist balances the pristine beauty of lush pop with the jarring tendencies of experi­mental art rock. donning the cover of “st. Vincent,” in fact, is Clark atop a smooth, pink throne, rightfully asserting herself in music royalty. 
Across the impeccable, cohesive 11 tracks, st. Vincent merges her artsy, noise rock roots with her constantly in­creasing mastery of gripping, penetrat­ing pop. Lead single “Birth in Reverse” mashes together At the drive-In’s “One Armed scissor” — in affinity for futuris­tic technology and harsh tempo — with the mundane deprecation, slackerism and general disconnect of green day’s “Longview.” But st. Vincent’s auditory twitching and the progression of her tight, bending riff, a motif common in her mu­sic, creates incomparable uneasiness. The paranoia always present in her work comes to a blistering head. 
In this modern age, st. Vincent makes use of every musical component available at her fingertips in order to amplify her themes. True to its name, “Psychopath” is the most sonically unnerving track on the album, with incessant synthetic horn blares on top of a thumping bass beat. yet, the song evolves with a blooming string section reminiscent of the coda in “Black Rainbow.” similarly, “Regret” subtly ad­vances through nuanced tempo and pitch changes. 
The pair of standout tracks, “Prince Johnny” and “Huey newton,” on an album loaded with standout tracks, provide some of the most varied work st. Vincent has put forward, all while keeping in line with her unique art and pop blend. The former ex­plores the tragedy of self-destruction, sur­rounded by choral harmonies floating in the background and pierced with crunch­ing, sexy guitar work. The latter builds to a heavy explosion through sludgy produc­tion, showing another side of the band’s edge while detailing the detachment and misplacement of importance caused by a life on the web. “Entombed in the shrine of ones and zeros,” Clark professes, pro­viding a concerned visual for the dangers. 
still, st. Vincent plays extremely acces­sible, despite her thick layering of lyrical themes and complex instrumentation. Whereas everything else about the band’s work would seem to indicate otherwise, “st. Vincent” is a fantastic, progressive pop record — “Bring Me your Loves” could be taken as the groups’ twisted interpreta­tion of a Janelle Monáe or Beyoncé single, and “digital Witness” features an ear-worm of a chorus.
 In part, this is explained by Clark’s unaltered vocals, remaining the most human element of her music, which care­fully turns humane inflections without manipulation. It constantly cuts through the electronic aspects and solidifies the pop aspect of her songs. Ballad-like “I Prefer your Love” and heartbreaking, melodic “severed Crossed Fingers” show­case Clark’s robust voice and beautiful pronunciation. 
st. Vincent sneaks worlds of intrica­cies into brimming pop on her self-titled album. Like her on-edge examination of humanity and artificiality, Clark’s music resides impeccably at the intersection of accessible and frenetic. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“St. Vincent” 
St. Vincent 
Label: Republic Records 
Tracks: “Huey Newton,” “Birth in Reverse,” “Digital Witness” 
If you like: Talking Heads, Dirty Projectors 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Money in sports: not all bad 

Alex Wilcox 
sports Writer 
For better or for worse, mon­ey is everywhere, and notre dame is no exception. 
We pay nearly $60,000 to go to this university, our football team brings in more revenue than nearly every other pro­gram in the country and our top-ranked business school is practically a feeder to Wall street. 
That being said, money also has its shortfalls. 
We have all undoubtedly heard many clichés about the troubles money brings to peo­ple, from the Bible proclaiming money is the root of all evil, to Biggie smalls reminding us, “Mo Money, Mo Problems.” 
This idea of money proving to be a detriment to society has also pervaded the world of sports. People are sick of hear­ing about hundred-million­dollar contracts, exorbitant TV rights fees and nearly a billion dollars generated by an orga­nization for “amateur” sports. 
granted, many of these points are valid. It is a bit ab­surd to pay young men playing a children’s game more money than nearly every doctor, lawyer, banker, etc. will ever see. skyrocketing ticket prices and personal seat licenses have driven out many fans, and leagues, teams and play­ers sometimes appear to care more about their paychecks than about the game they represent. 
However, money has also revolutionized sports in many positive ways. 
It has given us free agency. Free agency is a relatively new phenomenon in sports. Before it was instituted, the only way a player could change teams was through a trade. now, all of the four major American sports have free agency, which has added excitement, drama and competitiveness. 
Thanks to free agency, a team that had a bad year isn’t doomed to be cellar-dwellers for the foreseeable future, as all it takes is one splash in free agency to go from worst to first. Free agency, along with revenue sharing, enables small-market teams to com­pete with the money-loaded behemoths from new york, Boston or Los Angeles. 
Free agency creates buzz for the sport long after the season ends. Huge hype surrounds MLB’s winter meetings, even though opening day is still months away. during the dog days of summer, the sports world was captivated to see where LeBron James would take his talents, and barring anything shocking, we will experience that drama once again this summer. Regardless of how you feel about LeBron or his decision, you must admit that the prospect of the great­est player in the world coming to your team was incredibly exciting. 
Money has also given us more games. We have an insatiable appetite for sports, and money has allowed sports leagues to graciously fulfill our desire. Why is it that on any given night in the fall you can find a college football game on TV? How is it possible for seemingly every college in America to play in a bowl game? Why did baseball add a second wildcard berth, and why is the nFL consider­ing expanding both the regular season and the playoffs? 
The answer to all these ques­tions is, of course, money. 
One big rebuttal to all of this comes from the college ranks. Recently, many schools have switched conference align­ments and, apparently, sold their souls in the process. Teams on the East Coast are playing in the Midwest, teams in Texas are playing in the east and a small, Catholic school from northwest Indiana is play­ing in the ACC. 
While these new conferences are geographically strange, they are also innovative and mark a new day for college sports. 
While some old rivalries have died in the process, new ones have emerged. syracuse may have lost its rivalry with Villanova when it switched to the ACC, but it has a gained a new rivalry in duke. In just one season together, these two basketball powers have already given us two of the best games of the year. 
In college football, notre dame may have ended its year­ly contest with Michigan, but only so it could schedule teams like the defending national champions, Florida state and its Heisman-winning quarter­back in what is sure to be one of the most anticipated games of the 2014 season. 
so, while many experts, pun­dits and fans continue to com­plain about money ruining the games they love, I will not be one of them. Instead, you’ll find me watching syracuse vs. duke, notre dame vs. Florida state or a dramatic single-elimination playoff game and soaking in the beautiful world of sports that money has bestowed upon us. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | MICHIgAn 77, PuRduE 76 (OT) 
Robinson leads No. 16 Michigan over Purdue 
Associated Press 

WEsT LAFAyETTE, Ind. — glenn Robinson III got a late bank shot to roll in as time expired Wednesday night, giving no. 16 Michigan a 77-76 overtime victory at Purdue. 
The shot capped a remark­able rally. Michigan (20-7, 12-3 Big Ten) trailed by as many as 19 points in the first half, 13 at halftime and nev­er led until the opening bas­ket of overtime. 
Robinson finished with 17 points while nik stauskas had 15. 
Terone Johnson had a season-high 22 points for Purdue (15-13, 5-10) while his brother Ronnie added 21. The Boilermakers have lost three straight. 
Michigan could have won it in regulation, but stauskas came up short on a 3-pointer with 3 seconds to go. 
In overtime, the Wolverines took the lead with three dunks and then won it after Robinson caught a lob pass in the right corner and spun away toward the basket. 
It was a tough night for the Wolverines, who started the game 2 of 14 from the field. They were still shooting 29.6 percent at halftime and fin­ished at 41.5 percent — all that against a Boilermakers defense that was allowing the most points in the Big Ten (72.1) and the second-highest defensive shooting percentage (43.6). 
But in overtime, the Wolverines thrived. 
They took their first lead on a dunk by stauskas and appeared headed toward wrapping things up when Jordan Morgan delivered an­other dunk to make it 73-70 with 2:27 to play. 
Purdue scored four straight points to retake the lead, 74-73, then gave up another dunk to Morgan. Ronnie Johnson followed that with two free throws to make it 76-75 with 31.4 sec­onds left. 
That’s how it stayed until Robinson’s basket. 
Purdue took a 14-4 lead in the game’s opening min­utes, extended the margin to 27-8 with 7:43 left in the first half, and still led 37-24 at halftime. 

derrick Walton Jr.’s sec­ond 3-pointer of the game made it 39-30. An 11-2 run, which ended with five straight points from Zak Irvin, last season’s Indiana Mr. Basketball, got the Wolverines within 45-43 with 11:42 to go. And when stauskas made 1 of 2 free throws with 9:51 remaining, the Wolverines were finally within 47-46. 
Purdue answered with a 3-pointer from Kendall stephens, a driving layup from Ronnie Johnson, a three-point play from A.J. Hammons and two free throws from Rapheal davis to extend the lead to 57-52. 
Michigan charged back again, tying the score on Robinson’s free throws. 
Ronnie Johnson then beat the shot clock buzzer with a driving layup and stauskas tied it at 65 on two free throws before it went into overtime. 
NBA | MAgIC 101, 76ERs 90 

Magic trounce sixers 
Associated Press 

PHILAdELPHIA — Jameer nelson scored 12 of his 16 points in the fourth quarter and nik Vucevic had 21 points and 13 rebounds to help the Orlando Magic snap a 16­game road losing streak with a 101-90 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesday night. 
nelson added 12 assists for the Magic, who last won on the road at Chicago on dec. 16. Victor Oladipo add­ed 17 points, and Maurice Harkless and Tobias Harris scored 13 apiece. 
Thaddeus young had 19 points for the sixers, who lost their 12th straight overall and 11th in a row at home. Tony Wroten scored 
15  points,  Eric  Maynor  
13  and  Henry  sims  10  
for  Philadelphia,  which  

bought out the contract of danny granger earlier Wednesday. 
The 76ers finished 0-11 in February. 
Philadelphia did manage to keep the margin closer against Orlando. The sixers entered having given up an average of 117.4 points during the losing skid, and they had been beaten by an average of 20.3 points be­fore Wednesday. 

The teams began the fourth quarter tied at 67, but the Magic used an 18-8 run over the first 3:52 of the final quarter to take their largest lead to that point, 85-75, with 8:08 re­maining. nelson scored 10 of Orlando’s points during the spurt, including a pair of 3-pointers. Orlando’s lead grew to as many as 13 points and the sixers never recovered. 
Two 3-pointers from Hollis Thompson to start the second half helped Philadelphia take its larg­est lead to that point, 50­42, 50 seconds into the third quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 

Fully furnished rental. Please call 574-360-6910 or email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to campus. Walk to everything. email nd-house@sb­cglobal.net for additional info and photos. 
WANTED 

Typist sought to type manuscript. Call 574-631-5491. 
Hi Taylor. You got a fast car I want a ticket to anywhere Maybe we make a deal Maybe together we can get some­where Any place is better Starting from zero got nothing to lose Maybe we’ll make something Me myself I got nothing to prove You got a fast car I got a plan to get us out of here I been working at the convenience store Managed to save just a little bit of money Won’t have to drive too far Just ‘cross the border and into the city You and I can both get jobs And finally see what it means to be living 



FENCING 

notre dame hosts Midwest Championships 
ranked second in nCAA stand-
By ANDREW ROBINSON 

sports Writer ings on the women’s side and fourth on the men’s side, and 
Heading into the final few look to be major challengers competitions of the season, the again for the fourth-ranked notre dame will gear up to host Irish women and the third-and compete in the 21-team ranked men. Midwest Fencing Conference “Ohio state will be a very dan-Championships this saturday gerous opponent for us,” Irish and sunday at the Castellan head coach Janusz Bednarski Family Fencing Center. said. “The result...will likely 
The Irish won the men’s, come down to the end of the women’s and overall titles when competition.” they hosted the event last year, The men narrowly defeated claiming four of six possible Ohio state 14-13 in the nyu gold medals in men’s foil and Invitational earlier this year sabre and women’s foil and and 16-11 in the st. John’s epee. They added two silvers in Invitational, while the women men’s epee and women’s sabre, fell 16-11 and 14-3 in those re­finishing with 1,590 total points spective tournaments. to edge Ohio state by 30 points. The Championships will fea-
The Buckeyes are currently ture 21 total teams, including PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 
schools like northwestern, Michigan, and Indiana. Bednarski is confident in notre dame’s chances of defending the conference title, but also stresses that the team must stay focused and levelheaded. 
“We are a pretty strong team, and winning a lot of medals [in the 2013 Midwest Conference Championships] means we were good, but that’s last year,” he said. “This year we have a dif­ferent team, and different team members. There are teams that can beat us...if we are not pre­pared well.” 
He expects the Irish perfor­mance to be led by recurring standouts like senior foilist Ariel desmet graduate student gerek Meinhardt, the world’s top-ranked foilist, and by soph­omore Lee Kiefer and junior Madison Zeiss on the women’s foil squad. After the first three team tournaments, the four combined for a 71-21 record to help their teams to several victories. Meinhardt was 19-3, while Kiefer had a similarly im­pressive 16-2 mark. 
Bednarski also stressed that it will be important for the younger fencers to perform well this weekend, citing sophomore epeeists garrett Mcgrath and Catherine Lee among several others as young fencers who have been progressing and per­forming consistently well. 
The conference tournament will also set the tone and act as a gauge for the upcoming nCAA Midwest Regionals and nCAA Championships, according to Bednarski. 
“We are approaching the end of the season so every event is important,” he said. “Winning the competition always gives optimism.” 
“It will be interesting how we set the mood, especially against northwestern and Ohio [state]. We will look to see what we need to do for final preparation for the nCAA Championships.” 
The Championships will be­gin saturday morning and con­tinue throughout saturday and sunday at the Castellan Family Fencing Center. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobinson@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish set for ACC meet 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports Writer 
notre dame travels to Clemson, s.C., on Thursday to compete at the ACC Indoor Championships for its first time in its debut sea­son in the conference. 
The Irish will compete against the ACC’s best Thursday through saturday in a field that features a pair of usTFCCCA top-25 teams each on each side: no. 13 north Carolina and no. 24 duke for the women, and no. 6 Florida state and no. 19 Pittsburgh for the men — in addition to the Irish men, who are ranked no. 10. 
The Irish head south just days after hosting their final home meet of the season at the Alex Wilson Invitational. On the women’s side, the distance med­ley team of seniors Kelly Curran, 

PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 
Michelle Brown and Alexa Aragon and sophomore danielle Aragon claimed a first-place finish with a time of 11:05.07 that qualified as 10th best nationally on the year. 
Irish coach Joe Piane said the distance medley was just one of many events he was looking for­ward to on the women’s side. 
“It’s such a strong field … hur­dles is always an excellent event, the 400, the mile relay, all of the distance events,” Piane said. “It’s going to be an excellent weekend.” 
Other top performers included senior Vivien devaney, who won the weight throw with a school-record 19.60 meters, and sopho­more Margaret Bamgbose, whose time of 53.40 seconds won the 400-meter dash to round out a strong day for the notre dame women. 
The Irish men broke three school records at the Alex Wilson Invitational. Junior Chris giesting set a new mark in the 400-me­ter dash, taking the record from senior teammate and fellow All-American Patrick Feeney with a stellar time of 45.89 seconds. 
“Patrick and Chris are like brothers. When you get into a fight with your brother, all you want to do is beat them up, then hug them afterwards,” Piane said. “That’s exactly what you want out of competition.” 
However, Feeney staked claim to a pair of records to compensate for the one he lost, as the Irish set record times in both the distance medley and 4x400-meter relays. 
notre dame’s historic perfor­mance made a statement that was noted nationwide. The men’s team leapt from 20th to 10th in the usTFCCCA Top 25, its largest jump of the season and the third largest jump of the week among ranked teams. 
Piane said the momentum from such a strong weekend would carry over for his squad. 
“Three school records, plenty of strong performances … all of those events are going to be run this weekend, and we are going to have to do well in all of them,” Piane said. “We are definitely coming in on a high note.” 
Piane also said that it was very important that the Irish make a strong impression in their first year of ACC competition. 
“notre dame is in the ACC now, and we are going to make a state­ment,” Piane said. “It isn’t just us, it was men’s soccer, it’s men’s basket­ball, it’s across the board. no one ever goes in saying they want to finish third… we want to win this weekend. That’s always the goal.” 
The action begins at the ACC Championships in Clemson, s.C., on Thursday for the Irish and con­tinues through saturday. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 


THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish travel to face No. 1 Blue Devils 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports Writer 
After a slow start to ACC reg­ular-season play, the competi­tion does not get any easier for the no. 25 Irish, as they travel to durham, n.C., this week­end to take on duke, the top-ranked team in the country. 
“There’s really no bad teams, so every match in the ACC is going to be a good one,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “We’ve just got to be prepared for a tough match every time.” 
The Irish (5-4, 0-2) have struggled to get off to good starts in conference play, dropping the doubles point in the losses to georgia Tech and Miami. searching for a spark, Louderback indicated the Irish would be switching up the pairings they have had all year to this point. 
“We’re going to keep our one [position] team, but our two and three [positions], we’re go­ing to get some new people in,” said Louderback. “Our doubles has not been consistent all year.” 
According to Louderback’s count, the Irish are 2-11 at the two and three doubles po­sitions when facing ranked teams. 
“I hate switching [the dou­bles teams] around in the middle of the year, but there’s nothing to lose the way we’ve 
W Lacrosse 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 16 
“Fortunately … we already had the opportunity to play top competition often in the fall,” Halfpenny said. “At the end of the day, these opponents, we have seen. northwestern we saw twice in the fall. … There’s a familiarity there. With [north] Carolina, we’ve been playing them every fall since I’ve been coaching.” 
The Tar Heels come into Thursday’s game having scored at least 18 goals in all four of their games thus far, while also limiting opponents to eight or fewer goals in each game. notre dame will be their first confer­ence opponent of the season but not the first ranked team the Tar Heels have seen. north Carolina crushed no. 7 Florida 20-8 in the opening game of the Tar Heels’ season. Halfpenny said a relentlessly efficient of­fensive attack is what makes the Tar Heels so dangerous. 
“They play with a very, very fast pace,” Halfpenny said. “They have a very solid set of skills, and they’re pretty deep. They have two very respect­able goalkeepers that are doing a nice job for them. But I think, top to bottom, they play a re­ally strong team style with their speed and athleticism.” 
The duo of goalies used by the been playing,” Louderback said. 
Whatever magic the Irish are hoping to find, they will need it this weekend against duke’s doubles teams, ranked no. 4, no. 27 and no. 43 in the country. 
Louderback was more pleased with the play of the Irish singles, which have had to carry the team with the lack of doubles success. In the 4-3 home loss last weekend against georgia Tech, the Irish were almost able to overcome the lost doubles point with strong singles play, especially at the deeper positions of the roster. Freshman Monica Robinson was the only Irish player to win both of her singles match­es last weekend, but fellow freshman Mary Closs and se­nior Jennifer Kellner also had strong performances. 
That depth will have to come up big again for the Irish this weekend against an equally deep Blue devils team, which fields four nationally ranked singles players, including second-ranked sophomore Beatrice Capra, who will pre­sumably match up against Irish senior Brittany sanders at 
no. 1 singles.  
“It’ll  be  good  for  us,”  
Louderback  said  of  the  
matchup.  “It’s  another  re­ 
ally  good  team.  They  just  

won the national Indoor 
Tar Heels is made up of sopho­more Megan Ward and fresh­man Caylee Waters, two of the many underclassman stars utilized by north Carolina. Another one of their talented young players, freshman at­tacker sydney Holman, recently tied a school record with six assists during the Tar Heels’ 22-8 victory over Vanderbilt. senior attackers Abbey Friend and Taylor george led the bal­anced Carolina offense against the Commodores with six and five goals, respectively. despite the Tar Heels’ intimidating po­tency, Halfpenny said the Irish believe they will be successful if they execute their own game plan. 
“Our big focus to get off on the right foot on our first road trip of the year is to really fo­cus on notre dame lacrosse,” Halfpenny said. “We feel very optimistic about how our ath­leticism matches up with north Carolina’s. While they’re having a lot of success with young play­ers on the field, we’re doing the same. We’ll focus on our game and stay disciplined within what we’re doing.” 
The Tar Heels will look to re­main undefeated against an upset-minded notre dame Thursday at 7 p.m. in Chapel Hill. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 


Championship, so we’ll have to play well.” 
In practice this week, the Irish looked to work on keeping their intensity up. Louderback said the team has gone in and out of matches mentally at times, but he was very pleased with the way the girls respond­ed in practice coming off the rough weekend. 
“yesterday we had maybe the best practice we’ve had all year,” he said. 
The Irish hope to bring that same intensity as they take on 
PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 
the Blue devils on Friday af­ternoon at the sheffield Indoor Tennis Center in durham, n.C., where play is scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL 

Irish head to Citrus Classic 



By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports Writer 
The no. 24 Irish leave the freezing temperatures behind this week­end as they head to the diamond 9 Citrus Classic in Kissimmee, Fla., where they are slated to face five teams in three days. 
The Irish (10-3) will open up the tournament weekend Friday afternoon with a tough matchup against Fordham. The Rams (5-8) are predicted to win their second consecutive Atlantic 10 title by the conference’s coaches. notre dame and Fordham both lost to no. 6 Oregon in the Mary nutter Collegiate Classic. The Irish fell to the ducks in nine innings 2-0, while the Rams lost to the ducks 3-2. 
Irish coach deanna gumpf said the loss to Oregon offered a learn­ing experience for the team. 
“We can take a lot from that [loss],” gumpf said. “some things we just have to improve on, but it’s so early in the season. ... We’re bat­tling, and I like that.” 
Friday will also see the Irish face off with Illinois state later in the afternoon. The Redbirds (5-9) took second place in a preseason poll of the Missouri Valley Conference and named three players to the Preseason All-Conference Team. 
On saturday, the Irish take on Ohio state in the afternoon and Radford in the early evening. The Buckeyes (4-6) are coming off a shutout over utah Valley, which featured a no-hitter from fresh­man pitcher shelby Hursh. The Irish, too, can expect strength in their own circle. senior pitcher Laura Winter is coming into the tournament with a 2.11 earned runs average this season and was named Big East Player of the year last year. 
gumpf said the team looks to Winter for consistency and leadership. 
“she’s a real leader for us, and we always expect she’ll pitch well,” gumpf said. 
Radford’s roster also features a tough pitcher. sophomore Rachael Walters earned a place on the all-conference first team with her rookie season perfor­mance. The Highlanders (2-4) got a delayed start to their season last Wednesday because of weather issues. 
The Irish round out the weekend against nebraska-Omaha. The Mavericks (11-3) are the only op­ponent with a winning record that notre dame will face in the tour­nament. The Mavericks earned a perfect 5-0 record in the uTsA Tournament last weekend. 
Against nebraska-Omaha, the Irish will have to face sophomore catcher Campbell ditto, who cur­rently leads the team with 18 runs in 14 games. ditto was named summit League Freshman of the year in 2013. 
Junior outfielder Emilee Koerner currently holds the most runs and RBIs for the Irish, with 15 and 14, respectively, in 13 games. 
The Irish hope to build on their success in previous tournaments, most recently, the Mary nutter Collegiate Classic. The team earned a 4-2 record over the week­end and shut out three of their op­ponents. The two losses were by a margin of two runs each. 
gumpf said the team’s perfor­mance revealed some areas for improvement. 
“I don’t think we’re there yet, but we have plenty of work to do,” gumpf said. “We have to focus on continuing to get better every weekend.” 
This weekend presents the Irish with an opportunity for such growth as the team heads to the diamond 9 Citrus Classic. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 


THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 

M Bball 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 16 
had three games where I was try­ing to figure out the whole finger issue and getting double-teamed each game, but it was nice to have a breakout tonight.” 
sherman has been double-teamed regularly by other ACC teams, but the yellow Jackets did not help on him. sherman said he did not see many double teams ei­ther when the two teams first met in Atlanta in January. He made just six of 18 shots and finished with 13 points as yellow Jackets redshirt se­nior center daniel Miller frustrated sherman in the 74-69 loss. 
“sherman didn’t see a double team early in the game, and it’s al­most like ‘Oh my god, I’ve got one guy,’” Brey said. “Miller really gave him problems in Atlanta, playing him just by himself.” 
gregory said notre dame did a good job of isolating sherman in the post and making it difficult for georgia Tech to double-team him. 
“Anytime you give a post player three or four dribbles, he’s going to be hard to guard, especially some­one as good as him, as big as him and with the experience and who he’s played against during his five years,” gregory said. 
This was just sherman’s third game in double figures since notre dame’s first loss to Virginia on Jan. 
28. The Cavaliers constantly dou­bled sherman, who registered a season-low six field goal attempts, and has since become a pattern. 
“They were hesitant to double, which was nice to actually have some space,” sherman said. “When they did, I was ready for it. 
W Bball 
COnTInuEd FROM PAgE 16 
Four underclassmen average double-digit points per game to lead the Tar Heels in scor­ing: freshman guard diamond deshields (18.1), freshman guard Allisha gray (15.1), soph­omore forward Xylina Mcdaniel 
(12.2) and freshman forward stephanie Mavunga (11.2). 
Mcgraw said north Carolina did an exceptional job recruit­ing for this season. 
“They’re the no. 1 class com­ing in, and they’ve backed it up with what they’ve done this year,” Mcgraw said. 
Mcgraw said deshields’s skill set, in particular, will challenge the Irish. 
“I think that deshields is just such a talented player,” Mcgraw said. “At her size, she’s fast, and she can score, and she can do so many things, that she’s a really difficult matchup for us.” 
notre dame defeated no. 7 duke (24-4, 11-3) 81-70 in its most recent game sunday. senior guard Kayla McBride scored a career-high 31 points in the victory, as the Irish clinched the ACC regular-season confer­ence title. 
Mcgraw said McBride de­serves more national attention for her play this season. 
“I think she’s very underrated, because she could get 30 points a game if we let her shoot that It helped me get in a rhythm, feel a little bit better out there because a lot of teams have been doubling me. It was nice to be able to go one-on-one.” 
georgia Tech shot 50 percent on 3-pointers but only shot 37 percent overall. notre dame, however, shot 47 percent from the field and hit just five of 20 3-pointers. 
After the game was tied at seven 
6:30 into the first half, georgia Tech ripped off a 15-4 run to open an 11-point lead. But notre dame nar­rowed the margin to 27-19 before it closed the half on a 14-4 tear to go up by two at halftime. 
“I thought the difference in the game was a six-minute stretch at the end of the first half,” gregory said. “We didn’t execute well on of­fense, and that’s going to happen sometimes, and our defense wasn’t able to hold the fort during that stretch.” 
during the run, the Irish were 6 -for-6 from the field, not counting Atkins’s missed half-court shot at the buzzer. The yellow Jackets, meanwhile, missed three of their last four shots of the half. 
“We finished the half with great momentum, and then we started the half with re­ally good energy and mo­mentum,” Brey said. 
The Irish scored nine of the second half ’s first 13 points to take a seven-point lead with 15:54 left in the game. 
“We wanted to keep the same energy that we fin­ished with,” Atkins said. “starting with a stop in the second half was huge for us, and then we 
many times or she wanted to shoot that many times,” Mcgraw said. “If she was a selfish player, she could score a lot more points, but she just wants to win, so she’s a team player.” 
This week has been a laud­ed one so far for notre dame. Freshman guard Lindsay Allen was named a candidate for the 2013 nancy Lieberman Award, presented annually to the coun­try’s best point guard, and soph­omore guard Jewell was named espnW national Player of the Week, as well as ACC Player of the Week. 
notre dame has one more regular-season game against nC state (23-5, 10-4) on sunday before the ACC tournament be­gins March 7. 
Whatever happens in the postseason, the Irish hold the regular-season ACC crown, a title the team was excited to claim, Mcgraw said. 
“It’s a pretty amazing accom­plishment to think we’ve won [a conference title] three years in a row, and the first year in the league, not knowing what to ex­pect,” Mcgraw said. “Everyone is new.” 
notre dame and north Carolina tip off at 7 p.m. Thursday at Purcell Pavilion for the final Irish home game of the season. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


can get out and get going.” 
Atkins finished the game with 17 points and four assists while play­ing 39 turnover-less minutes. 
Carter led the yellow Jackets with 19 points and 10 rebounds while leading scorer and senior guard Trae golden was held scoreless. golden was 0-for-10 from the field and 0-for-5 from behind the arc. 


“Out of those 10 shots, I’d take eight of those every single day,” gregory said. 
The Irish will face former Big East opponent Pittsburgh on saturday for notre dame’s senior day. 
While the Irish sit far off the nCAA Tournament bubble, Brey 
PAId AdVERTIsEMEnT 
said he still holds hope for the Irish. 
“stay tuned,” Brey said. “Crazier things have happened, especially if you win saturday.” 
Tipoff against the Panthers is scheduled for 2 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | WILL sHORTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRIsTOPHER BRuCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | HILLARy MAngIAFORTE 



SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM gROuP 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | EugEnIA LAsT 
Happy Birthday: Personal goals should take top priority this year. Partnerships and being concerned with your community will help you gain support and expand your interests. Opportunities to influence others to pitch in and help will raise your profile. Working toward a power position will ensure that you have a say and can make a difference. Romance will enhance your personal life. your numbers are 2, 9, 13, 24, 31, 34, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay on top of whatever you want to see happen. One slip and you will end up scrambling. Maneuver your way through every situation with caution, patience and persistence. you can win, but you will need to rely on intuition and impulse. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what needs to be done and keep moving in a positive direction. don’t be too concerned about complainers or those individuals looking for a fight. do what you do and refuse to get trapped in gossip or trivial matters. Love is highlighted. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can make an impression by using finesse and offering diverse options that will separate you from any competition you face. Adaptability and speed will work to your advantage. If you make a promise, be sure to follow through. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): dream on. Let your imagination wander and explore the unknown. gather all the information you’ve discovered and make a choice that will bring you closer to your goal, as well as supply you with greater stability. Romance is on the rise. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An emotional issue can be resolved if you speak from the heart and look for solutions that will help everyone involved feel good about the outcome. use ingenuity coupled with adaptability and you will come up with a plan that is well-received.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The more you do for others, the greater the rewards. your show of loyalty and responsibility will help you go the distance when you want something in return. An important relationship will flourish if you reveal your intentions. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Refuse to get dragged into a situation that can only lead to trouble. use your ingenuity and intuition to bring about positive change that will enhance your personal life. Focus on what you can do, not the impossible. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): say little and do a lot. If you stick to your game plan and explore creative ideas, you will bypass an emotional issue that is likely to leave you perplexed. you are best to do whatever it takes to please you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look at the big picture and focus on what you can do to help others. It’s what you do, not what you say, that makes a positive impact on your community or circle of friends. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look at all sides of any issue you face. There will be both negatives and positives to consider before you make a decision. Put your professional options first to protect your personal stability and security. Let your head rule your heart. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): gauge what you can and cannot do. Overdoing it can lead to setbacks. Consider the consequences before engaging in something that is taxing emotionally, physically or financially. Focus on what will bring you the most in return. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make a deal. Lay your cards on the table and share your ideas and concerns. The feedback you get will help you decipher whom you want to move forward with and the most lucrative and rewarding path to pursue. 

Birthday Baby: you are a leader. you are aggressive, intense and perceptive. 
JUMBLE | dAVId HOyT And JEFF KnuREK 


Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 notre dame, In 46556 
name Address City       state  Zip  


THE OBsERVER | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014 | ndsMCOBsERVER.COM 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 65, gEORgIA TECH 62 
Irish hold on late to avoid Jackets’ sting 
Brey’s 300th win avenges Notre Dame’s previous loss to Georgia Tech 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
georgia Tech died by the three. 
After hitting 10 of its first 18 3-pointers, georgia Tech (13-15, 4-11 ACC) missed two attempts in the final nine seconds as notre dame held on to win 65-62 at Purcell Pavilion on Wednesday night. 
yellow Jackets sophomore for­ward Robert Carter Jr. had two looks from the right wing with less than 10 seconds remaining but missed them both. The second came after an offensive rebound by sophomore guard Chris Bolden. 
“When we didn’t rebound the first one and he got another one, I was thinking ‘We may deserve to get stuck here,’ but he missed that one too,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
On the previous Irish posses­sion, Irish junior forward Pat Connaughton missed a 3-point­er, but graduate student center garrick sherman ended up with the ball. The yellow Jackets fouled Connaughton with 23.8 seconds remaining. Connaughton made both to give the Irish a three-point lead. 
“Instead of coming up with that and being up one with the ball, now you’re down three,” yellow Jackets coach Brian gregory said. “you have to learn how to make those [plays], and you’ve got to fin­ish it off.” 
notre dame (15-14, 6-10) led by seven with 2:19 left after senior guard Eric Atkins’s 3-pointer, but Carter nailed two treys on the next two yellow Jacket possessions to trim the Irish lead to one. 
sherman led the Irish with 21 points on 10-for-15 shooting and added five rebounds. He scored 29 points in the previous four games combined while shooting 33 per­cent (13-for-39) and dealing with a broken finger. 
“It was good to break out of my mini-slump,” sherman said. “I 
see M BBALL PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND to battle Tar Heels Irish close out 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports Writer 
no. 12 notre dame hits the road for the first time this season Thursday, traveling to Chapel Hill, n.C., to face the defending nation­al champions, the no. 1 Tar Heels. 
notre dame (2-1, 0-1 ACC) has already faced a pair of ranked teams this season, falling 15-10 to no. 10 Boston College and beat­ing no. 15 stony Brook 8-7. Against stony Brook on saturday night, the Irish used a strong perfor­mance from freshman attacker Cortney Fortunato to pull out to an early 7-2 lead. Fortunato had four goals and two assists, and that performance, combined with junior goaltender Allie Murray’s ability to staunch a late seawolves’ comeback, enabled the Irish to pull off the one-goal victory. 
Those contests, however, were both at home, while notre dame’s upcoming three-game road trip includes north Carolina (4-0, 0-0) and no. 4 northwestern. According to Irish coach 

home season 
points. 
After the losing streak, north Carolina (21-7, 9-5) turned things around and beat two ranked opponents in its next four games. On Feb. 10, the Tar Heels defeated then-no. 3 duke, 89-78, and they followed up that win with a victory over then-no. 10 nC state on Feb. 16. 
In their most recent game, however, the Tar Heels dropped another tight contest to Virginia Tech, 50-47. 
The Tar Heels have played bet­ter on the road than at home, posting a 7-1 away record, com­pared to a 10-5 mark at their home court. Only one of north Carolina’s conference losses occurred on the road, when georgia Tech (17-10, 7-7) pulled out a 91-94 win. 
Four underclassmen average 
see W BBALL PAGE 14 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports Writer 
The undefeated no. 2 Irish take the court Thursday at Purcell Pavilion for their last regular-season home game against no. 14 north Carolina at 7 p.m. 
The contest won’t be an easy one for notre dame (27-0, 14-0 ACC), according to Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw. 
“They’re so athletic,” she said. “They are just so incredibly ath­letic. We don’t have good match-ups. It’s really a tough defensive assignment for pretty much ev­eryone on the team.” 

notre dame faces a Tar Heels team that has beaten six ranked opponents but recently dropped three straight games to un-Christine Halfpenny, the ear-notre dame for its high-pres-ranked syracuse, Miami and ly tests, as well as experience sure travels. georgia Tech. The biggest loss gained by the Irish from scrim-during that stretch came against mages in the fall, have prepared see W LACROssE PAGE 12 syracuse (20-8, 9-6), by just five 

Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia Tech  W, 65-62  Track and Field, ACC Indoor Champ.  Thurs.-Sat.  Baseball vs. UCLA  Fri., 6:30 p.m.  
Softball vs. Fordham  Fri., 1:15 p.m.  Men’s Swimming, ACC  Champ.  Thurs.-Sat.  
Women’s Lacrosse at North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  Women’s Tennis at Duke  Fri., 6 p.m.  Men’s Hockey vs. Boston College  Sat., 4 p.m.  
Women’s Basketball vs. North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  Men’s Tennis vs. Virginia Tech  Fri., 6 p.m.  Men’s Basketball vs. Pittsburgh  Sat., 2 p.m.  








