The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 112 | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students, faculty join community to fight cancer 
Relay for Life events to raise money for the American Cancer Society 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
This weekend, students, faculty and local community members will fill the compton Family ice arena to fight cancer in the 10th annual relay for life. 
andrea romeros, a junior accounting major, and erika wallace, a senior spanish and pre-professional psychology ma­jor, are the student co-chairs for this year’s event, which begins Friday at 6 p.m. and ends saturday morning. 
“relay for life is a fundraiser for the american cancer society to celebrate those who are bravely fighting against cancer, remem­ber those who we have lost and to fight back to end this disease,” romeros said. “we have a lot of events planned for people of all ages this weekend. 
“There will be children’s games throughout the eve­ning, performances by the glee club, harmonia and alligator blackbird, and other fun activities such as a penalty box photo-booth and a mobile auction.” 
romeros said 83 teams are currently registered for the event, which she hopes will raise $200,000 for relay for life. 
see relay PAGE 5 




dinner celebrates women 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
shades of ebony held its second annual celebration of women dinner, the cul­minating event of women’s week,  on Thursday night in mckenna hall. The event fo­cused on the women’s history month theme “character, courage and commitment” and featured three speakers and small-group discussions. 

The first speaker, freshman grace watkins, discussed her experience of sexual assault January. range of reactions,” watkins and subsequent activism, “in my interactions with said. “many of them were including her participation my peers following the [Ted] in the Tedx conference in conference, i received a wide see dinner PAGE 4 



SMC announces tuition increase 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s board of Trustees recently announced a 
3.85 percent increase in tuition and fees and room and board for the upcoming school year, according to a press release is­sued by director of media rela­tions gwen o’brien. 
Tuition and fees are set at $35,970 and room and board will be $10,930, meaning the total cost to attend the college is now $46,900 per year, the press release stated. 
vice president for finance and administration susan bolt said these changes happen an­nually when the college plans its operating budget for the coming year. like all business­es, saint mary’s faces rising costs for health care, trans­portation, food, publications, technology and even postage, she said. 
bolt said the college none­theless commits to providing 
see TuiTion PAGE 3 



Conference promotes peace discussions 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
This weekend notre dame will host undergraduate and gradu­ate peace studies students from around the world for research presentations and international peace building discussions at the 24th annual notre dame student peace conference at the hesburgh center for international studies. 
The conference, titled “building peace: integrating Two decades of progress,” is funded by the kroc institute for international peace studies and organized by a committee of peace studies undergraduates. conference co-chair Jimmy deFrieze said the committee chose the theme due to its broad range of presentation topics for the post-cold-war era. 
“we started with the question, what have we learned about peace in the past two decades?” deFrieze said. “because it’s easy to look in a history book and find 
see conFerence PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 hockey PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


When do you think spring will actually come? 

Lucy Du 

Angelica Martinez 
sophomore 
senior 
ryan hall 
howard hall 
“never.” 
“probably finals week.” 

Dunyeng Huh 

Imani Parker 
freshman 
sophomore 
carroll hall 
lyons hall 
“during easter break.” 
“what is spring.” 

James O’Connor 

Caroline Barns 
junior 
junior 
duncan hall 
pasquerilla east hall 
“march 20.” 
“First day of finals, as per usual.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
lesley stevenson greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com catherine owers mike ginocchio charlie ducey Zach klonsinski 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
steph wulz erin mcauliffe 

Photo Viewpoint 

Soup and Substance Holy Half Marathon Shamrock Challenge “Porn: Both Sides of Movie: “7 Wonders of 
Jodi lo dan sehlhorst 
Geddes Hall Campus-wide Rockne Memorial the Screen” the Muslim World” 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. 9 p.m.-12 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. Hesburgh Library LaFortune Examining African Packet pickup Friday, Fitness contest to 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 5:30 p.m.-6:45 p.m. 


Corrections 

education. Sponsored 7 a.m.-7 p.m. in Sorin benefit the Special Panel discussion Part of Muslim 
The observer regards itself as by Building Tomorrow. Room, SUB office. Olympics. effects of pornography. Awareness Week. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Relay for Life Women’s Basketball Men’s Tennis Women’s Basketball Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Compton Family Ice Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arena 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m. NCAA regional The Irish take on the Notre Dame hosts 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
$10 registration fee, semifinals vs. North Carolina Tar NCAA Regional Finals. Worship and song. 
we can correct our error. 

ends Saturday. Oklahoma State. Heels. 




Junior to travel with New York Times journalist 
By SARAH McCARTHY 
news writer 
Three thousand miles away in europe, as nicole sganga waited to board a plane to Turkey, she found out she had been chosen by the new york Times to travel to a developing country with pulitzer prize-winning journal­ist nicholas kristof. 
sganga, a notre dame junior majoring in film, television and theater and political science with a minor in journalism, eth­ics and democracy, received the opportunity through the an­nual “win a Trip with nick” con­test sponsored by the new york Times. 
sganga will travel with kristof 


Tuition 
conTinued From page 1 
students with a high quality, affordable education and an experience that nurtures aca­demic, spiritual and emotional development. 
“we look for opportunities to reduce or hold flat most ex­penses but also carefully as­sess our students’ financial aid needs so that we remain true this summer to a develop­ing country to raise awareness about global poverty, according to a notre dame press release. she will also contribute to a blog and create videos for the new york Times website. 
sganga, who is currently studying abroad in notre dame’s london program, said she is try­ing to keep an open mind about the trip and looks forward to us­ing her multimedia skills outside of the classroom. 
“in terms of expectations for the actual trip itself, i am certain that i will learn more than i have in all of my journalism classes combined,” she said. “it’s go­ing to be something completely different.” 
to our mission and serve those with limited financial resourc­es,” she said. 
For many students, it is more economical to attend saint mary’s than to enroll even at a public university, o’brien said. nearly one third of the operat­ing budget is devoted to finan­cial aid, she said. 
Tuition and room and board represent 80 percent of the college’s operating revenue, while the remaining 20 percent 

The location of the trip has not been officially announced, but will most likely be to either myanmar or the democratic republic of the congo, sganga said. she wants to report on the stories of places and people in those countries that are often neglected in the news, particu­larly women and children, she said.
 “oftentimes it’s the women and the children whose stories go unheard, so it should be in­teresting to get to talk to some of them,” she said. “i think be­ing a woman myself puts me in a unique position … where i am able to have those more can­did conversations with other females.” 
is supported by donations from alumnae and by earnings on the college’s endowment, o’brien said. 
bolt said this upcoming year’s increases are consistent with national trends. 
“[The changes] are bench­marked against our peers and competitors’ total cost and annual percent change,” bolt said. “saint mary’s tuition and fees and room and board an­nual percent change and total 
paid adverTisemenT 
The video journalism aspect of the program is what interests sganga the most, she said, and she hopes to incorporate mul­timedia in a new way. however, she is also anticipating the ob­stacles that can confront video journalists in the field. 
“i always have a camera in my hand. it’s going to be a challenge to use the camera the right way in sensitive areas of the world,” she said. “i don’t want to create an uncomfortable situation for anyone else we’re covering.” 
as a longtime reader of kristof’s column, sganga said she was thrilled when she found out she would be able to travel and produce journalistic con­tent with him. 
cost was less than average for our private competitors in each of the last three years.” 
business student and junior madison maidment said she is not surprised by the increase and does not think it will affect any of the students or incom­ing students in a significant way. 
“Tuition increases every year, which is the reality of at­tending private universities that are constantly improving 
“he’s an incredible journal­ist in his own right,” she said. “The work he’s done is so in­spiring. he’s very pro-woman, so i think that’s something that has attracted me to him as a journalist.” 
bob schmuhl, the direc­tor of the John w. gallivan program in Journalism, ethics and democracy, said sganga’s distinction is a big deal for the program. 
“she was successful on her own, but certainly her selection will help to recognize journal­ism education at notre dame,” he said. 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 
and expanding in new direc­tions,” maidment said. “The financial aid office here does an excellent job working to benefit as many students as possible, and i think these changes will hopefully bring about even more generosity of our college’s endowment fund on the part of present benefac­tors and fundraisers.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 





community panel discusses homelessness 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
emily perry sims, direc­tor of events at the center for the homeless, put pov­erty into perspective at saint mary’s community panel “homelessness: Together we can make a difference” in madeleva hall on Thursday. 
students and staff spent their evening listening to a discussion sponsored by the saint mary’s college social work department. 
“it can happen to anyone,” she said. “people fall through the cracks, but more people are born in the cracks.” 
The discussion featured 
Dinner 
conTinued From page 1 
positive. 
“unfortunately, however, some comments were wildly misinformed and insensitive, and it was in those reactions that i needed to remind myself of people’s humanity and my own humanity.” 
The second speaker was Frances shavers, university president Fr. John Jenkins’s former chief of staff who re­signed after debilitating pain seizures caused by trigeminal neuralgia prevented her from working. shavers spoke about her disease, various attempts at treatment, consideration of suicide and courage in the face of pain and adversity. 
“something will happen in your life, where you will be tested to be courageous,” shavers said. “where moving forward collides with run­ning away, where our faith will meet our uncertainty, where our hope will meet panelists with experience working with or leading orga­nizations directed at preven­tion of homelessness. 
The seven panelists were 
guests from the  center for  
the  homeless,  salvation  
army, ywca,  st.  margaret’s  

house, youth services bureau and the common council in south bend. 
since drug abuse, mental illness and gender inequality are common contributors to homelessness, the panel rep­resented organizations that help people overcome these challenges. 
bonnie stryker, director of the youth services bureau, said self-sufficiency in st. 
our despondency, where our self-confidence will meet our self-despair. 
“Something will happen in your life, where you will be tested to be courageous. Where moving forward collides with running away, where our faith will meet our uncertainty, where our hope will meet our despondency, where our self-confidence will meet our self-despair.” 
Frances Shavers 
speaker 
“on that bridge we have to respond. you have to respond. you must choose courage … 

Joseph county is defined as a full-time job with an hourly wage of at least $13.11. 
“in 2007, 23.3 percent of families in st. Joseph county were in poverty,” stryker said. “i am sure this number has increased now that we are in a recession.” 
one member of hope ministries named rose said the organization helps her improve her education, grow closer to god and take care of her 10-month-old daugh­ter, who also resides at hope ministries. 
“it’s my home,” she said of the organization. “it’s my family. They made me feel welcome and accepted me 
to override our own internal doubts — perhaps the most damning — our own voice that says, i can’t.” 
The third speaker was katie washington, the first black valedictorian of notre dame who did medical research and service until her gradua­tion in 2010 before entering a combined md/phd program at Johns hopkins university. washington referenced her own academic, professional and personal experiences in her talk. 
“here’s my perspective: whatever you should commit to requires conscious reflec­tion and self-examination,” washington said. “our com­mitment should come from a place of self-love. 
“it should also provide a love for others, especially those who appear unlovable by some criteria or certain standards. ultimately the commitments that you choose are yours and yours alone.” 
The dinner was organized by shades of ebony and the and my daughter from the moment we arrived.” 
“In 2007, 23.3 percent of families in St. Joseph’s County were in poverty. I am sure this number has increased now that we are in a recession.” 
Bonnie Stryker 
director 
Youth Services Bureau 
another guest from hope ministries, who identified 
gender relations center and funded by a variety of clubs, residence halls, alumni clubs and individual alumnae. 
sophomore chizo ekechukwu, diversity coun­cil representative and histo­rian for shades of ebony, said the speakers exceeded her expectations. 
“Frances — i was in tears, and katie is my inspiration be­cause i want to be a doctor, so her being the first black vale­dictorian and her doing an md/ phd program is something i aspire to do,” ekechukwu said. “grace, telling her story was so brave and courageous. The theme of character, cour­age and commitment was em­bodied throughout this whole dinner.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
herself as may, shared her story of homelessness. unlike some stereotypes of the home­less, she said she did not find herself on the streets because of alcoholism or drug abuse. her medical condition caused her to lose her job, she said. 
president of the south bend common council oliver davis said he plans to raise awareness and initiative on the behalf of homeless awareness. 
“[you] don’t have to have a great degree to help with homelessness, you just need a willing heart,” she said. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 
christine caron gebhardt, director of the gender relations center, said the event organizers were pleased with the outcome. 
“i think the speakers were wonderful in capturing what we were hoping for tonight, with the different ways in which women and men both past and present help shape the future,” gebhardt said. “we had a very engaging dis­cussion at our table, and other folks were really engaged. 
“each year we’re hoping to build, and i think it’s becom­ing stronger. and it’s encour­aging that our campus is really uplifting women.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 





dionne-lanier said the two network with others in the field. 
shannon and patrick deasey, and 
Conference 

Relay 
roundtable discussions allow “we’re bringing together all 
we pledge to do our part to fight 
conTinued From page 1 

conTinued From page 1 
for more nuanced discussions these people from all over the 
against cancer by walking around 

out what happened in world about various topics in peace country and a few international 
“The money goes toward sup-the ice rink throughout the eve-
war ii, but it’s a lot harder to studies. students, so it gives them the 
port for caregivers and survivors ning, showing our solidarity with 
integrate everything in recent “They’re all papers that we extra opportunity to network 
and toward cancer research,” both the survivors and caregivers 
years.” went through this abstract pro-with each other and to build 
romeros said. “actually, notre who have been affected by can­
deFrieze said 200 partici-cess with, who we pulled out this larger network of peace 
dame has received 11 american cer,” romeros said. 
pants registered for the con-as people who had something builders as we all move on in 
cancer society grants total-romeros, who first became in­
ference and 40 presenters were very unique and interesting to our careers,” dionne-lanier 
ing over $3 million for cancer volved with relay for life in high 
selected from more than 100 say about peace studies and said. 
research.” school, said working with the or-
submissions, representing a that really stood out and could on saturday, andrew mack, 
according to a university press ganization at notre dame is very 
growth in interest in the confer-stand alone,” dionne-lanier director of the human security 
release, notre dame relay has rewarding. 
ence in recent years. said. “we gave [the students] report project at simon Fraser 
raised more than $1 million for the “[i’m] passionate about relay 
“we’ve actually grown a little the opportunity to lead their university in vancouver, will 
american cancer society in the for life because cancer is a disease 
in status,” he said. “we were own discussion. it’s going to be deliver the keynote address, 
last 10 years. that, unfortunately, every person 
mostly recruiting from around a more intimate session, so they “understanding the global 
each year, notre dame relay has a connection to, and we just 
the midwest and the smaller re-can really talk about their re-decline in violence: will it 
selects two honorary chairs of want to do our part to join the 
gion, but now we’ve grown to an search and get into it.” last?” 
the event from the notre dame fight,” she said. 
international conference. we’re according to the conference according to his webpage, 
community. The 2014 chairs are activities will be held through-
recruiting people from london, schedule, the panel discus-mack has written or edited 60 
sophomores patrick and shannon out the night at the compton 
from africa. we have better sions will concern a number of books and published over 60 
deasey, two of a set of triplets from Family ice arena, the release 
keynote speakers as well.” topics, from human trafficking articles on politics and security. 
edina, minn., the press release said. ice-skating, a photo booth, a 
Fellow co-chair ana dionne-to refugees to feminism in the “he’s a really big player in 
stated. broomball tournament, balloon 
lanier said increasing numbers field. the field, and we’re very, very 
“both were born with a rare twisters and face-painters are 
of participants have learned of “The panel discussions came excited about him, especially 
form of cancer, retinoblastoma, open to the public. 
the conference through social together really nicely because because he’s an expert in what 
and were successfully treated as in addition, public fundrais­
media and networking. we looked at all the abstracts we’re trying to do,” deFrieze 
infants,” the release stated. “at 18, ers, such as cupcake sales, T-shirt 
“we have an external contact and looked at the different said. “his presentation will 
patrick underwent treatment for a sales and auctions, have been held 
list that we always use through-major themes in peace stud-be about the global decline in 
second time, to fight an osteosar-across campus this week in prepa­
out the country to other peace ies that we’ve identified and violence, and that’s obviously 
coma of the sinus. ration for the relay, the release said. 
studies programs, but even seen, and through that ... were a major change since the cold 
“Today, patrick, shannon Friday, notre dame relay 
that’s growing to include even some things that came across war.” 
and their brother michael, also will hold a mobile auction offer-
more programs that are outside throughout the abstracts,” registration for food and ma-
a student at notre dame, are ing items such as framed prints, 
peace studies,” she said. dionne-lanier said. “They end-terials is closed, but dionne­
cancer-free.” blackhawks tickets and restaurant 
The conference schedule ed up coming together across lanier said anyone is welcome 
romeros said a luminary cere-packages. 
features roundtable discus-these broader topics.” to attend the presentations and 
mony is planned for Friday at 9:30 a full event schedule can be 
sions, panel discussions, mul-dionne-lanier said the gen-discussions. 
p.m. to celebrate the co-chairs. found at relay.nd.edu. 
timedia displays, a general eral session tonight, led by 
“This event is powerful because 
session and a keynote address, kroc associate director anne Contact Emily McConville at 
we take the time to recognize our Contact Meg Handelman at 
as well as meals and receptions. hayner, will allow attendees to emcconv1@nd.edu 
two honorary survivor co-chairs, mhandelm@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


to Lisa Simpson 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

ask any one of my friends and they’ll tell you that one of my favorite hobbies is meeting friends’ parents. There’s some­thing so fun and fascinating about meet­ing parents: you finally get to see, just a little bit, why your friend is the way they are. This is undoubtedly true about my parents as well — i’m a spitting image of my mom with my dad’s sense of humor. 
but there’s another figure in my up­bringing that had an enormous influence on who i am today. like me, her interests include “music, science, justice, animals, shapes, feelings.” unlike me, she is per­manently eight years old. her name is lisa simpson. 
growing up with older siblings, espe­cially my brother patrick, i was exposed to “The simpsons” at far, far too early an age. we used to sit around the family room almost every night, flipping between two different episodes of the show, which ran at the same time on two different stations. with this method and my brother’s admi­rable dedication, i had watched hundreds of episodes by age 10, when patrick left for college. 
during that time, lisa simpson became a heroic figure in my young life. she was smart, sensitive, musically gifted and a little bit of a troublemaker. i didn’t un­derstand many of the jokes or references in “The simpsons” at that young age, but i did know i wanted to be just like lisa. clad in a dress and pearls, with a baritone sax and a passion for reading, she is, at least to me, iconic and a role model in some strange way. 
when i turned 10, inspired in part by lisa, i became a vegetarian. by 11, in­spired entirely by lisa, i started reading about buddhism. she taught me about feminism, environmentalism, social jus­tice and, maybe less importantly, how to say “foliage” correctly. 
at a young age, lisa showed me how to stand up for myself. i learned that girls can be smart and silly at the same time (i loved the fact that she would participate in prank phone calls with bart), that grit and vulnerability can coexist and you shouldn’t be embarrassed about your passions. 
while my parents joke about how i, the youngest of five siblings, was exposed to things inappropriate for my age, it’s only after leaving home that i realized, in the case of “The simpsons,” i benefitted in some way. other shows depicted little 

EDITORIAL 
with news of the campus crossroads project and university president Fr. John Jenkins’s plans to add two new residence halls and a research facility to campus, it is clear that changes are upon the university as we know it. how notre dame will look when we visit as alumni, which resi­dence halls we may call our own and perhaps even where our graduation ceremonies will be held will undoubtedly be altered in the near future. we students may be wary of the impending changes, but we must also remind ourselves of the positive consequences of these improvements, even if we don’t see them just yet. 
we strive to have the picture-perfect college experience during our four years at notre dame, but in the backgrounds of those pictures are landscapes of construction, indications of a transforming campus. at a place where tradition is deeply valued, it is no surprise the student body may feel hesitant about the addition of new residence halls. 
however, while it is important for students to critically evaluate these projects, we also must consider the numerous benefits of the university’s expansion. 
as residence halls struggle with overcrowding and disap­pearing common rooms, the addition of two halls will create much-needed space. Though the immediate reaction to ex­pansion may be to wonder – or even fear – what will happen to the community in each of our own residence halls, it is important to consider what good the new halls will to bring residence life across campus. Fr. Jenkins cited issues of over­crowding when presenting the project, which means that while no single hall is directly targeted, the administration is and interested in accommodating more students comfortably on campus and alleviating pressure on existing halls as a whole. 
Though physical expansion of campus may generally spark some anxiety within the current student body, we can benefit from this growth even after our time at notre dame. when we leave the university, we will have nothing but our memo­ries and our diploma — the reputation of notre dame that we will carry with us into our careers and future challenges. as notre dame grows, then, with a new research facility and additional academic programs, so too will its reputation as a top-notch institution. 
additionally, we can consider the changes that we cannot see but that nonetheless affect us as students right now. The addition of new study abroad programs will bring students to new places, and more research facilities will give more stu­dents the opportunity to hone investigative skills. 
The notre dame family we all value includes thousands of future students as well. while looking back on the changes the university has seen over time, we know that its growth, both physically and institutionally, has drawn us here. Future students will have more opportunities, better facilities, new places to make memories and new residence halls to call their own. 
our time on this campus is temporary. Though we may wish to return to find the same notre dame we discovered on our first days of orientation, it is clear that expansion in all directions will make for a changed and improved univer­sity. it is important that we question these changes in order to advocate for our residence halls, students — both present and future — and the university. but we must remember that growth made notre dame the place it is now — the university that accepted us — and perhaps we should return the favor by supporting its endeavors. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is no crueler tyranny than that which is perpetuated under the shield of law and in the name of justice.” 
Charles de Montesquieu (1689-1855) 
French political thinker 

girls in categories: you were the “sporty one” or “girly one” or “brainy one.” it was only on a show not meant for me that i learned those categories don’t exist, that you can be all those things without apolo­gizing. For that, i thank lisa. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
You should care about Zahm common rooms 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

last Thursday at 1:45 a.m., Zahm resi­dents received an email from their rec­tor, Fr. gary chamberland, telling them that the housing office had decided a mere 15 days before room picks to nix a decades-old dorm tradition. 
when Zahm residents gathered for room picks last year, they had seven “forced” room setups to choose from, including the coveted “eight-man” on the second and third floors. in this set­up, one rising senior picks a single and pulls another senior into a single across the hallway. Those same seniors pull six rising sophomores into two triples. all of them share “the eight-man,” a large common room immediately adjacent to the rooms where their beds are. This is repeated on the third floor. a similar situation on a smaller scale exists for the five “five-mans.” 
next Thursday, for the first time since at least the 1970s, Zahm will gather for room picks and the two “eight-mans” will not be up for grabs. The office of housing is eliminating them to create standardized university lounges, and threatening the “five-mans” by interfer­ing in Zahm’s long-held practice of pool­ing multiple rooms into one pick. 
yesterday, we had the pleasure of taking a tour of Zahm. after leaving, we agreed that we empathize with the office of housing. because it’s re­ally hard to write sensible policies for dorms in which you’ve never set foot. after touring the “house,” this is the only explanation we can conceive of for the housing office’s decision and subsequent unwillingness to discuss a compromise. 
Zahm has reacted to a frustrating situ­ation with nothing but class, despite ad­ministrative deafness and intransigence. residents have issued two internet petitions, published a well-thought-out viewpoint in this paper and solicited emails and phone calls and letters from Zahm alumni and Zahm parents. several alumni with advanced degrees signed on to their petition pledging to not donate anything above the requisite $100 to enter the annual football ticket lottery until the decision is reversed. 
The residents also took affirmative steps to try to reach an amicable solution with housing. They drew up an alterna­tive proposal which would achieve the same occupancy target (a net reduction of eight beds) without eliminating the eight-mans. The housing office sum­marily rejected it, giving only cursory indication that they had even considered the plan. 
when housing dismisses outright an alternative plan that achieves the same stated goals and has the residence hall’s approval, it is hard to see this as anything other than a concerted ef­fort to eliminate or fracture seven of Zahm’s most desirable community hubs, without giving sufficient notice or warrant for doing so. housing’s record over recent years makes it easy to view this particular office blunder as part of a broader move, intentional or not, to limit the number of areas in which our 29 halls can really claim to be “unique.” in 2012, the housing office (then the office of housing and residence life) informed st. edward’s hall 18 days be­fore finals and three weeks after room picks that they intended to replace our trademark lofts with modular furniture. For a number of reasons, that decision was retracted, but housing’s penchant for issuing rules without consulting the students evidently was not. 
if housing’s rule was really designed to attain the “optimal mix of residential, social and study space” as their email suggests, we would not expect those who will reside, socialize and study in the affected hall to react as they have. why housing feels that it can discern this elu­sive “optimal mix” without consulting the students is quite puzzling. if housing is sincere in their pursuit of optimal mixes or of other unrelated aims like increasing the number of on-campus seniors, then they should immediately scrap the practice of issuing sweeping decisions only days before they are sup­posed to go into effect and engage resi­dents in an honest conversation. 
housing claimed in an email to Zahm that “[T]he university’s efforts to realign Zahm’s residence hall room configura­tions were undertaken with a respect for and a responsibility to preserve its rich fraternal bonds.” Their implementation of the decision belies any such notion. policy disagreements aside, “respect” re­quires openness and transparency when considering important decisions. here, both are lacking. 
Finally, if this must be handled within the bureaucratic confines of the main building, then we suggest that the admissions office take a close look at how the housing office’s actions will af­fect student tour guides who so reliably call “dorm life” notre dame’s biggest asset. There’s a lack of communication under the dome if the housing office believes strong-arming students into a standardized vision of dorm life consti­tutes best practices. with this miscom­munication set to continue, we implore the 7,800 notre dame students who do not live in Zahm to recognize bad prec­edent when they see it, and voice their discontent accordingly. Those crazy Zahm kids will thank you. 
Pat Roemer contributed to this column. 
Alex Caton and Pat Roemer are juniors living in St. Edward’s Hall. They can be contacted at acaton@nd.edu and proemer@nd.edu, respectively. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
sustainable food trumps vegetarian options 
Sarah Morris 
candid contemplation 

as a san Francisco bay area native, it is no surprise that i have many vegetar­ian friends. even at notre dame, the vegetarian community is alive and well amidst the looming midwest corn fields and feedlots that surround our prover­bial bubble. vegetarians and i share many things in common, including a deep respect for the dignity of animals, a concern for our flagrantly exploited environment and a consciousness of personal health and well being (despite what my freezer full of ben & Jerry’s may suggest). however, my vegetarian com­rades and i draw stark contrasts regard­ing the subject of meat itself. with no intention of changing any opinions, for i have made the attempt many times to no avail, i present an alternative para­digm and course of action for anyone who cares to read on. 
whether your abstention of meat flows from ethical principles, environ­mental grounds, health considerations or a combination of such, i counter that the choice to eat meat better addresses your issue(s). Furthermore, if that sweeping declaration failed to cause you to furiously crumple your paper or slam your screen down, the choice to eat red meat better addresses your issue(s). contrary to what many nutri­tionists, doctors, environmentalists and news headlines will tell you about meat consumption and its evils, a conscious effort to consume sustainable meats not only addresses your concern(s) but also results in positive action that aids in changing the flawed system that domi­nates american food today. 
yet, attention must be paid to the most important word of my claim: sustainable. of course this is not an endorsement of mcdonalds hamburg­ers, frozen Tyson chicken nuggets or even the $89 porterhouse steak at one of chicago’s best steak houses, but an effort to introduce an alternative pro­test to conventionally raised meats that presents a solution to the problem and the freedom to enjoy succulent spare ribs when one so pleases. 
sustainably raised meats come from animals raised in open pastures that have spent their lives consuming mate­rials they have evolved to eat. They have not been forcefed genetically modified corn (grown in monocultures with fossil fuels) and injected with growth hormones, while crammed against each other in rows and rows of concrete slabs. instead, they have lived their entire lives in a mutual relationship with the land. The animals’ contributions of move­ment — which plows the soil — and fertilizer — which nourishes it — help foster the diverse ecosystems in which they exist. when raised in their proper habitat with proper management, herd animals benefit and maintain our country’s rich and fertile rangelands far better than any manmade alternative while simultaneously rendering the sys­tematic production of feedlots, and the corn they require, utterly unnecessary. it is also important to note that the soy that many vegetarians and vegans use to substitute for meat is also grown in vast monocultures and requires copious amounts of fossil fuels in cultivation, harvest, packaging and transportation. 
in addition to the environmental benefits of sustainable meat, the health benefits abound, as well. nearly ev­ery study that connects [red] meat to alzheimer’s, cancer, diabetes, heart attacks and so forth is based off of data derived from conventionally raised meats. The composition of these meats, due to the altered diet from grass to corn, is physically different from that of its sustainable counterparts. in fact, grassfed meats compare far more close­ly to wild salmon than to their feedlot-raised cousins. salmon has long been a nutritional darling for its high levels of vitamin e and “good fats” including omega3 Fatty acids; sustainably raised, grassfed meats compare to the levels of wild salmon in each of these categories, while grainfed meats are depleted of nearly all of these supernutrients over the course of their feedlot tenure. 
Finally, the ethics of sustainably raised animals definitively trumps con­ventional standards. simply put, there are no cages. There are no cramped, muddy corrals. There are no twostory piles of manure. sustainably raised animals live their entire lives on open, responsibly managed rangeland. Furthermore, they are treated with the utmost respect and dignity from their first moment to their last by farmers and ranchers who truly honor their existence. with my limited space and skill, i can only introduce the many benefits of sustainable meat consump­tion as a viable alternative not only to vegetarianism, but to all consumers of food. writers like michael pollan and eric schlosser, films like “Food, inc.” and farmers like Joel salatin are all ex­cellent resources for further exploration of something that is relevant to all, for as wendell berry once said, “To be inter­ested in food, but not in food production is clearly absurd.” 
Sarah Morris is a sophomore political science and American studies major in Ryan Hall. She can be contacted at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 
where is mike Jones? 

it’s a question worth asking ahead of his sub-sponsored show at legends tonight at 10 p.m. The rap­per broke out in the mid-2000s as houston rap exploded onto the national scene. Jones’s career blew up almost overnight, along with his swishahouse labelmates, in­cluding chamillionaire and slim Thug. 
For a moment in the aughts, Jones seemed poised to become a genuine cultural force in hip-hop. he was signed to a deal with Jive and warner bros. his debut album “who is mikes Jones?” was certified double plati­num. he scored a top-10 hit with a feature on T-pain’s “i’m ‘n luv (wit a stripper),” in which he boasted, “mike Jones don’t ever trick.” his catchphrase — “who? mike Jones!” — became a pop culture touchstone. 
Jones’ greatest artistic feat was his debut single, “still Tippin’,” which remains one of the most unappreciated rap songs of the 21st century. salih williams’s fantastic production is largely responsible for its greatness. Jones, slim Thug and paul wall rap over the brilliantly woozy beat that employs a bass-heavy drum machine and a pitched-down sample of gioachino rossini’s “william Tell overture”. Jones’s signature drawl oozes on his verse, as he raps about “finger flippin’ and syrup sip-pin’.” wall presciently brags, “i got the internet going nuts,” in an era before the internet played a major role in breaking new artists. The song ranked at no. 87 on pitchfork’s Top 500 Tracks of the 2000s, with music critic Tom breihan writing, “after ‘still Tippin’,” every rapper on the song got a major-label contract, as did half the rappers in the city. none of them became stars, and none of them recaptured the magic of this song.” 
his rise to prominence ended as quickly as it started. Jones released a second album, “The voice,” in 2009, which only sold 65,000 copies in the u.s. Jones disap­peared from the music industry for the next five years, seemingly destined to remain a reminder of middle school years for most millennials. 
when i called his well-publicized phone number this week, (281) 330-8004 — which he shouted out on tracks and was printed in the new york Times — it appeared to be out of service. yet, a google search revealed that Jones is preparing for a comeback this year. in an inter­view with XXl in January, Jones attributed his absence to label troubles. 
“Fighting politics, learning politics,” he said. “it was just a lot of misunderstandings.” he also announced he was working on new music, planning to release a mix-tape called “money Train” and an album titled “where is mikes Jones?” later this year. 
Jones’ website has a message to his fans, brimming with optimism about his future: “i’m telling ya’ll, no lie, i’m back, with no politics and finally in charge of things!” whether Jones is able to successfully engineer a comeback remains to be seen, but there is no doubt his show at legends this weekend will be an entertaining mix of old hits and new material. 
Jones performs at legends tonight at 10 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at  mmunhall@nd.edu 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

“brooklyn nine-nine,” this year’s golden globe award-winner for best Television series — musical or comedy, aired its season finale  march 25, capping a stel­lar first season. The network sitcom, appearing on Fox, is the latest success from creator michael schur (“The office,” “parks and recreation”), along with co-creator dan goor (“parks and recreation”), executive producers david miner (30 rock) and emerging duo phil lord and chris miller (“clone high,” “21 Jump street,” ‘The lego movie”). This roster of all-star contributors is indicative of the immediate quality found in their new show. 
with the thorough work of this exciting staff, “brooklyn nine-nine” has the feel of a series in stride, even from the first few episodes. They have melded andy samberg from a polarizing goofball into a fully formed, likeable 
— read, golden globe award–winning — protagonist. Jake peralta, the 99th precinct of new york’s finest detec­tive, may retain samberg’s apparent childish antics, but he has an emerging depth that subverts immaturity, and the actor ably plays subtle moments just as well as over-the-top ones. in addition, the remainder of the nine­nine’s ensemble cast has been given room to grow, with 
STEPH WULZ | THE OBSERVER 

arcs incorporating various pairings and relationships to round out each character. 
standout performances from andre braugher and Terry crews in leadership positions on the show see the two in the greatest comedic roles of their respective ca­reers. similarly, relative newcomers melissa Fumero and stephanie beatriz fill out the squad in dynamic breakout roles as two other strong, yet significantly unalike, de­tectives. The rest of the main cast includes comedians Joe lo Truglio and chelsea peretti in very typical per­formances that nonetheless expound upon their usual character work. 
Throughout the first season, “brooklyn nine-nine” has developed due to mindfulness from its writers in navigating the confines of a traditional, crowd-pleas­ing sitcom. because of its nature as, at its basis, an of­fice sitcom airing on a major network, it must be broad enough to cater to a wide audience, which might be seen as a hindrance to originality. instead, however, the show transcends these boundaries by deftly handling each main character with the same weight, to the long-term benefit of the series — this conscientiousness much like that exhibited and recognized in the creators’ previous endeavors. after a couple of minor hiccups early on, the writers diverged from the all-too-typical tropes of the sitcom genre, allowing for more natural, self-defined characters. 
The wealth of character development in the 22 epi­sodes of the first season has also allowed for the show to capitalize on character-based humor, besides the standard punch line jokes and expert delivery featured across the show from writer to actor. The cast members’ distinct personalities are continuously being fleshed out, letting slighter moments increase in payoff and add­ing to audience investment. without delving into any specific storylines or plots, for the sake of not spoiling any part of the season, the cast and crew of “brooklyn nine-nine” are evidence enough to trust its merit. 
The ensemble sitcom has had perhaps the best first season of a network sitcom since those of nbc’s “community” and Fox’s “arrested development,” while skewing a bit more mainstream than either. This bodes longevity while also predicting withstanding quality. Fox already renewed “brooklyn nine-nine” for a second season on march 7, and the announcement brings with it excitement for more growth from the storylines planted in the string of final episodes. 
Contact Matt McMahon at  mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

if you’re a fan of any of the recent sherlock holmes remakes, you’ve probably heard of either benedict cumberbatch or Jonny lee miller or, quite possibly, both. This weekend, at the debartolo performing arts center (dpac), the two holmes actors star in a set of films telling the story of “Frankenstein.” 
The films are part of the national Theatre live series from london. The broadcast originally premiered in 2011 and returns now as part of the national Theatre’s 50th anniversary celebration. The original showings sold out at the national Theatre and won the 2012 olivier award for best actor for both cumberbatch and miller. 
There are two versions of this production of “Frankenstein.” The first, premiering saturday at 3 p.m. at dpac, stars cumberbatch as the creature and miller as victor Frankenstein. The second version has the pair swapping roles. 
danny boyle, who is known for his work on “Trainspotting” and “slumdog millionaire,” directed the films. cumberbatch is most recently known for his roles in bbc’s “sherlock” (as the title character) and “12 years a slave.” miller stars in another modern remake of the sherlock holmes story, cbs’s “elementary.” 
based on mary shelley’s novel of the same name, the follows the creature after he and victor Frankentstein part ways. The play attempts to recreate the creature’s journey after his parental figure abandons him, in a world that is unlikely to accept him given his appearance. 
according to a review in the huffington post, most critics recommend the version where cumberbatch plays the creature, though both have received good reviews. 
The question at the core of the narrative is who is the real monster: the repulsive creature brought back to life or the scientist who creates and abandons him? 
The play comes down strongly on the side of the creature, portraying Frankenstein as “standard-issue, brainy, emotionally arid megalomaniac with sneering lines that verge on camp” according to ben brantley in a review in The new york Times. here it veers from shelley a bit, who allows more empathy to be created for the man who created such a monster and therefore offers the actor playing the creature a bit more to work with. 
each performance offers its own distinct feel to the narrative, and part of the critical interest in the film has been comparing the two actors in the roles of the creature and Frankenstein. michael billington’s review in The guardian says that cumberbatch has “an epic grandeur” while “miller’s strength, in contrast, lies in his menace.” The paired performances offer interesting insights into shelley’s novel. 
“Frankenstein” is lauded as one of the major success­es of the national Theatre live and the opportunity to see it on notre dame’s campus is incredible. if you are lucky enough to have tickets, expect a performance that will offer new insights into the popular novel, especially as the two actors switch roles. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

By MARK DRAKE 
scene writer 

Quick. Think about the city of south bend. no, seri­ously, just think about it for 10 seconds. alright, now what came to mind? chances are it was probably your favorite community service location, the city that your university happens to placed in or maybe cold midwestern waste­land (will it ever be spring?). The city of south bend rep­resents many different things to people, whether those things are positive or negative. 
however, for most individuals, south bend is not thought of as a place with a thriving music community. although relatively unexplored by the notre dame com­munity, south bend offers musical performances rang­ing from the sounds of louisiana at chicory café to the irish styling’s of Fiddler’s hearth. events such as south by south bend (sXsb) and efforts by The bridge project have started the to deepen the connection between notre dame students and the south bend musical community, but there is a great deal of uncovered territory. 
For students looking to hear some great jazz or prac­tice their musical abilities in a jazz setting, merriman’s playhouse provides a great alternative to acousticafe. merriman’s playhouse is situated just two miles south of campus at 1211 mishawaka ave, south bend. a sleepy piano shop during the day, the venue is transformed into a hopping jazz venue for all ages on monday nights. upon entering merriman’s, visitors are immediately greeted by steve and mary merriman, the founders of the shop, with copious hellos and offers of popcorn, coffee and tea. notre dame students mingle with students from indiana university south bend. Faculty members bring their children, who eagerly show off their musical chops, and regardless of how many people attend any given week, there is always room on the stage for another musician. 
according to their website, merriman’s playhouse is described as a “venue for improvisational and interactive arts,” and they put that description to the test nightly. From 7:30 to 10:30, musicians from all over the community come together to perform various jazz standards and hone their skills, while eager listeners arrive for the chance to hear a free concert. informality is key to this place as musicians walk off the stage mid song to take a phone call or say hello to an old friend. individuals who come to watch read books between songs and chatter with the performers about the songs they’ve just played. The environment is relaxed, and the feeling of musical community is always apparent. 
aside from the weekly improv jazz sessions, merriman’s playhouse offers a variety of other music and non-music related events throughout the week, including a poetry reading the last sunday of the month. recently, a new program has begun called “The soul influence sunday”. on the first sunday of each month poets, art­ists and musicians share work to be experienced by the “soul”. i’m sure that if you asked the merriman’s, there’s no better way to relax on a sunday night. 
Contact Mark Drake at mdrake@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | THE OBSERVER 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Will NFL thrive or take a dive? 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
march is undoubtedly one of the greatest months of sports all year. you have the push for the playoffs in the nba, mlb’s opening day and topping it all off, the insanely entertaining march madness. Thus, when i visited espn.com on Thursday afternoon, i was a bit surprised to see the top story did not re­late to the start of the sweet 16 later that night, nor the pacers’ down-to-the-wire victory over the defending champion heat on wednesday night. instead, Johnny manziel stared back from the center of my screen, featured for his pro day at Texas a&m. That his glorified practice was displayed ahead of the best of the nba and ncaa serves as a re­minder of an undeniable truth in today’s sport’s world: even in the offseason, the nFl is king. 
never before has a sport risen to this level of national prevalence. last season’s super bowl between the broncos and seahawks attracted 112.2 mil­lion viewers, making it not only the most-watched sporting event in u. s. television history, but the most-watched event of any kind. in fact, the nFl has broken this all-time viewing record with four out of the last five super bowls. but even more impressive is its offseason relevance. sports chan­nels are filled with the never-ending examination of prospects like manziel and free agent anal­ysis by television’s talking heads, and the nFl has even based a hit Tv show, hbo’s “hard knocks,” around its offseason training camps. round one of last year’s nFl draft drew 6.2 million view­ers to espn; for comparison, game five of the 2013 stanley cup Finals attracted just 5.6 million. 
The nFl’s current runaway success makes it easy to ignore any potential concerns about its longevity, so when mark cuban predicted a looming collapse for the league, most dismissed it as just the latest outburst from the erratic owner of the nba’s dallas mavericks. according to cuban, the nFl’s downfall will be due to its own greed. 
“i think the nFl is 10 years away from an implosion,” cuban said. “i’m just tell­ing you. pigs get fat, hogs get slaughtered. and they’re getting hoggy.” 
cuban went on to discuss how the nFl’s focus on accumulat­ing revenue through the distri­bution of television rights will eventually lead to overexposure for the league. while the nFl’s $10 billion annual revenue sug­gests less a hog than a charging elephant, cuban’s accusations should not be easily discarded. and while he may be known primarily for his rabid sideline presence at mavericks’ games and the millions of dollars he’s paid in fines to the nba, it shouldn’t be forgotten that cuban is a self-made billionaire and owner of successful proper­ties such as mangolia pictures and landmark Theaters. 
he is also undeniably correct about one thing: the nFl wants more. in 2010, commission roger goodell said the league’s goal was to achieve annual rev­enue of $27 billion by 2027. with the current annual revenue around $10 billion, major steps are required to reach those lofty ambitions. in addition to con­stantly rising ticket and conces­sion prices, the most popular methods suggested to promote revenue growth are adding more games, expanding to an overseas audience or playing games on additional weekdays. 
The first option has already met with resistance from the nFl players association and fans, as the added risk of injury from an extra game is hard to stomach in an age where the horrifying long-term effects of concussions are finally com­ing to light. and while overseas games are an interesting novel­ty, it removes a home game from one team’s schedule and puts a harsh travel load on players and coaches. 
The nFl has already added one night to its traditional duo of sunday and monday, adding Thursday night football in 2006. The weekly game has found rela­tive success on the nFl network, averaging eight million viewers in 2013, but has received mixed reviews from players and coach­es due to reduced preparation time. That loss of practice time is apparent in the sloppy results on the field, as Thursday night football games average one more turnover and four percent worse pass completion than sunday games. adding more games may result in more profits, but it certainly doesn’t lead to good football. 
The nFl’s current position as the predominant american sport is indisputable, but its never-ending quest to increase revenues may eventually put its throne at risk. while cuban’s prediction of 10 years until im­plosion seems extreme, his anal­ysis of the potential damages of the nFl’s greed is spot on. if the nFl continually places earnings above the fan experience, quality of the product on the field and player safety, it may find itself wishing it heeded cuban’s warn­ing. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
nd to host a pair at the eck 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame will play at home for the first time since February this weekend against a pair of highly-ranked acc teams, facing no. 14 duke on Friday and no. 8 north carolina on sunday. 
The irish (13-5, 3-1) look to build on the momentum from wins over clemson and georgia Tech last weekend. 
“we played good matches,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “any time you know what the blueprint is for success, it’s easy to follow. we reestablished that last weekend and if we keep doing that and sticking to what helps us win, then we’ve got a great chance to keep winning.” 
duke and north carolina boast records of 10-5 (2-1) and 16-3 (3-1) and are in seventh and fifth in the acc standings, respectively. 
“duke is a really good team,” sachire said. “we’re expecting to play one of the elite teams in the country this Friday, but we’re an elite team as well, so it should be a great match. 
same thing from north carolina, they’re another top­10 team. Their talent level may even be a tick higher than duke, but what duke has over north carolina is that duke has won consistently over the past few years, so their players have ex­perience on a big stage, where­as north carolina has a lot of freshmen this year. still, north carolina has so much talent and is a great team.” 
sachire said one of the keys to winning the upcoming matches would be making every point a hard-fought one. 
“i think we did a really good job last weekend of being a very tough team and a team that doesn’t give away much easily,” sachire said. “we’re going to have to make our opponents earn everything they get. if we come in with that mind­set and take every chance we get, we’ll be a tough team to beat. we just need to take advantage of our opportunities and take those ag­gressive shots when they’re avail­able to us.” 
notre dame’s strong leader­ship will also play a major role in matches against top teams like duke and north carolina, sachire said. 
“in any big matches you look at your older guys, your seniors, and greg andrews and ryan bandy have been big for us the entire season,” sachire said. “They’ve both had great weeks of practice and if they can build on what mo­mentum they already have, i’m sure they’ll play great.” 
additionally, sachire expects being back at home to help the irish. 
“we’ll really psyched about playing at home,” sachire said. “There’s an energy we get from our home crowd and our facility that we’re excited to get back to.” 
notre dame will take on duke today at 3:30 p.m., at the eck Tennis pavilion, followed by a matchup with north carolina on sunday at 1 p.m, also at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Renee Griffin at             rgriffi6@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish prep for stretch run 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
Fresh off a sweep of marquette, no. 22 notre dame will look to keep the momentum rolling this weekend as it hosts wake Forest on sunday morning at eck Tennis pavilion. 
The irish (9-8, 2-6 acc) blanked the golden eagles (8-6) by a score of 7-0 on wednesday afternoon, end­ing a two-match losing streak from the weekend before against no. 6 virginia and no. 10 north carolina. 
“we lost two [matches] last weekend to two teams who were in the top 10, and [we] played pretty well,” irish coach Jay louderback said. “you can play well and still lose a couple of matches in the acc. it’s pretty easy to do.” 
The big win over marquette gives the irish a great deal of momentum as the look for­ward to the weekend, irish senior Jennifer kellner said. 
“it’s a good confidence boost for everyone, espe­cially since all the girls in the acc are so tough,” she said. 
“This was good just to get a win,” louderback said. “we’ve won quite a few in a row but after losing two [in a row] you always start doubting a little bit. … This was good to help momentum for [sunday’s] match.” 

The match-up against the demon deacons (10-7, 2-6 acc) is the beginning of the final stretch of conference play for the irish, with only six acc matches remaining in the regular season. The irish will have four home matches in a row before fin­ishing the season with a pair on the road. louderback said he understands that it is im­portant to get off to a good start for the last few games. 
wake Forest has been bitten by the injury bug this year, with multiple players going down at one point or an­other, including sophomore andrea retolaza andrade, the demon deacons’ top player. still, the demon deacons were ranked in the top 40 earlier this year for the first time since 2009. 
“when they’re all there, they’re good,” louderback said. “They’ve just had matches where they’ve had two of their six out and when they do they’ve struggled some. when they’re healthy they’re good.” 
louderback also pointed out that the demon deacons have had a number of close matches against teams to­wards the top of the acc standings, including Florida state and north carolina. 
“They’ve had some tight matches and their doubles are solid,” louderback said. “we just don’t know who they’re going to have [on the court]. They could be good and they’re athletic.” 
although the irish man­aged to earn the doubles point wednesday, they have struggled to take the early lead in matches since acc play began. 
“even though we won the doubles point, it was a little bit of a struggle,” louderback said. “i think we’ll be tinker­ing with it all year.” 
kellner and her fellow se­nior Julie sabacinski have been paired together in the last couple of weeks and pro­vided a boost to the doubles team. 
“it’s really fun to play to­gether. our games com­plement each other well,” kellner said. “we’re really close off the court so that always helps. Julie’s always been a great doubles player.” 
notre dame will look to ride their newfound spark and recent success to anoth­er acc win sunday at 9 a.m., at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


TRACK & FIELD | TeXas relays 
Track & Field trek to Texas for split-team relays 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
notre dame takes over Texas this weekend as 18 irish athletes compete at the Texas relays in austin and 27 others travel to the victor lopez invitational in houston. 
The split-squad Texas trip marks the first action of the outdoor season for the irish, who saw 12 athletes named all-americans for their per­formances at the ncaa out­door championships, which finished march 15. The irish men’s unit finished 17th overall while the women’s squad finished 29th. 
The Texas relays began wednesday with all eyes 
“It will be wonderful to run in the sun.” 
Joe Piane 
Irish coach 
on graduate student Ted glasnow, who competed in the decathlon, an event in which he earned all-big east honors in 2013. 
irish coach Joe piane said wednesday that his chief goals for glasnow were a top-10 finish and ncaa 


paid adverTisemenT 
championship qualify­ing mark. on Thursday afternoon, glasnow put the finishing touches on a better-than-expected per­formance. glasnow’s 7299 points were good enough for 7th place and placed him 343 points off the winner, sophomore Johannes hock of Texas. The mark was also just short of his personal re­cord of 7315, set last season at the mt. sac relays. 
“so far, [glasnow] has definitely been adequate,” piane said Thursday after­noon. “he’s in seventh at the moment. we need top-10 at the very least to qualify him nationally, but where he’s sitting right now i think we are definitely hoping for a little better.” 
after the decathlon Thursday, Friday and saturday will feature par­ticularly strong competi­tion in the sprint events for the irish, as junior chris giesting, seniors patrick Feeney and Jarrod buchanon and freshman harvey smith, all of whom earned all-american hon­ors at the indoor champion­ships, will compete. on the women’s side, senior megan yanik and all-american ju­nior Jade barber will run in the prelims for the 400-me­ter hurdles. 
piane said Tuesday that the irish were looking for­ward to compete outdoors after training exclusively indoors for the past few months. 
“it will be wonderful to run in the sun,” piane said. 
action at the victor lopez invitational begins Friday and final events for the Texas relays begin Friday as the irish look to keep uy the momentum from the indoor season. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | ncaa championships 
Dyer sets school record 

paid adverTisemenT 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame started off the ncaa championships with a bang Thursday in austin, Texas, with a record-breaking performance on the first day of the meet. 
irish senior Frank dyer, a two-time all-american, set a school record in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 4:17.13. dyer was al­ready the program record-holder in the event, before he broke it again yesterday. with his record, dyer has completed a sweep of every individual freestyle event for the irish this season, includ­ing the 50 (19.57), the 100 (42.84), the 200 (1:33.20) and the 1000 (9:11.93). Junior all-american John williamson was the second irishman to touch the wall in the 500, clocking in at 4:29.57. 
The irish put on a strong 
performance right from 
the beginning of the tain colin babcock, junior all-american kevin hughes, sophomore matthew buerger, and freshman Tom anderson combined for a time 1:20.93. For babcock, buerger and anderson, it was their first time swimming in the ncaa championships. 

championship,  start­ 
ing  with  the  200-yard  
freestyle  relay.  senior  co-cap­ 

For the second straight sea­son, junior all-american Zach stephens qualified for the 200 im and once again put forth a strong performance. his career-best fin­ish of 1:45.52 was good enough to shave off .41 seconds from his per­formance at last season’s ncaa championship of 1:46.33. 
Freshman diver Joe cuomos made his ncaa debut in the one-meter diving event and totaled 
324.10 points, which was good enough to finish in 19th place. The mark was not a high enough score for cuomos to qualify for the eve­ning’s finals session. 
The irish will resume compe­tition today at the lee and Joe Jamail Texas swimming center in austin, Texas, at 11 a.m. The event will run all day, with the prelimi­nary round of the 200 medley re­lay set to open up the second day’s events. 



The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish look to stoke rivalry with Cardinal 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
no. 6 notre dame welcomes a cross-country rival to arlotta stadium on saturday, when the irish play no. 13 stanford. 
The two teams have met 14 times in program history. The irish (8-3, 1-3 acc) were trium­phant in nine of these games but fell to stanford (7-1, 2-0 mpsF) in the first round of last year’s ncaa tournament, 7-6. 
irish coach christine halfpenny said a fierce rivalry is developing between the two schools’ lacrosse programs to go with the two schools’ rivalries in other sports. 
“we battle for recruits and at­tract the same style athletes,” halfpenny said. “even though 
ND SOFTBALL 
Rain delays Irish 
Observer Staff Report 
after a big 12-2 win over eastern michigan on wednesday, no. 25 notre dame was prepared to take the field again Thursday against no. 23 northwestern. mother nature, however, had different plans as the weather once again prevented the irish (20-7, 3-3 acc) from playing. 
The matchup between the irish and the wildcats (18-6, 2-1 big Ten) was postponed for the foreseeable future. The inclem­ent weather also torpedoed the irish plans to take on syracuse as well, with their weekend series against the orange (12-15, 5-4 acc) cancelled as well. all told, the irish have had seven games cancelled this season due to weather, including four at home. 
The irish are tentatively scheduled to resume play  april 2, against michigan state at melissa cook stadium. The first pitch is scheduled for 6 p.m. 

[the record] weighs more heavily in notre dame’s favor, obviously stanford’s win in ncaa play last year creates a true rivalry feeling.” 
stanford enters the game on a five-game winning streak, including a 17-9 victory over cornell on Tuesday. a deep and very experienced roster has been key to the cardinal win streak, halfpenny said. 
“right now they’re playing 18, 19 kids a game and their scor­ing is very spread out,” she said. “They also only graduated one starter from last year’s team.” 
Junior goalkeeper allie murray and the irish defense will face senior attack rachel ozer, who leads stanford with 22 points and eight assists. ozer was named to the midseason Tewaaraton award watch list, given annually to the best wom­en’s collegiate lacrosse player. 

For the irish, freshman midfield and attack cortney Fortunato leads the team in goals with 28 on the season. Junior midfield caitlin gargan and freshman midfield casey pearsall are tied for the lead in assists with nine each. 
pearsall is also tied for the team lead in draw controls, an extra duty she took on after an injury sidelined junior defense barbara sullivan for the rest of the season. 
The irish are coming off of a 17-8 victory over villanova on sunday. The win featured goals from 10 different irish scor­ers, including hat tricks from sophomore midfield brie custis and sophomore attack kiera mcmullan. 
halfpenny said she hopes the offense strength and depth her team demonstrated carries over into the stanford game. 
“i saw great improvement on offense,” halfpenny said. “every single player that was in on of­fense was a dynamic threat.” 
The irish have outshot their opponents 231-186 in 11 games this season, compared to stanford’s 173-119 margin in eight games. The irish defensive zone, backed by murray’s goal­keeping, have been integral to notre dame’s early season suc­cess, halfpenny said. murray holds a .439 save percentage and 
9.95 goals against average. 
The matchup with stanford marks the final stretch of regular-season play for the irish, with only four more games left on the schedule. Three of these four games are against acc rivals virginia, duke and syracuse. 
halfpenny said her team treats every game as if it is the, “super bowl of the season,” but she also emphasizes the impor­tance of these last few games. 
“every single game from this point on, is really, really impor­tant,” halfpenny said. “in order to position ourselves properly [for the postseason], we have to fill the win column.” 
The irish take on stanford on saturday at noon, in arlotta stadium. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



W BBall 
conTinued From page 16 
“bias is a phenomenal point guard and she really makes them go as a team,” mcgraw said. “i think it was just a sprained ankle, so we’re predicting that she’ll play. we have to plan on her playing.” 
For notre dame, sophomore guard Jewell loyd and senior guard kayla mcbride lead the team, aver­aging 18.4 and 17.4 points per game, respectively. in notre dame’s 84­67 win over ninth-seeded arizona state on monday, mcbride scored 22 points and finished with nine assists. 
“[mcbride] is just so poised,” mcgraw said. “she wasn’t mak­ing her shots, so she decided to be more of a passer. Then, she goes ahead and gets nine assists; she’s passing the ball so well this year. defensively, she’s doing a lot of good things and her complete game has really been phenomenal this year.” 

despite mcbride’s strong play, mcgraw said the team is looking for more of a team-based approach against oklahoma state, as loyd, mcbride and senior forward natalie achonwa accounted for 66 of notre dame’s 84 points on monday. 
“i think we’re looking for more contributions off the bench,” mcgraw said. “i thought [junior guard] madison cable gave us some pretty good minutes. she had a very good first and second round. [sophomore guard] michaela mabrey has been great for us all year as a 3-point shooter, and, of course, we have [freshman forward] Taya reimer. i think we’re expecting big things from all of them.” 
The irish tip off their sweet sixteen game against oklahoma state at 2:30 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
break down their potential 
M Lacrosse zone defense that they might 
conTinued From page 16 throw at us,” kavanagh said. “if they play man-to-man de-
The syracuse offense may fense we are confident we can 
pose a threat to the irish but break their defense down, but 
the irish boast a powerful at­
“If we can score 
tack of their own. sophomore attackman matt kavanagh 
against their zone, 
leads the irish offense, with 20 
I think we will 
goals on the season. in notre 
have a good day.” 
dame’s 13-7 win over ohio state on Tuesday, kavanagh 
Matt Kavanagh 
Irish attackman 
scored seven goals to tie the 
program’s record for most goals in a game. “we are hop-if they go zone, it might take ing to be very selective and a little more patience and 
paid adverTisemenT 

better shot selection for us to be successful.” 
kavanagh and the rest of the irish attack may be averaging 
12.50 goals per game on the season, but kavanagh said they can improve against syracuse. 
“we could definitely work on our 6-on-6 offense and try and manufacture more goals in that part of the game,” he said. “if we can score against their zone, i think we will have a good day.” 
The orange will be looking to avenge their 21-7 loss to no. 3 duke on saturday. syracuse fell immediately behind 8-2 in the first quarter, and the blue devils (8-2, 2-1) went on to collect 13 more goals over the next three quarters as the orange failed to give their of­fense momentum. 
in addition to their win over ohio state, the irish also claimed an 18-9 win over virginia on march 15, and sit atop the acc standings.. 
“i think our ability to score in so many different ways is help­ing us score and win games right now,” kavanagh said. “we have 19 guys on our team who have scored in a game. when you have that many people contributing, it doesn’t allow a team to focus in on stopping 2 or 3 certain guys, it makes them focus on our team as a whole. 
The irish return to acc play against syracuse on saturday at noon in the carrier dome. The game will be broadcast on espnu and watchespn. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
Though wake Forest car­ries a higher team batting average than the irish, notre dame’s team era of 
3.27 edges the 3.41 era of the demon deacons. 
“i think our pitching staff has performed pretty admirably, and that’s in light of the fact that we haven’t produced a lot of runs for them,” aoki said. “They’ve continued to pitch to contact and haven’t come out of that mode. it’s not like they’re pitch­ing to go out there and put up shutouts or try to miss bats. From that standpoint, it’s been pretty decent.” 
additionally, notre dame’s defense has played relatively sharp this sea­son, committing only 34 errors, while wake Forest has already committed 41. 
“by and large, again, i think our defense has per­formed pretty well,” aoki said. “if you take out the first weekend against Fau, our errors have been pretty low, and i think that we’ve fielded the ball pretty well. so, when it comes down to it, it’s our ability to man­ufacture, produce, hit, whatever it is, offense, that has been our achilles heel. hopefully that comes along soon.” 
after falling 2-1 to boston college on Friday, wake Forest has collected three straight victories, two over boston college and one over elon. 
“i think wake Forest is a team that is very good and is playing well,” aoki said. “They took two out of three on the road at georgia Tech, so they are not unac­customed to going on the road and playing well.” 
nonetheless, aoki said, the team’s focus remains on what the irish can do themselves. 
“we’ll have to play well and do the little things we need to so as to win these games,” he said. “The encouraging thing for us is that, outside of one game against virginia Tech, i don’t think we’ve ever re­ally played our way out of a game. we just haven’t done the little things we need to so as to come out on the plus side.” 
The irish will begin their series against wake Forest at 8:05 p.m. at Four winds Field in south bend, ind. 
The teams will then play the second game of the series saturday at 3:05 p.m., at the u.s. steel yard in gary, ind., before re­turning to south bend, ind., and Four winds Field, for a 1:05 p.m., game on sunday. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 

revenge is not on his mind, he is using last year’s ncaa tournament game for strate­gic purposes. 
“The first clips [of film] i watched were of our game against them last year,” he said. “a lot of the things they do are the same. in the most recent games they had against miami, those games just re­emphasized the things that caused us to lose to them last year. we turned pucks over too frequently, which plays into their transition game. 
“but it’s not just that. it’s about being able to make plays at both blue lines that are not just chipping pucks out or chipping pucks in. we need to try to generate offense from the blue lines as opposed to just turning the puck over.” 
The huskies are led by se­nior forward nic dowd, one of 10 finalists for the hobey baker award given annu­ally to the top player in col­lege hockey. dowd and the st. 
“I think we even enjoy that – being the underdog.” 
T.J. Tynan 
Irish senior forward 
cloud state offense averages 
3.67 goals per game, while the irish surrender just 2.10 goals per game. 
The winner of saturday’s game plays the winner of minnesota and robert morris in the regional final on sunday for a spot in the Frozen Four. The gophers (25-6-6) are the top seed in the tournament and a heavy favorite over the colonials (19-17-5). 
The potential notre dame­minnesota matchup would be the third meeting of the sea­son between the two schools. 
The irish and gophers split a two-game series in the compton Family ice arena on nov. 8 and 9. 
it would also mark another matchup between irish soph­omore forward mario lucia and his father, minnesota head coach don lucia. 
“we’ve got to win before we can get there,” mario lucia said. “we’ve got to take care of saturday night and hopefully we’ll get to play them sunday. if you look too far ahead, your season will be over.” 
The irish will likely deal with a hostile crowd in both potential games in the state of hockey. st. cloud is less than 80 miles from st. paul while minnesota’s cam­pus in minneapolis is just a short bus ride from the Xcel energy center. 
“we know they’re going to have a big crowd there in minnesota with st. cloud and potentially minnesota, obviously,” irish senior for­ward T.J. Tynan said. “i think we’re fine with it. i think we even enjoy that – being the underdog. we kind of like the fans being all over us and stuff like that, for sure.” 
The irish and huskies face off at 9 p.m., saturday, with the regional final scheduled for 7:30 p.m., sunday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 

www.sudoku.org.uk 

3/29/13 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let emotional matters stand between you and your success. keep your budget in place and work hard to achieve your goals by using what you have. offering your services in innovative ways will drum up business and help you achieve your goals. The slow-but-steady climb will be your best option. it’s up to you to make things happen. your numbers are 8, 14, 20, 29, 31, 34, 49. ARIES (March 21-April 19): opening up to new activities or interests will do you a world of good. getting to know someone through a different avenue will help you recognize where your relationship is heading and how to best prepare. romance is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make choices based on your intuitive insight. someone may try to mislead you using charm or romantic gestures to win your support. Take the time to ask questions and run a background check to put your mind at ease. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): offering help might be misconstrued as meddling in other people’s affairs. avoid getting too close or personal with someone you do business with. pay more attention to what’s going on in your own personal life and make positive changes that will improve your relationships. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): sign up for activities that help you expand your friendships and bring you pleasure. sharing your knowledge, experience and memories will attract someone who can open your mind to all sorts of interesting people, cultures and pastimes. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let your emotions lead to financial loss. a fast-cash scheme may tempt you, but the stress and cost involved aren’t worth it. put your effort into having fun with the people you love as well as building a secure home base. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at new alternatives. sometimes it pays to take an unorthodox approach to a problem or issue you face. don’t rule out any suggestion without giving it a fair chance. an unusual partnership will help broaden your outlook. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) share your thoughts and plans for the future. Taking steps that will bring about an upgrade mentally, physically or financially will pay off and bring in compliments. romance is in the stars, and making positive lifestyle changes will lead to happiness. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the road less traveled and you will find all sorts of interesting options. being creative and in touch with your feelings will help you make wise and happy choices. make changes to your living quarters to encourage originality. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will face opposition. uncertainty and confusion is likely to set in when dealing with a friend or colleague offering vague and confusing information. don’t make a decision until you feel satisfied with what’s being said. Focus on home and family. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): an unexpected situation will arise. communication is likely to be misconstrued, leading to a poor choice or mishap. get all the facts and protect personal information that you feel may be used against you. rely on past experience. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): offer a new twist to a service or skill you have, and you will find a way to bring in extra cash. working at self-improvement will result in compliments as well as bringing a little love and romance into your life. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a group effort will pay off. look for people sharing your concerns, interests or thoughts regarding an investment or service. offer a strategy that will encourage others to join, thereby multiplying your chances to become a success. 

Birthday Baby: you are smart and curious. you are experimental, trendy and progressive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY 
hockey preps for grudge match 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
The no. 9 irish might be feeling a little déjà vu when they face st. cloud state on saturday night in the first round of the ncaa tournament. 
notre dame (23-14-2), the west regional’s no. 2 seed, will hope for a better result than the one from last sea­son’s opening round ncaa tournament game against the huskies (21-10-5), when the irish were the top seed in the midwest regional. 
The final score of that game? st. cloud state 5, notre dame 1. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said he’s not emphasizing last year’s game to his play­ers as a motivational ploy for saturday’s contest, which will be played in the Xcel energy center in st. paul, minn. 
“This is a new year, new team,” Jackson said. “They’re a different team; they’re still similar in the way they play and so are we, but this is about playing saturday and against a very good hockey team. we can’t isolate the fact that they were the team that finished our season last year. we have to focus on doing the things that are going to help us be much more successful than we were a year ago against them.” 

The irish enter the game off a 4-0 loss to umass-lowell on Friday in the hockey east semifinals. The no. 3-seed huskies also are limping into the ncaa tournament. The regular-season nchc cham­pions were swept in the first round of the conference tour­nament by miami (ohio), los­ing 5-4 and 4-3 on march 14 and 15, respectively. 
although Jackson said 
see hockey PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish return against Cowgirls 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
This weekend, no. 2 notre dame will play in a sold-out purcell pavillion for the ncaa regional semifinals, as notre dame will host no. 21 oklahoma state on sunday at 
2:30p.m. 
“playing at home is huge and it’s just a comfort thing for us, es­pecially for some of our younger players,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think it’s going to be a great first-time regional experience [for them] because of the crowd, which i think will be predominately notre dame fans. at least, i hope so.” 
This season, the irish (34-0, 16-0 acc) scored 86.7 points per game, which was the sec-ond-best mark in the ncaa. in points allowed, notre dame finished 48th in the ncaa. 
“we’re always trying to get better defensively, which has been a focus for us all year,” mcgraw said. “our rebounding was really a little disappointing last game, so those are the two things we’re really focusing on this week. it’s a little bit of ev­erything, though, with a little bit more rest now. we’ll gear up more toward the end of the week.” 
oklahoma state (25-8, 11-7 big 12), is a fifth seed, coming off a 73-66 victory over fourth-seeded purdue on monday. sophomore guard brittney martin led the cowgirls, finish­ing the game with 20 points and 20 rebounds. 
“They are really good and are just a really athletic team,” mcgraw said. “They’ve got great shooters, great scorers and a great inside game. i mean, you don’t get to this point in the tournament without having a lot of talent. They certainly have that.” 
This season, oklahoma state senior guard Tiffany bias led the team in scoring and in assists, averaging 13.8 points and 6.1 as­sists per game. yet, bias left the game monday with 14:04 left to play after stepping on another player’s foot. she was able to re­enter the game at the 2:45 mark. 
see w bball PAGE 13 

BASEBALL 
Irish to battle rival Deacons 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
This weekend, notre dame will play host to newly-minted acc ri­val wake Forest. The series begins Friday at 8:05 p.m., at Four winds Field in south bend, ind. 
“They are a team that’s gotten a lot better since my last go around,” irish coach mik aoki said. “They are pitching well and have a winning record in one of the best baseball conferences in the country. still, i think you see the same things that you do with any other school that you play, a mid .200 team batting average and a low 3.00 team era.” 
so far this spring, notre dame (9­14, 1-8 acc) has a team batting aver­age of .234, while wake Forest (16-10, 5-4) carries a team batting average of .253. sparking more offense has been a focus for the irish this spring, aoki said, as the team has employed a variety of line-ups. 
“clearly, it’s still a work in prog­ress, in terms of the way we’ve been struggling at the plate,” he said. “i thought [wednesday’s game against valparaiso] was better, with the way we changed the line up all around and moved guys all over the place. at this point, [junior outfielder] blaise lezynski and [freshman infielder] kyle Fiala are the two guys that have been most productive for us from an offensive standpoint. [sophomore infielder] lane richards, by virtue of the fact that he is our best infield defender, continues to be at shortstop. i think anything else could change on any given day.” 
see baseball PAGE 14 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
notre dame to face orange 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
no. 7 notre dame con­tinues its road campaign and looks to build on its two straight wins in a game against no. 10 syracuse on saturday.
 The irish (4-2, 2-0 acc) will face the orange (4­3, 0-3) in their third acc matchup of the season. The irish and the orange, pre­vious big east rivals, faced each other two times last season. notre dame fell to syracuse 10-4 at the big city classic on april 27, 2013, and then again five days later, 9-3, at the big east semifinals on may 2, 2013. 
“we’re all really excited about playing syracuse, especially up in the dome,” senior captain and defenseman stephen o’hara said. “coach corrigan told us earlier in the week we have never beat them at their place, so that brings an extra level of excitement, and last year they beat us twice in a row pretty well, so there is a revenge factor as well.” 
now both members of the acc are currently ranked in the top 10 and the irish are guaranteed another tough conference matchup this weekend, irish coach kevin corrigan said. 
“syracuse is a team that was arguably playing the best lacrosse in the country at the end of last season,” corrigan said. “They had a lot of those players from last year coming back and they’ve built on that sense last year, so it’s going to be a challenge in a lot of ways.” 
offensively, the orange dominate the field, averaging 12.71 goals per game for a total of 89 goals on the season. returning attackmen redshirt sophomore dylan donahue and junior kevin rice lead the orange offense in points with 27 and 25 on the season, respectively. 
syracuse’s explosive offensive unit presents perhaps saturday’s biggest challenge, corrigan said. 
“They have a lot of weap­ons offensively, and they strike with quick strike potential on transition,” corrigan said. “we need to focus on not giving them that transition and controlling the ball so that we control the tempo of the ga me.” 
see men’s lacrosse PAGE 13 


ND Softball  Postponed  Men’s Swimming NCAA Championships  All day  Men’s Lacrosse at Syracuse  Sat., noon  
Men’s Swimming NCAA Championships  Ongoing  Track & Field Victor Lopez Invitational  All day  Men’s Hockey vs. St. Cloud St.  Sat., 9 p.m.  
Track & Field Texas Relays  Seventh  Baseball vs. Wake Forest  8:05 p.m.  ND Women’s Basketball vs. Oklahoma St.  Sat., 2:30 p.m  
ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Stanford  Sat., noon  







