The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 26 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame fans travel to MetLife Stadium 
Despite distance, Irish fans fill stadium for 31-15 win over Syracuse in New Jersey 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
Though it was a long road trip for a weekend, many notre dame students traveled to new Jersey to see the irish defend their unde­feated record against syracuse on saturday. 
The irish continued their win streak with a 31-15 win against the orange. during the game, irish senior quarterback everett golson recorded 25 consecutive comple­tions, which broke the university record and fell one short of tying 
the Football  bowl  subdivision  
record  for  most  consecutive  
completions.  

despite the new record, se­nior andrew winterstein said he thought the irish didn’t play up to their potential. 
“i thought the defense played pretty well last night and held the orange to a number of three-and-outs, even though they still gave up a number of deep balls,” he said. “at times the of­fense looked strong, but on the whole, there were a ton of turn­overs, making for a sloppy game.” 
The game was played at metlife stadium in new Jersey rather than at syracuse’s stadium in new york. sophomore Joey ganyard said seeing the game at metlife made the experience that much better. 
“metlife was awesome,” he said. “i had never been to the stadium before. i was extremely impressed.” 
ganyard said he and his friends braved an 11-hour drive to watch the game in person. 
“we stuffed a car full of peo­ple and road tripped out for the game,” he said. “it was a squeeze, but it added to the experience.” 
The distance from notre dame 
see syracuse PAGE 4 



students participate in ‘happiest 5K on the planet’ 

By MELISSA RIORDAN 
news writer 
The color run provided notre dame students and south bend residents with the opportunity to participate in “The happiest 5K on the planet” in south bend on saturday. The 3.1-mile loop began and ended at Four winds Field took runners through four color zones in the downtown area where volunteers stood ready to throw colored powder 
see color PAGE 4 



University receives record amount of research funding 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
in the 2014 fiscal year, the university of notre dame received $119 million in re­search awards, an increase of $17 million from last year and the highest recorded amount ever in a non-stim­ulus year. 

robert bernhard, vice president for research, said contracts came from gov­ernment agencies, various companies and foundations. 
“The national science Foundation (nsF) is our largest sponsor,” he said. “The national institute of health (nih) is generally our second-largest sponsor, but this year, their funding is reduced nationally. 
“we are also funded by the department of energy and the department of defense. we have funding from cor­porations, the two largest are general electric and a consortium of companies 
see Funding PAGE 4 


saint mary’s hosts parents 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
parents from around the country gathered at to saint mary’s college this weekend to visit their daughters and learn more about their aca­demic lives during the annual sophomore parents’ weekend (spw). 
sophomore class vice presi­dent maggie carswell said the class boards organized spw in the past, but this year student affairs and student involvement and multi­cultural services (sims) coor­dinated the weekend events. 

“it was mostly [vice presi­dent for student affairs] Karen Johnson and student affairs,” she said. “They helped a lot deciding to get all the faculty together to come up with all the info sessions and helped decide what would be most helpful for the parents. 
“They told us the game plan, and we agreed because we thought everything was important. it was more help­ful because they gave us a different perspective. as stu­dents it is hard to know what 
see parenTs PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevensen Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Where should the next dorm be located? 

Alexa Fedynsky 
sophomore 
welsh Family hall 
“do we need another dorm?” 
Halie Berrigan 
sophomore 
Farley hall 
“replace haggar.” 
Joey Murphy 
freshman 
sorin college 
“mile east from campus - make it an anti-carroll.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Rohan Andresen 
junior 
siegfried hall 
“replace Knott.” 
Josh Dempsey 
junior 
duncan hall 
“Just renovate stepan.” 
Weronika Kaczmarczyk 
freshman 
badin hall 
“by carroll - they need a sister dorm.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Kayla mullen greg hadley Katie mccarty Zack Klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Crafting a Strong Men’s Golf Vespers Lilly Scholarship Cross Country 
michael yu gabriela leskur 
Grant Proposal” Warren Golf Course Geddes Hall Information Session Notre Dame Golf Brownson Hall All Day 5:15 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Brownson Hall Course 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Fighting Irish Gridiron Faith and reflection. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
Corrections 

Undergraduate Classic. Email fellows@nd.edu Annual Notre Dame 
The observer regards itself as workshop. with questions. Invitational a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Bernstein’s Jesuit Volunteer ISSLP Information ND Theatre NOW Pep Rally 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
“Candide” Auditions Corps Northwest Visit Session DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
Washington Hall Geddes Hall Geddes Hall Arts Center Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 11:30 a.m. - 1 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Open to all. Learn about Learn about Open to the public. Pep rally for ND before 
we can correct our error. 

postgraduate service. international service. it faces Stanford. 


ND alum examines martyrdom of Archbishop 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
The Kellogg institute for international studies hosted the international conference on archbishop oscar romero on sept. 25 -27. The confer­ence included guest speakers from universities and organi­zations from the united states, the united Kingdom and el salvador, discussing the life and legacy of Fr. oscar romero. 
professor of systematic theol­ogy michael e. lee, notre dame alumnus and current profes­sor at Fordham university, gave a lecture on monseñor romero’s martyrdom saturday afternoon. 
“in romero we have ... a mar­tyr of solidarity,” lee said. “we can allow romero’s death to deepen our understanding of martyrdom today.” 
according to lee, some peo­ple do not consider romero’s death to be a martyrdom. romero was shot in 1980 as he was celebrating mass and therefore was not called out to directly renounce his faith. however, lee challenges this event by saying that romero’s entire life was a testimony to his martyrdom. 
“Throughout his life, romero lived a life of prayer and piety,” he said. “The witness of such utter devotion to god has been described as a martyr.” 
according to the u.n. web­site, romero became known as “The voice of the voiceless” because he used his author­ity as archbishop to speak for the impoverished who could not speak out for themselves. romero’s main focus was to speak out against the injustice and abuse that occurred during el salvador’s civil war. romero was also known for believing that no separation should ex­ist between the church and the poor. 
“martyrs confront us with the holy mystery of the gospel,” lee said. “romero’s case demonstrates that there is still progress to be made.” 
lee said romero fought against two types of poverty: material and spiritual poverty. lee defined material poverty as a lack of actual finances or pos­sessions, and he said spiritual poverty is a dependence on god that each christian is called to, a calling which romero exemplified. 
“martyrs function as a sign pointing to the path of con­version,” he said. “martyrs ... reveal the workings and real presence of sin.” 
christianity involves an awareness of the preferential option for the poor, lee said. according to the center for social concerns (csc) at notre dame, preferential option of the poor means “to strengthen the whole community by as­sisting those who are most vulnerable.” 
“The call of the christian to­day is to make the commitment that is called the preferential option for the poor,” lee said. “The solidarity called in the preferential option for the poor is essential in christian discipleship.” 
lee said romero is an ex­ample of a “martyr of solidar­ity,” whose example is relevant 


By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
novelist ron hansen gave a lecture entitled “seeing into the middle of Things: on being a catholic writer” sponsored by notre dame’s cushwa center for the study of american catholicism on Friday. 
hansen is an author of eight novels, including “a wild surge “pied beauty.” 
“seeing gave rise to feeling, and closely observed were ac­tualities [that] gave rise to re­ligious emotion,” hansen said. 
hopkins saw the world so acutely that “even a falcon rocking and hovering over its prey could remind [hopkins] of christ,” hansen said. 
our first step is generally ac­ceptance, welcoming any pres­ence of beauty, willing to be moved, hoping for the best,” he said. 
The second theory of relation involves evaluation, hansen said, in the sense that early humans conjured decisions on the basis of hunger and fear, to determine if what they saw was food or a predator and if they The gift of fiction, poetry, memoir and all the arts is to let 
“Our continuing goal ought to be that we become truth tellers and truth seekers, to attend to and confront the 
titudes or is just something we can comfortably ignore, walk away from.” 
now, such discriminations are calmer but no less effec­tive, hansen said. 
“The third step is often that of self-inquiry, examination of conscious if you will,” he said. “… sensing, that is in­telligent sensing, is always transactional.” 
from its chaos, distortion and sin.” 
Ron Hansen 
novelist 
us see others in the most un­protected moments, hansen said. Those moments may then cultivate under “our watchful today. 
“recognizing martyrs of soli­darity can even open doors to see how the spirit moves out­side the church,” he said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

Novelist shares experiences as Catholic writer 
and caring eyes.” 

“we are co-creators of the works of art we view or hear or read,” he said. 
These works of art are inter­twined with our lives, hansen said. 
“The gift of the arts, whether narrative or representative, is that they overlook our lives just as god does, giving us the same stabilizing sense of over­
view,” he said. 

“in variation, complexity and juxtapositions, hopkins finds in the natural world dec­larations of the infinite extent of god’s glorious, imaginative activity,” he said. 
hansen said relation and reciprocity are key features of all contacts with the arts and involve three steps. 
“we view or read or hear and should fight it or flee. 
world honestly 
of guilty passion” and “exiles,” 
as well as three short story col­
lections, according to cushwa 
center’s webpage. 
“what i appreciate about 
catholicism is it means ‘uni­versal,’” hansen said. “it embraces lots of different sub­jects. … catholicism, because of the analogical imagination, sees god operating in all lives.” 
in describing the ability of a writer to see “into the middle of things,” hansen referenced the journals and poetry of gerard manley hopkins, specifically the famous hymn to creation, 
“There’s still a vital presence 

The spirit of god is constant-
and unblinkingly, 
of friend or foe in our encoun­
ter,” he said. “but now we are ly working to see its reflection 

celebrating the 

in the church, hansen said, 
beauty of creation, 
judging whether it dangerous-both in the joys and sorrows of 

ly opposes our values and at-
but not shying 
all of our quotidian lives. 

“our continuing goal ought to be that we become truth tellers and truth seekers, to at­tend to and confront the world honestly and unblinkingly, celebrating the beauty of cre­ation, but not shying from its chaos, distortion and sin,” he said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



Color 
conTinued From page 1 
at participants. 
Freshman sydney Keller said the run took longer to complete than a regular 5K. 
“it took longer because ev­ery time we reached a point on the course that had paint, we would stop and walk through just so we could get as much paint on ourselves as we could,” she said. “but we had to try to keep our faces away from the paint. otherwise, it would be hard to see for a minute, and your mouth would be powdery and taste like cornstarch.” 
Freshman claire gaffney said she volunteered for the color run and spent the day throwing blue-colored pow­der at the runners from one of the color zones. she said she was recruited to participate through her dorm, which was one of several residence halls and student organizations who sent groups to volunteer. 
“mcglinn, my dorm, orga­nized a group to volunteer, and many of the upperclassmen raved about how fun it was to throw paint at people and mo­tivate them to finish the race,” she said. “volunteering at the color run was a blast. everyone was so excited to be there, and there was such a diverse group of runners. by the end i looked like a smurf. i would definitely volunteer again.” 
Junior alyssa armendariz said she volunteered for the run through the society of women engineers (swe). 
“i’ve wanted to volunteer or run the race for the past two years but was unable to due to football games,” she said. “so this year when i found out swe was taking a group i jumped on the opportunity to finally volunteer.” 
armendariz said she felt her time was well spent despite the early morning start and over­all time commitment involved with the race. 
“even though we had to get up extremely early and it was chilly before the sun rose, it was so worth it,” she said. “The color run is such a unique race. it’s a fantastic way to make running more enjoyable, and you get a souvenir tie-dyed shirt.” 
Contact Melissa Riordan at mriordan@nd.edu 



realize its identity. 
Parents Funding 
“i think that a lot of the 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

most important things a your parents want to see.” 
in the semiconductor busi-catholic university can do in although spw is usually 
ness that includes ibm and order to achieve its catholic held in February, carswell 
intel. ... The biggest founda-mission is to be in solidar­said the event was moved to 
tion sponsors are the gates ity with christian com-the fall semester to allow par-
Foundation, two different munities that are suffering ents the opportunity to gain a 
Templeton Foundations, the from persecution,” he said. better perspective on the pro­
lilly endowment and the “This grant can help notre cess of choosing and declar­
mellon Foundation.” dame fulfill its fundamental ing majors. 
bernhard said anywhere catholic mission.” “normally our sophomore 
between one-in-three and professor of aerospace and parents weekend is in the ear-
only one-in-15 proposals mechanical engineering ly spring, but we changed it 
pass peer reviews and evalu­to the fall because after i met 
ations to receive funding. he with faculty and academic 
said he credits notre dame’s 
“It all comes affairs ,we felt the informa­
immense success in such a down to the tion that sophomore par-competitive environment to 
creativity and 

ents needed, they needed in events included informa-party.” 
the skill and determination 
hard work of the 

the fall to help their daugh-tion sessions on navigating sophomore class president 
of its faculty. ters prepare for the spring,” majors, succeeding during ellen raymond said she was 
“it all comes down to the faculty members. 
Johnson said. “also the soph-sophomore year and un-thankful to Johnson, the fac­
creativity and hard work of They have to omore class is a forgotten derstanding post-graduate ulty and the sims office for 
the faculty members,” he 
understand what 

class. Freshmen you spend a options. sunday morning ac-their involvement in coordi­said. “They have to under-
the sponsors are 

lot of time with, juniors and tivities included zumba, mass nating the weekend. 
stand what the sponsors are seniors are getting ready to and a tour of the heritage “we want to thank Karen 
looking for. They have to be looking for ... 
graduate so we wanted to room. Johnson and the sims office,” the best in their field, and [and] be the best 
give [sophomores] a little bit “They’ve been in academic she said. “we want to thank then they have to write a 
in their field.” 

more attention and help and sessions all day and had a the faculty for coming out on very well-crafted proposal.” 
Robert Bernhard 

assistance.” luncheon, and there’s recep-a saturday too to come talk to director of the energy 
vice president of research 

Friday events involved a tions [saturday] afternoon,” us. it really provided a whole-
Frontier research center check-in process followed she said. “a lot of our faculty some experience to see fac­
peter burns, who is receiving by a small reception later in is coming in for the reception ulty with them.” 
money from the department samuel paolucci is currently the evening, Johnson said. so parents can meet them. 
of energy for actinide re-receiving funding from the according to the saint mary’s Then there will be a photo Contact Alex Winegar at 
search, said the increased national nuclear security spw schedule, saturday booth later and a game watch awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
resources came with in-agency (nnsa) for his work 
creased responsibilities. in predictive modeling of 
“i’m trundling along work-shock conditions for mate-
whenever a syracuse fan would despite the energy from the ing as a research professor rial synthesis. paolucci said 
Syracuse 

try to start a chant and quickly fans in new Jersey, there is truly with only a few students,” he the two to five years of work 
conTinued From page 1 

get drowned out by louder notre no experience like seeing a foot-
said. “now the money comes leading to a proposal presen­dame chants.” ball game at home, ganyard said. 
in, and now i’m trundling tation is an often overlooked to the game didn’t stop fans andrew winterstein agreed “There was a good amount of 
along directing in a multi-part of the submission pro-from providing strong support 
investigative center focusing cess, but the payoff of one for the irish, sophomore warren 
energy from the fans [at metlife 

on energy-related problems successful proposal tran-Kraemer said. 
“It was really cool stadium], but not the same as and then my own group gets scends the accrued funding 

notre dame stadium,” he said. 
to be in a new 

larger with 13 ph.d. stu-and knowledge. 
“notre dame has a strong con­
“it makes a big difference not 
environment for 
nection in the tri-state area, so 
having the student section there. 

dents, about six or seven “[The nnsa] isn’t just in-it didn’t feel like an away game,” 
post-docs, eight undergrads, terested in the funding, Kraemer said. “There was plenty 
the game, but it it was really cool to be in a new 

six high school students and but they’re also interested of irish green in the stadium 
wasn’t quite the environment for the game, but it 

three staff. so it’s much big-in pushing the frontier of to cheer against the syracuse 
same energy.” wasn’t quite the same energy.” 
overall, though, traveling to 

ger and the productivity computational science and 
Joey Ganyard 
orange.” 
new Jersey to see the irish play 

goes up, and the amount of frontiers of science,” he said. 
sophomore 

people we educate goes way “They’re also trying to in-fans even overpowered that of said. 
The energy from notre dame 
was worth it, Zach winterstein 

up.” volve more americans in the home team, sophomore Zach that notre dame fans easily over-“my overall experience this 
professor of political sci-graduate studies and get­winterstein said. powered the energy shown by weekend was great,” he said. “i 
ence daniel philpott, who is ting ph.d.’s because that “overall, the energy from the syracuse fans at the game. got to see my family, tailgate with 
receiving funding from the enhances the ability of this notre dame fans was incred-“i could always hear ‘let’s my friends and see the irish play. 
Templeton religion Trust country to hire and put the ible,” he said. “There is no doubt go irish’ chants over anything i can’t ask for much more than 
to study christian commu-best minds we have to work in my mind that there were more syracuse-related,” he said. “it that.” 
nities’ responses to perse-on the problems we have.” notre dame fans at the game was pretty clear that syracuse 
cution around the world, than syracuse fans, and that didn’t even sell out their student Contact Madison Jaros at 
said these projects have the Contact Alex Cao at fact was made quite apparent section.” mjaros@nd.edu 
ability to help notre dame acao@nd.edu 


obama: ‘contradictory’ syria policy helps assad 
Associated Press 
washingTon — president barack obama on sunday gave voice to the conundrum at the heart of his syria pol­icy, acknowledging that the u.s.-led military campaign against the islamic state group and al-Qaida’s affiliate in syria is helping syrian dic­tator bashar assad, a man the united nations has accused of war crimes. 
“i recognize the contradic­tion in a contradictory land and a contradictory circum­stance,” obama said in an in­terview aired sunday on cbs’ “60 minutes.” ‘’we are not go­ing to stabilize syria under the rule of assad,” whose gov­ernment has committed “ter­rible atrocities,” obama said. 
“on the other hand, in terms of immediate threats to the united states, isil, Khorasan group — those folks could kill americans.” 
isil is an alternative ac­ronym for the islamic state group, which has broken with al-Qaida as it has taken control of large sections of iraq and syria. The Khorasan group is a cell of militants that the u.s. says is plotting attacks against the west in cooperation with the nusra front, syria’s al-Qaida affili­ate. both groups have been targeted by u.s. airstrikes in recent days; together they constitute the most signifi­cant military opposition to assad, whose government the 
u.s. would like to see gone. 
obama said his first priority is degrading the extremists who are threatening iraq and the west. To defeat them, he acknowledged, would require a competent local ground force, something no analyst predicts will surface any time soon in syria, despite u.s. plans to arm and train “mod­erate” rebels. The u.s. has said it would not cooperate with the assad government. 
“right now, we’ve got a cam­paign plan that has a strong chance for success in iraq,” the president said. “syria is a more challenging situation.” 
earlier sunday, house speaker John boehner ques­tioned obama’s strategy to destroy the islamic state group. boehner said on abc’s “This week” that the u.s. may have “no choice” but to send in american troops if the mix of u.s.-led airstrikes and a ground campaign reliant on iraqi forces, Kurdish fighters and moderate syrian rebels fails to achieve that goal. 
“we have no choice,” boehner said. “These are bar­barians. They intend to kill us. and if we don’t destroy them first, we’re going to pay the price.” 
obama, though, made clear he has no interest in a major 
u.s. ground presence beyond the 1,600 american advisers and special operations troops he already has ordered to iraq. 
“we are assisting iraq in a very real battle that’s taking place on their soil, with their troops,” the president said. “This is not america against isil. This is america lead­ing the international com­munity to assist a country with whom we have a security partnership.” 
only the u.s. could lead such a campaign, obama said. 
“when there’s a typhoon in the philippines, take a look at who’s helping the philippines deal with that situation,” he said. “when there’s an earthquake in haiti, take a look at who’s leading the charge and mak­ing sure haiti can rebuild. That’s how how we roll. and that’s what makes this america.” 
“60 minutes” interviewer steve Kroft asked obama how the threat emanating from syria and iraq squares with the president’s longstanding position that al-Qaida’s lead­ership has been “decimated.” 
“you had an international network in al-Qaida between afghanistan and pakistan, headed by bin laden. and that structure we have ren­dered ineffective,” obama said. “but what i also said .. .is that you have regional groups with regional ambi­tions and territorial ambi­tions. and what also has not changed is the kind of vio­lent, ideologically driven ex­tremism that has taken root in too much of the muslim world.” 
while an “overwhelm­ing majority of muslims are peaceful,” obama said, “in the muslim world right now, there is a cancer that has grown for too long that sug­gests that it is acceptable to kill innocent people who wor­ship a different god. and that kind of extremism, unfortu­nately, means that we’re going to see for some time the pos­sibility that in a whole bunch of different countries, radical groups may spring up, par­ticularly in countries that are still relatively fragile, where you had sectarian tensions, where you don’t have a strong state security apparatus.” 
but “rather than play whack-a-mole and send u.s. troops wherever this occurs, we have to build strong part­nerships,” obama said. “we have to get the international community to recognize this is a problem. we’ve got to get arab and muslim leaders to say very clearly: ‘These folks do not represent us. They do not represent islam.’” 
asked how islamic state fighters had come to control so much territory in syria and iraq, obama acknowledged that u.s. intelligence agencies underestimated the threat and overestimated the abil­ity and will of iraq’s army to fight. 
obama said he agreed with his director of national intel­ligence, James clapper, who acknowledged that the u.s. “underestimated what had been taking place in syria.” obama also said it was “abso­lutely true” that the u.s. over­estimated the ability and will of the iraqi army. 

volcano erupts in Japan 
Associated Press 
oTaKi, Japan — military he­licopters plucked seven people from a Japanese mountainside sunday after a spectacular vol­canic eruption sent officials scrambling to reach many more injured and stranded on the mountain. 
mount ontake in central Japan erupted shortly before noon saturday, spewing large white plumes of gas and ash high into the sky and blanket­ing the surrounding area in ash. about 250 people were ini­tially trapped on the slopes, but most made their way down by saturday night. 
at least 34 climbers have been injured, including 12 seriously, according to Japan’s Fire and disaster management agency. The tally was lower than report­ed by local officials earlier, but the disaster agency warned that the numbers could still change. 
The number of those reported missing rose sharply to 32, the agency said. 
Japanese television footage showed a soldier descending from a helicopter to an ash-covered slope, helping latch on a man and then the two of them being pulled up. 
so far, seven people have been picked up in three trips, said defense ministry official Toshihiko muraki. all are con­scious and can walk, though details of their conditions are unclear, he said. 

The self-defense Force, as Japan’s military is called, has deployed seven helicopters and 250 troops. police and fire de­partments are also taking part in the rescue effort. 
an estimated 40 people were stranded at mountain lodges overnight, many injured and unable or unwilling to risk de­scending 3,067-meter (10,062­foot) mount ontake on their own. rescue workers are also trying to reach the area on foot. 
a large plume, a mixture of white and gray, continued to rise from the ash-covered summit of the volcano sunday morning, visible from the nearby village of otaki. a convoy of red fire trucks, sirens blaring, and res­cue workers on foot headed past barriers into the restricted zone around the mountain. 
shinichi shimohara, who works at a shrine at the foot of the mountain, said he was on his way up saturday morning when he heard a loud noise that sounded like strong winds fol­lowed by “thunder” as the vol­cano erupted. 
“For a while i heard thunder pounding a number of times,” he said. “soon after, some climbers started descending. They were all covered with ash, completely white. i thought to myself, this must be really serious.” 
in a video posted on youTube, shocked climbers can be seen moving quickly away from the peak as an expanding plume of ash emerges above and then en­gulfs them. 
many of those who made it down emerged with clothes and backpacks covered in ash. They reported being engulfed in total darkness for several minutes. 
mikio oguro, a journalist who was on the slope on an un­related assignment for Japanese broadcaster nhK, later told his station by phone that he saw massive smoke coming out of the crater, blocking sunlight and reducing visibility to zero. 
“massive ash suddenly fell and the entire area was totally covered with ash,” he said. he and his crew had to use head­lamps to find a lodge. 
“my colleagues later told me that they thought they might die,” oguro said. 
Two Jetstar flights headed to Tokyo’s narita international airport diverted to Kansai international airport in west­ern Japan as a precaution. 
Japan’s meteorological agen­cy raised the alert level for mount ontake to 3 on a scale of 1 to 5. it warned people to stay away from the mountain, saying ash and other debris could fall up to 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) away. 
mount ontake sits on the border of nagano and gifu pre­fectures, on the main Japanese island of honshu. The volcano’s last major eruption was in 1979. 

police officer shot in Ferguson 
Associated Press 
Ferguson, missouri — authorities searched sunday for a suspect in the shooting of a police officer in Ferguson, the st. louis suburb where there have been angry protests since a white officer fatally shot an unarmed 18-year-old black man last month. 
although there were two protests about the aug. 9 shooting of michael brown hap­pening when the officer was shot saturday night, st. louis county police chief Jon belmar said at a news conference early sunday that he didn’t think they were related to the wounding of the officer. 
st. louis county police sgt. brian schellman, a police spokesman, said in an email that only one suspect was in­volved in the shooting, not two as earlier reported. 
The suspect was standing out­side a closed community center when the officer approached saturday night. The suspect fled and the officer gave chase. That’s when the man turned and shot him in the arm, police said. 
belmar said the officer re­turned fire, but that police have no indication that anyone else was shot. 
The officer was treated and released from a hospital, schellman said. 
schellman said he didn’t know why the body camera the wounded officer was wear­ing was turned off during the shooting. 
The shooting comes amid sim­mering tension between com­munity members and police in Ferguson, where two-thirds of the residents are black, but only three of the city’s 53 police offi­cers are african-american. The shooting of brown and police response to the protests stoked a national discourse about police tactics and race. 
on saturday, brown’s par­ents told The associated press they were unmoved by a vid­eotaped apology released days earlier by Ferguson police chief Tom Jackson, whose attempt to march with protesters Thursday night sparked a clash that led to several arrests. 
when asked whether Jackson should be fired, brown’s moth­er, lesley mcspadden, said he should be. brown’s father, michael brown sr., said rather than an apology, they would like darren wilson, the officer who shot their son, to be arrested. 
a county grand jury is weigh­ing whether to indict wilson in brown’s shooting. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

good with the bad 

Michael Ginocchio 
sports writer 

it has been quite simply an awful year. 
celebrity nude photo scandals. a looming war in the middle east that might be even worse than what we initially expected. professional ath­letes behaving anywhere between negligent and downright criminal. politicians reduced to just screaming at each other instead of getting any­thing done, in the hopes that they can blame their opponents for the inevi­table failures. 
in the middle of this maelstrom of chaos and bad news, it could and would be easy to just crawl into a hole and wait for it all to be over. or, even worse, to hide and hope that the bad news just doesn’t reach you. which would be an awful shame, because while you stick your head under the covers and pray to be left alone, you’re gonna miss out on an awful lot of good news. 
For the first time in years, scientific reports are stating that the ozone layer is starting to recover. peter Theo curtis, an american journalist held captive for the past two years in syria, was recently released and has returned home to america. michelle howard, already the first african­american woman to capture a u.s. navy ship, was recently promoted to the rank of four-star admiral and is currently serving as vice chief of naval operations. she is the first woman to achieve the rank of four-star admiral in the united states navy’s 236-year existence. 
There are some awful things going on in the world right now. There are also some wonderful things that are happening in the world as well. it can be easy to be so caught up in the bad that you fail to see or don’t want to see the good. but, at the risk of sound­ing cliché, for the world to be a bet­ter place you simply cannot let these things overwhelm you. 
edmund burke wasn’t kidding when he said that the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. in a similar manner, spending all of our time fretting about the bad things in this world while neglecting the celebration of good things in this world is a surefire path to despair. we celebrate and remem­ber what is good and what is pure, and in praising these things, we find the strength to do battle with and do away with the bad things in this world. 
ernest hemingway got it right: The world is a fine place and most impor­tantly, it is worth fighting for. 
Contact Michael Ginocchio at      mginoch@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Prayer services show true solidarity 
i wish to respond to the letter  but those in attendance could feel  for this.  
submitted by ms. parent and mr.  the tangible, collective pain in re­ notre dame, mr. hagwood and  
hagwood this past wednesday,  sponse to the wounds inflicted on  ms. parent: we have received an- 
sept. 24.  our campus by sexual violence.  other crime alert.  
i agree with many of the claims  perhaps you do not believe in the  i challenge you all to explore the  
posited by my esteemed peers.  power of prayer. regardless, it is  power of presence and to stand  
indeed, to eradicate sexual vio­ impossible to argue with the power  with your brothers and sisters in  
lence at our university, there  of presence. while 60 people (~0.75  notre dame. if we agree with the  
must be a culture shift deeper  percent of the student body) is not  words cavanaugh resident assis­ 
than an awareness campaign and  many, those who were in atten­ tant and founder of notre dames,  
a pledge or prayer services and  dance are passionate and do stand  alison leddy, said, “choose to be  
signs of peace. however, i wish to  in solidarity with those affected by  more,” then why are we not willing  
align myself against parent’s and  sexual violence, and they illustrat­ to stand present with our broth­ 
hagwood’s argument in regards to  ed that with their presence.  ers and sisters in a sign of sincere,  
one phrase: “feigned solidarity.”  as a student of our lady’s  compassionate solidarity? without  
i was at the prayer service  university, we have a responsibil­ addressing and seeking to heal the  
monday, along with several hall  ity to our fellow students. you do  wounds left by sexual violence,  
presidents and other campus lead- not know who has been touched  there is no way we can move for­ 
ers, as well as many students i did  by this latest crime. you do not  ward in attacking the culture that  
not know or recognize.  know who will be at that prayer  espouses it.  
There were approximately 60  service, seeking familiar faces in  
people present, and i can confi­ the crowd, hoping to see tangible  
dently say that those who were  support from the student body. it  Kathleen Clark  
present were sincere. perhaps stu­ is on us to be there, it is on us to be  senior  
dent body vice president matthew  present to our brothers and sisters  Farley hall  
devine chose his words poorly,  in notre dame. you and i signed up  sept. 27  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“when faced with sexism or ageism or lookism or even really aggressive buddhism, ask yourself the following question: ‘is this person in between me and what do i want to do?’ if the answer is no, ignore it and move on. your energy is better used doing your work and outpacing people that way. Then, when you’re in charge, don’t hire the people who were jerky to you.” 
Tina Fey in “Bossy Pants” 
u.s. comedian and author 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

‘so notre dame’: translations of nd cliches 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 

now that we’ve been at school for a month, we’ve once again gotten used to (or introduced to, for fresh­men readers) being around notre dame students 24/7. one important part of this unique culture, as with any, is the common language used to communicate ideas. and just like any language, sometimes there’s a hidden meaning behind the words we say. For this week’s column, i’ve decided to round up some of the oft-heard notre dame-isms i’ve picked up over the past two years, their corresponding translations and some words for the wise. These are some general themes i’ve heard over the years: 
“Ugh, I’m such a slacker this semester ... I’m only in 15 credits!!” 
Translation: by any measure of reasonability, i am taking a perfectly demanding schedule of courses at one of the most academically rigorous universi­ties in the country, yet somehow feel an obligation to overwhelm myself more than i already do. my problem with people who fault themselves for this is twofold: first, that the university defines full-time students as 12 credit hours, so you shouldn’t feel any sense of comparative guilt when you’re three cred­its above that threshold. second, 15 credits is five (Five!!) three-credit classes as it is! we all know how demanding these classes can be, so you shouldn’t feel it necessary to add another one to prove to others how stressed out you can be. 
“I’ve only slept seven hours the last four days.” 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

it’s been 692 days since mitt romney gave his con­cession speech the evening of election day 2012. it’s been nearly two years since mitt took the stage in boston and, speaking to his campaign supporters, said, “like so many of you, paul [ryan] and i have left everything on the field. we have given our all to this campaign. i so wish – i so wish that i had been able to fulfill your hopes to lead the country in a different direction. but the nation chose another leader. and so ann and i join with you to earnestly pray for him and for this great nation.” 
in those two years, president obama has stumbled again and again. The president’s poll numbers have taken a dive, and he is losing his supporters. every four months or so since that election, polls have come out showing that if the election had been held at the time of polling, romney would have won by a com­fortable margin. in the months between the polls, different news sources claim romney was right about another issue he discussed on the campaign trail. 
after my most recent viewpoint column, a po­litically independent friend of mine sat down and discussed her similar disappointment with obama. Further, a liberal friend of mine opened up about questioning his vote for obama in 2012, admitting he would have voted for romney if he knew what he knows now. after these two discussions, i walked away with a message that crossed partisan lines: the most important aspects of a presidency are leader­ship and the ability to get things done. additionally, the republican party has embraced mitt like never before – an endorsement from mitt assured party nomination for those seeking public office this elec­tion cycle. 
These comments taken along with public opinion polling over the last two years have led me to believe one thing: america is ready for mitt. 
Translation: i am either extraordinarily bad at basic time management skills, lying and wanting to brag about how much crap i have to do (more on that later) or seriously need to pull a snoop dogg to that sixth class of mine and, “drop it like it’s hot.” i don’t know about you, but i run out of things i can find for myself to do at 3 a.m. wednesday that don’t involve Facebook or thinking about how comfortable my bed probably is. The vicious cycle propagates itself when you are too tired to go to/pay attention in class, and you have to struggle through an incomprehensible textbook and play catch-up. if you find yourself rocking back and forth in a cubicle in the library on your third cup of now-stale au bon pain coffee, it may be time to take a step back and reevaluate. 
“I’m failing all my classes / I just failed that test / I can’t believe I just bombed that assign­ment, gosh” 
Translation: i got an a-. i must admit, i’ve been guilty of this one myself in the past, so admitting this is a problem doesn’t come easily. i’m all about having high personal standards and being upset when you don’t meet them — you’ve gotta find a way to motivate yourself to improve, after all. don’t be that kid who makes people who actually didn’t do well feel even worse about their performance than they already do. 
“I shouldn’t even be going out right now, I have so much to do” OR talking about tests or exams while you’re supposed to be having a good time. 
Translation: i have absolutely no concept about what it means to de-stress. if you’re going to weigh us all down with your academic troubles while we’re all 
Ready for Mitt 
i think americans want someone who can lead and take action. someone who can bring those from op­posing parties together, like he did in massachusetts. someone who tries to keep america at the top of its game in domestic and national policy. someone who can turn a disaster into something phenomenal, like he did with the 2002 winter olympics in salt lake city. someone who understands the economy and how businesses work, like he did in founding bain capital. 
i’ll make another claim – i think mitt is ready to make another run at it. i think mitt has been lay­ing the foundation for another run for a while now. he has continued the tradition of holding a summit of prominent players in the republican party in my home state of utah; guests include congressman, senators, governors and donors. he has continued to be an active face of the republican party by endors­ing, fundraising and campaigning for candidates across the nation. i believe he is strengthening his base so that, if he makes another run, he won’t have anyone doubting him or rising against him. 
The game board has been set in his favor. The republican national committee (rnc) laid out plans to shorten the primary process and limit debates so that candidates wouldn’t be drawn through another prolonged nomination process in which there can never be a winner. paul ryan, romney’s former run­ning mate and potential 2016 presidential candidate, has said he would like romney to run again. speaker of the house John boehner and rnc chairman reince priebus have been able to reign in some con­gressional rebels who would rather argue for the fringe candidates than see the republican party win elections and instill policy. senate minority leader mitch mcconnell and his allies have worked tirelessly to make sure mainstream republican candidates were nominated for the senate across the country, rather than gaffe-prone political purists and party separatists. The republican party is more respon­sible now than it was in 2012 and is positioned to put just trying to have a good time ... just no. 

“Sorry, I’m too busy to get dinner/hang out/go to that movie with you!” 
Translation: if i step away from my work for more than an hour, i feel guilty about taking a break. again, i cannot claim exemption from this one myself either. it is sometimes exceedingly difficult to take a break from the hustle and bustle of a demanding notre dame schedule, but the importance of making time for others, and yourself, cannot be overstated. if you find yourself “too busy” to get a non-grab-and-go meal every so often, chances are your friends miss you a lot and wonder if you got lost en route to the library. 
so, what if you’re like me and find yourself iden­tifying with any of these stereotypical nd student phrases? instead of shrugging them off as normal, expected or just “so notre dame,” do something about it. Take a meal each week to just sit for an hour and talk with your roommate or bFF. realize that no one is really in 22 credit hours this semester, so your “slacker” 15 is actually a-oK. and, most importantly, make time for yourself every so often. go for a run, lay out on the quad or just vegetate for a while. Finally, be mindful of what you say because you never know how a viewpoint writer will interpret it later. 
Michael Fliotsos is a junior Science-Business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
forward a strong election effort in both 2014 and 2016. 
There are few people who could stop romney from running away with the nomination, such as the like-minded ryan, Jeb bush, Tim pawlenty, marco rubio and chris christie. if any of these figures de­cide to run, romney could very well choose not to and instead choose to publicly support the one he sees as the best fit to lead the party and nation. rick santorum, michele bachmann, rick perry and Ted cruz wouldn’t provide a serious threat to a second romney nomination. 
There are those who would point out, “he’s already said he’s not running!” This is true; he has said that he is not running for president. did you catch that? he is not running for president – present tense. very seldom, if ever, has he said he will never run for presi­dent again. he and his wife, ann romney, continue to keep us guessing. on a Fox news interview last week, romney said, when asked if her husband would run in 2016, “well, we will see, won’t we?” The door is far from shut; instead it is left cautiously open. 
i worked hard in 2012 to try to get mitt elected, as did thousands of others. when he lost in 2012, i was sad. so many of us put so much effort into making a positive change, and we felt nothing was any different once the election was over. republicans retained the house of representatives, while democrats retained the senate and the white house. we were exhausted, disappointed and angry. some, myself included, be­came cynical to the process. others lost faith in the political system altogether. i spent hours and hours recruiting volunteers, making phone calls, going door-to-door and helping others register to vote, only to have my efforts dashed in a single day. 
but i would do it all again. i’m (still) ready for mitt. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

netflix movies are always hit or miss — and usually, if the only place you’ve heard of a movie is netflix, it’s ques­tionable at best. still, most of these are somewhat enjoy­able, if you don’t set your expectations too high. “girl most likely” is one such movie. 
There’s no doubt the movie starts out a bit slow — pro­tagonist imogene’s descent into despair is sort of pain­fully pathetic as you wonder what exactly she thinks she is losing. her best friend has just started a charity for a seemingly ridiculous cause (what exactly are they fund­raising that will stop children from “ever having to break a window again?”) and subtly brags after her speech about how she can now be more than a wife. imogene’s attempts to join the conversation are quickly shot down when her desire to be more than a significant other is called into question by her lack of a ring. 
undoubtedly, imogene’s devotion to her boyfriend is one of the most questionable parts of her early character. when she claims they aren’t married because he is dutch and the dutch are a “progressive people,” any audience member can easily discern how he feels about the re­lationship, even if he’s had less than a minute of screen time. 
when imogene fakes a suicide attempt (with an appar­ently well-written note and one unidentified pill), i hoped that whatever family she had would show more care for her than all of her manhattan peers did. it was clear, even before her friend dara’s subtle attempts at dissuasion, 
By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“This is where it all happened. laguna beach, california. a small town in the o.c. where i grew up. i just finished my senior year of high school, a year i’ll never forget.” with those words, lauren conrad (“lc”) was introduced to the american public on “laguna beach” 10 years ago. what began as mTv’s attempt to replicate the success of Fox’s popular, scripted teen drama “The o.c.,” became a cultur­al phenomenon in its own right. 
The show purported to show “The real orange county.” “real” meant an affluent world of gorgeous coastlines, beach bonfires and infinity pools — not that different from the show it emulated. The cohen family’s newport beach mcmansion is almost indistinguishable from that of the conrad family, down to the picture-perfect view overlook­ing the pacific ocean. The show’s cinematic look gave it a high-gloss sheen that made it visually resemble scripted series. 
yet despite its aspirational depiction of southern california, the first season of “laguna beach” relished in the mundanity of high school. it was one of the first shows to cast regular people, not to compete against each other or live in a special environment, but simply to document their 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
that no help would be coming from her supposed friends. 
“girl most likely” is not Kristen wiig’s most brilliant work. while she normally shines with witty dialogue and over-expressed reactions, imogene’s character expects her to play the straight-man to an overly ridiculous cast. 
however, in typical fashion, wiig makes the best of what she is given. her facial expressions and reactions to what goes on around her are priceless, and her “subtle” attempts to steal a book from her local library, right un­der the eye of the librarian, is one of the best scenes in the movie and one of the few times when wiig’s talents can shine. 
costume designer Tom broecker’s styling of wiig is on point. after her unwilling return to new Jersey, imogene’s entire adult wardrobe is lost (sent to some unknown place after she is evicted from her apartment), and she is left with only a hospital robe and her high school cloth­ing. The outfits cobbled together from this old wardrobe are hilarious all by themselves, as imogene moves from an old gym uniform to floral skirts and denim jackets to a brightly-colored dress that shocks her manhattan friends. 
darren criss as lee, the mysterious boarder taken on by imogene’s mother, Zelda, in her daughter’s absence, is undoubtedly one of the highlights of the entire movie. From his original entrance (where he is interrupted mid-tryst by imogene attempting to reclaim her room), lee is instantly likable and a bright spot in imogene’s return home. 
lee works as part of a show in atlantic city which rec­reates the stars of the 2000s. The show features a perfor­mance by a fake britney spears, a fake christina aguilera 
actual lives. mTv smartly cast teenagers who were part of the same friend group and filmed the dynamics of their in­terpersonal relationships. 
at its heart was the love triangle between conrad, brash “mean girl” Kristin cavallari and tanned surfer boy stephen colletti. The show’s main plotlines revolved around the drama of lc and Kristin fighting over the same indecisive guy. This came to a head during their spring break trip to cabo, where lc and stephen hook up. when stephen calls out Kristin for dancing on a bar in that episode, it feels un­characteristically over-the-top for the show. 
This is because the first season’s most memorable mo­ments were the quotidian events of senior year of high school: 18th birthdays, college acceptance letters, prom, graduation, going off to college. in retrospect it is filled with cultural touchstones — trucker hats, flip phones, blink 182 concerts — that date it unquestionably to the early aughts. it never trivialized the way teenagers treat every life event with such gravity; it instead mined intrigue from everyday adolescent life. 
like scripted series “my so-called life” and “Freaks and geeks,” “laguna beach” also embraced the way american teenagers actually speak. strangely, it has an almost mum­blecore aesthetic, with its reliance on natural dialogue. The cast’s california english is filled with colloquialisms like and, of course, the backstreet boys. Fans of “glee” will be delighted by criss’ performance of the classic “everyone,” complete with the all-white suit and guy-liner. 

one low point of the movie is the attempt to reunite imogene and her brother, ralph, with their deadbeat dad, maxwell. maxwell left Zelda with his two children and asked his ex to tell the pair that he had died. when ralph and imogene head to new york for dara’s book launch, they end up at duncan’s house and finally meet their missing father. 
it is, as expected, a bit of a disaster. ralph is predict­ably awkward, imogene can’t stop drinking and lee is left outside in the car for a questionable amount of time. whatever comedy was expected to come of this episode falls short, simply making the viewer uncomfortable with a father that clearly wants so little to do with his kids. after all, who thinks it’s a good idea to tell their children that they are dead rather than simply admitting that a separation is happening? 
The end of the movie makes up for any comedy lack­ing earlier. when imogene finally comes to the rescue of her family, her use of ralph’s human-size replication of a crab shell is hilarious. so is ralph’s explanation of it on live news coverage. 
in the end, “girl most likely” isn’t the best movie to be found on netflix, but it is amusing for a lazy night in. it’s everything you could ever want from an unknown netflix movie — kind of terrible but entertaining anyway. 
Contact Caelin Miltko  at cmoriari@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“gnarly” and incessant use of “like” as filler speech. and of course, Kristin famously screams, “my car is dunzo!” when her white suv breaks down, coining the show’s most fa­mous catchphrase. 
it also launched the idea that someone could be “fa­mous” for being a reality star. in the years since, conrad has gone on to create a business empire with clothing lines, best-selling books and a lifestyle website. she was one of the first to capitalize on her reality Tv success, or more pejoratively, being famous for being famous. similar real­ity soaps like “The real housewives” franchise, “Keeping up with the Kardashians” and of course, “The hills”— the spin-off that followed conrad and her friends’ twenties in los angeles — have followed in serving as star-making platforms for previously unknowns. 
10 years later, the show still stands as an early 2000s pop culture touchstone, establishing the conventions for mod­ern reality Tv. over the past decade, reality shows have become increasingly scripted, as cast members knowingly try to fill certain roles and create drama. it makes the seem­ing mundanity of “laguna beach” even more refreshing and enjoyable. sometimes reality — even in its privileged southern california version — is more interesting after all. 
Contact Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 


Notre Dame 31, SYraCUSe 15 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | NDSmCobServer.Com 
Crushing the Orange 

No. 8 Notre Dame commits five turnovers, still rolls past Syracuse, 31-15, at MetLife Stadium 
Irish must be better against tougher competition 

Mike Monaco 
Senior Sports Writer 
eaSt rUtHerForD, N.J. — Jaylon Smith and Joe Schmidt lumbered off the field and plopped down at their lockers, side by side, inside the New York Giants locker room at metLife Stadium. 
With a 31-15 win over Syracuse and a 4-0 record still raw, the two linebackers looked at each other. 
“We gotta get better,” they agreed. 
“that’s not gonna cut it in the future,” they confirmed. 
Sure, Notre Dame faced and defeated arguably its toughest opponent of the season. there was a pervading sense, though, that such a performance won’t be enough against other lurking opponents. Simply summed, put forth a similar showing against Stanford next weekend, and the Irish are probably walking off the field shouldering their first loss. 
Is it that straightforward? 
“Yeah, as simple as that,” Smith said. “You talk about Stanford and North Carolina and Florida State, teams like that coming up, you can’t allow for those mental errors and sloppiness.” 
Smith quickly noted the Irish will enjoy the victory for 24 hours, enacting brian Kelly’s one-day rule to process the result, win or loss. the post-game mood, however, said a lot about Notre Dame’s expectations. asked if the team was having a tough time enjoying the win, the perfection-seeking Schmidt said it all with his response. 
“No. Uh. I mean. You gotta be happy. I guess,” he said, seem­ingly caught between what he really felt and what he thought he should feel. 
Kelly said there wasn’t the usual chatter and excitement in the locker room after the victory. and why would there be? 
“they knew they did not play the kind of football necessary to win each and every week,” Kelly said. 
Notre Dame committed five turnovers and could have had more. everett Golson coughed it up for the first time this season on the first Irish drive of the night, 
see SLoPPY PAGE 3 

By MARY GREEN 
Sports editor 
eaSt rUtHerForD, N.J. — though its record remains per­fect, No. 9 Notre Dame’s game against Syracuse on Saturday was hardly that. 
but led by senior quarterback everett Golson and his own per­fect stretch, the Irish (4-0) recov­ered from early-game troubles to take down the orange (2-2), 31-15, at metLife Stadium in east rutherford, New Jersey. 
Despite racking up 523 total yards of offense, 29 first downs and four touchdowns, Notre Dame (4-0) struggled not as much to put away Syracuse (2-2) as it did to overcome self-inflict­ed errors, including  five turn­overs — three fumbles and two interceptions. 
“Well, you can tell in the locker room, there was not the normal chatter and excitement,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “they knew they did not play the kind of football necessary to win each and every week. this game will get you beat week in and week out.” 
In a strange comparison that showed both a strong perfor­mance and struggles, Golson threw just two more incom­pletions — seven — than the 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
WILL FULLER 
IRISH SOPHOMORE RECEIVER 
Fuller earned the game ball from the coaching staff for his receiv­ing prowess — six receptions for 119 yards and two touchdowns 
— and perimeter blocking. Fuller notched the first two scores of the game, scooting untouched on a 23-yard screen pass and snar­ing a 72-yard heave from everett Golson. 
number of Irish turnovers. 
“It’s pretty weird for me,” Golson said. “What I take from it is that I have to get better. there were a lot of mistakes I made. … What we saw tonight was just sloppy — just sloppy, starting with me.” 
the first of those five miscues came on Notre Dame’s very first drive. the Irish marched into Syracuse territory, where Golson scrambled 22 yards but had the ball knocked out and recovered by orange senior cornerback brandon reddish at Syracuse’s 16-yard line. 
Kelly said Notre Dame’s turn­overs — including the first of Golson’s two lost fumbles — oc­curred in as ideal of locations as they could have. 
“Not that it’s a good thing, but we turned the ball over three times in the [opponent’s] 20­yard line, so we never put them on a short field,” he said. 
However, Notre Dame held strong on defense and prevent­ed a Syracuse score. 
the Irish defense stepped up to stop orange senior quarter­back terrel Hunt throughout 
see CrUSHING PAGE 2 
ND defense stymies ‘Cuse, limits damage from turnovers 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports editor 
eaSt rUtHerForD, N.J. 
— While the Irish offense stole most of the spotlight Saturday night — both for senior quarter­back everett Golson’s 25 straight completions and the unit’s five turnovers — the defense qui­etly toiled away to minimize any damage from those giveaways. 
through the first three quar­ters, the orange only managed three points, unable to capital­ize on three Notre Dame fum­bles and an interception. 
Irish sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith said the defense’s game plan remained unchanged despite offensive struggles. 
“the goal is to get that three-and-out, allow them no points when there’s that sudden change,” Smith said. “I’m sure there were a lot of times when we withheld them from scoring, so that was the main goal.” 
both Notre Dame giveaways in the first quarter did result in three-and-outs for Syracuse, and the team held the orange to just three third-down conver­sions on 15 attempts. 
“It’s a mindset that we try to embrace as a defense.,” Irish senior linebacker Joe Schmidt said. “the smaller the down is, the more excited we get. Getting those stops was critical in this game.” 
the Irish defense allowed only one touchdown off a turnover, a seven-yard rushing score from Syracuse senior quarterback terrel Hunt at the beginning of the fourth quarter that came af­ter a fumble by Irish sophomore running back Greg bryant. 
“that’s definitely a big thing that we look forward to,” junior captain and defensive lineman Sheldon Day said. “We put situa­tions in at practice like that, and it’s a game-changer, and we take pride in that, just knowing that you can take the air out of a team that just got some excitement.” 
much of the Irish defensive game plan centered around slowing down the dynamic trio of orange rushers — Hunt, graduate student running back Prince-tyson Gulley and senior running back adonis 
see DeFeNSe PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

this was one of the toughest grades to determine. Without his turnovers, everett Golson was outstanding, complet­ing 32 passes, including 25 in a row, for 362 yards and four touchdowns. but it’s impossible to look past four costly giveaways. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Notre Dame’s running game looked a little bit better Saturday (4.6 yards per carry by the three running backs). but the longest rush from an Irish back was still just 14 yards, and Greg bryant lost a fumble. Cam mcDaniel and tarean Folston did, however, combine for five receptions and 46 yards. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller and Corey robinson led the receiving corps, combining for 14 receptions, 210 yards and three touch­downs. there was a Chris brown sighting, as well, as the junior tallied six grabs for 57 yards. torii Hunter Jr. debuted with a touchdown snag. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

on Sunday, brian Kelly lauded the debut performance of his reconfigured offensive line. the running backs found some more room, and Golson was only sacked once (which Kelly attributed to the quarterback not setting the right protection). this unit will continue to grow with time. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

the defensive line handled Syracuse’s ground game with relative ease, as this unit continues to impress. the Irish didn’t record a sack, but Sheldon Day and Isaac rochell, in particular, kept the pressure on orange quarterback terrel Hunt. 
LINEBACKERS 

Jaylon Smith (nine) and Joe Schmidt (seven) led the Irish in tackles, but both were less than pleased with Notre Dame’s defensive showing afterward. Notre Dame missed a few tackles — but nothing too critical. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

the secondary was solid, especially with its tackling. Syra­cuse did, however, manage to reel off pass plays of 33, 38, 46 and 25 yards. Cole Luke seemed to be tested more than he was through the first three games. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kyle brindza only had to punt twice and boot a field goal once, and he was up to the task. Notre Dame slowed in the return game, as Greg bryant didn’t electrify with kick returns and Cody riggs muffed a punt out of bounds. 
COACHING 

Coming out of the bye week, there were notable improve­ments for Notre Dame. brian Kelly deployed — success­fully — new offensive sets, including a two-tight end and two-running back look. Kelly also craftily used the screen game to spread apart the aggressive Syracuse defense, only for Golson to launch a bomb to Fuller for a quick score just a drive after a slew of short passes. brian vanGorder’s defense kept the Syracuse offense in check all night. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.77 (B-) 

Notre Dame finished with almost an identical GPa to the one it compiled against Purdue. In many ways, the games were similar. the Irish never truly slammed on the gas pedal, and there was sloppy play throughout the night. Notre Dame put forth an average performance, by and large, something that may not get it done against Stanford. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
WILL FULLER 72-YARD TOUCHDOWN RECEPTION FROM GOLSON 
after a dink-and-dunk 95-yard drive that resulted in Notre Dame’s first score, everett Golson opened the ensuing possession by reaching back and finding Will Fuller for a 72-yard score to make it 14-0. Syracuse never cut it down to a one-score game from there. 
Crushing 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
the game. Notre Dame held Hunt — who averaged 91.0 rushing yards per game going into Saturday — to just 26 yards on the ground while allowing Syracuse to convert just three of its 15 third-down plays. 
“We get some big guys in there; we get some athletic guys,” Kelly said. “We lost a lot of really good players, but we feel like we’ve got some big, physical players that can stop the run and were built for it.” 
orange head coach Scott Shafer said both his offense and the Notre Dame defense contrib­uted to the lopsided score. 
“We were plus-four [in turn­overs] and came up short,” Shafer said. “We have to finish on offense. Hats off to Notre Dame’s defense — that’s why they’re one of the best defenses in the country.” 
the teams traded punts throughout the first quarter be­fore Golson threw his first inter­ception of the night to reddish at the Syracuse 36-yard line. the orange could not get on the board after that, and the period came to a close with no score 
— the first quarter all season in which the Irish failed to put up points. 
In the next Irish series, Golson led the offense 95 yards down the field, completing passes to six different receivers. aided by a Syracuse pass interference pen­alty, Golson threw a touchdown strike to sophomore receiver Will Fuller to get the scoring started at 7-0. 
“I got on him because we threw a quick screen to him in the very first series, and he didn’t pick up the first down, and I said to him, ‘I think you’re a better player than that — there’s more,’” Kelly said of Fuller. “and he said, ‘Coach, get me the ball again, and I’ll score on that same screen,’ and he did it. I think that’s the kind player of Will Fuller is — he’s an explosive player.” 


on that drive, Golson also started a streak of 25 consecu­tive completions, which fell just one short of tying the FbS single-game record. 
Despite the signal-caller’s close call with the record book, many of the players on the side­lines said they did not realize he had kept the string of comple­tions alive for so long. 
“Not really at all,” Golson said when asked if he knew about the streak. “I think that stuff doesn’t really matter.” 
“Certainly tonight, our quar­terback learned a lot from re­ally having a great performance, too,” Kelly said. “He did a lot of re­ally, really good things. He threw the ball on-target down the field, and his perimeter throws were outstanding, so he did a lot of good things but learned so much from it — that’s a great teaching tool.” 
In the midst of Golson’s run, Fuller topped his first score with a 72-yard reception for a touch­down just a little more than two minutes later on the first play of the next Irish series, putting Notre Dame up 14-0. 
“I knew that was the call,” Fuller said. “We worked on that all week, and I thought it would work, and I’m happy it did.” 
Syracuse got on the board with a field goal on its next drive, and the Irish responded with anoth­er fumble by Golson, this time at the Syracuse 18-yard line, to close out the half. 
on the opening series of the second half, Syracuse rolled down the field to the Notre Dame 29-yard line, where Irish senior cornerback matthias Farley in­tercepted Hunt. 
that set up another Irish touchdown, this time from eight yards out on a pass from Golson to sophomore receiver Corey robinson. 
Fuller led all receivers with 119 yards on six receptions, while robinson closed the night with 91 yards on eight catches. 
“a big part of Corey’s game to­night was his ability to be a com­plete wide receiver, in the sense that everybody has this sense that Corey is this big target that’s rangy, that you can just throw it up to him,” Kelly said. 
Syracuse began the fourth quarter with a rushing touch­down from Hunt, but Irish junior defensive lineman Jarron Jones blocked the extra-point attempt to hold the score at 21-9. 
Notre Dame bounced back on the next drive with a touchdown pass from Golson to oft-injured sophomore receiver torii Hunter Jr., who also made his first career reception in his long-delayed collegiate debut. 
“Pretty good for the first time,” Kelly said of Hunter Jr.’s catch. “You saw the guys were pretty ex­cited for him. He’s well-liked by all the players, and it’s nice to get him in there.” 
orange junior safety Durell eskridge returned the final Irish turnover — a Golson intercep­tion at the Notre Dame 29-yard line — for a touchdown, and Irish senior kicker Kyle brindza closed the scoring with a 37-yard field goal to finalize the win. 
after two consecutive games in NFL stadiums, Notre Dame heads home to face No. 14 Stanford on Saturday. 
“It’s always good to be home,” Irish sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith said. “You’ve got your family crowd there; you’ve got your students; you’ve got your classmates and things like that. So we’re looking forward to going back home for the next two games.” 
the Irish and the Cardinal kick off Saturday at 3:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 




WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish junior defensive end Romeo Okwara swallows up the Syracuse ball-carrier during Notre Dame’s 
31-15 win over the Orange on Saturday at MetLife Stadium. 
Defense 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
ameen-moore — who com­bined to average 239 yards on the ground per game entering Saturday’s matchup. 
on Saturday, Notre Dame gave up just 135 total rushing yards — including just 29 from Gulley, 26 from Hunt and 15 from ameen-moore. 
“Containing the quarter­back — that was the main goal,” Smith said. “everything we did was based on that.” 
Sloppy 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
flailing the football around like a press-breaking point guard. on Notre Dame’s next possession, Golson was crushed by a pair of orange players from his blind­side, but Steve elmer recovered the fumble. two possessions later, Golson tossed his first inter­ception of the season. 
Four drives. three major miscues. 
on drive No. 5, tarean Folston appeared to fumble running up the middle, but the play was blown dead beforehand due to a false start by Notre Dame. 
and then, of course, the doozy. With Notre Dame rolling toward a fourth score in as many games in the final seconds of the first 

“We wanted to make him play quarterback. and he had some success, but all-in-all, that was our goal, to make him play quarterback, not let him beat us on his feet.” 
Defensive stops came from Irish players both young and old, with senior cornerback matthias Farley picking off Hunt in the third quarter and fresh­man defensive lineman andrew trumbetti using his speed to contribute a tackle for a five-yard loss. 
While Golson and Irish head coach brian Kelly emphasized 
half, Golson mishandled his spike attempt and gave it back to Syracuse, keeping points off the board for the Irish. 
then Greg bryant fumbled, but Golson tightened things up in the second half — only to hand over a pick-six in the waning minutes. 
“When I think of this game, I think of my play as being sloppy,” Golson said. “I know I just really have to clean that up.” 
It is that simple. Notre Dame won’t beat the likes of Stanford, Florida State, arizona State and USC playing that way. 
those teams won’t slip silent offensively like Syracuse did. the orange ripped off a 38-yard gain on their first play from scrim­mage but only gained 41 yards on their next four-plus drives. 
those teams won’t bail out Notre Dame with 10 penalties for the work the team as a whole needed to do to prepare for Stanford next Saturday, Schmidt said it was important to be proud of the victory against Syracuse as well. 
“You never want to take away a win from being a win,” Schmidt said. “It’s always got to be — you’ve always got to give it its due. So we want to make sure that we’re focusing on getting better in the future, but at the same time, we’ve got to enjoy it.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
85 yards. 
those teams won’t go three­for-15 on third downs. 
No, those teams won’t let Notre Dame off the hook. So while a win is a win — as meadowlands mainstay bill Parcells would say — the Irish know they can do better. they know they need to do better. 
“We’re not even close to be­ing as good as we needed to be,” Schmidt said. 
“We got the win, but it wasn’t enough,” Sheldon Day added. 
“We’re striving for dominance.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Irish overcome turnovers 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
eaSt rUtHerForD, N.J. 
— Notre Dame committed five turnovers to Syracuse’s one and still walked away from metLife Stadium with a 31-15 victory over the orange. 
the Irish finished minus-four in turnover margin. according to eSPN’s Ivan maisel, over the last two seasons teams that went minus-four in turnover margin against teams from “Power 5” conferences were a combined 1-28. 
Golson nearly ties record 
Irish senior quarterback everett Golson completed 25 con­secutive passes from the second quarter into the fourth quarter. Golson finished one consecutive completion shy of the FbS record set by former east Carolina quar­terback Dominique Davis, who connected on 26 straight passes against Navy in 2011. Golson’s in­completion on a fourth-quarter screen attempt to sophomore re­ceiver Corey robinson snapped the streak. 
Still, Golson smashed the for­mer Notre Dame record held by former Irish quarterbacks ron Powlus (1997), brady Quinn (2006) and tommy rees (2011), who each completed 14 consecu­tive passes. 
Golson passes Johnny Lujack 
With the victory sealed, Golson improved to 14-1 (.933) as Notre Dame’s starting quarterback, passing former Irish great Johnny Lujack (.932) for the best career winning percentage by a Notre Dame starting quarterback. 
Miscellaneous 
Irish sophomore receiver torii Hunter Jr. made his Notre Dame debut Saturday, 634 days af­ter suffering a broken leg at the 
U.S. army all-american bowl in January 2013. Hunter hauled in his first career reception for a 13-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
Saturday’s reported atten­dance of 76,802 was the largest all-time for a collegiate game at metLife Stadium, which opened in 2010. 
For this first time this season, Notre Dame failed to score in a quarter when it came up empty in the opening stanza Saturday. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 





1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  14  7  10  31  
0  3  0  12  15  

NOTRE DAME 7, SYRACUSE 0 
Will Fuller 23-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
10:56 remaining 

NOTRE DAME 14, SYRACUSE 0 
Will Fuller 72-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
8:31 remaining 

Drive: One play, 72 yards, 0:12 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, SYRACUSE 3 
Cole murphy 38-yard field goal 
3:07 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 55 yards, 5:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, SYRACUSE 3 
Corey robinson 8-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
9:39remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 60 yards, 3:51 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, SYRACUSE 9 
terrel Hunt 7-yard run (murphy kick blocked) 
14:54remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 72 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, SYRACUSE 9 
torii Hunter Jr. 13-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
10:19 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 50 yards, 4:35 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, SYRACUSE 15 
Durell eskridge 29-yard interception return (Hunt pass failed) 
5:09remaining 

NOTRE DAME 31, SYRACUSE 15 
Kyle brindza 37-yard field goal 
1:57 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 24 yards, 3:12 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS 
161 
135 
PASSING YARDS 
294 


Time of Possession 
33:17 
PASSING 
Golson 32-39-362 
RUSHING 
Bryant 11-55 Folston 9-41 McDaniel 8-33 Golson 10-21 
RECEIVING 
Fuller 6-119 Robinson 8-91 Brown 6-57 Folston 2-25 McDaniel 3-21 Prosise 3-20 
TACKLES 
Smith 9 Schmidt 7 Day, Farley 5 Luke, Redfield 5 Hunt 

Dixon Gulley Hunt Philips 
West Estime Lewis Ishmael Flemming Moore 
Davis Desir Eskridge Hodge 
Time of Possession 
26:43 
22-38-294 
1-42 8-29 7-26 6-22 
8-103 4-58 3-58 1-25 2-24 
1-14 
11 9 9 8 


tHe obServer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | NDSmCobServer.Com 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish sophomore receiver Corey Robinson leaps to make an acrobatic touchdown grab in the third quarter of Notre Dame’s 31-15 win over Syracuse on Saturday night at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Robinson had a career day with eight receptions for 91 yards and the score. 
Despite four turnovers from Everett Golson and another from Greg 
Bryant, Notre Dame improved to 4-0 with a 31-15 conquest of Syracuse at MetLife Stadium on Saturday night. Golson did manage 
SLOPPY AGAINST 
to complete a career-high 32 passes — including a program-record 25 consecutive — for a career-high 362 yards. The Irish defense allowed 
SYRACUSE 
one touchdown and a field goal. 






The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By JARED CLEMMENSEN 
scene writer 

“david bowie is” in a word … revolutionary? multi-talented? avant-garde? 
no one description can suffice, and the internation­ally-touring retrospective with the evocative title leaves the sentence to be finished in any number of combina­tions. The exhibition, which opened at the museum of contemporary art in chicago last Tuesday, makes no at­tempt to establish just one description of the legendary artist and performer. From his music career to his acting career, dabbling in the visual arts, fashion and set design throughout, the eternally recognizable bowie has pervad­ed pop culture since he first attained commercial success as a musician in the 1960s and has established his name as a cultural entity — never vague, yet never completely de­fined. he’s been at it for over 50 years and is truly unique enough to demand an exhibition of this magnitude. 
over 300 objects as diverse as notebooks full of hand­written lyrics to many of bowie’s greatest hits, original cos­tume designs coming from collaborations with designers such as Kansai yamamoto, Thierry mugler and alexander mcQueen, photographs and album artwork and rare per­formance footage ranging from his various tours to an 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

when advertisements for the upcoming nbc series “a to Z” started to become ubiquitous on all forms of so­cial media, i was, to the credit of the show’s marketing team, intrigued. The new single-camera sitcom stars ben Feldman (“mad men”) and cristin milioti (“how i met your mother”), two actors i’ve always cheered for, so i had high hopes for the show. Though the series is scheduled to formally premiere Thursday , the show’s pilot debuted online through nbc in mid-august, giving a glimpse at the new romantic-comedy series. 
“a to Z” centers around andrew (Feldman), a hope­less romantic working for an online dating service (think Tinder more than eharmony) and Zelda (milioti), a tough, rational lawyer. The two young professionals meet when Zelda visits andrew’s (get it, “a to Z?”) workplace to clear up a glitch in her online dating profile. The two hit it off, and a voiceover explains that the show will fol­low the entire length of andrew and Zelda’s relationship, from “a to Z,” with each episode named after a letter in the alphabet. The pilot is appropriately titled “a is for acquaintences,” and, presumably, the finale will be “Z”­related and feature their impending breakup. 
while the show’s concept is at least a little exciting, one appearance on “saturday night live” in the 1990s all give insight into the world of david bowie. 
The design and layout of the exhibit design reflect bowie’s diverse career and various personas — multi-sen­sory and disorganized yet revelatory. The combination of music and visuals pays homage to bowie’s range of accom­plishments and talents. paintings, wallpaper designs, a lyric-writing computer program, set design sketches, note­books full of lyrics and random thoughts are all on display, giving visitors a rare view inside the creative genius of the man behind aladdin sane, Ziggy stardust and major Tom. 
visitors are given headsets that stream bowie’s music and snippets from interviews corresponding to their loca­tion in the exhibit. as one approaches a mirrored alcove with the costume bowie wore while performing “starman” on “Top of the pops,” a video from the performance plays in the background while the audio plays through the headset. while creating a very individual experience, the technology doesn’t function seamlessly. at times, you pick up the audio stream from the next room, creating a some­what disjointed experience. 
The exhibit distinctively paints david bowie as a per­sona quite separate from the man david Jones himself. The exhibition gives little hint to the origins of his stage name and makes no reference to the fact that he is, indeed, 
can’t help but have “how i met your mother,” milioti’s last show, come to mind. aside from the obvious casting choice, both shows start with an ending drilled in at the pilot, and both stories are told in voiceover narration. it isn’t like the producers of “a to Z” are unaware of this, either: the new series’ advertisements on social media nodded to milioti’s old show, refashioning the “Kids” line from “himym.” while the joke seemed clever dur­ing the new series’ first advertising efforts, it just feels too easy after seeing the pilot and realizing “a to Z” has such a similar format to the just-ended “how i met your mother.” 
it isn’t just “how i met your mother” déjà vu with “a to Z.” The show is also reminiscent of the ill-fated abc sitcom “mixology,” which featured a narrator explicitly laying out the groundwork of the show: a whole season followed 10 characters at a bar over the course of one night. There’s also the dim, borderline-sexist best friend and a romantic man paired with a tough-as-nails woman in “a to Z,” also seen in the short-lived abc series. 
it’s certain the problem with “a to Z” is that the show feels like it’s been done before. it’s “how i met your mother” with a seemingly sad ending. it’s the sugar-coat­ed sitcom grandchild of “annie hall,” child of “500 days of summer,” with its examination of a failed relationship. The pilot tries and fails to seem fresh — quirky characters still alive and recording music. This “david bowie is” not living life as husband to retired supermodel iman and fa­ther to sci-fi filmmaker duncan Jones. perhaps this was intentional, taking visitors further into the fantasy and outlandish nature of bowie’s world and rejecting any por­trayal of him as typical or real. To some visitors, this may come across as a bit dismissive. For example, no mention is made of bowie’s 2013 comeback album, “The next day.” The lack of references to some of these things makes the exhibition almost feel incomplete, but it certainly gives an air of wonder. 

coming from a five-month run at the victoria & albert museum in bowie’s homeland, england, david bowie is crossing borders now on its only u.s. stop before it later heads to paris and melbourne. “david bowie is” will be on display in chicago until Jan. 4, 2015, giving students a number of opportunities to take the short trip into the city for a visit. Tickets are $25 and include entrance to the rest of the museum. For just $5 more, the museum offers a student membership. good for a year, the membership includes free admission to the museum of contemporary art, as well as two free guest passes and one free ticket to “david bowie is.” 
Contact Jared Clemmensen  at jclemmen@nd.edu 
drop predictably “edgy” lines about instagram, “hip­sters” and dating in the social media age. even the choice of narrator, Katey sagal, makes the show seem all too fa­miliar right at its start. 
The premise and many of the characters in “a to Z” may be a bit trite, but the pilot still showed promise in a good bulk of its writing. a joke about andrew’s childhood and “back to the Future 2,” for example, was expertly ex­ecuted and shows how smart “a to Z” could be. and while the show isn’t subtle in the least about being a rom-com series in the digital age, some scenes gave a surprisingly spot-on look at how relationships develop with the help (or hindrance) of social media. 
The thing that gives “a to Z” the most potential, how­ever, is the cast that drew me to the show in the first place. milioti and Feldman are charming and charismatic, and the two leads carry the pilot despite the show’s missteps. milioti especially takes the prize for taking the cliché role of the cold, calculated business-woman and crafting it into a captivating and lovable character. 
with two talented leads and bursts of clever writing, the pilot for “a to Z” may have been occasionally frustrat­ing but still left me with hope that the show can shape up into one worth watching. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Remember the ‘other’ captain 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
unless you have a burn­ing distaste for the game of baseball, running in fear from every news piece, you will have heard that “The captain” is retiring this year. yes, yankees shortstop derek Jeter has been on his farewell tour, going from stadium to stadium, receiving honor after honor and rightfully being celebrated as one of the greatest players to play the game. Few players will leave a mark on the game of base­ball quite like Jeter has, and even fewer have done so for the most high-profile team in the game. 
yet, among all the celebra­tions and ceremonies, anoth­er captain has gotten lost in the shuffle. white sox iconic first baseman paul Konerko is also retiring after this sea­son, and he leaves behind as large of an impact on the white sox as Jeter does on the yankees. 
Konerko’s 432 home runs and 1,379 rbis put him sec­ond in franchise history behind hall of Fame first baseman Frank Thomas. he also sits atop the white sox record books in total bases, while sliding in at second in extra-base hits, third in hits and doubles and fourth in runs. of his 18 mlb seasons, he played 16 with chicago. more than once, Konerko left money on the table with oth­er teams, choosing loyalty, fans and a city over dollar bills. he never left chicago for better world series odds or for greater glory, staying loyal to a team consistently parked in mediocrity. 
From 2004 through 2011, Konerko hit 30 or more home runs six times. From 2002 to 2012, he was named an all-star six times. From 2010 to 2012, after reaching the age of 34, Konerko hit .306, with 96 home runs and 291 rbis. That is the kind of production, late in a career, that reflects a player’s true talent and work ethic. it has already been announced that chicago will retire his number soon after he plays his last inning in a white sox uniform. 
sure, those are impressive numbers, but it’s other an­ecdotes that make Konerko so special. during the white sox 2005 playoff run, he was asked multiple times to be the team captain. every time, he declined, arguing that no man should be raised above another on a team. yet, for the world series, he agreed and led the white sox to their first title in 88 years. he has captained the team ever since. 
Konerko has been a quiet leader who barely raised a fist about his shoulder when he hit a two-out grand slam off astros pitcher chad Qualls in that same world series. he let his play do the talking, analyzing his struggles and critiquing his performance more than he celebrated his victories and successes. 
during a time when a play­er’s on-the-field performance was often questioned, with the buzz of steroids always in the background, Konerko was never doubted. in an era when a player’s off-the-field actions are broadcast world­wide and subject to intense scrutiny, Konerko never had a negative headline. “paulie” was an old-fashioned player, a man who worked hard, loved baseball and played the game the way it should be played. a role model, fam­ily man, a loyal teammate, a technician who evaluated ev­ery single swing he ever took, a leader and a captain. 
one more anecdote for you. in 2010, Konerko took a 90 mile-per-hour carl pavano fastball to the face. i mean, directly to the face. Konerko didn’t spike his bat, whine, complain, charge the mound or even flash so much as a dirty look. in less than 30 seconds, the then-34-year­old was up, ready to jog down to first base. he was pulled back to be evaluated by train­ers, but after a couple min­utes, with no drama in tow, Konerko was standing on first base and 90 feet closer to scoring. no flash, just anoth­er runner on base. at least, that’s the way he saw it. 
no, Konerko probably isn’t a hall of Famer. his numbers don’t put him in that conver­sation, especially during an era when power hitters are a dime-a-dozen. 
Though he was one of the best first basemen and power hitters of his era, he will not be remembered the way he should be. when the white sox retire their captain’s no. 14 jersey and build his statue, will the man nicknamed “The King” by his teammates be fully celebrated outside of the windy city? will he even be fully celebrated outside of the southern half of chicago? probably not. Then again, would he really mind? 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB | Tigers 3, Twins 0 

Tigers shut out Twins, win AL Central on final day 
Associated Press 
deTroiT — in an al central race that went down to the last day, detroit’s extra ace made the final difference. 
david price pitched the Tigers to their fourth straight division ti­tle with the type of performance they acquired him for, taking a shutout into the eighth inning of a 3-0 victory over minnesota on sunday. detroit clinched the championship while second-place Kansas city was still play­ing in chicago against the white sox. The royals ended up win­ning to finish one game behind the Tigers. 
“it felt good to be able to step up,” price said in detroit’s jubi­lant clubhouse after the game. “These guys have done a great job of making me feel a part of the team, especially in the locker room and the dugout.” 
The Tigers face the orioles in an al division series. game 1 is in baltimore on Thursday. 
price (15-12) came to the Tigers from Tampa bay in a blockbuster deal moments before the trade deadline, but what looked like a dream rotation for detroit never fully materialized. anibal sanchez and Justin verlander dealt with injuries, while price, rick porcello and defending cy young award winner max scherzer all had their share of shaky outings. 

The Tigers wrapped up at least a wild card during the fi­nal week, but the division re­mained in doubt, especially when minnesota pounded detroit pitching for 23 runs over two games Friday and saturday. Then price took the mound and allowed only four hits in 7 1-3 in­nings in the finale. 
“he was unbelievable,” said manager brad ausmus, who guided the Tigers to a first-place finish in his first season after taking over for Jim leyland. “on a day where we needed an enormous outing after giving up 20-something runs over the pre­vious two, he stepped right up. he showed why he’s a true no. 1.” 
Joba chamberlain relieved price in the eighth, and Joe nathan finished for his 35th save in 42 chances. nathan has been a target of frustrated fans throughout the season, finish­ing with a 4.81 era, but with the Twins down to their final out, the home crowd was chanting “let’s go, Joe!” at comerica park. 
“The only thing i can keep do­ing to help this city, to help this team, to help myself, was keep fighting and know i was going to get better,” nathan said. “i continue to thank everybody for their support. ... a challeng­ing year, but i’m so happy to be where we are.” 
nathan retired oswaldo arcia on a foul popup to end it, and the Tigers spilled onto the field to celebrate in front of a delight­ed crowd at comerica. detroit hadn’t clinched a division title at home since 1987 — and this game was eerily similar to that one for a while. 
detroit won 1-0 in that ‘87 clincher at Tiger stadium, with Frank Tanana pitching a shut­out. price throws nothing like the soft-tossing Tanana, but the 29-year-old left-hander etched his own name into Tigers lore sunday. 
over the last four years, detroit’s most triumphant mo­ments have generally occurred on the road. The only exception was in 2012, when the Tigers finished off the new york yankees at comerica to win the american league pennant. 
NFL | pacKers 38, bears 17 

packers bounce back to blow out rival bears 
Associated Press 
chicago — aaron rodgers urged packers fans to relax. maybe they will after this one. 
rodgers threw for 302 yards and four touchdowns, and green bay shook off one of its worst offensive performances in years with a 38­17 victory over the chicago bears on sunday afternoon. 
The packers (2-2) scored on their first six possessions to build a 38-17 lead. They racked up 358 yards after being held to 223, their lowest total since 2008, a week ear­lier in a 19-7 loss at detroit. 
They intercepted Jay cutler twice in the third quarter to pull away from the bears (2-2). That gave green bay five straight wins at soldier Field, including the nFc title game four years ago and a playoffs-or-bust finale for both teams last season. 

FOR RENT 
STANFORD -FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/ Eddy Street -prime location. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 

rodgers called on packers fans to take a deep breath during the week, and he gave them reason to exhale with this performance. 
“i just wanted to remind every­body that it’s a long season, and at some point, we’re going to get this thing figured out,” rodgers said. 
he had all the answers in this one. 
rodgers posted a 151.2 rating for the game, completing 22 of 28 passes, and had all the time he needed with five-time pro bowl defensive end Jared allen sitting out because of an illness. 
he threw two touchdown passes each to randall cobb and Jordy nelson, and a fifth got called back by a penalty. That happened early in the third when a scram­bling rodgers got hit by at least one defender while unleashing an awkward, wobbly 34-yard pass that somehow connected with davante adams in the end zone. 
cobb had seven catches for 113 yards. nelson had 10 receptions for 108 yards, and the packers came away with the win despite allowing 496 yards. 
The offenses were so effective — or the defenses struggled so badly —that neither team punted. That happened only once before in a regular-season nFl game, 22 years ago. 
“interesting,” nelson said. “obviously, turnovers were a big thing. it’s fun, especially when you’re putting up points and hav­ing a good time.” 
The bears basically matched green bay score for score be­fore cutler threw those in­terceptions. he wound up passing for 256 yards and two Tds but fell to 1-10 lifetime against green bay, counting the postseason. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Want to know how I got these scars? the knife to her, laughing while he does My father was a drinker and a fiend. it. He turns to me, and he says: ‘Why And one night, he goes off crazier than so serious?’ He comes at me with the usual. Mommy gets the kitchen knife knife - ‘Why so serious?!’ He sticks to defend herself. He doesn’t like that. the blade in my mouth. ‘Let’s put a Not one bit. So, me watching, he takes smile on that face!’” 


MLB | naTionals 1, marlins 0 
Nationals enter playoffs on heels of no-hitter 
Associated Press 
washingTon — one out away from pitching the washington nationals’ first no-hitter, Jordan Zimmermann watched his 104th pitch on a crisp, clear sunday afternoon get smacked toward deep left-center. 
Zimmermann leaned his head back and winced. his first thought: “double. no-doubt double.” 
“and then,” the right-hander said later, “he comes out of no­where and makes that catch.” 
Thanks to a dramatic, diving grab by little-used rookie steven souza Jr., who came on as a de­fensive replacement in the ninth inning, Zimmermann com­pleted his gem, a 1-0 victory for the nl east champion nationals over the miami marlins. 
“i thought there was no way this would ever happen. my ca­reer numbers are something like one hit per inning, so i figure if i can make it out of the first, the hit’s coming in the second,” said the 28-year-old Zimmermann, a quiet guy who was a second-round draft pick in 2007 out of division iii university of wisconsin-stevens point. “but today was one of those special days.” 
almost morphed into a one-hitter, though. with two outs in the ninth and a 2-1 count, marlins leadoff man christian yelich turned on a 94 mph fast­ball over the plate. 
souza was shaded well over toward the left-field line at a coach’s prompting. 
“he probably couldn’t have been more out of position,” said right fielder Jayson werth, who watched it all unfold from what became a nearly silent home dugout. 
“i was just thinking to myself, ‘it is not optimal to be steven souza right now, because as soon as you come into the game, ev­ery time, the ball’s going to find you,’” werth said. “i had a feel­ing something crazy would hap­pen. but not that crazy, that’s for sure.” 
souza sprinted, extended his glove and leaped for the sensa­tional catch, using his bare hand to squeeze the ball in his mitt as he fell. 
“The one thing on my mind is, no matter how i’m going to get there, i’m going to get there,” souza said. “getting there, i kind of blacked out.” 
souza held his glove aloft to show he had the ball. Zimmermann raised both arms. nationals relievers in the home bullpen lifted their arms, too. so did thousands in the nationals park crowd of 35,085, who roared with every pitch late. 
“i don’t think anyone in the stadium expected souza to get to that,” Zimmermann said. 
indeed, miami’s mike dunn said he and other relievers in the left-field visitors’ bullpen started cheering as the ball headed their way. 
“when he caught it,” dunn said, “it was just like, ‘really? did that just happen?’” 
said yelich: “with that on the line, that might be one of the best plays i’ve ever seen. ever.” 
souza jogged in and Zimmermann greeted him with a hug. souza handed over the baseball, which Zimmermann shoved in his back pocket. 
“it was too loud to hear ev­erything he was saying,” souza said. “but i heard, ‘i love you’ and ‘Thank you.’” 
souza’s name now belongs alongside those of other play­ers delivering superb catches to save no-hitters. The name that kept coming up in the nationals’ clubhouse was dewayne wise, the defensive replacement whose juggling, tumbling grab in the ninth saved mark buehrle’s per­fect game for the white sox in 2009. 
no major leaguer had thrown a no-hitter in washington since bobby burke did it for the senators in 1931 against boston. 
Quite a way to cap a regular season in which the nationals finished with the nl’s best re­cord, 96-66. washington hosts san Francisco or pittsburgh in game 1 of a division series Friday. 
“Just an epic day for an epic season,” said denard span, who set a nationals season record with his 184th hit. 
Zimmermann (14-5) struck out 10 and allowed only two baser­unners. after retiring the first 14 batters, he walked Justin bourn on a low, full-count fastball with two outs in the fifth. in the sev­enth, garrett Jones reached first base on a strike-three wild pitch; moments later, catcher wilson ramos picked him off. 
Zimmermann’s accuracy was unassailable: 79 strikes and 25 balls. 
starting on seven days’ rest because his pitching shoulder got bruised by a line drive his last time out, Zimmermann poured in fastballs in the mid-90s mph, used his mid-80s slider to great effect and had his changeup fool­ing a marlins lineup without nl home-run champion giancarlo stanton. 

NFL | buccaneers 27, sTeelers 24 
bucs earn first win in shocker against steelers 
Associated Press 

piTTsburgh — The Tampa bay buccaneers spent nine long days aching for a shot to shake off embarrassment. 
given multiple chances at redemption thanks to the sloppy pittsburgh steelers, the buccaneers didn’t let this one get away. 
mike glennon hit a diving vincent Jackson for a 5-yard touchdown with 7 seconds re­maining to lift Tampa bay to a stunning 27-24 win sunday. 
The buccaneers (1-3) lost to atlanta by six touchdowns more than a week ago but re­sponded by rallying from sev­en points down in the fourth quarter to give lovie smith his first victory at his second head coaching stop. 
“i was out last year, so it’s been a long time since i’ve tasted winning a game,” smith said. “For our football team, we needed this.” 
did they ever. only a pair of garbage time touchdowns against the Falcons prevented Tampa bay from the worst loss in a franchise history littered with lopsided defeats. 
The buccaneers respond­ed with relentless if not ex­actly crisp play on a day the two teams combined for 22 penalties. 
glennon passed for 302 yards in his first start of the season, including a 41-yard catch-and­run by louis murphy that set up Jackson’s score. 
“we made so many mistakes out there, but we found a way to win,” smith said. “That was a hurdle we needed to get over.” 
doug martin ran for 40 yards and a touchdown in his return from injury. murphy caught six passes for 99 yards, and rook­ie wide receiver mike evans hauled in the first touchdown of his career before leaving with a groin injury. 
Tampa bay’s defense strug­gled keeping the steelers in check, though pittsburgh did its best to stop itself by draw­ing 13 flags and letting a hand­ful of chances to move to 3-1 for the first time since 2010 slip away. 
ben roethlisberger passed for 314 yards and three touch­downs, but the steelers (2-2) couldn’t protect a late lead. 
antonio brown caught seven passes for 131 yards and two scores, and heath miller added a career-high nine receptions with a touchdown. 
pittsburgh rallied from an early 10-point deficit and ap­peared to be in complete con­trol at times. 
“we can’t go out and expect to beat an nFl team and beat ourselves as well,” defensive end brett Keisel said. 
Tampa bay twice found it­self down a touchdown in the second half. both times the buccaneers scrambled back. 
a 3-yard touchdown run by martin tied the game at 17 in the third quarter. after roethlisberger found miller for a 5-yard touchdown to put pittsburgh back in front, Tampa bay kept coming against a steelers defense that struggled to get to the quarter­back even with the addition of linebacker James harrison. 
The five-time pro bowler re­turned to pittsburgh after an 18-day retirement to help an injury-depleted defense. 
patrick murray kicked a 27-yard field goal to get the buccaneers within 24-20. The steelers tried to go for the knockout punch but couldn’t deliver. roethlisberger found brown behind the coverage on a flea flicker, but the pass glanced off the pro bowler’s fingertips. 
Tampa bay responded by driving to the steelers 14 only to stall. glennon overthrew Jackson in the back of the end zone on fourth down with 1:53 to go. 
“it would have been tough to sleep tonight if we didn’t get another chance or win this game because those are throws that i need to make if we’re going to win games,” glennon said. 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND VOLLEYBALL | miami 3, nd 0; Fsu 3, nd 0 
Notre Dame drops first two conference matches 
Observer Staff Report 
on the road for the sec­ond consecutive weekend, notre dame dropped a pair of matches against acc foes, losing 3-0 to miami (Florida) on Friday in coral gables, Florida, and falling 3-0 again to no. 6 Florida state on sunday afternoon in Tallahassee, Florida. 
The matches were the team’s first conference games of the 2014 campaign. 
The hurricanes (8-5, 1-1 acc) were in full control on their home court Friday eve­ning, winning the three sets with scores of 25-14, 25-17, 25-13 against the irish (3-10, 0-2). They were boosted by a command performance from all-acc senior outside hitter savanah leaf, who led both teams with 16 kills and add­ed 10 digs. For notre dame, freshman middle blocker sam Fry once again led the team, contributing six kills and a .600 attack percentage Friday evening. 
miami rolled early and of­ten against the irish. it went on a 10-2 run in the open­ing set and opened its third match with an 8-1 run. The most competitive set was the second, in which the irish hung with the hurricanes, trailing 12-9 only to pro­ceed to go on a stretch where they lost 10 out of the next 12 points. in the final set, notre dame earned a negative hit percentage, with a -.125 mark. 
against the undefeated seminoles (13-0, 2-0), notre dame was much more com­petitive despite also being swept. The three sets saw 32 ties and 10 lead changes and finished with scores of 34­32, 25-22, 25-19. 
The irish actually bested the seminoles in terms of as­sists and kills, with 42 and 46, respectively. The leader on the afternoon was junior setter hanna muzzonigro, who had a career day, earn­ing 36 assists. Freshman li­bero natalie Johnson also had a strong performance with a season-high 17 digs. This is familiar territory for Johnson, who has record­ed 10 or more digs in nine matches this season. 
Florida state won the day with a strong perfor­mance top to bottom, as six seminoles earned five or more kills sunday. The standout for the home team was all-acc redshirt senior libero Katie mosher with a match high of 20 digs. 
after two weeks on the road, notre dame is slated to return to purcell pavilion this weekend to continue conference competition. The irish play syracuse at 7 p.m. on Friday night and duke at 1 p.m. on sunday afternoon. 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior libero Kathleen Severyn launches a serve during a 3-1 loss to TCU on Sept. 12 at Purcell       Pavilion. Severyn collected six digs and two assists over the weekend against Miami and Florida State. 
SMC VBALL | smc 3, FranKlin 1; smc 3, manchesTer 2 
belles pick up two more wins 
Observer Staff Report 

The belles extended their winning streak to four matches over the weekend, as saint mary’s knocked off both Franklin and host manchester on saturday. The pair of victories put the belles above .500 for the first time this season. 
against Franklin, the belles (7-6, 4-3 miaa) traded sets with the grizzlies (11-5, 2-0 heartland) for the first two frames, before saint mary’s went on a run. The belles utilized a seven point swing in the third set to take a 21-9 lead and then held on for a 25-19 victory in the set. saint mary’s would win the fourth set by a convincing 10-point swing of 25-15 to take the match. 
The belles’ match against host team manchester (4­13, 0-1 heartland) went down to the wire, with the spartans forcing the game into the fifth set on the heels of a strong comeback in the fourth. after being pushed to the brink, down 15-23, the spartans scored nine of 11 points to force a 24-24 tie. after that, the spartans would hang on to complete the rally in extra play, win­ning 28-26. 
The fifth set was relatively close, with the score tied at 6-6 early on. however, from there on out, the belles scored 10 of the last 14 points to go ahead 15-10 and take the set and match. 
against the spartans, the belles had an attack percent­age of .248, their third con­secutive match with a .200 attack percentage or high­er. The victory in the fifth set also marked the second time in the past week that the belles have won a match pushed to the fifth and final set. 
senior Kati schneider played well for the belles against Franklin, record­ing a team-leading 25 kills and adding 11 digs. senior melanie Kuczek added 15 kills and a team-leading six blocks. sophomore meaghan gibbons led the team in digs against Franklin with 28. 
against manchester, junior Katie hecklinski led all play­ers with 23 digs, paired with 13 kills. Freshman leah buck got in on the action by hit­ting a team-leading .583 at­tack percentage, with eight kills and only one error. 
The belles return to action Tuesday, when they travel to holland, michigan, to take on the top-ranked hope. The match is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | noTre dame inviTaTional 
Irish opens fall season by hosting invitational 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after a long, hot summer of training and practicing, notre dame welcomed five other teams to the courtney Tennis pavilion this weekend to kick off its fall schedule at the notre dame invitational. The tournament was the first official action of the irish’s 2014-2015 schedule as well as a chance for the team to play against opponents outside of their team. 
“The biggest thing for the whole weekend was to get matches in,” irish coach Jay louderback said. “we just needed to play. we’ve got ones who haven’t played real matches since the ncaas [last may]. … This helps show us what we’ve got to work on.” 
sophomore mary closs led the irish charge in sin­gles, going 2-1 on the week­end with victories over illinois sophomore louise Kwong and Tulane  vanessa nommensen. Freshman allie miller posted two wins as well, defeating Tulane fresh­man naz Karagozand and se­nior Julia Jamieson of illinois. Juniors Julie vrabel and darby mountford also chipped in a win apiece. 
while disappointed with the lack of singles wins, louderback said the opportu­nity for some of the athletes to play against stronger competi­tion than they usually had was very important. 
“we didn’t win a lot of matches,” louderback said. “but the good thing was our kids were able to play up against kids higher than they normally would, and if they [want] to get up higher in their lineup, they get to see what they’ve got to do to get there.” 

notre dame’s two top play­

ers,  junior  Quinn  gleason  
and  sophomore  monica  
robinson,  did  not  partici­ 

pate in the tournament be­cause they were both invited to the 2014 iTa women’s all­american championships in pacific palisades, california. robinson participated in the pre-qualifying singles draw this weekend, winning her first-round matchup before falling in the second round, louderback said. gleason is scheduled to leave tomorrow as she prepares for her quali­fying singles draw. both girls will also play together in the doubles tournament that be­gins Tuesday. 
a third irish player, fresh­man brooke broda, also did not participate due to an injury. 
last season, notre dame struggled in the doubles por­tion of their matches for much of the season. This weekend, the duo of miller and senior molly o’Koniewski, paired up as a doubles team in the early-season experimentation by louderback, finished as the top irish duo of the weekend with a record of 2-2 and victo­ries over senior emily dvorak and sophomore Kyla Klier of Tulane and illinois sophomore Jerricka boone and freshman Jade hilton. closs and fel­low sophomore Jane Fennelly went 1-3 during the tourna­ment while vrabel and her se­nior partner Katherine white finished 1-3 as well. 
“we looked at doubles com­binations. That was a big thing,” louderback said. “and we will again and we’ll prob­ably have different ones at the next tournament and get a chance to see different people playing together.” 
another important part of this weekend was as a trial of new rules the ncaa coaches association is trying out, with the intent of speeding up matches. The main change was not going to advantage after deuce at the end of a set if tied, instead going to a sud­den death point once deuce is reached. louderback said he was less than impressed. 
“we still had matches that went over three hours,” he said. “so it felt like it didn’t shorten them very much. … personally i don’t like it. i’ve been against it. if we go to it fine, we’ll do it, if we’re doing it just to shorten matches. 
“coaches have said it makes it more exciting. i don’t think it makes matches any more exciting than the regular scoring.” 
The irish players took louderback’s side, he said. 
“our kids definitely didn’t like it, but again, if we have to do it, we’ll get used to it,” he said. “we’ll adjust.” 
notre dame’s next sched­uled action, other than the all-american tournament this week, is at the midwest regional Tournament in champaign, illinois, from oct. 16-21. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
M Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
posted eight birdies today, which is pretty rare.” 
while sciupider leads the irish as an individual, soph­omore matthew rushton is at the top of the notre dame lineup. he posted a two-un­der par 69 and heads into the second round at fifth place. 
“matt played an excellent round again today for us,” Kubinski said. “it’s a lot of fun to see a player go ‘all in,’ committing fully to the process of improving and experience these results as a f f irmation.” 
The remainder of notre dame’s lineup stands in the top 20. Freshman Thomas steve shot an even 71 to tie for ninth place, while senior patrick grahek’s one-over par 72 landed him in 15th place. senior Tyler wingo shot a two-over par 73 to tie for 18th place. 
“we had a solid round to­day but, with two rounds to go, we won’t pay much at­tention to the leaderboard,” Kubinski said. “For us, it’s all about focusing on what we can control, our attitude and approach and not the scores. our boys can rest to­night knowing they brought a good approach today.” 
The irish will lead the oth­er seven teams into the next round of the event. The sec­ond round will be played at the lost dunes golf club in bridgeman, michigan, one of notre dame’s practice courses. 
“we play a different golf course tomorrow but atti­tude and approach both trav­el,” Kubinski said. “There are just small adjustments to make and our familiarity with the golf course will al­low us to do so.” 
The irish take that mind­set into the second round of the Fighting irish gridiron golf classic today at the lost dunes golf club in bridgeman, michigan. The first group will tee off at 
11:10 a.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
“connor is the kind of player that hits those through passes, and he got it to luke, who got it to leon,” clark said. “he hit it into the ground, and [his shot] was difficult for the goalkeeper to save. 
“i was happy to see a sec­ond goal. it gave us a nice cushion.” 
even though the irish shut out the Tar heels, north carolina dominated the possession and pace of the first half. The Tar heels had five corner kicks and six shots in the half, com­pared to notre dame’s one corner kick and one shot in the same frame. in the 23rd minute, sophomore midfielder omar holness had the first shot on goal for the Tar heels, a low shot to graduate student goal­keeper patrick wall. right after Farina’s goal, fresh­man forward Zach wright managed a shot of his own, and junior midfielder alex olofson tried again in the 44th minute, but wall saved both shots. 
“north carolina is a very good team,” clark said. “They pressure you very, very hard, and they come at you and make you play the game faster than you want to play the game. it was faster than we really wanted to play the game in the first half, and i thought 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
simonian also recorded an assist during the win against virginia Tech, her first point of the year. she started both games for the irish, the first time she has done so this season after starting 12 matches last year. 
“she’s a fantastic player,” romagnolo said. “she can score goals, she can [make plays and] she can play dif­ferent positions for us. she’s just a key to our offense any­where we put her.” 
after the goal, notre dame shot the ball 14 more times, including 11 chances in the second half, but wake Forest freshman goalkeeper lindsay preston made six saves to keep her team in the game. 
“something we talked out about was bringing more en­ergy in the second half, and that’s something we did … ” romagnolo said. “we didn’t have a goal … but we had a lot of opportunities for our­selves, and i thought their goalkeeper made some huge plays. we could’ve scored a lot more goals in that second half.” 
on defense, the irish were led once more by sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little, who collected four saves while posting her sixth shutout of the year, tied for first in the acc. 
“one thing i’m proud of is that we kept it strong in the back,” romagnolo said. “we preserved that shutout.” 
sophomore midfielder morgan andrews, the team’s leading scorer, went down hard in the sixth minute of the game on a wake Forest foul and spent several min­utes on the sideline recover­ing before coming back in. still, andrews only played 47 minutes in the game, below her season average of 78.7. she also failed to record a shot. 
“she’s been recovering from a little bit of sickness this weekend,” romagnolo said. “and then she got clob­bered early on in the game, so i think she wasn’t her full self in terms of strength in the game, but luckily for us, we’re a very deep team, and we have a lot of different players that can step up on any given day.” 
The irish have a full week off before they host one-loss and third-ranked virginia on sunday. The six days’ rest is the longest gap in notre dame’s schedule this season. 
“The biggest thing [we’ll focus on] is being rested for the weekend,” romagnolo said. “it’s always going to be about what we can do to op­ponents. our strengths are holding on to the ball and creating opportunities for our forwards one-v-one. and then defensively, [we need to] stay disciplined.” 
notre dame welcomes virginia to alumni stadium next sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

we struggled a lot in the first half.” 
notre dame came out stronger in the second stan­za, increasing its presence on north carolina’s side of the field. besides brown’s goal, junior midfielder evan panken had a solid chance to score in the 58th minute, but his shot went wide of the post. senior forward vince cicciarelli also had a break­away to score, but north carolina senior goalkeeper brendan moore came out from between the posts and thwarted the opportunity. 
The Tar heels outshot the irish, 12-7, and led 9-2 in corner kicks, but wall tal­lied a season-high six saves for notre dame’s third shut­out of the season. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“in the second half, we changed things a little bit, and i think we handled the game very nicely,” clark said. 
“we got the game into their half, and we kept it there for periods of time. we knew they were going to push it to the goal and that they were going to take chances. it was a very good game, two very good teams and a lot of tal­ent on the field.” 
with two acc matches under their belts, the irish prepare to host virginia commonwealth in a non-conference match Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 31 Foray 66 Some poems1 Rounded 34 Small bit, as of from 52-Across 
cathedral feature cream 67 Tennis’s 5 Undue speed 35 Lab eggs Sampras 10 Bowled over 38 H. G. Wells 68 Broadway
honors14 Miller ___ (low-novel … with 

calorie beer) a hint to this 69 Captain inpuzzle’s circled “Twenty 
15 Banks in the 

words ThousandBaseball Hall of 
Fame 42 Pea holder Leagues Under
the Sea”43 Completely
16 Sheltered bay 44 In recent days

17 Equipment tohelp a patient 45 Trees that sway DOWN 
1 ___ State
breathe in a hurricane (Hawaii’s

19 Regatta group 48 Religious nickname)offshoot 
20 Prince who 2 Film studio became Henry V 49 Went to pieces behind “Toy 

21 “___ I care” 52 “Beauty is truth, Story” and “Up”truth beauty”
22 Jules who 3 Fashion
poet

wrote “Twenty 4 Brain wave 
Thousand 56 Resell unfairly, 

readout, for shortLeagues Under as tickets 
5 “Cluck, cluck” the Sea” 57 First-rate makers 
23 Floor 59 Flapper’s 6 Monet or Manet measurements neckwear 7 Megamistake25 “Sorry to hear 60 Musical sound 8 Sn, to a chemistthat” 61 Vishnu or Shiva 9 Mouse spotter’s 28 Breath mint in a 64 Fashion cryroll, informally designer Cassini 10 Say yes to30 Events with 65 “It’s ___ of the 11 Troubling baying hounds times” 

12 Datebook notation
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 “___ Defeats Truman” (famous 1948headline) 
18 Enter slowly andcarefully, as a parking spot 
22 Many an airportshuttle 
24 Play opener 
26 Spiced tea 
27 Telescope serviced byastronauts 
29 Changesignificantly 
31 Big inits. in fueladditives 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  
 18  
 
 19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
 
 
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  
 
 
 51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
 
 
 63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 
32 “Well, whaddya 41 Suffix with major 54 Emblem carved know!” on a pole
46 Declare to be 33 Mars, with “the” true 55 Permission 34 Web access 47 Swimming unit 58 Convent inits. 48 Hardly hip residents 36 Kilmer of “The 49 Camera lens 61 Place for a Doors” setting rabbit in a magic37 One or more 50 Place to learn in act 39 Rick’s beloved in Lille 62 Equal: Prefix“Casablanca” 51 Carted off to jail 63 Immeasurably40 Was without 53 Tolerate long time 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 
1 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 


8/24/12 



Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t leave anything to chance. if you see something you desire or you have an idea you want to pursue, make the effort to turn your dream into a reality. dedication, determination and setting a high standard will attract attention and give you the edge when it comes to a competitive situation. Trust and believe in yourself. your numbers are 6, 14, 19, 23, 29, 35, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): There is plenty happening around you that you are oblivious to. Question contracts and negotiate as best you can, but keep in mind that you may have to give up one thing in order to get another. a change will lead to improvement. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): an emotional situation has the potential to spin out of control. use past experience and a little pressure to ensure you don’t end up losing something or someone that means a lot to you. Keep things simple and amicable. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): networking, socializing and hosting an event at your place should be considered. regardless of what you are trying to accomplish, interacting with creative people will help you find innovative solutions to any setbacks you face.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Kindness and consideration will go a long way. your ability to put people at ease and to find solutions to problems will be impressive. an unusual event will bring you in touch with someone who will brighten your life and knowledge. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen to complaints closely before you voice your opinion. you may think you know what’s best for others, but sometimes you need to let the ones you love figure things out without your help. Focus on personal change, not changing others. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a day trip or getting involved in a community event will result in meeting people who can change your life or the way you think. spice up your life by getting rid of some of your stale routines and trying something invigorating. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): someone from your past will influence you. attend a reunion or visit places you used to frequent. don’t be afraid to ask for favors or to offer your services, skills or knowledge. an adjustment can make your life better. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): your emotions will mount. avoid getting worked up over a professional incident. you are best to bide your time, focus on home and creative endeavors and your own personal success for the time being. renovations will bring you satisfaction. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your energy into home improvements and personal money matters that can help you build your assets and lighten your overhead. refuse to let a personal relationship stand between you and what you want to do. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): someone unexpected will speak up on your behalf or in favor of what you want to do and who you are. don’t shy away from reaching out to achieve your dreams. practical application is important, but so is reaching for the stars. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen carefully to an offer, but don’t spend on something or someone if you don’t feel comfortable doing so. put more into self-improvement than trying to get someone else to make adjustments. a change in your occupation could be beneficial. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ask questions and you will find out what you need to know. dealing with money matters, investments and legal settlements will bring you closer to a workable solution or deal. put time aside to nurture an important relationship. 


Birthday Baby: you are strong-willed and protective. you are a survivor and a loyalist. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
COKBL  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NCRAH  

RANLEY DIOWSM  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Dr. Frankenstein put a faulty brain in his 
Answer:  A  
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday’s  Jumbles: Answer:  MUNCH  IDIOT  HEDGED  UNWIND  

monster, but the monster – DIDN’T MIND 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, norTh carolina 0 
ND downs Tar Heels in ACC home opener 
Squad scores two goals on two shots on goal, shut out North Carolina in front of capacity crowd 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish gave their coach quite the birthday present Friday night — a 2-0 win over no. 8 north carolina. 
no. 2 notre dame (4-1-2, 2-0-1 acc) beat the Tar heels (5-3-0, 1-2-0) 2-0 in its first acc home match of the sea­son. irish coach bobby clark celebrated his 69th birthday with the team’s second acc victory this season in front of a sold-out crowd of 3,007 at alumni stadium. 
Though the irish had only two shots on goal in 90 min­utes of play, they capitalized on the opportunities and scored on both. 
Freshman forward Jeffery Farina posted his first col­legiate goal to put the irish on the scoreboard in the 37th minute. Junior mid­fielder connor Klekota sent a through pass to freshman Jon gallagher, who crossed the ball from the left side of the field to Farina for the assist. 
“it was a great through pass by connor to Jon, and Jon is so quick he put it over to Jeffrey … they both can finish well, [and] this time it was Jon to Jeffrey, and maybe next week it will be Jeffrey to Jon,” clark said. “They’re the best of buddies, and they’re always out practicing here a little bit extra, so it paid off nicely today. 
“it was a nice birthday present for the old man here. i was very happy for them and obviously happy for the team.” 
The next irish scoring op­portunity came in the 71st minute. graduate student forward leon brown scored his third goal of the season to put the irish up 2-0. Klekota set up the second goal simi­lar to the first with a through pass to senior defender luke mishu. mishu crossed the ball into the box to brown, and brown put it home in the top left corner of the net from 10 yards out. 
see m soccer PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, waKe ForesT 0 
ND MEN’S GOLF | FighTing irish gridiron golF classic 
Irish top Demon Deacons 
Team leads classic 
on Simonian’s early goal 
after first round 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
no. 20 notre dame fin­ished off the weekend with a flourish sunday, captur­ing a 1-0 victory over wake Forest in winston-salem, north carolina. 
with the win, the irish (7­3-1) moved to 2-1-0 in the acc and avoided a letdown after their 2-0 upset of no. 2 virginia Tech on Thursday. 
“every team in the acc is strong,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “you’ve got to make sure you bring the intensity and come ready to compete against them. we prepare for everybody the same way.” 
That intensity was on display against the demon deacons (3-6-1, 1-2-0) early, as notre dame recorded the game’s first shot three min­utes in and then drew two quick fouls. 
on the restart of the sec­ond foul, junior defend­er brittany von rueden found senior forward Karin simonian, who buried a 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish protected their home course and claimed the top spot on the lead­erboard sunday after the first round of the ninth an­nual Fighting irish gridiron classic. 
notre dame carded a one­over-par score of 285 for a one-stroke lead after the opening round of the eight-team gridiron classic at the warren golf course. The irish have four players in the top 10 and lead long beach state by one stroke, michigan state by three strokes and loyola (maryland) by four. 
heading into this event after an 11th place finish at northwestern’s windon memorial classic last monday, the irish rebound-

shot in the lower right cor-“we had a lot of opportuni­
ed and improved upon their ner of the net for her first ties, [and] we were all over 
last-round score at windon goal of the season. The goal them. i think that goal was 
by 11 strokes. This is the came in the sixth minute a reward for the energy lev­
fifth time this season the and held up as final margin el that we brought to the 
irish have earned an overall of victory. game.” 
score better than 290. “we started the game 

“we competed very well well,” romagnolo said. see w soccer PAGE 14 
today, both individually and as a team,” irish coach James Kubinski said. “our play­ers were able to put those bad shots every player hits behind them and focus on the shot about to be played. That takes maturity and patience.” 


Junior cory sciupider leads the irish individually into the second round. playing unattached from the team, sciupider is tied for second place with a four-under­par score of 67. schiupider had eight birdies and card­ed the best irish round at the classic since the start of the tournament in 2006. he stands one shot behind the tournament leader, ball state senior mccormick clouser, who shot a five-un­der-par score of 66. 
“cory played a brilliant round, posting 67.” Kubinski said. “his talent is undeni­able. he has worked hard to tighten up some areas of his game and had it all there to­day. he had two hiccups but kept a good attitude and 
see m golF PAGE 13 





