The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 95 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Court upholds ruling against ND 
Third request for relief denied, University must comply with HHS mandate 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
in a split 2-1 decision Friday, the u.s. court of appeals for the seventh circuit upheld a ruling that notre dame must comply with a department of health and human services (hhs) mandate requiring the university’s insurance plan to cover contraceptives, according to a report in the south bend Tribune. 
in its third request for re­lief from the mandate, which is part of the affordable care act, notre dame ar­gued that the school’s agree­ment with its third-party health insurance adminis­trator, meritain health, in­volves the university with providing birth control against its catholic beliefs. The university based its ap­peal upon a decision by the u.s. supreme court in January that the little sisters of the poor and other simi­lar religious groups did not have to cover contraceptives in their health plans un­til the sisters’ litigation was resolved. 
notre dame’s most recent motion for appeal, filed in January, states that “there is no legitimate basis upon which an injunction could be granted to the little sisters of the poor but denied to notre dame,” according to a report in the Tribune in January. 
see lawsuiT PAGE 5 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 



shembo confirms claims 
Observer Staff Report 
For the first time publicly, for­mer notre dame linebacker prince shembo confirmed he was the irish football player involved in the lizzy seeberg sexual assault inves­tigation in 2010. 
in the fall of 2010, shembo’s first semester on campus, seeberg, a saint mary’s student, accused a notre dame football player of sexually assaulting her in her dorm room. in the coming days, seeberg reportedly received text messages from a friend of the football player that said, “messing with notre 
see shembo PAGE 3 


SCC election results released 
Observer Staff Report 
noemi ventilla, michael markel, neil Joseph and eva niklinska won Friday’s sophomore class council (scc) run-off election and will serve as the 2014-15 officers, according to an email from the Judicial council. 
They received 482 votes, or 73 percent. The other ticket, comprised of andrew galo, michaela mcinerney, vincent vangaever and daniel barabasi received 178 votes or 27 percent, the email stated. 
ventilla will serve as pres­ident, markel as vice presi­dent, Joseph as treasurer and niklinska as secretary. 
Editor’s Note: Barabasi is a staff writer for the Scene section of The Observer. 


Students attend immigration summit 
By ELYSE HIGHT 
news writer 
a summit held at loyola university chicago allowed students to learn, network and take action on immigra­tion reform. 
The program began with a general organizational and strategy session, followed by four sessions on messaging, lobbying politics and policy, organizing fundamentals, and coalition-building, ac­cording to the summit’s website. 
Jessica pedroza, the notre dame campus organizer for Faith in public life, said the summit saturday hosted over 120 college students from nine area universities seek­ing to advance immigration reform. 
pedroza said students were able to meet students, faculty and immigrant families from other catholic schools who were involved in prominent activities in an effort to share ideas and light the pathway to reform. 
pedroza said the time for immigration reform action is now. 
“a path to citizenship will stop the fear that many chil­dren feel, not knowing if they will come home to parents gone,” pedroza said. 
she said the group hoped 
see summiT PAGE 5 


SMC launches Love Your Body Week 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
This week marks the fourth annual love your body week at saint mary’s, a time for mem­bers of the community to re­flect on positive self-image and a healthy lifestyle. 
according to love your body week event chair and junior sam moorhead, the week’s events are intended to provide encouragement to women who may be struggling with body image-related issues, such as eating disorders or pop cul­ture’s portrayal of beauty. 
“we hope that people who are struggling with these sorts of issues can find encouragement through the events of the week,” moorhead said. “we want to encourage women to see them­selves as beautiful, despite our many imperfections.” 
Junior Kelly gutrich, a former coordinator of love your body week, said it is one of the most constructive initiatives during the school year at the college. 
“when laura glaub started love your body week four years ago, the point was to inspire self-confidence in women, be­cause it is such a controversy with the images in the media in our current world,” gutrich said. “in continuing glaub’s mission and recognizing that 
see body PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 hocKey PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nsdmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

If you could be a winter Olympian, what sport would you play? 

Martín Orjales 


Ellie Norby 
junior 

sophomore 
morissey hall 

lewis hall 
“curling.” 

“hockey.” 
Michael McLean 


Bridget Doyle 
sophomore 

sophomore Knott hall 
howard hall “snowboarding. even though 
“curling 1000 percent.” i’ve never snowboarded in my life.” 
Grace Linczer 


Laura Camarata 
sophomore 

sophomore 
walsh hall 

lewis hall 
“curling. definitely curling.” 

“ski jumper.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jack rooney mary green emily mcconville Josh dulaney 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa daniel barabasi 
Photo Viewpoint 

Discussion: the Q&A on human rights Men’s basketall Women’s basketball Blood drive 
grant Tobin dan brombach 

turmoil in Ukraine Hesburgh Center for Joyce Center Joyce Center Hammes Bookstore LaFortune Student International Studies 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. Center 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Sign up for an 
Corrections 

4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. With ND grad Vienna Georgia Tech Yellow North Carolina Tar appointment at 
The observer regards itself as Discussion open to all. Colucci. Jackets. Heels. givebloodnow.org. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Swing show Town hall meeting for Journalism lecture Show Some Skin Men’s tennis 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Washington Hall undergraduates Hesburgh Library DeBartolo Performing Eck Tennis Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 

7:30 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. Washington Hall Carey Auditorium Arts Center 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

$5 for students and 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

$10 for non-students With University With Justin Gills of the Student-written Virginia Tech Hokies. 
we can correct our error. 

at the door.  administration. New York Times. monolougues. 


Auditions open for Shakespeare play 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
students have the chance to find their own midsummer night’s dreams again this year with the young company, a group that allows talented un­dergraduate and graduate stu­dents to perform as a part of the 15th annual shakespeare Festival at notre dame. 
grant mudge, ryan produc­ing artistic director of the notre dame shakespeare Festival, said the Festival organizers and the two main directors are cur­rently gearing up for the young company auditions. students accepted to the group will per­form as part of the Festival in both their designated produc­tion and alongside profession­als in the professional company production. he said notre dame students will be joined by stu­dents from other universities, primarily in the midwest, who will come to campus for the op­portunity to audition. 
The students selected will take part in three weeks of train­ing in the summer and then will begin touring the michiana area, within a 1.5-hour travel time radius of notre dame, be­tween July 20 and august 25, mudge said. They will also work with professional actors to stage “henry iv,” which will run from aug.19 to aug. 31. 
auditions for the young company will take place on campus this saturday from 11 
a.m. to 5 p.m. in the regis philbin studio Theatre of the debartolo performing arts center, and the necessary application forms can be found at shakespeare.nd.edu, mudge said. students currently studying abroad will have the opportunity to submit video au­ditions, he said. 
mudge, who is running the Festival for the second time, said the Festival will offer four differ­ent elements: shakescenes, the young company production of “The merry wives of windsor,” the professional company pro­duction of “henry iv” and the actors From the london stage production of “much ado about nothing.” 
“The anniversary reveals how much of a tradition of shakespeare we have here,” mudge said. “it’s really within the fabric of our history as a university. 
“The history of shakespeare on campus is astonishing to me and most folks don’t realize how extensive it is.” 
mudge said the young company will be directed by west hyler. hyler has worked on broadway as an assistant direc­tor of “Jersey boys” and directed productions of the same show internationally. he has also been a director with the big apple circus on “legendarium,” with several large las vegas casinos on “panda” and with various re­gional theatres nationwide.
 “he’s got this very wide range of experience,” mudge said. 
The other director, michael goldberg, has a background in chicago theatre and will be directing the professional company production of “henry iv,” in which shakespeare’s “henry iv, part 1” and “henry iv, part 2” are “conflated” into one play. 
mudge said “henry iv” was chosen because it was the first full shakespeare play performed on campus 150 years ago. 
“i think it’s a great lens, doing ‘henry iv’ on the 150th anni­versary of its first performance at notre dame, through which we can view not only our history on campus but also our nation­al experience,” he said. “it was 1864, at the height of the civil war, and they chose to stage a play that says: ‘Those opposed eyes,/ which, like the meteors of a troubled heaven,/ all of one nature, of one substance bred,/ did lately meet in the intestine shock/ and furious close of civil butchery/ shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks,/ march all one way and be no more op­posed/ against acquaintance, kindred and allies.’” 

The crux of the play is the di­lemma of young henry iv over whether to follow the model of sir John Falstaff and descend into debauchery or that of his fa­ther and become a serious mon­arch, mudge said. 
“come see henry iv because it has everything. it is both hi­larious and very moving, which i think is at the heart of what shakespeare likes to do,” he said. 
mudge said the famous lit­erary critic harold bloom deemed Falstaff to be one of shakespeare’s greatest char­acters, on par with hamlet. Falstaff also appears in a differ­ent context in “The merry wives of windsor,” which was chosen for the young company for this reason. 
“it’s not often you get to see the wife-chasing Falstaff and the “henry iv” Falstaff in the same season,” mudge said. “i’m pleased we’re going to have that.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
Shembo 
conTinued From page 1 
dame football is a bad idea.” 
seeberg committed suicide 10 days after the alleged assault and charges were never filed. 
shembo’s name popped up online in relation to the investigation but was never officially connected to the alleged sexual assault. 
after playing four years with the irish, shembo is now prepping for a potential career in the nFl and said teams have asked him about the situation. 
“i just tell [nFl team execu­tives] the truth, i have nothing to hide,” shembo said to blue and gold illustrated while at the nFl combine in indianapolis. “no one’s heard from me one time. do you go off of one person’s story?” 
shembo said he was not surprised about the questions because the al­legations were a simple search away. 
“everyone that does the back­ground check can type my name in and you’ll see all the stuff that people have said about me and have never heard from my mouth,” he said. 
shembo said irish coach brian Kelly told him he was not allowed to talk on the matter publically, despite his desire to. 
“my name was going to flames and it just made my name look bad and i can’t even speak,” shembo said. 
notre dame declined to comment sunday. 
paid adverTisemenT 





Body 
conTinued From page 1 
there are many positive ways to reinforce body image in young women, the week’s events can be beneficial for all members of our community.” 
gutrich said she is also ex­cited notre dame has followed the tradition of love your body week to cultivate the dialogue between communities. 
“i like when both saint mary’s and notre dame devote weeks to raising awareness of similar issues,” gutrich said. “it’s uplifting when both cam­puses believe in promoting this issue, because it demonstrates how we are always striving to be supportive of one another.” 
according to moorhead, the week’s events include a variety of speakers and fun events ev­ery night. 
“on monday, christina grasso will speak about her battle with anorexia,” moorhead said. “she spoke two years ago during love your body week as well, and we hope that in sharing her story once more, she can provide hope to women who may relate to her struggles.” 
gutrich said she is excited for grasso to return to campus once again. 
“[grasso] has an incredible story and i can’t wait for more students to be moved by her 
paid adverTisemenT 

courageous development of the organization project heal (help to eat, accept and live),” gutrich said. “grasso is a true saint mary’s woman, empow­ered by her sense of self and dedicated to making a differ­ence in the community. it will definitely be one of the most in­spirational events of the week.” 
moorhead said free yoga classes would be held on Tuesday and wednesday to encourage exercise alongside healthy minds. on Thursday, the belles against violence office (bavo) will host a self-awareness and Familiarization exchange (s.a.F.e.) event, where students can learn about self-defense. 
moorhead said she hopes this week will increase dialogue re­lated to prevalent issues that are seldom discussed amongst the women on campus. 
“we would love for students to come out of this week having learned ways to form a health­ier and happier lifestyle for themselves,” moorhead said. “if they are struggling with body image-related issues, we want them to know that they have the support of the saint mary’s community. 
“we hope that this will be a week that encourages each woman in the saint mary’s community to see the beauty in herself.” 
For a full list of events, visit the saint mary’s website’s event calendar. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


Lawsuit 
conTinued From page 1 
last summer’s revisions to the affordable care act enable religious nonprofit organiza­tions to shift the cost for con­traceptives to the government or a third-party administra­tor by submitting an opt-out form. 
“The delivery of the form to meritain reminds it of an ob­ligation that the law, not the university, imposes on it — the obligation to pick up the ball if notre dame decides, as is its right, to drop it,” Judge richard posner wrote in the court’s decision Friday, ac­cording to the Tribune report. 
paul browne, notre dame’s vice president for public af­fairs and communications, maintained the university’s objection in a statement. 
“Our lawyers are reviewing the decision and contemplating next steps. ” 
Paul Browne 
vice president for public affairs 

“our lawyers are review­ing the decision and contem­plating next steps,” he said. “meanwhile, we remain con­cerned that if government is allowed to entangle a religious institution of higher educa­tion like notre dame in one 
Summit 
conTinued From page 1 
to demonstrate notre dame’s commitment to reforming a broken immigration system in america and keeping im­migrant families together by attending the summit. 
“i believe that [immigrants] came here through no fault of their own and should be rec­ognized as the americans they grew up to be, with a chance to contribute and receive an education,” pedroza said. 
she said the summit gave college students an impor­tant opportunity to hear other people’s ideas and learn about what different colleges are do­ing in response to immigra­tion issues in america. 
“There is strength in the unity and numbers of people who get together for one com­mon cause,” pedroza said. 
The notre dame group now seeks to take what they learned at the summit and bring it to the student body, she said. The group is already planning ways to implement immigration reform actions area contrary to conscience, it’s given license to do so in others.” 
posner’s written decision questions what remedy the university wants, since it al­ready submitted the required opt-out form, according to the Tribune. 
“we imagine that what the university wants is an order forbidding aetna [which pro­vides coverage to students] and meritain to provide any contraceptive coverage to notre dame staff or students pending final judgment in the district court,” posner wrote. “but we can’t issue such an or­der; neither aetna nor meritain is a defendant … so unless and until they are joined as defen­dants they can’t be ordered by the district court or by this court to do anything.” 
The Tribune reported that in his dissent, Judge Joel Flaum said notre dame is the only plaintiff to be denied an in­junction, out of the 19 pre­vious cases challenging the application of the hhs man­date to religious nonprofit organizations. 
“notre dame tells us that catholic doctrine prohib­its the actions that the gov­ernment requires it to take,” Flaum wrote, according to the Tribune. “so long as that belief is sincerely held, i believe we should defer to notre dame’s understanding.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
at notre dame. 
“This is an important issue that is not talked about very much at all so with enough planning and promotion we can create events to shed light on the immigration,” pedroza said. 
she said the group aimed to build awareness at notre dame and also engage the south bend, saint mary’s and holy cross communities. she said a major goal was to plan an immigration week on campus filled with events to help raise awareness on the issue at notre dame. 
pedroza, along with the other summit attendees, said she wants to bring the sto­ries of the multitude of fami­lies that immigration reform would help to the notre dame community. 
“it is not all about facts and statistics,” pedroza said. “it is about 11 million stories of real people who are affected by the broken immigration system.” 
Contact Elyse Hight at ehight@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 
is Facebook crazy? 

Kevin Song 
online editor 
somehow, the biggest headline on news sites nationwide and on my Facebook news feed this week wasn’t how russia’s adelina sotnikova pulled a controversial win over south Korea’s yuna Kim or the protests in Kiev. 
it was Facebook’s $19 billion acquisition of the cross-platform messaging service whatsapp. 
Facebook isn’t new to the big tech ac­quisition arena. Just a year and a half ago, Facebook announced its acquisition of the popular photo-sharing app instagram for a cool $1 billion. unprecedented at the time, some people saw the acquisition as a huge mistake, as instagram had no revenue and no clear path to make money. but whether or not it was a smart move, it was clearly a trend-setting one, setting the stage for many large tech acquisitions to come. 
since then, yahoo! purchased Tumblr for $1.1 billion, microsoft bought nokia’s mobile phone business for $7.2 billion and google closed a deal for cellphone maker motorola mobility for $12.5 billion, subsequently sell­ing it off again to lenovo for $2.91 billion. all of these pale in comparison to Facebook’s acquisition of whatsapp, which comes in at $12 billion of stock, $4 billion of cash and another $3 billion in stock that will vest over the next four years. 
nobody really knows what Facebook’s plan will be. all it has said is it will let whatsapp and its 50 employees continue to operate independently. 
is Facebook crazy? maybe, maybe not. isn’t whatsapp just a simple app that sends short blurbs of text and photos back and forth, not unlike Facebook’s own messenger? 
perhaps it wants whatsapp’s 450 million monthly active users. looking at that, it’s perhaps not a terrible decision on a per user basis. according to cnn’s michael wolf, it equates to $42 per user. in comparison, instagram’s acquisition cost $28 per user while Tumblr’s cost $33 per user. 
but this sounds an awful lot like tech valu­ations before the dot-com bubble collapsed 14 years ago. back then, tech companies were valued by the “eyeball” — how many people visited the site. using “active monthly users” is just a slightly modified metric that accomplishes the same goal. none of this really addresses typical valuation methods that people learn in Finance 101. 
will company valuations continue to soar? nobody knows. Tech companies like Twitter and linkedin are offering ipos left and right, and alibaba’s upcoming ipo is widely expected to be well over $150 bil­lion. Traditional companies, and even The observer, are beginning to invest heavily in their online presence. 
whether whatsapp ever delivers $19 bil­lion of value to Facebook is a question that may never be answered fully. but it’s the question that every tech company is ask­ing as they look at the field of burgeoning startups. 
Contact Kevin Song at ksong@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 
since coming to washington for the semester, i’ve frequently wandered around the monuments. 
i’ve gone on the weekends, on the way home from my internship and at random hours of the night. each time is as awe-inspiring as the last. i find some measure of inspiration in their marble, some measure of hope in their presence. i find some mea­sure of strength in the quotes strung around memorials, monuments and Kennedy’s eternal flame. ultimately, my time in d.c. has only further rein­forced a pair of thoughts i had before coming here. The first is that we live in a nation of immense opportunity and promise, one that is capable of provid­ing a shining light for good that can truly illuminate the world. The second is that we can do more to fulfill that promise. 
i think we kid ourselves when we pretend the most hotly debated issues have a simple answer. i think the peo­ple of our country have genuine differ­ences, and those differences demand discourse worthy of the importance of such issues. 
i think we belittle both the issues and ourselves when we protest and harass rather than help. i see the de­bate being diminished when some­one screams at those trying to access a planned parenthood. i think the debate is weakened by being dismis­sive of a given religion or the ideas they bring. i think the country isn’t served by militant protest but rather by constructive action. The march for life sends a much stronger, more posi­tive message than the guy throwing graphic photos in kids’ faces outside the white house. working to sup­port mothers and address the societal causes of issues proves more helpful, and effective, still. 

i think regardless of one’s stance on an issue, we can applaud those who speak, write or march for an idea they find just. i think we can admire those who don’t yell or demean, but talk. we need more of Jon stewart and bill o’reilly debating each other. both sides have ideas that deserve to be rep­resented in the marketplace of ideas, and great debates should take place over these ideas. we need less of glenn beck’s mindless, conspiracy-laden at­tacks, Ted cruz’s obstructionism and bill maher’s cheap shots. 
i think we can support those who don’t wag fingers, but rather offer a hand, doing what they can to fix what they see wrong with the world. i think the differences in our country are far larger than any individual, and to protest by shaming someone seeking help or labeling them this or that is a slap in the face of the promise this country is capable of. i believe we can build society up without tearing each other down. and i think this building of society begins with each and every one of us. 
when i consider those who i would like to emulate in my life, to take after, i think most of my family and friends who have lived for others. i think of those who have worked so i could suc­ceed. i think of those who have volun­teered for the good of those they know in their community and those they will never meet. i think of my parents and grandparents, who have worked so i could be where i am. i think of friends who, amidst the demands of classes and jobs and their own lives, find time to volunteer for charities or churches, to advocate and to mentor. i think we can find it within most of us to follow the examples of those few who push for more. i know i can do more to live like those i wish to embody. i suspect we all can. 
i think i’m a pretty optimistic per­son. i like embracing grand ideals, gestures and movements. but i also think my desire for us to do better is more feasible than delusional. i think my hopes for societal improvement are grounded in reality. i think those that say i’m naive are too burdened by the weight of their cynicism. Their view of tomorrow is too encumbered by a sense of what’s been rather than what can be. 
i think i’m far too young — i think we’re all too young — to embrace such a dismal view of our future. whether you’re seven, 17 or 60, i think we can all find hope in tomorrow and work toward making our vision of it a reality. i think we are rightfully optimistic in our ability to improve the world we’ve inherited, to talk to one another and address the issues we see in society. 
maybe we shouldn’t be. maybe we should accept a fractured system, a hyper-polar political environment and factions of society that increasingly are concerned with their own kind and themselves rather than others. maybe that’s what our future holds. maybe that’s what we already have. but i say screw that. i’m not ready to buy that. not yet. hopefully, not ever. in the immortal words of will hunting, i’m holding out for something better. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He is a lighthouse enthusiast. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Equal rights (and cake) for all 
in “you can’t make me sell a cake,” published in The observer on Thursday, mr. raymond michuda disagreed with the results of a recent lawsuit and argued that “it should be perfectly acceptable to refuse to sell a gay couple a wedding cake.” mr. michuda viewed the wedding cake case as a viola­tion of property rights because the government is forcing someone to sell a product against his or her will. however, this framework is flawed in its focus on the product instead of the customers. The legal action was not about forcing a business to sell cakes (the business was already doing that), but rather about mandating that a business treat its customers equally regardless of their sexual orientation. 
The bakery owners cited religious beliefs as the reason they refused to sell to the gay couple. however, freedom of religion does not give a per­son the right to discriminate against other human beings. selling a product to someone you disagree with does not violate your right to practice your religion. 
Fifty years ago, many businesses refused to serve african-americans under the guise of religious belief, and i think everyone should agree that that sort of prejudice was on the wrong side of his­tory. The equal rights act outlawed discrimina­tion in the public sphere on the basis of race, sex, religion and ethnicity, and it reinforced our 14th amendment right to equal protection under the law. i believe it is past time this protection was extended to the lgbTQ community at the federal level, but let me to return to mr. michuda’s argu­ment. 

mr. michuda asserts, “it is not the job of the government to legislate morality, and the very ac­tion of doing so is immoral in itself.” i do agree that government has no place in legislating what people can and cannot believe. however, that is a completely different issue than the government’s role in how its citizens treat each other. here’s a basic example: it’s illegal to drive drunk, for obvi­ous moral reasons. laws punish and deter certain harmful actions in order to protect human beings. in the same vein, anti-discrimination laws exist to protect citizens from harmful treatment. 
mr. michuda is bluntest in the paragraph where he states, “so if someone doesn’t want to sell a gay couple a cake, fine. it’s not the end of the world. no harm done. grow up and go to a different bakery instead of trying to destroy someone’s livelihood just because they don’t support your lifestyle.” yes, buying cake seems like a trivial matter. except, as i’ve said, this case is less about the physical cake and more about equality. There is serious “harm done” in setting a precedent where businesses and individuals can refuse to provide services to gay couples because of who they are, and it is cal­lous to tell people to “grow up” and silently accept discrimination. allowing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation relegates lgbTQ people second-class citizen status, without the rights and protections afforded to everyone else. 
Furthermore, a person’s sexual orientation is not a “lifestyle.” do straight people have “heterosexual lifestyles?” people in the lgbTQ community have lives, and part of those lives includes the people they love — just like everyone else. and, like every­one else, they deserve the right to buy cakes, have weddings and live without the shadow of bigotry. 
Michelle McCarthy 
sophomore pasquerilla west hall Feb. 21 

controversy aside, coulter deserves to be heard 
“liberals claim to want to give a hearing to other views, but then are shocked and offended to dis­cover that there are other views.” so said william 
F. buckley, Jr., the founder of “national review” and one of the fathers of modern american conservatism. 
in “The left’s intolerant ‘tolerance’” on Tuesday, mark gianfalla rightly calls out the left’s tolerance for everything but divergent opinions. unwittingly, sarah morris proves his and mr. buckley’s point in “ann coulter and tolerance” on Thursday. 
without discussing any of the examples mr. gianfalla used in his article, ms. morris simply deems it “ignorant and incendiary” and apparently not worthy of substantive rebuttal. This is a com­mon tactic of the left: force political opponents to defend themselves against baseless charges of ha­tred, racism, sexism, bigotry or homophobia, and thereby relieve themselves of any responsibility to debate the issues on their merits. The ad hominem attacks on mr. gianfalla and by extension, sympa­thetic republicans and conservatives, provide a convenient excuse for ms. morris’s principled re­fusal “to engage further.” 

without blinking an eye or with any sense of irony, the tolerant ms. morris also urges notre dame’s college republicans to rescind its invita­tion to ann coulter to speak at its lincoln day dinner on apr. 10 or even to set foot on campus on the grounds of her views constituting “hate speech, racism, ignorance and complete disrespect for humanity.” ms. morris bases these subjective charges on a few of ms. coulter’s quotes, though she fails to provide any context. 
ms. coulter’s acerbic style appeals to many be­cause she expresses her views in ways that many like-minded conservatives are reluctant to be­cause they fear censure from the left. ms. coulter has a right to express her views, and students have a right to listen or not listen. providing a platform does not necessarily mean a convergence of views. i doubt the university would consider its deci­sion to have president obama deliver the 2009 commencement address an endorsement of his pro-choice policies or his administration’s contra­ception and abortifacient mandate, which some would argue “clearly contradicts notre dame and all that it stands for.” 
The First amendment does not only protect pop­ular or non-controversial speech. if that were the intention of the framers, there would be no need for it. ms. coulter should speak, and then individu­als can decide on their own whether the merits of her arguments have any influence on their views on the issues. ms. morris is under no obligation to listen to ms. coulter or agree with any of her opinions, but she is not the arbiter of acceptable speech. her sanctimonious attempt to shut down debate before it begins is a disservice to the class­mates who are willing to give ms. coulter a fair and open hearing. 
Colin R. Monaghan 
alumnus class of 2004 Feb. 21 

Response to a recent disturbing column 
i, like most notre dame students, am a busy person with deadlines to meet. That being said, on Thursday, i read a viewpoint article that com­pelled me to drop pressing issues and write a re­sponse to raymond michuda’s article “you can’t make me sell a cake.” Throughout, mr. michuda defends the right of businesses to refuse services to gay people because of “religious objections.” he makes the dangerous claim that nothing is unreasonable about a business refusing services if they believe gay people are sinners. “i don’t see why the gay couple’s desire for a wedding cake should supersede someone’s religious beliefs,” asserts mr. michuda. if you need help under­standing how truly disturbing this statement is, replace gay with interracial. many of the people supporting these new discrimination laws would have had the same stance during the civil rights movement, though they will deny this fact. it is true, however, that the people who enacted and supported Jim crow laws were very christian, and more often than not their christian faith reinforced their racist convictions. 

next, for some reason, mr. michuda rants about property rights and how, if you’re not hurting anybody, you can decide to refuse services to anyone. Just read paragraphs five and six. it’s really quite impressive. having already justi­fied discrimination against homosexuals, mr. michuda seamlessly proceeds to make the case for discrimination against anybody in the name of freedom. essentially, the government has no right telling us who we can and cannot discrimi­nate against. The implications of this inherently backwards method of thinking are grim. it sets us back 60 years. 
yet we return to the homophobic christian baker. mr. michuda, because of people like you there are places in this country where the baker can refuse a gay cake. my question to you is, can a banker refuse a gay bank account? can a diner refuse an interracial couple dinner? can a uni­versity refuse a gay student? The only answer here is no, they cannot. it is irresponsible and embarrassing for you to claim otherwise. 
The title of the article, “you can’t make me sell a cake,” is indicative of the level of maturity of his argument. where does common human de­cency fit into the equation? more importantly for you, mr. michuda, when does shame come into play? 
i am not gay. i can only imagine what it is like to be gay on this campus, especially when people like raymond michuda are vomiting up articles like this in our school newspaper. i found it ap­propriate that the article beside mr. michuda’s was written by a mexican-american student lamenting the discriminatory predilections of her pupils here at notre dame. students like mr. michuda will be talking about the “notre dame family” for the rest of their lives. The people they advocated discrimination against most likely won’t. 
peace and love. 
Tim Galano 
senior off campus Feb. 22 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
associate scene editor 
indie-pop duo ms mr took the stage saturday night for “coachella to campus,” an event hosted by legends. Though the title may be a little misleading (the group is actually scheduled to play at coachella this upcom­ing april), the up-and-coming band’s performance was a strong indication of the good things to come on this year’s festival circuit. 
ms mr (pronounced miz mister) is made up of lizzy plapinger and max hershenow, vassar alums who re­united to record plapinger’s distinctive vocals over hershenow’s electronic, infectious pop beats. before long, the young group began catching the attention of tastemakers and were featured in Tom Ford’s 2012 run­way show as well as the “game of Thrones” soundtrack with their single, “bones.” 
after releasing a five-song ep on their Tumblr, a format the group has utilized since their start, ms mr released their first full-length studio lp, “secondhand rapture,” in may of last year. with a style described both as “vintage” and “electroshock,” the group’s sound is a clever mix of old and new and has garnered comparisons to lana del rey and daft punk. 
“secondhand rapture,” which included the five songs from ms mr’s earlier ep, features epic ballads driven by plapinger’s powerful voice — think Florence welch with less strings and more beat — and more upbeat, danceable pop numbers. rather than be a bubblegum electro-pop outfit, however, the band consciously turns their music in a more sinister and sometimes macabre direction, with hershenow building up insidious beats as plapinger croons in minor keys. 

despite the darker elements to ms mr’s music, the band took the stage prepared to entertain, not depress, their enthusiastic crowd. Though hershenow and plapinger are the songwriters, founders and face of the group, ms mr took stage as a four-piece outfit, with drums, guitar and synth to round out their sound. 
even with a full band on stage, plapinger undeniably captured the audience’s attention of with her signature colorful hair (this time it was a blue-green hue) and pow­erful voice. 
The group performed a good variety of their songs from “secondhand rapture,” opening with super-pop­ular track “bones.” plapinger was as endearing between songs as she was while singing them, and the band’s en­ergy was refreshing in a space like legends. 
and the group didn’t hold back for the set’s end. after de­livering a pretty impressive cover of lcd soundsystem’s “dance yrself clean” (which is almost impossible to listen to and stay standing still), ms mr rounded out their show with “hurricane,” the band’s biggest single and a definite crowd-pleaser. 
Though ms mr has relatively little material to use in a show, performing covers and remixes to fill in the time, the group certainly has strength in their live per­formances. Their studio recordings and music videos may give off a dark and even aloof image at times, but their stage presence brings a fun and energetic element missing elsewhere. in the music video for “hurricane,” a creepy collection of clips much like miley cyrus’ “we can’t stop,” the band tries hard to put on an air of mys­tery and make viewers a bit uneasy, but upon seeing ms mr live, the duo brings a different vibe to the stage. even if it’s not cohesive with their dark-side image, the group was more engaging and entertaining than i expected. 
of course, this young band has plenty of time to fine tune their “Tumblr glitch-pop” sound, and while the band’s lyrics show room for improvement, ms mr has found a niche on the dark side of pop that is getting them plenty of attention. They may still be forming an image and creating a bigger body of material, but the group has one thing down for sure: a solid live performance that legends was lucky to have. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 
nominated for nine academy awards, steve mcQueen’s “12 years a slave” has been taking the award season by storm, along with alfonso cuarón’s “gravity” and david o’russell’s “american hustle.” The drama won three golden globes, including best motion picture-drama. 
The film tells the story of solomon northup, a free man living in saratoga, n.y. based on the memoir of the real solomon northup of the same title, the film follows his time as an enslaved man after he is kidnapped on a trip to washington. The film emphasizes, in graphic detail, the violence of slavery as northup struggles to survive his trials without losing his personal identity. 
chiwetel ejiofor stars as northup and is nominated for the oscar for best performance by an actor in a leading role. he is compelling in his character, leading the audi­ence through northup’s tragic struggles convincingly. 
providing a foil for ejiofor’s character is edwin epps (michael Fassbender), northup’s exceedingly cruel master who buys him after he gets into trouble on the plantation of the much more sympathetic, though still in­credibly troubling, master Ford (benedict cumberbatch). Fassbender is nominated for the academy award for best performance by an actor in a supporting role. 
epps personifies the cruelty of the slave institution and northup’s escape from this man is bittersweet in his in­ability to remove the rest of comrades from his control. 
“12 years a slave” is graphic in its depiction of slavery 

and from the time northup wakes up in chains in a slave  forgotten.  
bunker in washington to the very end of the film, the au­ in theory, the movie has a happy ending for northup  
dience is entirely unable to forget the inexplicable cruel- but mcQueen does not give the audience the ability to  
ties he is experiencing. Flashbacks to happier times are  rest easy in his escape from the cruelty of epps and the  
intercalated with scenes of physical and psychological  institution. The audience is asked to question the full- 
torture and moments of respite are overlaid with the  ness of his escape, after seeing that he is forced to leave  
sounds of more obviously cruel scenes.  others behind and to grapple with the violence of the or- 
director steve mcQueen started as a visual artist, a fact  deal. after all that northup experiences, there is no way  
that may explain many of the graphic scenes of violence  for him to live the life he had before.  
that fill the movie. each of northun’s struggles are em- The film asks americans to once again consider the  
phasized with a strong visual reminder of what has hap- lasting consequences of slavery. such cruelty is not eas­ 
pened, ranging from the physical scars of his beatings to  ily forgotten and mcQueen offers no respite from the  
the destruction of his violins the last tie to his life before  troubling aspects of slavery. There is no final resolution  
enslavement.  that makes what has happened all right in the end — and  
These scenes stick with the audience, asking them to  that is perhaps why this movie deserves all the critical ac- 
question “the peculiar institution” even after northup’s  claim it has received.  
story has been resolved. The signs and consequences of  
slavery are very visual in this movie — even in scenes  Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu  
where no one speaks, it is impossible for the audience to  
forget the horrors of enslavement.  
From the beginning, northun makes a point to differ­ “12 Years a Slave”  
entiate between surviving and living. on the boat down  
to the south, while debating with two other captured  Director: Steve McQueen  
men whether they should fight the crew for their freedom  Studio: Regency Enterprises  
or keep their heads down and survive, he says “i want to  
live.”  Starring: Chiwetek Ejiofor, Michael  
merely surviving within the institution of slavery can- Fassbender, Michael K Williams  
not be enough. he finds his salvation in a canadian abo­ 
litionist (brad pitt) and eventually makes his way back to  
his family. For all this, his 12-year enslavement cannot be  

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 
pasquerilla east musical company’s (pemco) “legally blonde: The musical” whirled and twirled onto the stage this weekend at washington hall. 
The entire ensemble glowed pink with energy and en­thusiasm from the moment the curtains opened. with cute puppies, quick costumes changes, peppy dance rou­tines, impressive vocal talent and dedicated acting per­formances, “legally blonde” was illegally good. 
“legally blonde,” based off a novel and movie by the same title, recently became available for production by small local theatre companies and musical groups. The members of this pemco ensemble, therefore, were some of the first individuals to bring the show to life on a col­lege campus. 
The musical centered on delta nu sorority girl elle woods (emily nash) as she follows her ex-boyfriend all the way to harvard law school to win him back. along the way, the audience was introduced to a delightful cast of characters with personalities as big as their talent. 
The various sorority sisters of elle’s delta nu ucla chapter, played by many members of the ensemble, started off the show on a great note, with a humor and harmony in “omigod you guys.” 

nash played a delightful elle, striking a balance be­tween what audiences expect from a stereotypical blonde and what a smart, independent woman any blonde can be. 
her extraordinary voice is equal parts sweet and sassy, especially showcased in moments like the song “what you want,” where she goes from singing a heart-felt, powerful declaration of love to belting throughout a hip-bopping, cheerleader-esque dance routine. 
elle’s two love interests, warner (chris siemann) and emmett (brian scully), played off of each other’s ener­gies well. while siemann’s not-so-lovable character im­pressed with sheer vocal ability, scully’s character won over the hearts of everyone within a two-mile radius. 
That is only slightly a hyperbole. 

scully’s portrayal of emmett was spot-on and over­whelmingly endearing from the moment he walked onto the stage. The duets between scully and nash, including “chip on my shoulder,” “Take it like a man” and “legally blonde,” were undeniably aww-inducing. 
paulette (Katie mullins) blew the crowd away with her spunky and beautiful rendition of “ireland.” paulette’s love of dapper irish men was well received by the notre dame crowd. 
Throughout the show, mullins did an incredible job bringing the character of paulette to life, delivering one of the strongest acting performances of the cast. 
sincerely, all the characters that graced the stage this weekend are worth noting. 
elle’s greek chorus, who sang to her and advised her throughout the show, reminded elle and the audience to be “positive” as they pranced with pep and sang with spirit. 
Fitness queen brooke wyndham (margret prakel) and members of the ensemble performed an intense workout regime on stage, whirling jump ropes and hopping in rhythm. prakel did an impressive job vocally as she was obviously being “whipped into shape” by her workout. 
warner’s new serious harvard girlfriend, vivienne (elizabeth curtin), transitioned from wicked cruel to wicked awesome throughout the show and ended up be­ing just as kind and beautiful at heart as her breathtaking voice. 
due to strong, impressive chorus members and out­standing leads, pemco’s “legally blonde” surely will be remembered as one of the best pemco productions of recent years. 
sincerely heartfelt and outrageously fun, “legally blonde” tinkled me pink with pride for the talent here at notre dame. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 

Photo Illustrations by Annette Sayre, Caroline Genco and Maria Massa | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
success goes beyond medals 

Greg Hadley 
sports writer 
The winter olympics fin­ished sunday, and america lost. 
russia won. 
both in terms of overall medals and first-place finish­es, the united states lagged behind the russians. Those are the basic, some might say, embarrassing facts. we fell apart in speed skat­ing, choked in hockey and generally performed below expectations. 
The united states olympic committee (usoc) went, as one might expect, into dam­age-control mode, pointing to american successes in newer sports such as ski half-pipe and snowboard slope-style. but after such a strong performance at vancouver 2010, when the united states set a record for total medals, sochi 2014 is considered a let­down for Team usa. 
shaun white did not get his third gold medal. lindsey vonn did not even compete. bode miller took one bronze medal. in figure skating, no american took the podium in the singles competition. For the first time since 1984, no speed skater won a med­al. shani davis called it the “worst olympics ever.” 
Then again, why do we care so much about the failures? 
one of the greatest aspects of the olympics is that it transcends national bound­aries through competition. Keeping track of who won how many medals is a nice way to feel national pride, but it can blind us to the achievements of other ath­letes from around the world, like canadian sisters Justine, chloe and maxime dufour­lapointe, all of whom com­peted in the moguls. Justine and chloe won gold and silver, while maxime fin­ished in 10th. or the incred­ibly close women’s downhill, where Tina maze not only won slovenia’s first winter olympic gold medal, but also tied with switzerland’s dominique gisin. 
why have a medal table when all it does is take away from the whole point of the olympic movement? why not realize america will some­times lose and instead pay attention to what matters about the olympics? There is nothing wrong with national pride or wanting to win. but the olympics are about com­ing together and celebrating athletic achievement, and if we’re too caught up lament­ing america’s poor perfor­mances, we will miss out on so much more. yes, the u.s. hockey teams lost to canada. but another canadian, alex bilodeau won the freestyle moguls and dedicated the victory to his brother, who has cerebral palsy. and Japan’s yuzuru hanyu won men’s figure skating gold af­ter his hometown, ravaged by the tsunami three years ago, banded together to help him, financially and emotionally. 
if you prefer your inspir­ing stories closer to home, then what about luger erin hamlin, who became the first american woman to medal in olympic history? if you were not paying close attention, hamlin’s story got buried behind tales of woe concern­ing shaun white’s failure to medal in the halfpipe. 
all of this is not to say that everything is wonderful all of the time. The corruption and woeful preparation in the sochi was egregious and inexcusable. we cannot af­ford to give russia a free pass on this. but we also should not consider the olympics a failure. 
The games brought out the very best athletic per­formances the world has to offer, and it is only getting better. Twenty-six countries won medals. eighty-eight had athletes qualify for the games, a new record. The united states athletes com­peted and it is not as if they failed their country. Team usa still won 28 medals. 
most importantly, if we have learned anything it is that when athletes break down in tears because they did not win a gold medal, the competition has been taken too far. so let’s celebrate the good and not get caught up on the bad. 
it may sound a little cheesy, but that does not mean it cannot happen. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MEN’S SWIMMING | acc diving championships 
Dive scores put Irish in 7th 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame claimed sev­enth place in its inaugural acc diving championships, earn­ing 78 points over the three-day event held in greensboro, n.c. The irish swimmers will seek to advance that total in the second component of the champion­ships next weekend. 
each day of the competition featured its own dive, with a preliminary round in the morn­ing and a final round in the eve­ning. no irish divers advanced to the final round on any day in Thursday’s three-meter dive, Friday’s one-meter dive or saturday’s platform competition. 
of the five divers representing the irish, freshman Joe cuomos set the high mark of the group, earning 345.50 in the three-meter event. cuomos scored 
321.90 and 255.85 points in his one-meter and platform events, respectively. 
coumos’debut season for the irish featured 12 first-place finishes in the one-meter and three-meter events. in four meets, he swept both competi­tions. The freshman had no such luck at the acc championships as his 11th-place finish in the three-meter prelims would be his personal and the team’s high wa­ter mark on the weekend. 

Finishing one slot above coumos on saturday was irish junior Ted wagner, who claimed 20th place in the platform event with 263.90 points. wagner’s acc championships also featured a 24th-place finish in the three-meter dive and 22nd place in the one-meter board competition. 
Juniors michael Kreft and nick nemetz also represented the irish in the conference event. Kreft, who was last year’s most valuable diver in the 2013 big east championships, was the top irish finisher in Friday’s one-meter event with 334.55 points in the 13th position. he also earned 22nd place in the platform on saturday with 252.60 points and 15th with 331.10. nemetz’s top finish came in the one-meter dive, where he claimed 17th place with a score of 325.20. 
notre dame’s conference standing remained relatively stable throughout the weekend. after starting in seventh place on Thursday, the irish advanced to the sixth-place slot Friday be­fore returning to seventh place after saturday’s platform events. with 205 points, virginia Tech heads into next weekend’s swim­ming competition firmly in first place. Florida state is currently in second place with 169 points and miami sits in third with 156 points. 
next weekend the swim team will travel to greensboro, n.c., for the swimming champion­ships. The points earned over the weekend at the diving champi­onships will remain in place as each school’s swim team will ef­fectively continue the meet next weekend. on march 1, after the conclusion of the swim section, the acc will crown its 2013-2014 swim and dive champion. 

MEN’S TENNIS | ohio sTaTe 4, nd 2; nd 4, ball sTaTe 0 
nd splits home matches 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame jumped out to an early lead by winning the doubles point over no. 1 ohio state on saturday afternoon before the top-ranked buckeyes battled back to hand the irish their first home loss of the spring campaign. in its second match on the day, notre dame cruised past ball state, 4-0, without dropping a point. 
The grueling 4-2 loss marked the second time in eight days the irish nearly upset the top-ranked team in the country. notre dame fell to then-no.1 virginia, 4-2, on Feb. 14. 
“ohio state deserves all the credit,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “our guys were ready and we backed them into a corner early by winning doubles, but their play­ers and coaches did not cave. They proved why they are a great team.” 
The irish doubles duos of se­nior ryan bandy and sophomore eric schnurrenberger as well as senior billy pecor and freshman Josh hagar propelled the irish to an early 1-0 lead heading into singles play. The third doubles pair of senior greg andrews and 

FOR RENT 
Fully furnished rental. Please call 574-360-6910 or email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to campus. Walk to 

sophomore alex lawson dropped its match to the no. 2 doubles team in the country of senior peter Kobelt and redshirt junior Kevin metka representing the buckeyes. 
notre dame continued its win­ning ways in its first singles match as bandy claimed a quick pair of 6-3 victories, giving his team a 2-0 lead. bandy’s victory would be notre dame’s last as ohio state claimed the next four sin­gles victories to win the day. irish sophomore Quentin monoghan, andrews, schnurrenberger and freshman eddy covalschi dropped their respective matches, two of which occurred in tiebreak­ers. hagar’s match in the final sin­gles spot went unfinished as the buckeyes had already clinched victory. 
“our guys wanted it big time,” sachire said. “almost too much. we made a lot of uncharacteristic errors down the stretch that ulti­mately cost us the win. To be an elite team, you have to be able to trust yourself in those situations. 
The irish did not allow the missed opportunity of knocking off a top-ranked team affect their later performance against ball state (4-3). lawson, monaghan, andrews, hagar and junior wyatt mccoy all took home singles vic­tories for the irish. 
“our approach is the same whether we are playing the top-ranked team or an unranked team,” sachire said. “one thing we emphasize as a program is that the process is the same whether we play ohio state or ball state. you have to bring energy an con­sistency to win any match.” 
after narrowly falling to defending national champion virginia (6-1, 1-0) last weekend at the iTa national indoors, the irish hoped that a home victory in front of nearly 500 fans and covered by espn would serve as a benchmark for the program. 
“we put ourselves in a position these last two weeks to beat two elite programs,” sachire said. “For us to make that jump as a team we need to take advantage of those opportunities. one thing we try and emphasize as a program is consistency.” 
again at its home eck Tennis pavilion, notre dame is back in ac­tion Friday against virginia Tech. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
everything. email nd-house@sbcglobal. 4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. net for additional info and photos. 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/ 2014/15 school year. 11 month mo and $325/mo. New tile, lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/mo. carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbc­global.net No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 


BASEBALL | irish baseball classic 

Notre Dame wins two at Irish Baseball Classic 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish won games against gonzaga and incarnate word in san antonio on Friday and saturday, but on sunday they con­cluded the irish baseball classic the same way they opened it on Thursday: with a one-run loss to santa clara. 
“overall i thought our level of play was much improved over Florida atlantic,” irish coach mik aoki said, referring to the team that took two of three from notre dame the previous weekend. “we had couple of tough losses against santa clara, but overall we played well.” 
after a 2-1 loss to santa clara (5-4) on Thursday, the irish (3­
4) bounced back with a 3-2 win against gonzaga (2-6) on Friday. irish junior pitcher and Kansas 


paid adverTisemenT 


and sixth innings before tack­ing on three insurance runs in the seventh. The cardinals com­mitted four errors in the game. in the sixth, junior designated hitter blaise lezynski got on base via throwing error, advanced to sec­ond on a wild pitch and later scored from third on another throwing error. youngdahl, sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsulis and biggio all had multi-hit games. biggio has reached base in all seven games played so far, and has recorded a hit in six. 
“cavan was a pretty high-pro­file recruit,” aoki said. “To see him playing the way that he has doesn’t really come as a surprise. i think how under-control he is and the way in which he plays … the world just kind of slows down for him. and i think that is really unusual for a freshman. no matter how highly-touted you are, there’s a time when the game starts to move quickly in your mind, and he’s never looked like he’s coming out of his approach in this league. defensively, i think he plays very steadily. he’s just really good, and certainly it’s great to see.” 
but after two days of promising play, the irish again fell to santa clara on sunday afternoon, 8-7. 
The irish took a three-run lead in the first and added another in the top of the second, but in the bottom of the inning the broncos closed the deficit with four runs of their own. both teams added a run in the fourth inning, and santa clara took a one-run lead in the fifth. when the irish tied it up in the sixth, the broncos responded by adding two more of their own. The irish added a final run in the seventh but could not pull even. Kutsulis had four hits, three of them doubles, and richardson went 3-for-5, while freshman third baseman Kyle Fiala scored twice. notre dame used six pitchers for eight innings of work. 
“Today was a little bit of a back­and-forth affair,” aoki said. “it was a good college baseball game to be a part of.” 
The irish will return south for the usa baseball-irish classic in cary n.c., next weekend. They will face ucla in the first of four games at the usa baseball complex be­ginning at 6:30 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
state transfer robert youngdahl took the mound for his first start as a member of the irish, and though he struggled to find the strike zone, at times he was aided by his defense, who turned three double plays in the first four innings. it was a welcome sight after the team accumulated 10 errors during their three-game series against Florida atlantic. 
“i think the way we played in games two and three against Florida atlantic were really an ab­erration,” aoki said. “To kick the ball around the way that we did last weekend was out of the norm. it wasn’t who we are. we got back to playing much more like who we actually are. i think we’re a pretty solid defensive club, and i think we played that way this week­end. we didn’t reinvent the wheel, we just got back to laying to our capabilities.” 
youngdahl exited the game in the sixth inning without giv­ing up any runs and stranded 11 bulldogs runners. The irish put their first run on the board in the second inning when sophomore center fielder Kyle richardson and senior catcher Forrest Johnson hit consecutive doubles. notre dame manufactured two more in the eighth, scoring freshman second baseman cavan biggio on a bloop single from richardson and youngdahl on an error that allowed Johnson to reach base. Though sophomore pitcher michael hearne and junior pitcher cristian Torres each allowed a run in the top of the ninth, the irish es­caped with the win. 

on saturday, irish senior pitcher incarnate word (2-5). sean Fitzgerald allowed two runs notre dame scored three runs on four hits in seven and two-in the first inning as incarnate thirds innings of work, setting word committed two errors, and the irish up for an 8-2 win over the irish added runs in the fifth 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S LACROSSE | penn sTaTe 8, nd 7 
Notre Dame falls to Penn State in top-15 matchup  
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
Fueled by senior attackman shane sturgis’ five goals, no. 12 penn state held on to beat no. 4 notre dame, 8-7, on saturday at arlotta stadium, as the nittany lions earned their 13th consecutive road victory. 
notre dame (1-1) fell be­hind 7-3 before its comeback attempt fell short. The irish, who never led in the game, were paced by sophomore at­tackman matt Kavanagh who had three goals and two as­sists. Kavanagh, however, turned the ball over with less than a minute left and with the irish on the man-up. 
“we knew they were going to pressure him because he was the critical guy on the play be­fore, but matt just didn’t han­dle the pressure,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. 
penn state (2-1) dominated time of possession early in the game, jumping out to a 2-0 lead with goals from senior midfielder Tom lacrosse and sturgis. 
notre dame was able to an­swer with senior attackman ryan mix netting his first goal of the season, cutting the defi­cit in half. The irish, however, were rarely able to put consis­tent pressure on penn state’s conor doyle and senior at-all-american goalie, senior tackman westy hopkins. austin Kaut. despite seven after sturgis’ fifth and fi­goals on 29 shots, corrigan nal goal at the 5:06 mark of said he was not pleased with the third quarter, things qui­the way his offense performed. eted down for both sides as 
“if you take poor shots on each squad’s goalie played an excellent goalie, that’s go-well down the stretch. The ing to be the result,” corrigan final tally of the game was said. “give him a lot of credit, Kavanagh’s, cutting penn but i don’t think we tested him state’s lead to 8-7 with 7:25 to the way we’re capable of.” go. 
The irish and nittany lions This all led to the final se­traded goals in the second quence, where Kavanagh sent quarter, with penn state at-an errant pass out of bounds. tackman TJ sanders’ goal The irish were never able to sandwiched around strikes by regain possession. notre dame senior attackman “we didn’t play well,” John scioscia and Kavanagh. corrigan said. “we didn’t han-The nittany lions were able dle the ball well. we gave the to open things up before half-ball away on clears. “ time thanks to sturgis, who although a disheartening scored two goals in a span of home loss for the irish, penn 40 seconds to give penn state state was able to grab a key a 5-3 at the break. resume-building win. 
This was the beginning of a “There are so many teams 4-0 run for the nittany lions that can put themselves in po­that saw sturgis and sanders sition to play at the end of the both add to their goal totals. year and these kinds of games 
“you gotta be aware of are, hopefully, the ones that [sturgis] both with or without are looked upon in may as an the ball,” penn state coach Jeff opportunity to keep playing,” Tambroni said. “he seemed to Tambroni said. have tremendous poise and notre dame, meanwhile, confidence coming down the will have to refocus its efforts stretch.” as its next six opponents are 
The irish finished the game ranked. with a run of their own, scor-The irish travel to chapel ing four of the games’ last five hill, n.c., to play no. 3 north goals. This included three carolina on saturday. goals in less than two minutes, with Kavanagh netting one Contact Brian Plamondon at along with junior attackman bplamond@nd.edu 







ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 8, sTony brooK 7 

Irish withstand late push in home victory 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
The no. 15 irish rebounded from their first loss last week with an 8-7 victory over no. 12 stony brook at the loftus 
sports  center  on  saturday  
night.  
The  matchup  came  down  

to the last two minutes after stony brook (2-1) reeled off three straight goals to cut its deficit to 8-7. but seawolves se­nior attacker alyssa cardillo’s tally with 1:41 remaining in the second half was as close as stony brook would get down the stretch. 
Freshman attacker cortney Fortunato controlled the ensu­ing draw to seal the win for the irish (2-1). 
“we just needed to keep 


paid adverTisemenT 


entered halftime with a 6-2 lead. Fortunato opened up the scoring with two consecu­tive goals in the first seven minutes. sophomore attacker rachel sexton, junior midfield­er caitlin gargan and sopho­more midfielder stephanie Toy also scored before Fortunato rounded out the half with her third goal of the game. 
sexton extended notre dame’s lead 45 seconds into the second half when Fortunato stole the ball in the seawolves’ defensive zone and passed it off to sexton, who rifled the ball past caridi. 
The half also featured a cru­cial save with five minutes left in the game by irish junior goal­ie allie murray. stony brook freshman midfielder dorrien van dyke rushed murray in a one-on-one situation, and murray came up with the save to prevent the seawolves from closing in on notre dame’s two-goal lead. van dyke led the seawolves with three goals. 
halfpenny said the team’s performance during the gritty last few minutes of the game showed the players’ growth and strength. 
“i saw some of the younger kids grow up,” halfpenny said. “i saw how they would handle adversity and how they would respond to the game plan and be flexible.” 
The irish will take on no. 1 north carolina on Thursday in their first road game of the season. The game will be tele­vised on espn3, which creates its own challenges for the irish, halfpenny said. 
halfpenny said saturday’s game, which had five timeouts, helped prepare notre dame for the stoppages that accompany a televised game. 
“i think we’re prepped now for the espn3 game down in north carolina, with all of the stops that we will see,” halfpenny said. 
The irish and the Tar heels will face off Thursday at 7 p.m. in chapel hill, n.c. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
possession and make sure that we secured the ball and the win,” Fortunato said. “we didn’t turn it over until [there were] a couple seconds left, and then that wasn’t enough time for them to get down there.” 
Fortunato scored her fourth goal of the evening nearly 10 minutes into the second half to lift notre dame to an 8-4 lead. The seawolves’ defense held off the irish attack for the rest of the half, with help from senior goalie Frankie caridi. caridi earned a shutout in the seawolves’ previous matchup against monmouth and held a 
0.51 goals-against average en­tering saturday’s game. 
irish coach christine halfpenny said stony brook plays a unique style of de­fense the irish have never encountered. saturday’s tilt was the first meeting between the irish and the seawolves. 
“Their 2-3-2 zone was totally different than what anybody’s doing,” halfpenny said. “i think it’s a huge key to their success so we had to prepare for that a couple of days before. … not only did [our offense] prepare for it, but to watch their poise and their composure in it, all of the credit goes to them.” 
halfpenny also said notre dame’s offensive scout team was crucial in preparing for the seawolves’ offense. 

“our scout offense got us so ready for what [junior mid­fielder michelle rubino] was going to do and how we should shut her down and what their crease game was going to do,” The irish led the seawolves halfpenny said. the entire game and 


M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
who contributed four points, combined to shoot 10-for-31. as a whole, the irish made 21 of their 54 field-goal tries (38.9 percent) and were just 2-for­7 from the free-throw line. virginia (22-5, 14-1), mean­while, hit 28 of its 44 shots (63.6 percent). cavaliers senior for­ward akil mitchell and redshirt sophomore anthony gill led the cavaliers with 15 points apiece. mitchell hit all seven of his field-goal attempts while gill shot 5-for-6 in the game. 
“virginia might be the best team right now talent-wise,” brey said. “They are very physi­cal. They are really good at guarding you and they dictate the tempo of the game. i think they are a really confident group. Their team knows who they are on both ends of the court.” 
after jumping out to an early 7-5 lead to start the game, notre dame endured a scoreless streak that spanned more than six minutes and ended with a steve vasturia 3-pointer with 
10:40 remaining in the opening period. virginia outscored the visitors 14-0 during the stretch to open up a 19-7 advantage. 
notre dame found its way back into the contest, though. down 11 with less than five minutes to play, the irish hit three 3-pointers while finishing the half on a 15-4 run to enter the break even with virginia at 30-30. connaughton led the visitors with eight points in the period, and all nine players who entered the game for the irish had at least one field goal. 
The irish grabbed an early lead in the second half and en­tered the game’s final 11 min­utes tied with the cavaliers at 43-43. but from there, virginia outscored the visitors 27-6 to hand notre dame its worst loss of the season. virginia beat the irish 68-53 on Jan. 28, which now stands as notre dame’s second-largest defeat. 
“we can’t dwell on it much and we are who we are right now,” brey said. “we have two games at home and we will take it from there. i’m really proud of our three freshmen and i want to keep encouraging them. we missed a lot of stuff around the bucket that was very deflating. we missed a lot of shots. we tried to get our big guys to roll off of those shots, but it wasn’t working. 
“we have to get back and figure out a little more about who we are before we go to greensboro [for the acc tour­nament on march 12].” 
having concluded their three-game road swing, notre dame returns home for a two-game homestand starting with georgia Tech on wednesday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at     jmonardo@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
period when senior defenseman stephen Johns tallied his fifth goal of the season after carrying the puck into the zone and firing from the right faceoff circle. 
“i just throw the puck on the net and sometimes it goes in,” Johns said. “obviously we’ve kind of struggled in the second half scor­ing goals and i’m trying to do what i can to help.” 
The irish defensive unit was able to hold the Terriers to just 19 shots on goal Friday and summerhays stopped them all to pick up his division i-leading seventh shutout of the campaign. 
notre dame had to wait a little longer than expected to hit the ice for its penultimate regular-season game saturday as a combination of senior night festivities and a light malfunction delayed the game’s start by more than 30 minutes. 
unlike the lights, the irish start­ed brightly but could not get past Terriers sophomore goaltender sean maguire until the start third period when senior forward Jeff costello buried a one-timer for his 11th goal of the season to give notre dame a 1-0 lead all of 19 sec­onds into the final frame. 
“we’re having success now be­cause we’re keeping things simple and getting back to our game,” costello said. 
it was an early trip to the show­ers for Johns on senior night as he took a five-minute major and game misconduct for hitting from behind 7:15 into the third period. however, the irish penalty-kill unit buckled down and kept the Terriers from scoring a goal on what ultimately amounted to a 6:55-long power play. 
notre dame was then able to put the game on ice when wuthrich netted his second goal of the weekend, beating maguire top-shelf and banking the puck in off the crossbar with 2:31 to play. summerhays — who ran his shutout streak to more than 190 minutes saturday — could have racked up a 14th career shutout but instead yielded the goal to senior third-string goaltender Joe rogers for the final 51.1 seconds of senior night. 
“once we scored that second goal, i wanted to give [rogers] a chance so i just kind of skated over to [Jackson] and said i wanted Joe to finish the game,” summerhays said. 
notre dame is now 4-0-1 in its last five games and currently sits in line for the final ncaa tour­nament berth before the regular season wraps up saturday when it visits no. 1 boston college at 4 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
room before the game. … For a while there, we were so tense, in that stretch that we had, and we just came out, having fun, playing with each other and for each other.” 
however, the blue devils began to crawl back and made three field goals on three straight trips to pull within 11 and set a competitive tone that would last for the rest of the matchup. 
duke hit shots more consistently from that point on to keep its defi­cit to between 11 and 20 points as the half progressed. it rattled off six points in the final seven sec­onds before the break, includ­ing senior guard/forward richa Jackson’s near-half-court shot as time expired in the half to cut notre dame’s lead to 46-32. 
“it was incredibly frustrating because we were making so many mental mistakes, in particular the last play of the half — just mental breakdowns,” mcgraw said. “They got the momentum, and we prob­ably thought about the end of the half a little too much and carried it over into the second half.” 
The blue devils outscored the irish, 27-20, through the first 12:30 of the second frame behind duke junior center/forward elizabeth williams, who finished with a team-high 20 points. They whit­tled notre dame’s lead down to seven points at the 7:37 mark after freshman forward/center Kendall mccravey-cooper hit a jumper to bring the score to 66-59. 
after that, however, the irish took over as they did in the first half, hitting shots from the paint, the free-throw line and behind the arc. mcbride nailed a 3-point shot with 2:31 left in the game that brought lead back up to 18. 
“The 3 she hit … was the game-winner,” mcgraw said. 
sophomore guard Jewell loyd, who contributed 21 points, said mcbride’s efficiency sunday — the senior was 13-of-25 from the floor 
—
 came as no surprise to the rest 

of the team. “we see that all week in practice 

—
 she’s money,” loyd said. “every time she shoots it, that thing is go­ing in.” 


mcbride and irish senior for­ward natalie achonwa pulled down seven rebounds apiece. achonwa scored 15 points, 13 in the first half. 
The irish also held senior guard Tricia liston, whose 18.4 points per game led duke, to nine points on 3-for-8 shooting. 
“[we were] trying to hold her to single digits, and we were able to accomplish that,” mcgraw said. 
notre dame’s fifth win this sea­son over a top-10 opponent helped it clinch a regular-season confer­ence title for the third consecutive year. The irish won the big east titles in 2012 and 2013, and now in their first year in the acc have earned a double-bye in the confer­ence tournament, which begins march 5 in greensboro, n.c. 
“it’s good for us to have a tro­phy now, to know that we ac­complished something so far,” mcgraw said. “To come in as our first year in the league and to win it is really gratifying.” 
The irish next take on north carolina on Thursday in their fi­nal home game of the season at purcell pavilion, with tip-off slated for 7 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
W Swim 
conTinued From page 16 
freshman catherine mulquin, senior Kate ryan and junior courtney whyte took third and second place in the 200­yard medly relay and 400-yard medley relay, respectively. 
“we showed up in a big way in the medley relays and i think we took a lot of people off guard,” reaney said. “we defi­nitely want to work our way up those standings in the years to come.” 
with reaney leading the way, the irish had strong indi­vidual performances through­out the championships that helped them accumulate 802 points during the week to earn their sixth place finish out of 12 teams. virginia secured the top spot with 1,433 points, north carolina took second with 1,205 and Florida state rounded out the top three with 972. 
“i think we held our own pretty well,” reaney said. “i’d say it was a pretty solid start for our first year in the conference.” 
all 20 notre dame swim­mers either competed in finals or scored points as the irish continued to break individual record times. six school re­cords were set and six individ­ual swimmers paved their way to the ncaa championships. reaney, ryan, mulquin, whyte, junior suzanne bessire and freshman Katie miller automatically qualified for the ncaa. however, a few other irish swimmers wait until next week to hear the official word on their ncaa qualifications. 
Though the irish did not win the championship title, they remained consistent and com­petitive throughout the week. 
“our team’s biggest strength [this week] was definitely how close-knit we are,” reaney said. “we were genuinely in­vested in every single swim, and it is so incredibly helpful to know that your whole team is behind you supporting you when you step up to the blocks.” 
with that sense of team unity and support, the irish will return to the train­ing pool. reaney may be an american record holder, but even she cannot get too ahead of herself with the ncaa championships quickly approaching. 
“we just go right back into training [from here],” reaney said. “we have about three weeks until ncaas so we’ll go back to regular training for about half of that, and then rest again until the meet. 
“it’s such an exciting time of the season, and i can’t wait to get going.” 
The irish move onto the ncaa championships, which begin on march 20 in minneapolis, minn., at university aquatic center. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 

www.sudoku.org.uk 

2/25/13 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ve got more going for you than you realize. don’t look back when what’s ahead is so much more appealing. Jump into action quickly and deal with anything that has been dragging you down so you can achieve new goals and improve your future. don’t limit what you can do when all that’s required is some initiative on your part. your numbers are 2, 14, 18, 25, 31, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Find solutions, but don’t implement your plans just yet. bide your time and only use the alternative you have come up with if necessary. Keeping the peace will enable you to manipulate your position strategically when the time is right. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): being accommodating will lead to further requests. don’t let anyone take advantage of you. compliments are nice, but make sure you are being reimbursed properly for the contributions you make. Focus on personal improvement, not on helping others. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): intellect mixed with enthusiasm will bring you closer to your long-term goals. someone from your past might be sending you mixed signals. don’t get sucked in to an uncertain situation. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): look for the new and exciting. Try something different and visit people and places that offer mental stimulation and the chance to grow spiritually, emotionally and intellectually. include someone you love in your journey and it will improve your relationship. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a change will do you good. a different point of view or way of doing things will motivate you to make changes at home or within your social group. make a subtle change to your appearance and you’ll boost your confidence. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get your house in order. expect someone to complain if you haven’t lived up to a promise that you made. plan to do something special that will help smooth things over. adding to your entertainment at home will win points. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): use incentives to get others to pitch in. emotional manipulation and shouting will lead to a bigger problem and possible isolation. use brains over brawn and you will find a way to get things done and have time for pleasure. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): what you do for others will pay off. consider ways to brighten your home or turn it into a gathering place for innovative people. make plans to spend time with the ones you love or do whatever you can to spice up your life. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll give the wrong impression if you let your emotions take over. don’t exaggerate about what you have or can contribute. you will be held accountable and must proceed with caution when asked to make a commitment. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): observe what everyone else does or says. gather information, but refrain from letting anyone know where you stand. There will be far too many variables and changes that can lead to a tight spot if you are too quick to divulge your position. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): reevaluate what you have to offer and you’ll find an innovative way to generate more cash. work on what you enjoy doing most. don’t be afraid to do things differently. positive change is within your reach. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a change of attitude is likely to develop due to a situation that affects your reputation or position. damage control can be helpful, but it must be done with precision, truth and conviction. a partnership can cost you if you are gullible or too accommodating. 


Birthday Baby: you are bold, courageous and innovative. you are free-spirited and engaging. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GODDE  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
SNKKU  

VEIVER FRAMIF  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 



” 
A: “ 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BLUNT YIELD IGUANA EXHALESaturday’s 
Answer: His ability to say “adios” and “au revoir” madehim this — “BYE”-LINGUAL 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 81, duKe 70 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | virginia 70, nd 49 
notre dame clinches acc 

Late Cavaliers 
regular-season title 

run dooms ND 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
in a conference stacked with talent from top to bottom, Kayla mcbride earned her coach’s dis­tinction as the best player in the acc with a dominant perfor­mance sunday. 
The senior guard scored a ca-reer-high 31 points to lead no. 2 notre dame to an 81-70 win over no. 7 duke and the outright acc regular-season title. 
“i thought Kayla mcbride was just outstanding again today,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “she’s had a phenomenal year, but [had] 31 points [today]. she was just amazing — really unstoppable.” 
The entire irish team looked unstoppable to open the game, firing from all spots on the floor to begin with a 20-2 run off five layups, three jumpers and three free throws in front of a sold-out 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
what was for most of the night a gritty performance from the irish turned into a debacle in the final minutes and the most recent chapter in what has been a disappointing season for notre dame. 
Tied with the irish with just more than 11 minutes to play, host virginia embarked on a 25-point run to close out a dominant 70-49 victory and secure its spot atop the acc on saturday at the John paul Jones arena. 

“That is an example of how fragile a game can be,” irish purcell pavilion. just two points through the next 
coach mike brey told reporters notre dame (27-0, 14-0 acc) four minutes. 
afterward. “For 30 minutes, i re-was equally effective on the other “we had a lot of energy,” mcbride 
ally liked what we were doing. side of the court, holding duke (24-said. “you could feel it in the locker 
virginia is really good. They are 4, 11-3 acc) scoreless in the game’s 
really, really good. i think they first four minutes and limiting it to see w bball PAGE 14 
are the best team in the league and they put it on us twice. … The whole team is so explosive.” 

notre dame (14-14, 5-10 acc) went scoreless from the 11:25 mark of the second half to 2:32 remaining, when freshman guard demetrius Jackson con­verted a tough finish at the bas­ket. The irish missed 10 straight field-goal attempts and failed to convert the front end of a pair of one-and-one opportunities during the stretch. 
“it was tough to match up against them,” irish sophomore forward Zach auguste said. “we didn’t take care of our business like men.” 
irish junior forward pat connaughton led the irish with 11 points and senior center garrick sherman scored eight. but connaughton, sherman and senior guard eric atkins, 
see m bball PAGE 14 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING | acc championships 
Reaney sets American record 
By KIT LOUGHRAN  By ALEX CARSON  
sports writer rew arding feeling i’ve ever erienced.”  sports writer  
expThe irish made quite the r eaney not only set a nation- it was a weekend full of superla­ 
splash — and some signifi­al r ecord this weekend, but  tives at compton Family ice arena  
cant history — with a 6th­she  also earned distinction  as no. 15 notre dame defeated  
place finish at their first acc as t he most valuable Female  boston university 2-0, on consecu­ 
championships appearance swi mmer of the event. reaney  tive nights to earn its first sweep as  
in greensboro, n.c. set  four additional school re- a member of hockey east.  
virginia captured its sev­cord s this week in the 100-yard  The irish (19-12-2, 8-9-2 hockey  
enth-straight acc title, but brea ststroke (58.46), 200-yard  east) have now recorded three  
irish junior emma reaney indi vidual medley (1:54.92),  straight shutouts (dating back to a  
stood out from the pack and 200 -yard medley relay (1:37.61)  3-0 victory at providence on Feb.  
made national news by set-and  400-yard medley relay  15) for the first time in program  
ting the american record in (3:3 3.93). her 200-yard breast- history and on Friday, senior goal- 
the 200-yard breaststroke stroke, 100-yard  breaststroke  tender steven summerhays set the  
saturday night with her first-and  200-yard individual med- program record with his 13th ca- 
place finish. she swam an the ley  times set not only school  reer shutout.  
event in 2:04.34 to break Texas reco rds, but also set acc, acc  “[setting the program record] is  
a&m senior and 2012 olympic mee t and acc championships  crazy,” summerhays said. “i think i  
gold medalist breeja larson’s record times.  had two shutouts in juniors. i think  
record by .14 seconds.r eaney’s times in the 100­ it’s more of a team defensive stat  
 “it’s all pretty surreal right yard  breastroke and the 200­ but it’s nice to get zeroes.”  
now,” reaney said. “i can yard  individual medley earned  The weekend marked the first  
barely finish basic human her  two more first-place finish- time the Terriers (8-20-4, 3-12-3)  
functions right now, let alone es to  go along with the result in  had been shutout in consecutive  
comprehend what happened the  200-yard breaststroke. she  games since shutout losses to yale  
this weekend, but i honestly and  her relay team of  and princeton the week after the  
couldn’t be happier.  attacks on pearl harbor in 1941.  
“To have all of my hard work  see w swim PAGE 14  notre dame got off to a quick  

pay off like this is the most 

HOCKEY | nd 2, bosTon universiTy 0; nd 2, bosTon universiTy 0 
irish sweep Terriers to close out home season 

start Friday night when junior winger austin wuthrich tallied his fifth goal of the season just be­fore the midway point of the first period. 
“[wuthrich] has been play­ing pretty good over the last few weeks,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “he’s been shifted around from line to line … but [the fourth line] was really important to our game.” 
The irish then doubled their lead just 19 seconds into the second 
see hocKey PAGE 14 


Hockey vs. Boston University  W 2-0  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Penn State  L 8-7  Men’s Swimming — ACC Championships  Wed.-Sat.  
Baseball vs. Gonzaga  W 3-2  Women’s Lacrosse vs. Stony Brook  W 8-7  Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia Tech  Wed., 7 p.m.  
Softball vs. UC Davis  W 12-11  Men’s Tennis vs. Ball State  W 4-0  Women’s Basketball vs. North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  
Women’s Tennis vs. Georgia Tech  L 4-3  Women’s Basketball vs. Duke  W 81-70  Women’s Lacrosse vs. North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  
Men’s Basketball vs. Virginia  L 70-49  Baseball vs. Santa Clara  L 8-7  Baseball vs. UCLA  Fri., 6:30 p.m.  




