THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVINg NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARy’S 



University announces expansion project 
Notre Dame Stadium to incorporate 750,000 square feet of academic, recreational additions 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor 
The university revealed 
The university is hoping to be-plans Wednesday for its larg­
gin massive construction on Notre est construction project yet: 
Dame Stadium after the conclu­a $400 million expansion of 
sion of the 2014 football season, Notre Dame Stadium, titled the 
university President Fr. John Campus Crossroads Project. 
Jenkins said in an interview with The Notre Dame board of 
The Observer. Trustees has endorsed the 
While gaining the board’s en-university moving forward 
dorsement is a big step forward for with the project, Notre Dame 
the university, Jenkins said Notre spokesperson Dennis brown 
Dame would still need to raise the said. The 33-month project will 
funds for the project. Notre Dame’s add three eight-story buildings, 
policy to have 100 percent of the totaling 750,000 square feet on 
funding promised and 50 per-the east, west and south sides 
cent in hand before construction of the Stadium, said university 
begins. President Fr. John Jenkins. The 
“We need to find benefactors construction will also add more 
who will support this project be-than 3,000 open-air club seats 
cause we won’t go ahead unless the to the existing structure, he 
funding is in place,” Jenkins said. said. 
“So, it’s contingent on that. We’re Pending sufficient funding, 
optimistic about getting that done. the project could begin as early 
… but until we get that, we can’t say as after the 2014 football season, Photo courtesy of the University of Notre Dame definitely, we’re doing it.” 
This model of the expansion project shows the three new structures to be built on the west, south and east see PROJECT PAGE 5 sides of Notre Dame Stadium. The 33-month project could begin as early as after the 2014 football stadium. see CROSSROADS PAGE 5 



Incoming Editor-in-Chief names supporting staff 
Hartnett will serve as major part of my Notre Dame 
Observer Staff Report 

Managing Editor, the No. experience, and I want to give 
brian Hartnett, Isaac Lorton, 2 spot at the paper, while back to all those who help Kevin Song and Samantha Lorton, Song and Zuba will make the paper a daily real-Zuba have been hired to help serve as Assistant Managing ity by helping to steer it to an oversee The Observer’s edito-Editors. They begin their new even more promising future,” 
roles March 17. 


Physics professor explains theory’s shortcomings 
gravity, Aidala said. Her research 
By HENRY GENS 

News Writer focuses on understanding the visible matter in the universe in It may be surprising to some to terms of the fundamental quarks 



Kevin Song Samantha Zuba 
Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor 
Isaac Lorton Brian Hartnett 
Assistant Managing Editor Managing Editor 
As Managing Editor, 
Hartnett will be responsible 
for assisting Jakubowski in su­
pervising The Observer’s edi­
torial departments. A junior 
majoring in marketing with a 
minor in Journalism, Ethics hear a widely-advanced theory and gluons of QCD, she said. 

at the forefront of fundamen-“Studying nucleon structure 
tal physics described as lacking gives us one way of pushing for-
quantitative data, but this is ex-ward our understanding of quan­
actly the state quantum chromo-tum chromodynamics,” Aidala 
dynamics (QCD) is in today. said. “What I’m talking about is 
To address and expound upon color confinement — the fact that 
and Democracy, Hartnett is 

the current nature of research the colored quarks and gluons of 
a resident of Carroll Hall cur­
rently studying abroad in 
London. 
The Clark, N.J., native served 
as The Observer’s interhall 
editor in Fall 2012 and covered 
Notre Dame women’s bas­
ketball on its run to the Final in the field, assistant professor quantum chromodynamics can 

of physics at the university of never be observed together in iso-
Michigan Christine Aidala gave lation — and asymptotic freedom, 
a talk Wednesday titled, “From the idea that even though these 
Quarks and gluons to the World quarks and gluons are confined 
Around us: Advancing Quantum in bound states, if you probe them 
Chromodynamics by Probing at high enough energies they be-
Nucleon Structure.” have as nearly free particles.” 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 CROSSROADS IMPACT ON ATHLETICS PAGE 16 
Four in 2013. He also served as 

QCD, formulated in the 1970s, Aidala said the importance of 
rial operations in 2014-15, in-a beat writer for Notre Dame Hartnett said. 
is the theory of the strong force, understanding these processes in 
coming Editor-in-Chief Ann women’s soccer and women’s Lorton is a junior majoring 
one of the three fundamental current physics research is 
Marie Jakubowski announced lacrosse, among other sports. 
forces in the universe; the other 

Wednesday. “The Observer has been a see EDITORS PAGE 5 
two are the electroweak force and see PHySICS PAGE 3 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Maddie Daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who is your favorite superhero? 

Ben Rosso 
freshman 
Dillon Hall 
“Hawkeye.” 
Carol Renneburg 
freshman 
Mcglinn Hall 
“gambit.” 
Maria Noel 
freshman Pasquerilla West Hall 
“green Arrow.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Claire Jaeger 
sophomore Walsh Hall 
“batman.” 
Monico Won 
sophomore Walsh Hall 
“Thor.” 
Stephanie Burton 
freshman 
Lewis Hall 
“Sleeping beauty. Or Spongebob.” 
BARBIE KAZANOWSKA| The Observer 


Professor Christine Aidala from the University of Michigan gave a physics colloquium Wednesday afternoon in Nieuwland Hall discussing quantum chromodynamics. This newly developed area of science studies interactions of quarks and gluons, which make up protons and neutrons in atoms. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori Roeck Sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Rebecca O’Neil greg Hadley Abi Hoverman Alex Wilcox 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Emily Hoffmann Kevin Noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Christian Unity Bach’s Lunch: Men’s Basketball Women’s Tennis ACMS Colloqium 
Emily Kruse Caroline Lang 

Prayer Service Noontime Concert Joyce Center Eck Tennis Pavilion Hayes-Healy Center Keenan-Stanford DeBartolo Performing 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 10 a.m.-12 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Chapel Arts Center Come see the Irish Free admission for the Bledar Konomi 
Corrections 

6 p.m.-7 p.m. 12:10 p.m.-1 p.m. take on Boston match against Indiana discusses Gaussian 
The Observer regards itself as With student music Call ahead to reserve a College. University. process extensions for a professional publication and 
and reflections. free ticket. large spatial datasets. 
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, 
ACE Spelling Bee Curling Clinic Oscar Nominated Film: Museum Hours “Vincent Who?” 
however, recognize that we will make 
ACE Building Compton Family Ice Documentary Shorts DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arena Browning Cinema Arts Center Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Compete for your 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

dorm and win prizes. Learn the basics for $5. Preview six films. Jem Cohen’s 2012 film. Talk with director. 


Circle K serves community beyond 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Circle K chapter participates in weekly commu­nity service projects that serve the South bend community, from tutoring and providing meals at the South bend Center for the Homeless, to working with the St. Vincent de Paul Society and hosting a variety of events for The Sisters of the Holy Cross Covenant located on the Saint Mary’s Campus. 
Junior Jaclyn Voltz, president of Circle K, said the organiza­tion, sponsored by Kiwanis International, chooses volun­teer projects based on certain goals. 
“Circle K clubs focus on the three tenets of service, fellowship and leadership,” she said. 
Voltz said the goal of the club is to give back to the South bend community. 
“Service is the heart of Saint Mary’s College Circle K,” she said. “We are dedicated to pro­viding a variety of service oppor­tunities that reflect the interests of our members and the needs of the South bend community. 
“There are service projects each week varying in date, time, length and focus. Our projects span a wide range of interests including children, education, healthcare, elderly, hunger, housing, animal care and envi­ronmental issues.” 
Voltz said one of the club’s regular activities is assisting nuns at the Sisters of the Holy Cross Convent on campus. 

“Every Thursday from 6:00 
p.m. to 7:00 p.m., Circle K volun­teers go to the Sisters of the Holy Cross Convent to socialize with the nuns and provide activi­ties for the sisters – game show nights, craft projects, Notre Dame football tailgate parties, bingo and social nights,” she said. 
“The sisters truly appreciate the company and have so many incredible stories to share. Circle K members are also active at the Center for the Homeless prepar­ing and serving meals.” 
Kathleen Dunn, a first year student and Circle K member, said she enjoys volunteering with the club because the activi­ties are “creative.” 
“During the fall semester we hosted a milkshake and Pictionary night, as well as a re­verse Trick or Treat session for the sisters. … Volunteering with Circle K at the convent is a great way to connect with women who have lived adventurous and meaningful lives. They have a lot to teach us.” 
According to the Circle K web­site, upcoming events include the Hannah & Friends Karaoke Night and the Chicago March for babies, a walk that will take place on the lakefront trail in Chicago on April 26. 
For those interested in joining the club, the group meets weekly on Monday nights at 8:00 p.m. in the Le Mans Hall basement, ac­cording to the Circle K website. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 
ND SENATE 

group changes voting method 
Physics 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
overshadowed. 
“I’d like to highlight gluons as the mediator of the strong in­teraction, as they dominate the structure of the vacuum, and de­spite all of the press that the Higgs boson gets in terms of its role in generating mass, the gluons are actually responsible for more than 98 percent of the visible mass in the universe,” Aidala said. “If I went on a strict Higgs diet, my body would weigh less than three pounds.” 
Aidala said she bases the devel­opment of QCD along the lines of the development of quantum electrodynamics (QED) which describes the interaction of light and matter. 
“I’d like to view the proton as a QCD laboratory, analogous to the role that the Hydrogen atom played in the formulation of QED,” Aidala said. 
A proton is a type of composite particle that physicists call a had­ron. Quarks are elementary par­ticles that combine to make up hadrons. gluons are another type of elementary particle, and their role is to act as the exchange par­ticles for the strong force between quarks, she said. 
“Since the development of QED as our fundamental quantum field theory we’ve been able to move forward and do ab initio calculations of atomic structure, and even moving to more com­plex atoms than Hydrogen, and people are even looking at mol­ecules now,” she said. 
“However, because of the fact that we had our fundamental field theory [with QCD] in terms of these quarks and gluons that were confined to the bound state we never worked with an individ­ual quark and gluon in the lab the progress into ab initio calcula­tions of QCD bound states did not push forward the same way QED calculations did.” 
Although progress in the last several years has been rapid, Aidala said she knows there is still a long road ahead to resolving some of the more difficult issues in QCD theory. 
“We still have a ways to go from the quarks and gluons of quan­tum chromodynamics to full de­scriptions of protons in the nuclei in the world around us,” she said. “Work related to the intrinsic tranverse-momentum of quarks within the proton has opened up a whole new research area in spin-momemtum correlations in QCD. We’re now taking impor­tant steps into the exciting new era of quantitative QCD.” 
In the end, Aidala said she is glad to be involved in the investi­gation of such fundamental con­cerns in physics. 
“I like the fact that I’m study­ing something as fundamental as the strong force, but I also like the fact that I’m studying something as down-to-earth as the proton, the component of all the familiar, everyday matter that I’ve existed with my whole life,” Aidala said. 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens8@nd.edu 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News Writer 
At Wednesday’s senate meet­ing, the student group passed two resolutions proposing amendments to the student gov­ernment constitution. 
The first resolution, writ­ten and presented by Judicial Council president Michael Masi, proposes to amend the consti­tution so the Judicial Council president would be responsible for “verifying the validity of all votes cast in any election.” 
“I know that some people are nervous about giving all the power to one person,” Masi said. 
The goal, he said, is to make the process more efficient by having one person in charge of recording and verifying the votes. 
The amendment would also require that dorms comply with 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

the constitution by running hall elections through the Judicial Council, Masi said. In 2013, 23 out of the 29 residence halls did so, and Masi said he hopes to have all 29 on board for the 2014 election. 
With the amendment, all elec­tions this year would take place through google docs, which would be set up by an indepen­dent netID that only the Judicial Council president and his Student Activities Office (SAO) advisor would have access to. 

Department of Internal Affairs director Daniel Colston also produced and presented an amendment which came up for vote at Wednesday’s meeting. This amendment establishes a “48-hour rule” that will apply to future resolutions and agendas for the Senate. 
Colston said when resolutions have been circulated too soon to their votes, “ability to make an informed vote — based on what your constituents want — was impaired,” because the senators did not have time to think them over and present them at their individual hall councils. 
Earlier versions of the consti­tution had a “three-day rule” in place, but the new amendment calls for only 48 hours in order to give student body vice presi­dent Nancy Joyce as well as oth­er members of the cabinet time to put together the necessary documents. 
In the event of an emergency, the amendment stipulates that a resolution may be voted upon without prior notice if the mem­bers of student senate unani­mously agree that it should be voted upon, particularly in cases where the senate wishes to ex­press its appreciation, support of or congratulations to a group or person in a timely manner. 
The group also discussed sev­eral upcoming student govern­ment events. The student body debate between presidential and vice-presidential candi­dates will take place Monday in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. Information sessions for those interested in running for class council will be held Tuesday, Feb. 4, and elec­tions for student body president will take place Wednesday, Feb. 5. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Project 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
Jenkins said. 
“It’s the most ambitious building project in the history of the university,” Jenkins told The Observer. 
The west side of the Stadium will feature a new student cen­ter and the south will hold mu­sic department offices, library and practice spaces. The east side will include a digital media studio and the anthropology and psychology departments, Jenkins said. He said the ad­ministration logged 3,000 hours consulting faculty on their de­partments’ needs. 
“[The east side] will … help with the broadcast but also for classes with professors want to film a class or [if] students want to use it, too,” he said. “[The psychology department] does a lot of work with people com­ing from town, and they felt with their space now, they can’t have people come in very easily. Having the social sciences to­gether makes sense.” 

On the west side, the first few floors of the student cen­ter will provide space for stu­dent clubs and organizations, lounge space and eateries, Vice President of Student Affairs Erin Hoffmann Harding said. 
“To make this a really suc­cessful set of facilities … we’re really interested in getting stu­dent input as we get close to the next stage in terms of what types of spaces are exciting [and] are a need for students,” she said. “We’ve actually had some of our architect friends doing some informal interviews on campus … late last fall, but I think that will ramp up over the next few months.” 
The third and fourth levels of the student center will be a RecSports facility, while the fifth floor’s Career Center will serve both undergraduate and graduate students, Hoffmann Harding said. A 10,000 square-foot ballroom will also be avail­able for student dances when not being used for gameday en­tertainment purposes, she said. 
“So you can think not just of one hall’s dance, but potentially two, and it will have views back to the west towards campus, of the Dome, of the basilica, and I think [it will] create neat oppor­tunities for speakers and stu­dent programming,” she said. 
Hoffmann Harding said with the new student center, Notre Dame would no longer fall 100,000 square feet short of the traditional standard for student center space according to student population. She said LaFortune would also remain a staple of student life on campus. 
“LaFortune isn’t going away and we’ve actually worked real­ly carefully here to ensure that LaFortune can complement this new facility and … offer new spaces that we don’t have available in that part of campus today, but not cannibalize and threaten what we do believe is a really vibrant place for student life as well,” she said. 
Hoffmann Harding said she believed the location of the facility will serve off-campus seniors and graduate students who already park in the sta­dium lots. The new facility will also benefit from its close prox­imity to student foot traffic pat­terns during class hours, she said. 
“This new facility needs to bring students from a different time of their day and different types of activities,” she said. 
Jenkins said the university is committed to keeping the campus compact enough for students to walk easily from residences to academic and ex­tracurricular buildings. 
“you have to find a way to bring key buildings together,” he said. “And I think that’s im­portant for community. … So people don’t just get in cars and never see one another. We’re compact enough to walk and interact with one another.” 
The structure will also add an element of beauty to the area surrounding the Stadium, Jenkins said. 
“[The stadium] is a beautiful structure inside … but outside it’s just a wall, just a dark wall. [This project] will add buildings that will beautify [the stadium] and will bring people to that area so it’s not just an obstacle you have to walk around,” he said. 
“What I’m most excited about is the integration this brings to us,” Jenkins said. “If I look back at my predecessors here, it’s al­ways been a vision that’s driven this place. Even when Fr. Sorin had no money, he had a vision of the possibilities. … It’s a vision of uniting various parts of the university in a single structure.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
Editors 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
in the Program of Liberal Studies with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. Lorton is a Keenan Hall resident current­ly studying abroad in London. A native of Prescott Valley, Ariz., he serves as an assis­tant sports editor and covered men’s soccer’s road to win­ning the national champion­ship, as well as hockey and baseball. 
“I am extremely excited to help The Observer in any way I can with passion and dedi­cation,” Lorton said. 
Song is a junior majoring in finance and computer appli­cations and living off campus. Hailing from green brook, N.J., he currently serves as the Online Editor and Associate Photo Editor and led the proj­ect to launch the new website for The Observer. 
“There’s been a lot of push to improving the online pres­ence for newspapers world­wide, and I’m excited to be able to help The Observer en­hance the web experience,” Song said. 
Zuba is a junior major­ing in English with minors in german and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. The Wheeling, Ill., native lives in breen-Phillips Hall and sings in Notre Dame’s Women’s Liturgical Choir. Zuba has covered women’s basketball, men’s soccer and women’s tennis beats while also serv­ing as baraka bouts editor this fall. This summer, she will intern with the L.A. Times sports department. 
“I am really looking forward to working closely with our in­dividual staff members to cre­ate the best possible product for our readers,” Zuba said. 

Crossroads 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
Jenkins said about half of the funding would come from bene­factors and the rest would come from various sources, including revenue from football tickets. The project would not be funded by revenue from existing seating, a re­lease from the university said. 
The Notre Dame board of Trustees has endorsed a plan to build three buildings totaling 750,000 square feet that will sur­round the Stadium. The project, titled the “Campus Crossroads Project,” is expected to cost $400 million, Jenkins said. 
Student ticket prices would not be directly influenced due to the new construction, instead the new premium seating (3,000 to 4,000 additional club seats) would help fund the project, Jenkins said. 
According to Jenkins, the project is expected to take 33 months from start to finish but the Irish will still be playing all scheduled home games in the Stadium. Ideally, Jenkins said the university would make the decision to go ahead with the project in August and start building after Notre Dame’s home finale against Louisville in November. 
Commencement ceremonies, which are typically held in Notre Dame Stadium, may have to be moved elsewhere during the 33-month construction, possibly the Joyce Center, Jenkins said. 
“I don’t want to say because it’s not definite yet,” Jenkins said. “We’re going to play football there, but there may be a problem with graduation so we’ll have to gather people together and see what we need to do.” 
Jenkins said the university would need South bend’s approval but that he expects they won’t take exception to it. 
The university expects to em­ploy all local construction trades locally, spokesperson Paul browne 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

said. Notre Dame could also con­tract some Chicago-area compa­nies to help with construction. 
“The demand for skilled trades and crafts building will prob­ably exhaust the local area and beyond,” browne said. “but who the entities doing that, whether it’s Chicago or elsewhere, that hasn’t been decided yet.” 
Jenkins said Notre Dame would look first towards South bend for construction companies. 
“I know primarily we are going to look [in South bend], we want to give the opportunities for jobs to the local community,” Jenkins said. “I know we’ve worked with these companies before. My un­derstanding is this project will just tap out all of the available resourc­es, so I don’t know if we will need to go beyond that. We’re certainly go­ing to start here.” 
Vice President of Student Affairs Erin Hoffmann Harding said the companies 360, Slam and Workshop Architects have been some of the firms Notre Dame has worked with so far. 
Last May, Notre Dame commis­sioned a feasibility study to decide if additional buildings were need­ed around the Stadium. Jenkins said the university had a concept that evolved over time. 
“What we had to do is ask ‘What are our needs?’” Jenkins said. “What are our needs for buildings? We had a strategic plan and each of the buildings we’re envisioning were part of that plan. They were envisioned as these were the things we need. We don’t know where it’s going to be. We don’t know the design. These are the facilities we need. So our question is ‘Could our needs fit this structure?’” 
Jenkins said the original plan was to have buildings on all four sides of Notre Dame Stadium but only ones on the east, south and west sides are in the plans. He said Hesburgh Library and “Touchdown Jesus” could have been kept visible with a building there but there simply was not a need for one. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


THE ObSERVER | THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2014 | NDSMCObSERVER.COM 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What are your post-grad plans? 

Steph Wulz 
graphics Editor 

“What are your plans for after graduation?” may have been the single most answered question over this past winter break. Many of the times, I took the question with a smile and laughed it off, saying that I want to travel the world and then figure it all out after having lunch under the Eifel Tower or reconnect­ing with relatives in Austria. Other times I regurgitated all the various companies I knew things about to try to convince myself that one of them could soon become part of my new routine. And sometimes I answered with three words of raw honesty: I. Don’t. Know. 
There is a lot of fear in the un­known. I know personally, I like to have everything in line. Areas of ambiguity are always to be expected, but having enough of my life in check always made me feel at ease. However, when it comes to finding where you are going to be post-grad­uation, things can get unsettling. Especially here at Notre Dame. 
Just because I don’t have a job yet means that I’m the only one who is afraid of the unknown. I know for certain that my friends who signed their two or three year contracts are equally as unsure about what is in store for them in the upcoming months. We are all at a state of limbo because as much as we don’t want to think of it, mine and other seniors final months in the safety of the ND bubble are approaching. 
We need to take time to breathe and we need to keep asking the ques­tion. Without hearing the question, we might forget to think. What do I really want to do? What do I want to see? If I answer with my dream job, it would be to be a talk show host. Having a big dream always always keeps me in check with wanting to work in an environment where re­lationships with people and asking questions is always around. It allows me to know I want to be around fun people and fun things. 
As a designer, I look forward to whatever I have coming up. I do plan on traveling after graduation. I do plan on finding a design job in an exciting environment. And I do plan on continuing to ask myself what I plan to do. 
Simply asking the question keeps me looking for what I truly want. And communicating through my designs is what I plan on doing. Now, who wants to hire me? (Shameless plug.) 
Contact Steph Wulz at swulz@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Different people, same problem 
Amanda Pea 
The bubble 

São Paulo reminds me a lot of New york. It is the financial center of South America and the largest city in the southern hemi­sphere. There is great wealth here, and on the outskirts you’ll find deep poverty as well. The streets are crowded with cars, buses and taxis as joggers and dog walk­ers line the sidewalks. 
but there is something immensely dif­ferent about the brazilian culture. Here, relationships and personal connections are vital and genuinely sought out. People aren’t numbers; they’re family. It’s par­tially why a hug and kiss on the cheek are considered proper greetings and handshakes are offensive. Extending your hand out puts space between you and the other person, creating a divide that says, “keep your distance.” 
Last Saturday on the Aniversario de São Paulo, my friend Elizabeth and I decided to wander over to a nearby park to hang out and talk. Much to our surprise, the park was filled with vendors, exercise groups, children running and playing, music floating through the air and a myr­iad of places to relax and enjoy the scorch­ing brazilian sun. (Sorry for those of you freezing in South bend right now.) We laid out beneath the shady trees to catch the live samba music playing in the square. People of all ages gathered beneath the trees, in front of the stage and on the out­skirts of the vicinity to let samba, drink, smoke and life flow through their veins. The rapid beating of the bateria sent sam­ba rhythms high into the air and as they rained down over us at the park, people stood up to dance, clap and sing along. As I sipped on my cerveja and munched on coxinhas from the street vendor, Elizabeth and I compared our brazilian lives to our American ones. 
In the States, moments of relaxation and freedom are sparse and often planned. Day-to-day events consist of work, class, homework, exercise and quick eating. People rush through life. Instead of taking time to smell the roses, they have to buy rose-scented candles to fresh­en the stale air inside their workspaces. 
breaking my thoughts, a young man collecting cans from the grass sat down in front of Elizabeth and me to rest for a few moments and smoke what was left of a cigarette he found on the ground. He asked if one of us had a lighter, and Elizabeth handed him hers with a new cigarette from her pack. We chatted for a couple minutes, and then everything changed for me that day. 
As our conversation deepened, we learned his name was Jorge Eloy. When he tried spelling his name, he struggled to remember the letters — it became ap­parent that he had little-to-no schooling. He shared with us that he had been living on the streets in Cracolândia since he was a kid after his parents were murdered in the favela. Jorge is 22 years old and spends every day collecting cans to give him enough money to eat or drink a few times a week. 
“Sometimes, I go to bed without food. Other times, without drink. I’ve been on my own since I was 11, so this is more or less the only life I’ve ever known. but I know every inch of São Paulo,” he said. “yep, born and raised here. I know you both have probably never experienced this, but maybe one day when you both go back to the united States, you can write about me in your books and maybe some­day someone will care about my story.” 
After an hour of hanging out with our new friend Jorge in the park, he had to leave with another friend from the streets for a little bit and asked us to wait for him and not leave. We waited for an hour and he never came back. 
So, this article is an ode to Jorge Eloy 
— a young man who was robbed of his childhood and forced to live on the streets. 
It was really difficult to sit and just lis­ten to his painful story. It is much easier to focus on our own fast-paced lives back in the States that center on getting a degree to make money to buy a house and fill it up with nice things. And it is even easier for us to donate old clothes and money around Christmas time to help us feel like better people at the end of the day. 
We need a reality check. One that makes us uncomfortable and challenges us to reconsider what is truly important. Matthew 25:35-46 describes our respon­sibility to care for the very least among us, and while I could not offer Jorge a home or clothes, I am sharing his story in hopes that each of us can count our blessings and learn to share them with others. 
Amanda Pea is a junior and a sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“All that is gold does not glitter; not all those that wander are lost.” 
J. R. R. Tolkien British scholar and novelist 


‘Catholic Social Ignorance’ 
Bianca Almada 
This is Real Life 

A recent Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life national survey inquired about American knowledge of religion 
— particularly, individuals’ knowl­edge of their own religions. The survey included fairly basic questions about famous spiritual figures, fundamen­tals of belief and religious practices. 
Disappointingly, the average re­spondent answered only 50 percent of the 32 questions correctly, with the majority of people incorrectly answering questions pertaining to their own faiths. On average, Catholics scored lower than Jews, Protestants, Mormons and atheists. An over­whelming 45 percent of Catholics an­swered incorrectly when asked if their church said the Eucharist was a sym­bol or the actual body and blood of Christ, even though the miracle of the Eucharist is a fundamental Catholic belief. 
Catholicism, and religion in general, can be an excellent institution. I ad­mire those with a steadfast devotion to their faith, as I constantly work on improving my own spirituality and relationship with my Catholic religion. However, it is frustrating to encounter those who preach creeds with which they are unknowingly unfamiliar or who blindly accept a religion based on instruction or routine rather than on personal discovery. Worse, it is mad­dening to encounter those who try to pass off their own socio-political views as tenants of their religion. 
I find that one aspect of Catholicism with which Catholics are continually unfamiliar is that of Catholic Social Teaching. At my Catholic high school, an entire required religion course was devoted to this topic, so I was shocked to be greeted by a Notre Dame student body that is, generally speaking, igno­rant about each of its tenants and its implications. 
There is more to Catholic thought than abortion, gay marriage and premarital sex. Though the Catholic Church does offer steadfast positions on these issues, they are by no means the sole focus of all of Catholic ideol­ogy; and I would argue they are often not the most important issues with which the Church deals. However, these issues comprise the major, at times sole, socio-political focus of a huge number of Catholics and in turn influence the way they vote, the organizations they support and the way in which they present themselves. In doing so, what I argue are more important issues — poverty, racism, illiteracy — take on a less important, or at least less impassioned, role. Very often, these same Catholics resist po­litical measures such as welfare policy, universal health care or the rights of labor unions. 
The common misconception is that all Catholics are called to be politically conservative because of issues such as the ones I previously mentioned, but the truth of the mat­ter is that a vast amount of Catholic Social Teaching leans toward the left. For example, two of the seven key themes of Catholic Social Teaching are “Option for the Poor and Vulnerable” and “Dignity of Work and the Rights of Workers.” The official document states, “the economy must serve the people, not the other way around,” and official Church positions support labor unions, immigration reform and uni­versal health care (with the exception of contraceptives.) 
Pope Francis asserted, “A way has to be found to enable everyone to benefit from the fruits of the earth, and not simply to close the gap between the affluent and those who must be satis­fied with the crumbs falling from the table, but above all to satisfy the de­mands of justice, fairness and respect for every human being.” 
He has been accused of being a com­munist for expressing what people perceive to be extreme liberal views when it comes to the issues of poverty and government intervention, when he is merely bringing certain tenants of Catholic Social Teaching to the fore­front for the first time in a while. 
People should educate themselves about official Catholic Social Teaching before they make claims about what political implications it does or does not have. If people are attempting to follow these Catholic principles, then it may require a shift in their views. And if people respectfully disagree with the Catholic position on certain issues, that is also okay. Few Catholics agree with every single Catholic posi­tion, and everyone has a right to his or her own opinion. but people need to admit when they disagree with the Church in their positions and be okay with it, or at the very least, do not claim that their views are supported by the Church when they are not. 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and Journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Shake it up before it’s over 
When we came to Notre Dame freshman year, we were in a completely new environment, with lots of fears, hopes and dreams. Two of the ques­tions on the forefront of our minds were: “Where will I fit in here?” and “Who will my friends be?” No one really knew anyone unless you came from the same school. So what did we do? We signed up for too many clubs, and we went out of our comfort zones to meet people! And the friendships/ friend groups began to develop. 
Now that we do great things and have wonderful friends, we are com­fortable sticking with what we know. Change was scary enough freshman year, and as the semesters pass, we figure we are where we are suppose to be. And in many ways, we are. 
I do, however, wish we could gain back a bit of that friendly freshman mentality to try something we have never done before or say hi to that per­son in class we’ve never met — even though we’ve been at the same school for two-and-a-half years! 
Just today, I went and did Zumba with a wonderful group of people I recently met and it was a blast. I wasn’t too far along in my time at Notre Dame to change up the routine. In fact, the routine has changed quite a bit since I first stepped on campus freshman year! From studying theology as well as pre-medical studies while competing on the Notre Dame Track and Cross Country teams, to a theology major who for some reason decided to pick up Latin (it’s kind of hard...), the routine has changed up quite a bit. 
Our entire journey these four years and beyond is a time to grow, de­velop, meet and learn from many people and though it’s scary at times, to change and recognize that we are becoming more ourselves as we do. (Well, hopefully!) It’s never too late to go out of our comfort zones again and try something new, to discover something about ourselves and others and to meet some more amazing people at Notre Dame. 
Kat Stultz junior Welsh Family Hall Jan. 29 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE ObSERVER | THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2014 | NDSMCObSERVER.COM 

Daniel Barabasi 
Scene Writer 

Identity crises are nasty, but un­fortunately quite common occur­rences in the development of every individual. The good thing about being a person is when you’re hav­ing an identity crisis you can just lock yourself up for a bit, and come out with your head screwed back on. 
unfortunately for corporations, it’s a bit hard to get out of the spot­light, especially when they have to respond to a trend of failure. 
That’s where Nintendo stands this past week, after having re­leased reports of an 8.1% drop in revenue in the last three quarters of 2013. In response, Nintendo’s CEO Satoru Iwata has announced he will slash his own earnings by half for the next five months, with board members also seeing a 20 to 30 percent pay reduction. 
but I’m not here to pat Nintendo corporates on the back for doing the right thing when they’re losing coins, fast. The biggest problem the company faces as of now is find­ing out what they’re going to sell, because the consensus is the Wii u won’t be cutting it. 
During the buzz about Nintendo’s financial future, Asian business review publica­tion “Nikkei” published a report detailing how Nintendo plans to adapt “progressive” content to smartphones, thus tapping into what many have called “free” loads of money available in the mobile industry. 
Since then, Iwata has come out to decline the validity of such ru­mors, stating what “Nikkei” had produced was a compilation of offhand remarks he had put forth at past conferences. 
I’ll give you a moment to take a sigh of relief. 

The truth is, Nintendo does not belong on the iPhone, or even on a tablet. For any of you who have used an emulator to play Pokémon during class, you quickly realize that while it’s easy to battle electric mice, blasting rockets and execut­ing wall jumps get extremely com­plex with the not-so-multi-touch screen. 
Nintendo knows this as well as any other pot-throwing, fireball-hurling adventurer. If they wanted to hit the mobile depart­ment, they’d have to drop half the concepts they built their company on, or build a handheld attach­ment to complement the mobile phone. 

Thankfully, Nintendo also has seen this and realized neither works perfectly. Those consum­ers who’d buy an attachment for their iPhone to play games either already have a Nintendo gaming system like the Wii u, or already have some sort of DS incarnation. Furthermore, dropping the basis of Nintendo’s gaming style would be an even worse tactic because their best selling games are the franchises that have been around for decades. 
What Nintendo needs to do to conquer the heart containers of its lost audience is to go back to the titles that sent Peach into captivity in the first place. 
The Wii u needs its own in­stallment of “Mario Kart,” “Super Smash bros.,” an original Zelda, while also pushing original titles, similar to the “Wii Sports,” “Wii Play” and “Wii Sports Resort” that made the Wii so appealing. We’re finally getting the first two items on this wish list, but only after a whole two years of sales struggling more than generations of frus­trated gamers on the water temple level in “Ocarina of Time.” 
Also, it’s time to make the Wii u cheaper. A brand-new copy, with a game, costs $300 today, which is only $100 cheaper than the much more tech-savvy PS4. Nintendo, in my lifetime, has been the choice of the social and stingy kids, and that little of a difference looks like a great deal for “real” games.
 So, Satoru Iwata, if you’re out there, and listening here’s the sum­mary — make more Mario games. I’ll buy your darned console if I can see my favorite, pudgy little char­acters running around again. 
Oh, and make “Animal Crossing” even more cute and addicting than before. 
Thanks. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Darr 
Scene Writer 
If I had an owl for every zero-star review of Owl City on the internet, I could found an actual city of owls. Poor Adam young is one the least critically respected musicians in America. His whimsical lyrics, straight­forward production style and unrestrained pop-tendencies make him a consistent target for “all that is wrong with electronic music” declarations. Even worse, his innocent, bleep-bloop electronica follows in the footsteps of The Postal Service, a revered side project of Death Cab for Cutie frontman ben gibbard. Even though young’s music is thematically and structurally different than The Postal Service’s, the comparison is always made. In every comparison, The Postal Service is good. Owl City is evil. 
Stumbling upon a plethora of scathing reviews of Owl City’s latest album a couple months ago, I found myself listening to “The Midsummer Station” to see what all the ‘hype’ was about. I couldn’t really figure it out. It was catchy, it was sunny, it was hopeful and it did not sound like the negative 60-degree weather outside. Sure, the production held nothing new or interesting and some lyrics delved into Kraft-level cheesiness, but I didn’t mind. It was if my brain needed a break from the usual ‘artsy’ or ‘quality’ music I often subjected my­self to. Owl City was a breath of fresh, albeit sugary, air. 
upon doing more research, I found that “The Midsummer Station” was considered a disappointment by the Owl City fan base. Excited, I drove back deeper into the catalog, jumping straight into “All Things bright and beautiful” and “Ocean Eyes.” The albums took what I liked on “The Midsummer Station” and amplified them to the point where Owl City exceeded your average pop artist. The pro­duction was vivid, colorful and exciting. The melodies were more infectious and numerous. The lyrics were irresistibly optimistic and joy­ful. The Owl City catalog is the candy shop of the music world — everything shines so bright that it’s hard not to leap from treat to treat. 
yet upon rereading some of Owl City’s less favorable reviews, I realized that most criticisms still held up. Owl City’s lyrics are often overwhelmingly cheesy. The production, while clean and exciting, isn’t experimental or forward-thinking. And the songs are struc­tured like normal pop songs with verses, cho­ruses and bridges. 
but it was also clear to me that these criti­cisms were misguided. Owl City isn’t supposed to be artsy or groundbreaking — it’s supposed to be life-affirming and hopeful and sweet. The lyrics are silly in a sort of ridiculously magical way, sweeping a listener off into an alternate world where life is more straightfor­ward and focused on love, happiness and be­ing yourself. It’s about finding the brightness in everyday things and the power in the imag­ined. What could be healthier for a person to listen to? 
I can still remember the day I downloaded “Fireflies,” Owl City’s breakout single, in sev­enth grade. I would listen to it all the time, es­pecially before I fell asleep at night. The magic held me more powerfully then — Owl City wasn’t famous enough to draw the negative at­tention I’d soon encounter. That enchantment was severely damaged when the single be­came famous and Pitchfork, my favorite music website, ripped it to shreds. I abandoned it because the innocence and joy it held were ridiculed and made uncool. 
Thankfully, Adam young is a musician whose mission is to counter that negative force. No matter what is considered ‘valuable’ or ‘high-quality’ in the music scene, Owl City will be making music to inspire happiness and celebrate simple things in life. Owl City has a lot to offer that critics ignore, even scoff at. Sure, if you’re looking for the next great existential experience or the next milestone in music history, then Owl City is to be ignored or set aside. but if you’re just in search of a sunny day, a good time or just some hope in the storm, Owl City is the brightest star out there. As one of my great friends once said: “yeah, sunglasses make you look cool. but if you’re looking for the light, be a real man and take them off.” 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


THE ObSERVER | THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2014 | NDSMCObSERVER.COM 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: “About Time” 
When: 8 p.m. 
Where: DeBartolo 101 
How Much: $3 

Have I heard of it? Have you heard of it? Has anybody heard of it? No, probably not, but isn’t it about time you just trusted Sub thanks to the shockingly solid lineup of movies they’ve provided so far this school year? Scene, for one, has faith. It stars Domhnall gleeson and Rachel McAdams and involves time travel. 
FRIDAY 

What: Oscar Nominated Shorts When: 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $4 
The Oscar nominated short films stop by browning Cinema in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center this weekend on their nationwide tour leading up to the 2014 Academy Awards in March. On Friday night, the Animated Shorts will show at 7:30 and the Live Action Shorts will show at 9:30. If real life is more your thing, check out the Documentary Shorts on Saturday at 7 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

What: Intergalactic Nemesis When: 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $10 and $15 
Two years ago, the Intergalactic Nemesis crew rolled through Notre Dame and wowed the audience with “book 1: Target Earth,” and this year they bring us the second installment in the series, “book 2: Robot Rising.” If you haven’t seen the first show, you can catch it at 2 p.m. for $10 be­fore seeing the newest incarnation at 
7:30 p.m. for $15, but director Jason Neulander promises you don’t have to see the first to love the second. 
SUNDAY 

What: The Super Bowl, I guess When: 6:30 p.m., or whatever Where: New Jersey, as if How Much: Free, with cable 
If you don’t have anything better to do on Sunday or whatever I guess you could watch the Super bowl and try to pretend for an hour or two that sports isn’t the undercurrent of fascist senti­ment threatening to tear this world apart that it truly is. Whatever. 

Jimmy Kemper 
Scene Writer 

Recently, Warner brothers announced that their “batman vs. Superman” film would be delayed from summer 2015 to 2016, much to the chagrin of comic book fans everywhere. Overall, this is probably the best course of action for the film, because it not only allows the developers more time to fully realize their vision, but also because it removes the worries of having to com­pete with Marvel’s Avengers sequel, which was also set for a summer 2015 date. 
In recent years, Hollywood has released a plethora of superhero movies, and for the most part has been in­credibly successful. This trend arguably began in 2000 with 20th Century Fox’s first foray into the “X-Men” films. It was not until 2008 however that films of this genre became wildly profitable, when Warner brothers released “The Dark Knight” and broke $1 billion in worldwide revenue — the first time that any film in the genre had done so. Since then, the only superhero mov­ies to surpass this were 2012’s “The Avengers” and “The Dark Knight Rises” and 2013’s “Iron Man 3”. 
It looks like this trend is not going to slow down any time soon, though. This year alone, we’ll see a new Captain America movie, an “Amazing Spider-Man” se­quel, “guardians of the galaxy”, and the latest X-Men movie. Marvel Studios alone has plans for the previously mentioned Avengers sequel, an Ant-Man movie and three other unannounced films before the end of 2017. Columbia has two more “Amazing Spider-Man” sequels, Fox has another “X-Men” and an “X-Force” movie slated, and even Walt Disney Animation Studios, the team be­hind “Frozen,” is releasing a superhero themed film next year. The sheer number of films coming out right now is absolutely incredible, and it is honestly surprising that people are not sick of this genre yet and that the market is not totally saturated. 
Some of the studios seem to be avoiding that fate by investing in lesser known franchises in the hopes that they will spark new life into a genre that is slowly growing stale. The fact that Marvel’s “guardians of the galaxy” and “Ant-Man” are actually becoming realities is testament to this, although these are more risky finan­cially than well-known superheroes. 
Also notable is the very recent shift of focus from sto­rytelling toward visual presentation. Although last year’s “Iron Man 3” did have a coherent plot, it was lost in the wake of the final epic battle and numerous explosions. And “Man of Steel” almost spent more time focusing on the destruction of Metropolis than on any relevant character development. If this trend continues, people may soon get tired of seeing the same characters deal with potentially world-ending evil over and over again. 
Although this has happened, there is the strong pos­sibility that this new batman vs. Superman film has the potential to be a paradigm shift in the way that “The Dark Knight” was back in 2008. The film is supposedly going to be based off of Frank Miller’s “The Dark Knight Returns”, a tale about batman’s return from retirement to stop crime. “The Dark Knight Returns” is regarded as one of the greatest batman comics of all time, so Warner brothers has a very good source material to work with. Additionally, if based off this comic the film would be much darker than the lighthearted action-based romps set to be released by other studios over the next few years, setting it apart by a fair amount. 
Rumors have also circulated that Warner brothers is planning to use this film to set up a future Justice League movie, in a move similar to Marvel’s Avengers initiative. Whatever may happen, this film has great potential and could possibly redefine the way we look at superhero films. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Tiger vs. Phil is a hole-in-one 

Alex Wilcox 
Sports Writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the ninth installment in a 10-part series discussing the best rivalry in sports. In this installment, Alex Wilcox argues that Tiger Woods vs. Phil Mickelson deserves the top spot. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #BestRivalry. 
Allow me to dream, if only for a minute. 
For a brief, beautiful moment, I am whisked far away from the snowed-in polar vortex of South bend to a warm April Sunday in Augusta, ga. The azaleas are in full bloom, and as the sun sets, a roar erupts from an otherwise tranquil evening as Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson walk up to the 18th green at The Masters. 
This simple image is what makes this rivalry the best in sports. 
Tiger and Phil have been inex­tricably linked ever since Tiger turned professional in 1996. At that time, Phil already had nine tournament victories under his belt. but Tiger quickly stole the show when he became the youngest player to ever win a major at age 21 when he won the 1997 Masters with a tournament record score of 18-under par. 
While Phil was still recog­nized as a world-class golfer, the emergence of Tiger added a caveat to his distinction: best golfer without a major. 
That stigma would dog Phil throughout the late ’90s and early 2000s, as Tiger racked up eight major championships, while Phil could only lay claim to a few second-place finishes. 
Despite the disparities in majors, America loved each of them. They loved Tiger for his youthful energy, colorfulness and dominance in a sport ste­reotyped for old, fat white guys. Phil was the lovable loser, the everyday man. 
Perhaps the best example of this rivalry is the 2002 
u.S. Open at bethpage black. Labeled “The People’s Open” since it was the first u.S. Open held at a public golf course, the people’s golfer, Phil Mickelson, won over the crowd and quickly became a fan favorite, even though he finished second once again. 
The winner? Tiger Woods, of course. 
After watching Tiger win eight majors, including three Masters, Phil finally shed his “second best” stigma when he won his first major at the 2004 Masters. With Tiger and Phil both having major championships under their belt, the best rivalry in the game entered its golden age. 

Not to be outdone by his counterpart, Tiger stormed back to reclaim the green jacket as his own, winning the 2005 Masters in a one-hole playoff with Chris DiMarco. As Augusta tradition dictates, the previous year’s champion must bestow the green jacket onto the cur­rent champion, resulting in Phil awarding Tiger with his fourth green jacket, lest Phil forgot who he was up against. 
If the 2005 Masters was a humbling experience for Phil, the 2006 Masters proved “Lefty” was a force to be reckoned with in major championships. He won the tournament, giving him two Masters titles in three years, and in one of golf’s quint­essential moments, Tiger Woods bestowed the green jacket onto Phil Mickelson. 
Phil appeared to have ev­erything going for him. After winning the Masters that April, he walked up to the 18th tee box at Winged Foot, leading by a stroke at the 2006 u.S. Open and about to claim his second straight major championship. 
He was about to break out; at last this was Phil’s chance! He appeared destined to go on a run not seen since Tiger won four straight majors spanning the 2000 u.S. Open through the 2001 Masters. 
but golf is a cruel game. 

When all he needed was a par on the last hole to win, and a bogey to force a playoff, Phil double-bogeyed in one of the most dramatic collapses in golf history, leaving him, once again, second best. 
geoff Ogilvy was the lucky benefactor of Phil’s misfortune, and in some sort of poetic jus­tice, Tiger went on to win the final two majors of the season. 
As both golfers fade out of their primes, the legacies of each are left to consider. Tiger will assuredly go down as one of the, if not the, greatest to ever play. Phil, meanwhile, will al­ways be loved by fans, if not the golfing gods. 

Regardless, their legacies will forever be intertwined. One cannot mention Tiger Woods without Phil Mickelson, just as one cannot mention Phil Mickelson without Tiger Woods. 
What makes Tiger Woods vs. Phil Mickelson the best rivalry in sports is actually rather sim­ple: Whenever the two of them are in a tournament, no matter how big or small, there is always the feeling that at any moment, history is about to be made. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OLYMPICS 
Sochi Olympics present big risk, reward for Russia 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW — For Vladimir Putin, the Winter Olympics he brought to Sochi have always been about far more than sports. 
The benefits the Russian president expects from hold­ing the games range from im­proving Russia’s international standing and instilling a sense of national pride to turning around the country’s demo­graphic decline. And of course Putin wants to be seen, at home and abroad, as the man who made this all possible. 
That’s a tall order for an in­ternational sports event. 
And what if terrorists strike the Olympics, which are tak­ing place Feb. 7-23 just a few hundred miles (kilometers) west of a region where Islamic insurgents carry out bomb­ings and other attacks almost daily? Or if a winter storm rips through the black Sea resort, knocking out its hastily fin­ished electric grid? Or even if Russian athletes in Sochi repeat their dismal perfor­mance of the 2010 Vancouver Winter games? 
If — for one reason or an­other — Sochi is deemed to be a disaster, the $51 billion spent on Putin’s games may suddenly seem like a colossal waste of money. That amount dwarfs the spending of any other Olympics, winter or summer. 
“Has Putin over-invested in these games?” Stephen Sestanovich, a Columbia university professor and Russia scholar, asked rhetori­cally. “Almost surely. And I think the disproportion of the investment will be clearer if the Russians don’t bring home a trove of gold medals and if the security situation goes badly.” 
Putin has made the 2014 Winter games his personal project from the very begin­ning, directing an ambitious undertaking to transform Sochi, a once-tacky Soviet-era summer resort, into a world-class winter sports center. 
Along the way, the games took on a state propaganda aspect that one of Putin’s for­mer advisers says has not been seen since the 1936 Summer 

FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo -Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call561-588-5520 
Olympics in berlin, which the Nazis used to promote their concept of racial supremacy. 
Andrei Illarionov, Putin’s economic adviser from 2000 to 2005, says the Sochi games have become a celebration of the “cult of strength” for Russia’s muscle-flexing leader, a demonstration of his and Russia’s physical, intellectual and economic might. 
In a recent interview with Russian and foreign TV sta­tions, Putin said the Sochi Olympics should be seen as proof of Russia’s economic re­surgence during his 14 years in power. He also hoped the games would lead people “to take an unbiased and fresh look” at what he called the new Russia. 
“I am sure that this will hap­pen, that it will ... help to build Russia’s relations with its part­ners around the world,” he said in the Jan. 19 broadcast. 
This may be wishful thinking. 
“Foreign governments that deal with Russia are more in­clined to take seriously specif­ic policy items on their agenda that they want to be able to ad­vance, and most governments over the past few years have found Russia to be harder to deal with,” said Sestanovich, who has held several u.S. gov­ernment posts and has a book coming out on u.S. foreign policy. “Are they going to find Russia easier to deal with if they’ve won more gold med­als? I’m a little skeptical.” 
At home, Putin is counting on the Olympics to inspire more young Russians to take up sports, which he said will go a long way toward improv­ing the nation’s health and resolving its demographic cri­sis. The number of births in Russia last year outnumbered the number of deaths for the first time in a decade. 
Putin has toned down ex­pectations of a high medal count — although he certainly expects Russia to perform bet­ter than it did in Vancouver, when the team won only three gold medals. In the TV interview, he said he wanted Russian athletes to “fight to the end, demonstrate their skills and make their fans happy.” 
More important, Putin add­ed, is for Russians to see that their country is capable of pulling off such a major event and to regain some of the na­tional pride lost in the years following the 1991 Soviet collapse. 
The Sochi Olympics are the first for Russia since the Soviet union held the Summer games in 1980, which were boycotted by the united States and dozens of other coun­tries because of the war in Afghanistan. 
Putin’s Olympic show al­ready has been tainted by the international criticism of Russia’s attitude toward gays, illustrated by a new law ban­ning gay “propaganda” among minors. Largely because of the law, a number of Western leaders and officials have de­cided to stay away from Sochi. unusually for an Olympics, the united States will not be represented by its president, vice president or first lady. 
but the main worry is terror­ism. Those fears were height­ened by two suicide bombings in late December in the south­ern city of Volgograd that killed 34 people and injured many more. Islamic militants in Russia’s North Caucasus as­serted responsibility for those bombings and have threat­ened to strike Sochi. 
A terrorist attack would be a major embarrassment for Russian security services and would diminish Putin’s inter­national prestige but prob­ably would not weaken him at home, Sestanovich argues. 
“When has terrorism ever been bad for Putin political­ly?” Sestanovich said. “He has generally been able to make the problem of terrorism a po­litical winner for him. He has used it to rally people, to argue that the Russian state has to be strong, that he in particular needs increased powers.” 
Russia has put in place sweeping measures to build what it calls a “ring of steel” around Sochi involving tens of thousands of police, army and security officers. but after the Volgograd bombings, in­ternational visitors may now be more accepting of the in­trusive and time-consuming security checks at Sochi. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
For Sam Gans: “Why do you have to You, you fall and you crawl and you break go and make things so complicated? And you take what you get I see the way you’re act-and you turn it into honesty ing like you’re somebody else You promised me I’m nev-Gets me frustrated er gonna find you fake it Life’s like this No, no, no” 


SMC BASKETBALL | ADRIAN 76, SMC 66 
Belles’ rally falls short in loss to Bulldogs 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
After a closely-contested first half in which the belles tied or led for most of the time, Adrian and its sharpshooting guards made an early second-half run to pull away and se­cure a 76-66 victory over Saint Mary’s on Wednesday night. 
both coming off losses to Olivet, the belles (5-13, 3-6 MIAA) and the bulldogs (9-9, 5-5) entered the game hoping to get back on their feet to be­gin the second round of con­ference play. 
Saint Mary’s got off to an early lead, which it held for much of the first half as it traded baskets with the bulldogs. 

“We got some good looks of­fensively,” belles coach Jenn Henley said. “I thought when we attacked, we were very effective.” 
The balanced Saint Mary’s offense continued to create good chances against Adrian’s athletic zone defense, and with 5:33 to play, the belles held a 23-21 lead. but bulldogs senior guard Lauren Rhoads drained a 3-pointer to shift the momentum, and the half end­ed with Adrian leading 34-31. 
bulldogs senior guard LaQwana Dockery began the second half with nine points in 2:49 to ignite a 13-4 run. 
Henley saw her early spark as a decisive part of the game. 
“They went on big runs at the start of the second half,” Henley said. “We were never able to get back in it after that.” 
Rhoads then made 3-point­ers on back-to-back posses­sions to put the bulldogs up 52-40 with 12:18 remaining. 
Saint Mary’s put up a fight offensively, with sophomore forwards Eleni Shea and Krista Knapke each scoring eight in the second half. The trouble, Henley said, was on the defen­sive end. 
“Adrian did a good job read­ing the gaps,” she said. “but at the end of the day it comes down to stopping the paint 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

WOMEN’ S SWIMMING 
ND hosts weekend meet 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish jump back into their own waters to host the annual Shamrock Invitational on Friday and Saturday. 
The No. 24 Irish prepare themselves for a challenging three-session meet with their efforts centered on executing in the lane come competition time. 
“The team’s main focus is 
to race,” Irish coach brian barnes said. “It’s an interest­ing time of the year because we are focusing in on this weekend and then also three weeks down the road to our conference meet.” 
Notre Dame is set to dual 
Iowa. The last time the Irish 
and Hawkeyes met was at the 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
points ... and points coming from turnovers.” 
Adrian continued to find holes on the other end of the floor and remained with a comfortable lead. Dockery finished with 16 points and nine rebounds, while Rhoads’ 22 points helped carry the bulldogs to the win. 
For the belles, Knapke fin­ished the game with 16 points and seven rebounds, and ju­nior Ariana Paul was the next highest contributor with 13 points and eight rebounds. 
Saint Mary’s now turns its attention to Trine, another conference opponent. Henley hopes to take advantage of the belles’ frontcourt edge against the Thunder (4-13, 1-7). 
“We should have a height advantage against Trine at the offensive end and we need to find ways to exploit their gaps and use this,” she said. 
In their first matchup on Dec. 14, the belles defeated the Thunder 60-42, and Henley stressed the importance of fo­cusing on defense again. 
“If we can’t find a way to get stops, we’re going to be in trouble regardless of who our opponent is,” she said. 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Trine to take on the Thunder this Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
Hawkeye Invitational from Dec. 6-8. The Irish won the meet to beat out second-place boise State by 80.5 points. 
“We want to focus on put­ting together our best lineup to beat [Iowa],” junior Emma Reaney said. “It will be a good tune-up for conference.” 
After a tough 171-129 loss to Louisville last weekend, the Irish look at the Shamrock Invitational as another op­portunity to move forward. 
“It’s never good to go on the road and take a loss,” barnes said. “but what I like about the team right now is that the results get better and better as we move forward.” 
“There weren’t any huge is­sues that needed to be fixed at the Louisville meet,” Reaney said. “We were just tired.” 
Last year, the Irish had an impressive performance at the Shamrock Invitational. They defended their home ground with a 309-60 vic­tory over Towson. Reaney won five individual events, including the 100-yard free­style and 200-yard individual medley. 
Reaney said the team could view last year’s performance as a motivation for the team. 
“I think it’s a good place [for the team] to start,” Reaney said. 
Even with the motivation to defend their title, the Irish must endure two days of de­manding competition and are not without their challenges. 
“The biggest challenge will be stamina,” barnes said. “It’s a three-session meet, and the amount of work that we are going to have to do within those days and the recovery in between will be challenging.” 
Reaney agreed. 
“I think our greatest chal­lenge will be remaining posi­tive about how we feel and what our times are since it is a strange point in the sea­son,” Reaney said. “We will have fast suits on but most of us won’t be fully tapered so we will probably feel pretty terrible in the water.” 
Despite those challeng­es, the Irish do have their strengths, and this competi­tion is in their home pool. 
“We will be wanting to de­fend our home pool in front of our families and friends,” Reaney said. “Shamrock is always a fun meet and it’s re­ally easy to get behind each other.” 
The Irish host and compete in the Shamrock Invitational on Friday and Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



THE ObSERVER | THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2014 | NDSMCObSERVER.COM 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish face tough field in New Mexico Invitational 
FENCING 

Squad to lean on younger fencers 

By EVAN ANDERSON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame travels to Albuquerque on Friday for the New Mexico Team Invitational, a two-day event with a strong nine-team field that coach Joe Piane said would serve as an early test for his squad. 
“If we want to view our­selves as a national-class team, we have to compete at a national-class level,” Piane said. “It’s no differ­ent than a basketball team; if you can compete against some [teams] in the pre­season, that’s fine … but what really counts is when you go up against that top class of teams.” 
The Irish enter the meet coming off a strong perfor­mance on their home track at last Saturday’s Notre Dame Invitational. 
The Irish women earned six first-place finishes en route to a team win in the home event, its second in as many years. Notre Dame edged Michigan State by just six points behind a strong performance from junior Jade barber, among others, who won the 60-meter hur­dles (8.24 seconds), finished second in the 60-meter dash (7.64) and ran a strong opening leg for the 4x400­meter relay that took home another gold. 
Sophomore Margaret bamgbose had a big day as well, winning the 400-meter dash (54.08) and running the anchor leg in the 4x400­meter. Piane also credited junior Emily Morris’s sec-ond-place finish in the shot put (15.45 meters) and junior Carly Loeffel’s third-place finish in the high jump (1.70 meters) for helping the Irish pull out a narrow victory. 
The Notre Dame men also performed well at the Notre Dame Invitational, finish­ing second to Michigan State by just six points. The Irish earned seven first-place finishes, two of which were particularly notable. In his first race of the in­door season, graduate stu­dent Jeremy Rae broke a 14-year-old Notre Dame re­cord with his victory in the 1000-meter run (2:22.07). Senior and two-time All-American Patrick Feeney also had a huge day, win­ning the 400-meter by near­ly two seconds. His time of 
46.38 seconds qualified as the fourth-best nationally this season. 
Afterwards, Piane said he felt his team was poised for a successful couple of weeks in New Mexico this week­end and back at Notre Dame for the Meyo Invitational in early February. 
“I feel great about the team,” Piane said Sunday. “I am confident we are going to do well across the board.” 

The field in New Mexico consists of eight nonconfer­ence foe: Air Force, Arizona State, LSu, Nebraska, New Mexico, TCu, uCLA and utah State. That slate in­cludes two top-25 oppo­nents on both the men’s and women’s sides and makes for the strongest competi­tion either side has faced in the young indoor season. 
The Jan. 28 release of the 
u.S. Track & Field computer rankings placed the LSu men just outside the top 25 and the Arizona State and Nebraska men at No. 11 and No. 9, respectively. On the women’s side, LSu checked in at No. 8 nationally while Arizona State was ranked No. 22. 
Piane said his team would relish the opportunity to race against some of the top teams in the nation. 
“We are competing against some of the very best teams in the country,” Piane said. “With LSu and Arizona State, Nebraska and uCLA, New Mexico … can it get any better than that? I don’t think so.” 
Notre Dame will compete in Albuquerque on Friday and Saturday. The Irish will also send some run­ners to the Indiana Relays in bloomington, Ind., on Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to continue their success this weekend as they travel to Northwestern on Saturday for the Northwestern Duels, with teams such as Duke, Northwestern, Stanford and Princeton all in attendance. This will be one of the largest meets of the season for the Irish. 
“Teams from various parts of the country will be partak­ing in this tournament, all who have highly-ranked fencing pro­grams that will challenge us this weekend,” Irish coach Janusz bednarski said. 
The Irish performed well in last week’s Nyu Invitational, win­ning almost every bout on both 
“We will need to rely heavily on many of our younger, less experienced fencers.” 
Janusz Bednarski 
Irish coach 
the men and women’s sides. The team hopes to continue that suc­cess by competing at a high level this weekend in Evanston. A ma­jor  challenge for the Irish in this weekend’s Northwestern Duels will be the loss of the majority of the team’s leading fencers. 
“Our best fencers were called to the stands for the united States to qualify for the World Championships, as well as the Olympic games,” bednarski said. “Without these individu­als here this weekend, we will need to rely heavily on many of our younger, less experienced fencers.” 
bednarski believes this will be a wonderful opportunity for the newer fencers to gain more expe­rience and skill, as well as a great chance to prove their leadership. 
“Junior Nicole Ameli will step up in place of sophomore Lee Kiefer and junior Madison Zeiss for the women’s side,” bednarski said. “Various newcomers on the men’s side will also be ready to fence in place of senior gerek Meinhardt and senior Ariel DeSmet.” 
With such a young team com­peting this weekend, bednarski hopes these fencers grow from ths experienc, and give their best efforts possible. 
“I cannot say that we will have easy matches against our oppo­nents, but I feel confident that the fencers that we have will put in their all,” bednarski said. 
The Northwestern Duels will take place Saturday at the Henry Crown Sports Pavilion and Norris Aquatics Center (SPAC) in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
HOCKEY 
Schneider makes his mark on and off ice for Irish 


By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
With all his natural abil­ity, things tend to come eas­ily for Peter Schneider. but that doesn’t mean he hasn’t worked hard to get them. 
growing up in Austria, Schneider learned his na­tive language, german, then picked up Slovak and Czech while playing junior hockey in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. He learned his fourth language, English, when he came to Indiana to play for the Indianapolis Ice of the uSHL. His game did the talking from there, as his speed and skill caught the attention of Notre Dame, who offered him a scholar­ship less than a month into his time in the States. 
Now, after two years of grinding out a spot in the lineup, the junior winger has emerged as a regular con­tributor for the Irish, scoring two goals and two assists in his last three games. 
“He played well in the first half, but I think he’s been even better since we got back from Christmas,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “He’s feel­ing it a little bit. He’s scored a few goals here in the last few weekends. I think that 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



can do a world of good for his confidence.” 
Schneider’s hot streak has coincided with Notre Dame’s, as the Irish (15-9-1, 4-6-1 Hockey East) have won five of their last six games and are looking to climb out of the bottom half of the con­ference standings. Schneider has climbed up in the lineup as well, as injuries and his recent performance earned him a spot on a line with two of Notre Dame’s top scorers, sophomore Mario Lucia and freshman Vince Hinostroza. Schneider looked at home in his new role on Saturday, pitching in a goal and an assist in a 3-0 win over Northeastern. 
And while his scoring touch has brought the junior plenty of confidence, he only sees it as a small part of his game. 
“I definitely try to bring a lot of energy, get the bench going and finish some hits 
— even though I’m from Europe,” Schneider said. “Just skating fast, putting pressure on the opponents and getting some shots on net, too.” 
Schneider brings that same energy in practice, which has helped him gain more re­sponsibility on the team. His hard work on the scout team penalty kill caught the atten­tion of his coaches, and he has gradually moved into the team’s rotation on the kill. 
His shorthanded ability was on display this week­end, as Schneider used his speed to turn nothing into something, the hard way. 
Down a man, senior for­ward Jeff Costello corralled a loose puck in the Irish zone, and Schneider took off down the ice, speeding past Northeastern’s point men. Costello hit Schneider in stride with a saucer pass, then Schneider made a move to his backhand and lifted the puck over Northeastern goaltender Clay Witt for the score. 
“I haven’t had a lot of suc­cess with my backhand move; my coach in juniors used to make fun of me for it,” Schneider said. “I was think­ing about it a lot before, and the play before we went out on the ice, I told [Costello] that ‘If I get a breakaway, I’ve got to go backhand and score.’ And this time I did.” 
Taking the harder route paid off for Schneider on that play, as it often does off the ice, as well. Schneider is a fi­nance and economics double major, with a minor in math­ematics. Even with the diffi­culty of his course load and commitments, Schneider maintains a gPA above 3.9, and his Dean’s List creden­tials resulted in his inclusion on the CCHA Scholar-Athlete Team last season. 
“I just try to make the best of all the time in the day,” he said. “School has always come easily to me. but think I’m a hard worker and I prepare well …  I think that pays off.” 
So far this season, it cer­tainly has. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffro@nd.edu 


THE ObSERVER | THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2014 | NDSMCObSERVER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish prepare for showdown with Hokies 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
When No. 2 Notre Dame hosts Virginia Tech tonight, it also plays host to one of the most talented players in the ACC. Hokie senior forward uju ugoka is averaging 20.2 points per game and 10.3 rebounds per game, good for second and third in the ACC, respectively. 
“She’s really, really talented and is going to be a challenge for us defensively,” Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “She’s quick, she’s strong and she’s one of the best scorers and re­bounders in the conference. She’s just going to be a chal­lenge to defend.” 
Notre Dame (19-0, 6-0 ACC) entered the week in the top 10 in the NCAA in rebound­ing margin at plus-12.0. but the Irish struggled in the de­partment in a 87-83 win over No. 8 Maryland on Monday night. Against the Terrapins (16-3, 4-2 ACC), the Irish gave up 17 second-chance points. Maryland senior forward Alyssa Thomas finished with 29 points and 12 rebounds. 
“The reason [defending ugoka] is going to be such a challenge is that we are com­ing off a game where we had trouble containing a strong post player,” Mcgraw said. “That was a weakness of our game Monday night, so we need to have a little bit more of a team attitude about our defending. I think we need 
Stadium 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 16 
“We’re not ready to announce that either,” he said. “That’s something to think about, I know Jack is thinking about it. At this stage, haven’t made a decision.” 
Swarbrick said a decision on the surface would be made in January or February. The costs of re-sodding Notre Dame Stadium and installing artificial turf were roughly the same, Swarbrick said. 
New improvements 
The university will add 3,000 to 4,000 premium seats Jenkins described as club level outside seating to Notre Dame Stadium’s 80,795 current capacity. The club seating will be located on both the east and west sides of the Stadium, according to the university release. 
The addition on new premium seating would not affect the basic seating configuration for both the current and upper bowls. The gold seats on both sides of the field will remain the same. 
Few changes would be made to Notre Dame’s locker room but some of the surrounding areas will be improved to better serve the football team on game day. 

to work a little bit harder and have a little bit more effort. That will help us with our rebounding and our boxing out.” 
The Irish did have a strong individual performance of their own Monday night. Sophomore guard Jewell Lloyd finished with 31 points, while collecting seven rebounds and six assists. 
“I think she needs to con­tinue to be aggressive offen­sively,” Mcgraw said. “I was pleased to see her get to the foul line, which is something that she has really been work­ing on a little bit more this year. She was really effective driving the ball a little bit more and she shot the ball re­ally well. That let her mix it up a little bit more offensively, but going to the basket is one of the strengths of her game and I want to see more of that [tonight].” 
Virginia Tech (10-9, 0-6) brings a balanced offense to Notre Dame, as the Hokies, like the Irish, have three play­ers averaging double figures in scoring. 
“They have some really good 3-point shooters on the pe­rimeter,” Mcgraw said. “[The Hokies’] inside game is strong as well, which gives them ver­satility on offense. We have to be ready to defend all as­pects of their game. They are a smart team that plays well defensively as well, so we have to be ready.” 
have to get better defensively,” Mcgraw said. “We haven’t been as sharp as we can be and I think we have a long way to go. So I would say that de­fense and defensive rebound­ing are the two things we’re most heavily focusing on right now.” 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Notre Dame plans to upgrade both WiFi and cellular service as part of this project. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The Irish will look to con­tain the Virginia Tech offense tonight at 7 p.m. in Purcell Pavilion, as the team seeks its 20th straight win to start the season. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

Though the Irish entered this week third in the NCAA in scoring, Notre Dame’s de­fense lags behind the team’s high offensive standard. This season, the Irish are 40th in the NCAA in points per game allowed. 
“Our focus is defensively; we 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER bRuCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | HILLARy  MANgIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM gROuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: you are best to be secretive about your whereabouts and transactions. Keep close tabs on health and financial matters that have the potential to spin out of control. Taking charge of whatever situation you come up against will help you avoid interference. Approach whatever job you are asked to do innovatively and with finesse, and you will excel. your numbers are 2, 12, 20, 27, 34, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Refrain from making changes without proper documentation or the go-ahead from whatever source necessary. Keep both your home and professional life free from complications. Follow the path that is presented, adding minor refinements as you push ahead. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Show enthusiasm and you will draw attention and advance. Deal with individuals directly and be precise about what you expect, want and are willing to give in return. A personal relationship will take a favorable turn due to your honesty and straightforward approach. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Present a plan and see what kind of interest you receive. Don’t be disheartened by someone conservative. Focus on people looking for something fresh and you will be given an unusual opportunity. Make sure your idea is feasible before you share your plans. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put more effort into your relationship with others. Whether you are doing business or making a personal connection, you must ensure that you are giving and receiving as much as whoever else is involved. Compassion and understanding will help seal a deal. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems at home will develop if someone takes advantage of your generosity and good will. Step outside whatever position you find yourself in and you will get a clear picture of the situation and what you must do to make it work. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get out and have some fun. Show that you have a sense of humor and that you are just as capable of change and adaption as the next person. Romance will brighten your love life and secure your future. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): be careful when it comes to a matter of trust. Keep your secrets well hidden and guard against anyone trying to dig into your personal affairs. your intuitive intelligence will not lead you astray. Proceed with caution. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk is cheap and with the information you gather, you will be able to make a substantial move forward. Add a little charm, mystery and intrigue into the mix, and you will capture interest and increase your popularity amongst your peers. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A bad transaction will have a ripple affect. Do your best to make up for any loss you have incurred by promoting something unique that you have developed. A change looks positive if you stick to what you do best. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Avoid any sort of confrontation that can stand between you and financial goals. Anger is a waste of time. Put your energy where it counts and pursue your goals industriously. A personal partnership must not be allowed to cost you. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): What you do for others will not go unnoticed. Ask questions, but don’t be too eager to divulge personal information. Moderation will be necessary if you want to reach your goals without interference. Focus on getting things accomplished. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look past any obstacle you face. If you can see the big picture, you will be able to achieve your goals. Don’t let negativity deter you from thinking big and embracing your dreams. Romance will brighten your day and your love life. 


Birthday Baby: you are industrious, cautious and goal-oriented. you are observant and tactful. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


Construction project to impact facilities for student-athletes 
Rolfs to be converted into basketball practice facility; video board status still undecided 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant Managing Editor 

With the approval of a new construction proj­ect around Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish basket­ball teams will have a practice facility in the process. 
“The Rolfs Sports Recreation Center will become the practice home for the men’s and women’s var­sity basket­ball 
teams,” a release from the university said. 

The Notre Dame board of Trustees okayed a $400 million construction project that would add three bu i l d ­ings to the Stadium and 3,000 to 4,000 premium club seats to the 80,795 capacity. 
The plans for the “Campus Crossroads Project” also include adding a student center, which will include a student recreation center, on the west side of Notre Dame Stadium. 
In a December interview with The Observer, Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said if a student recreation center were added to Notre Dame 
Stadium, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center could be 
used as a basketball practice facility. 
“As the idea of ‘Does it make sense to 
move recre­
ation into the CCPD’ came along, 
then the question was raised ‘Well, if you do that, what do you do with Rolfs?’ That’s how we got there,” Swarbrick said in December. 
university President Fr. John Jenkins, in an inter­view with The Observer, said that was still the plan. 
However, Jenkins said the construction surrounding the Stadium was contingent on raising the necessary funds. 
Video board and FieldTurf? 
While the rest of the Stadium could be getting a facelift, Jenkins said no decisions have been made regarding the potential additions of a video board or FieldTurf. 
“I think we are always talking about the fan expe­rience, and if [a Jumbotron] enhanced it, then that would be part of it, but I want to make it clear that I’m not saying it will be part of 
this,” Jenkins said. 
Initial and more recent 
renderings of the 
project depict 
Notre Dame 
St adiu m 
without 
any visible 
video boards. 
A new scoreboard, 
however, will be add­
ed on the south side of 
the Stadium. 
“Some of that will be ad­

dressed through enhanced broad­
band connectivity and some by the 
introduction of video, though the shape 
that will take has not yet been finalized,” 
the release said. “However, to the extent the 
university provides video, whether in the con­course or in the stadium itself similar to the philosophy in Purcell Pavilion and the Compton Family Ice Arena, there will be no commercial signage or advertising.” 
Jenkins said Notre Dame has not decided what play­ing surface will be in the Stadium next season either. 
see STADIuM PAGE 14 


SMC Basketball vs. Adrian  L 76-66  Hockey at New Hampshire ND Women’s Tennis vs. Illinois  Fri., 7 p.m. Fri., 3:30 p.m.  SMC Basketball at Trine Hockey at New Hampshire  Sat., 7:30 p.m. Sat., 4 p.m.  
Track and Field at Indiana Relays  Fri.-Sat.  Fencing at Northwestern Duels  Sat., All Day  
ND Women’s Basketball vs. Virginia Tech  7 p.m.  Track and Field at New Mexico Invitational Fri.-Sat. Swimming/Diving, Shamrock Invitational Fri.-Sat.  Men’s Basketball vs. Boston College ND Women’s Basketball at Duke  Sat., noon Sun., 2 p.m.  







