The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 109 | TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
 ND, SMC work to combat sexual assault 
CLC formalizes prayer services after sexual assault reports 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
notre dame campus life council 
(clc) passed a resolution monday that will formalize the implementa­tion of prayer services conducted af­ter sexual assault campus alerts. 
according to the chair of clc, stu­dent body president alex coccia, the council has been working on the res­olution for the entirety of the 2013­2014 school year. 
after two email alerts were sent out during the first weekend of school in the fall, students talked about whether these assaults were a norm, coccia said. clc immediately initiated discussions about how it 
see clc PAGE 5 



SMC receives grant to promote an end to sexual violence 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
The indiana coalition against sexual assault (incasa) award­ed the saint mary’s belles against violence office (bavo) and the office of student involvement and multicultural services (sims) a $10,000 grant. 
revenue generated from the sale of end violence Together specialty license plates funded the grant. The license plates were a collaborative design developed by incasa and the indiana bureau of motor vehicles, di­rector of bavoconnie adams said. 
“The purpose was to generate a new means of funding to support response 
see granT PAGE 5 




Graduates share experience 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
Four notre dame master in business administration (mba) graduates convened in the Jordan auditorium on monday to talk about ethi­cal decisions in their previ­ous occupations as part of a Frank cahill lecture in business ethics. 
during the first part of the event, each graduate shared cautionary tales about their previous employers, which remained unnamed. 
nicole o’connor, who worked as a financial con­sultant for a hospital, said her experiences dealing with negativity in the office taught her to be cautious in a workplace environment. 
“in the interview process [for my job], something felt a little off with the culture, but i kind of brushed it off since i got the opportunity to work in a hospital,” o’connor said. “but it should have been a warning sign for me, looking back. Things were okay for me the first few months, but then i found that people in the office weren’t supportive 
“The lesson here is that [the company] had a really quick response because they knew that they messed up,” Francica said. “They admit­ted their mistake, and it was interesting because it ended up not being a huge issue for [the company] because they acted so quickly. The first 

false-marketing incident. see lecTure PAGE 5 

parlor to close for floor repairs 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
welsh parlor, located in the haggar college center at saint mary’s and more com­monly referred to as haggar parlor, will be out of com­mission for an estimated nine to 10 weeks due to floor damage, according to gwen o’brien, director of media relations at saint mary’s. 
“on Jan. 24, 2014, a steam coil in a radiator cracked, and water from the unit flooded the floor,” o’brien said. 
The damage done is not only extensive, but also ir­reversible, she said. The repairs, which include re­placing the floor with white oak wood, will cost $35,000, and saint mary’s hopes to have the parlor ready for commencement, according to o’brien. 
The haggar college center, which was dedicated in 1942, originally housed the alumnae centennial library, o’brien said. saint mary’s later converted the space into a student center. 

according to o’brien, haggar parlor is frequently used for meetings, panel dis­cussions and dinners. 
haggar parlor is a popu­lar venue for events, which now will have to change lo­cations, o’brien said. one event that has been affected by the closure of the space is the 2014 “chimes literary and arts Journal” release reading. 
Kathryn haemmerle, an editor of the journal, said the parlor’s closure is disap­pointing, given the parlor’s ideal environment for the release reading. 
“we are partial to haggar parlor because it’s very suitable to readings,” haemmerle said. “it has light and space, with an area near the piano for a contrib­utor to stand and read their work.” 
nevertheless, o’brien said there are other venues 
see haggar PAGE 3 

and people talked about each other behind their back. … each day i went home, i had to check to make sure that i stayed true to myself.” 
chris Francica, who worked in marketing in the telecommunications indus­try, described how his em­ployer handled a controversy over a potentially disastrous 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you were stranded on an island, who would you bring? 

Amanda Leung 
junior 
lyons hall 
“Kevin song, of course.” 
Erin O’Brien 
junior 
lewis hall 
“bear grylls.” 
Garett Blad 
junior 
alumni hall 
“my friend, andrew Tatis.” 


Jaspeth Omomira 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“wilson the volleyball.” 
Kyle Sant 
junior 
duncan hall 
“Jennifer aniston.” 
Ryan Shea 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“morgan Freeman.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie mccarty a.J. godeux Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jack rooney alex carson henry gens conor Kelly 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
erin rice erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Women’s Softball “The Death of God & “Travails of the Irish ND Relay for Life Women’s Basketball 
Karla moreno austin Taliaferro 
Melissa Cook Stadium the War on Terror” Language” Compton Family Ice Regional Finals 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Eck Visitors Center Hesburgh Library Arena Purcell Pavilion The Irish take on 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 6 p.m.-10 a.m. 12 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

the Northwestern Lecture by Terry Lecture on history of Fundraiser for cancer The Irish host the 
The observer regards itself as Wildcats. Eagleton. the Irish language. research. NCAA regional finals. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Gesualdo Quartet Wellness Wednesday Zen Meditation Men’s Tennis Hawai’i Club Lu’au: 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Snite Museum of Art St. Liam Hall Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion He Mele No 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Center 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Stepan Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Free string quartet Tai Chi and Chai Tea. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 5 p.m.-8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
concert. Open to all students Duke Blue Devils. Revenge of the 
we can correct our error. 

and staff. apostrophes. 


Author urges social justice 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
saru Jayaraman, co-found­er and co-director of the restaurant opportunities centers united (roc­united) and author of the book “behind the Kitchen door”, presented the lecture “behind the Kitchen door: restaurant workers and their struggle for Justice”, at the carey auditorium in the hesburgh library on monday. 
The lecture, sponsored by the higgins labor institute, centered on the struggle of restaurant workers living off the minimum wage, which is currently $2.13 for tipped workers. 
“we tend to celebrate the most important life moments in restaurants: birthdays, parties, anniversaries [and] important business meet­ings,” Jayaraman said. “most of us cannot even remember the people who touch our food. and i would argue that is very, very purposeful.” 
Jayaraman said although the restaurant industry is one of the fastest growing in the united states, restau­rant worker wages have been among the top-10 lowest-paid jobs for over two decades. 
“how is it that you have got one of the largest and fastest growing sectors in the u.s. 

economy proliferating the absolute lowest paying jobs in america?  what does that mean for any new entrance in the workforce?” she said. 
Jayaraman said her inter­est in the restaurant sector began after the sep. 11, 2001, attacks on the world Trade center, in which hundreds of restaurant workers lost their lives in a small restaurant in one of the towers and more than 13,000 workers lost their jobs in the aftermath. roc­united currently campaigns for legislation to raise the minimum wage, enforce bet­ter working conditions and encourage greater diversity in the workplace. 
“The most spectacular part of the last 12 years since 9/11 was getting to know the sto­ries of thousands and thou­sands of workers across the country and having a com­pletely different dining ex­perience [afterwards],” she said. 
according to Jayaraman, the $2.13 wage restaurant workers currently earn is due to legislation from the national restaurant association during 1996 that advocated freezing wages for tipped workers. 
“as customers, [when we tip], we are paying for the wages for the workers that serve us every time we eat out,” she said. 
paid adverTisemenT 
Jayaraman also showed a video on gender and diversity in the workplace. 
“For the vast majority of restaurant workers in the united states, getting a de­cent, livable wage job is a matter of your skin color or your gender,” she said. 
Jayaraman said while fed­eral law requires restaurants to make up the difference in wages if tips do not suffice, many of the restaurant work­ers said their employers have failed to make up the full difference. 
“The u.s. department of labor reports an 80 percent violation rate with regards to employers not making sure that tips make up the difference, or stealing tips or requiring workers to pay something out of their tips,” Jayaraman said. 
she said states like california and minnesota have been able to pay both tipped and non-tipped work­ers the same wage while re­porting an increase in profit for restaurants. 
“we’ve actually put out data that demonstrates that [the restaurant] industry works better when your workers are paid the same wage as non-tipped workers,” Jayaraman said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

professor details author’s legacy 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
samuel c. ramer, associate professor of history at Tulane university, presented his memories of Joseph brodsky, russian poet and essayist, in a lecture entitled “writing a memoir of Joseph brodsky: problems of memory, selection 
and Truth.”  
ramer  focused  on  his  
recent  memoir  entitled  
“remembering  Joseph  

brodsky: The genre of commemorating a person.” 
in the lecture spon­sored by the department of russian and east european studies, the Kellogg institute of international studies, the department of german and russian languages and literatures and the nanovic institute, ramer said he was a friend of brodsky. 
“he left a deep impression on me,” ramer said. “it is a rare talent to be able to convey the importance of your subject.” 
brodsky was born in leningrad during the 1940’s. he emigrated to america dur­ing the 1970’s and became a resident poet at the university of michigan, and later a vis­iting professor at universi­ties such as Queens college, columbia university and smith college. he was also a nobel laureate and later a poet laureate for the u.s. library of congress. 
ramer said brodsky pos­sessed a direct, self-reflective attitude that gave him a con­stant sense of improvement throughout his life and he also enjoyed recognizing others’ positive qualities. 
“he was very laconic,” ramer said. “he had this recogni­tion that no matter how hard you try to be a decent person, a great artist, there was a hu­man term of recognition that there are many people a lot better than ourselves.” 
ramer said the themes in brodsky’s poetry drew mainly on ideas of moral questioning and guilt. 
“somehow, his poetry sug­gested that we were all guilty of something,” ramer said. “There was some sense that we all had to engage in some sort of moral introspection. There is some suggestion in his poetry that we are able to contemplate who we are and where we stand.” 

ramer said brodsky avoided dwelling on the political situa­tion in russia during the time, even though the russian gov­ernment exiled him. 
“he was averse to talk about his sentence in exile because he was afraid that this po­litical interruption in his life would overshadow his litera­ture,” he said. 
ramer said brodsky was highly appreciative of american poetry and espe­cially admired robert Frost, who later influenced brodsky’s presentations on american literature. 
ramer said the themes in brodsky’s poetry drew mainly on ideas of moral questioning and guilt. 
“somehow, his poetry sug­gested that we were all guilty of something. There was some sense that we all had to engage 
“[Brodsky] made himself a fixture in American culture. There was about his writing a certain stoicism and an absolute refusal to consdier himself a victim.” 
Samuel C. Ramer 
professor of history 
Tulane University 
in some sort of moral intro­spection,” ramer said. “There is some suggestion in his poet­ry that we are able to contem­plate who we are and where we stand.” 
brodsky’s poetry became prominent due to his abil­ity to adapt well to american culture, despite the difficul­ty emigrant writers usually face when leaving their home country, ramer said. 
“he made himself a fixture in american culture,” ramer said. “There was about his writing a certain stoicism and an absolute refusal to consider himself a victim. There was a ferocious commitment to ar­tistic freedom.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

Haggar 
conTinued From page 1 
available for hosting cam­pus events, and the new floor will make up for the temporary loss of the par­lor’s availability.
 “The tradeoff for losing the space for a while is that a brand new white oak floor will be installed, which will update the room and make it even more majestic than it already was,” o’brien said. 

if the parlor is not com­pleted before commence­ment, related events may have to be moved elsewhere, o’brien said. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




outcome will not only influence 
CLC 
Grant 

how assault is addressed within 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

the smaller college community, could actively support the stu­
and prevention efforts of sexual as-but also how it is dealt with across dent body in this struggle against 
sault,” adams said. “These license the country, adams said. sexual violence. 
plates also help raise awareness of “we have nearly 50 students in­coccia said noel Terranova, 
this important issue throughout volved with bavo in various capac­rector of Keenan hall, had the 
the state.” ities helping to develop, implement initial idea for the prayer services. 
stephanie steward-bridges, di-and assess programming,” adams “noel Terranova suggested 
rector of sims, and adams worked said. “These students, particularly that we have some sort of group 
together to write a proposal for members of the student advisory that always goes to the grotto fol-
the grant, which was established committee, are given the opportu­lowing a report,” coccia said. “it 
in 2010, assistant director of sims nity to develop valuable leadership seemed like a very good and fea­
graci martsching, said. skills while significantly contribut­sible idea.” 
as one of the first recipients of ing to the greater good of our cam­coccia said the first official 
the grant, bavo and sims intend pus community. we hope the new prayer service was held after the 
to use the money to continue to internship position offers the same third alert. 
educate saint mary’s students on opportunity.” “we received an email alert 
sexual violence prevention, di-a comprehensive examination during the michigan state [foot­
rector of media relations gwen of students’ experiences and atti­ball] game,” coccia said. “That 
o’brien, said. tudes will have the greatest chance night [student body vice presi-
The grant is particularly remark-of reducing violence, adams said. dent] nancy [Joyce] and i … put well-prepared and situated to letter, which hoffman-harding 
able because state-funded pro-These assessments will help ac-everything together for a prayer endure once we put it out there.” wrote to coccia and Joyce. 
grams that focus on sexual assault tivists identify the unique rela­service, and, essentially in that The long process came to a in the letter, hoffman-harding 
are scarce due to government bud-tionship between alcohol and moment, [we made] a commit-close yesterday, as the resolution wrote, “i write to share my sup-
get cuts, adams said. sexual violence on college cam­ment that we would hold a prayer passed unanimously. port for an initiative [clc1314­
“Funding for primary preven-puses, adams said. service following an email alert coccia said the prayer services 01] of your administration. … 
tion sexual assault programs is “while often addressing sexual within 48 hours after every one.” show the student body that the The safety and well-being of 
limited and has traditionally been violence is often associated with Terranova said Taskforce 1 on university is in support of all vic-our students is our first prior-
utilized by community-based or-bavo, it is critical for any cam-sexual violence prevention, the tims of sexual assault. ity at notre dame. … we must 
ganizations,” adams said. “in addi-pus community to have an effort clc taskforce of which he is a “what this resolution does is it respond as a community to pro­
tion, there have been funding cuts stemming from all departments,” part, helped to drive the process really shows the amount of insti-vide support to those impacted.” 
in recent years.” adams said. “sims has offered of formalizing the prayer ser-tutional support for these prayer Terranova said he sees a hope-
as rare as government-funded some excellent programming re-vices in a resolution. he said the services,” coccia said. “what’s ful future for the prayer services. 
sexual assault prevention pro-lated to risk reduction and promot­process was a long one. great about campus life council “i hope to see it continue and i 
grams are, the grant was given to ing bystander intervention and has “we were catching up to some-is that it is a formal body of rec-hope it continues to be student­
smc just as sexual assault is gain-been a strong supporter of bavo’s thing that already existed in a tors, faculty, staff and students.” led,” Terranova said. “[i hope] to 
ing more visibility in the united efforts. This is a great opportunity very real and practical sense,” coccia said the support of the see it make a difference in the 
states political sphere, adams said. to deepen this partnership.” Terranova said. “since what al-resolution by the vice president of culture on campus. i already see 
“partnering with our state co-martsching said bavo’s green ready existed was functioning student affairs, erin hoffmann-it doing that.” 
alition is particularly unique and dot training fit perfectly with so well, we wanted to make sure harding, was important and 
beneficial,” adams said. “our part-incasa’s goals, but sims involve-that the resolution that recog-influential as well. at the clc Contact Emma Borne at 
nership comes at an ideal time, ment, although equally important, nized it was correspondingly meeting, coccia read aloud a eborne@nd.edu 
as the federal government begins was less obvious. The assistant di­to further assess and understand rector of sims said the correlation sexual assault on college campus-between alcohol and abuse was 
stock deal] was so bad that inefficiency, as he and his es across the country. in January, the reason sims played a neces-
Lecture 

president obama launched a task sary role in the joint initiative. 
we had to fire the guy be-colleagues were paid on an 
conTinued From page 1 

force to address sexual assault on “The reason why sims is a part takeaway is that in nine out ramifications for our firm,” fee basis. 
cause there would have been hourly rather than a fixed-
college campuses.” of this is because we have been do-of 10 cases [when] you make danford said. “so we did. “you will get pressure 
adams said she believes saint ing some programming to support this kind of mistake, the best as he came back, he sued as a younger staff person 
mary’s deserves the grant because healthy drinking habits and being thing to do is to fall on your our firm ... but our firm was early in [your] career say-
of the comprehensive history it safe while out,” martsching said. sword and make amends as small. we didn’t have the ing, ‘hey, you really got to 
has in addressing sexual assault, in the past year at saint mary’s quickly as possible.” bankroll to fund a year-long watch the hours at work,’” 
relationship violence and stalking. tailgates, sims handed out water steven danford, who lawsuit. … so, basically the danford said. “They will ... 
This track record has always relied bottles with bavo’s belle code at-push you in a direction ... to 
on a united approach rather than tached, martsching said. try to make sure you don’t 
independent operations, adams “we also passed out safety cards do what you’re supposed to, 
said. with security’s number, taxis’ even though you’re told the 
“we know that to truly reduce numbers and safety hotlines,” second you walk through the 
violence and fully support those martsching said. door to bill every hour you 
impacted, we must work together,” The incasa grant is not the work since that’s what’s best 
adams said. “success is dependent only, nor the largest, grant saint for the firm and that’s what’s 
on everyone, not a dedicated of-mary’s has received addressing best for the client.” 
fice or through one good policy, this particularly gendered issue. Following the discus-
although both of these help. our “This is the second largest grant sion, southwest airlines was 
collaboration and the deep invest-the college has received to address awarded the rev. Theodore 
ment of our students make saint sexual violence,” o’brien said. “The 
mary’s a worthy grantee.” largest grant came from the u.s. for ethically and socially 
m. hesburgh, c.s.c. award 

The director of bavo has many department of Justice’s office on sustainable business prac­
plans for the grant, according to violence against women’s campus tices. notre dame alumnus 
adams. program in the fall of 2009 to start christine ortega received 
“This funding through incasa bavo, which opened in the spring the award of behalf of 
is dedicated toward research to en-of 2010.” southwest airlines. 
hance future primary prevention adam’s said the grant will help “our mission statement 
programming,” adams said. “First, bavo and sims learn about the says nothing about the air-
we will be implementing the core programming saint mary’s al­line business, not one word 
survey, a national survey which ready has in place and how to about flying airplanes,” said 
assesses student attitudes, percep-enhance and implement new christine. “it talks about 
tions, and behaviors related to alco-initiatives. delivering the best kind 
hol. … second, we will implement “it is our hope that experiences of of customer service that 
focus groups and surveys to gather violence will decrease and our stu­you can deliver. … we talk 
feedback of current programming. dents will be further empowered,” about southwest airlines 
Third, we will gather information adams said. “These aims certainly worked as an investment firm i worked with is closing as people; we talk about 
from evidence-based research and echo the college’s mission and al­banker for a small bank, said up soon.” being in the customer ser­
peer institutions to review current low us to continue to assess our re-a dirty stock deal by a senior george hayes, who worked vice business. That is our 
programming methods.” sponse to the complex needs of our banker threatened the exis-as an investor for a firm, cornerstone.” 
once the results are in, bavo community and world.” tence of his bank. said he learned how to deal 
and sims will use leftover funds “our compliance depart-with a workplace that en-Contact Alex Cao at 
to hire a student intern to assist Contact Rebecca O’Neil at ment determined that [the couraged intentional gross acao@nd.edu 
with the efforts, o’brien said. The roneil01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

hippest trip in america 
Macaila DeMario 
news writer 

whenever i hear a long-forgotten song or a melody, i am reminded of long ago days, almost-fading memories and the promise of tomorrow. Join me, if you like, as i share with you the life of songs that bring you to a place in your past, perhaps your first dance, your first kiss, a great friend or a lost love. 
To the here and now for the girls on cam­pus, by Tom petty and The heartbreakers: “she grew up tall and she grew up right, with them indiana boys on them indiana nights. well, she moved down here at the age of eighteen, she blew the boys away, was more than they’d seen. i was intro­duced and we both started groovin’. she said, ‘i dig you baby, but i got to keep mov­in’ on, keep movin’ on.’” 
where does pitbull’s song take you? when i hear the lyrics, “it’s going down, i’m yelling timber,” i think of the party holly golightly hosts in the film “breakfast at Tiffany’s” where a woman legitimately was falling down and holly yells timber. 
“what a field day for the heat, a thou­sand people in the street, singing songs and carrying signs, mostly saying, ‘hooray for our side.’” buffalo springfield’s “For what it’s worth” was one of many ex-pression-filled songs associated with the vietnam war. it brought people together and put a beat to the heart of the protests. 
For some, this simple minds song calls to mind the The breakfast club ending scene: “Tell me your troubles and doubts, giving me everything inside and out and love’s strange so real in the dark, think of the tender things that we were working on.” For me, this song puts building friend­ships into perspective. The darkness of the night allows us to hide our insecuri­ties and come out to be somebody that the daylight may not get to see. it allows thoughts to harvest differently than during the day. have you ever had a night where you stayed up chatting, lost track of time and most importantly didn’t regret it in the morning? 
“well, it’s a marvelous night for a moondance with the stars up above in your eyes. 
a fantabulous night to make romance ‘neath the cover of october skies. and all the leaves on the trees are falling to the sound of the breezes that blow, and i’m trying to please to the calling of your heart-strings that play soft and low.” “moondance” by van morrison is certainly on the list of the most romantic songs the last decade has seen. it takes a person back to the one girl or guy who cannot be forgotten. 
when you find a connection in music, it’s almost as if the song was written for you. The common noise brings people to­gether in uncommon ways. so enjoy your tunes, savor the memories, and, better yet, have fun making the new ones. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Scott Aufderheide 
guest columnist 
on behalf of many residents in Zahm, i would like to write about an issue we have been having. over the past couple days, Zahm has been in a struggle with the office of housing over adjustments to our residential life. most of these adjustments, such as downsizing for more space for each resident, changes to how some rooms are picked and fire safety changes, are trivial and not matters of conten­tion. however, of great concern is the decision to convert what are currently eight-man common rooms on the second and third floors to university lounges and to break up the five-man common rooms into doubles and triples. 
now for those of you who are still reading, you are probably thinking that an adjustment like this is not something to really fret over, so we will go into some explanation. 
when you think of Zahm house, the first thing you probably think is “wild/crazy.” The second thing you probably think about is “com­munity.” whether or not you agree Zahm has the best dorm communi­ty on campus, you can likely agree that its reputation is well-known through the passion that Zahm residents show for their dorm and their brothers. 
Zahm’s sense of community is largely centered around the com­mon rooms named above. They are the social and communal hubs of each section where people come together for such activities as game watches, movie nights and the occasional social gathering. The common rooms are the first place freshmen are brought to dur­ing orientation to meet their new brothers, and, whenever recent alumni visit, the first place they go to is the common rooms because they know that is where they will be able to meet new Zahmbies and reunite with old friends. The common rooms are the places where Zahm men of every year and background can congregate to create the exceptional bonds of friendship that last a lifetime. by no means are they “private social space(s),” for the residents who claim them, as the office of housing suggested in their email to us. instead, they are held to Zahm’s open-door policy, so anyone can come in at any time and thereby foster the growth and friendship that our community holds so dear. 
in statements addressing our concerns from the office of housing and our new rector, spe­cific emphasis was put on the fact that the university lounges to be created are intended to be used as social spaces. we have tried to convey, to both the university and our rector of two months, Fr. gary chamberland, that they indeed al­ready serve this purpose. we tried to convey the importance that the common rooms have to our com­munity and brotherhood, and that any university imposed lounges would not only be detrimental to the Zahm community but also a waste of university funds. 
The way these changes have been implemented and the way they were revealed to us are particu­larly concerning. we have found it increasingly disturbing that the administration claims to have our best interests in mind, while making no effort to understand how our community works. by our rector’s own words, the proceed­ings of these changes were hidden from us until they were finalized and even the resident assistants were not informed until two days before that. we thought a united opposition to the proposed plan, as well as an explanation about the true nature of the common rooms would persuade the university that these lounges would be both harmful and unnecessary. despite a unanimous voice clamoring that these lounges are not wanted, not needed and bad for the community, and even despite offering alterna­tive plans for a compromise, it was decided these lounges are in our best interest. 

it is unfortunate when a univer­sity does not care for or respect its students, especially given notre dame’s catholic mission and supposed emphasis on how important student life is. with ev­erything notre dame has done for us, we can probably say that the university does indeed care for us, but it certainly does not respect us, as evidenced when the voices of over 200 residents are ignored. This problem therefore extends to ev­eryone, not just Zahm. a university that holds student life and experi­ence as one of its most important components should include resi­dents in the formation of policies that concern them, and residents should not be blatantly ignored when unanimous concerns are raised for their community. 
graduating seniors have been asked to think about their favorite parts of notre dame and take them into consideration when making a pledge to contribute donations for next year and for years to come. For most of us, Zahm has been one of . if not the single . greatest part of our notre dame experience. we therefore cannot contribute to a system that supports actions det­rimental to the Zahm community, and we instead pledge that, as alumni, we will not make any do­nations to the university until the common rooms are restored. 
in addition to our own pledge, many parents and current alumni have already joined our effort to support the common rooms by withholding donations. if the disregard for residential life and opinion that has been displayed by the administration towards Zahm’s common rooms concerns you as it does us, we urge you join our pledge as they have. 
a hall is where you walk; a house is where you live. 
Scott is a computer science senior cur­rently residing in Zahm House. He can be reached via email at saufderh@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The map of life 
Michael Fliotsos 
viewpoint columnist 

This spring break, i had the fantastic opportunity to travel to washington, d.c., and participate in the science policy ethics seminar, run jointly by the college of science and the center for social concerns. our week was chock-full of meetings with unbeliev­ably talented researchers and hard­working government officials on The hill while simultaneously navigating our way toward a basic understanding of the maze of laws and regulations behind funding science research. all the while, we also were building an understanding of how to think of these workings in a moral and ethical light. 
any discussion of my trip to d.c., however, would be incomplete if i ne­glected to mention my experience with the public metro system. walking into the metro center station for the first time on our trip was an experience comprised of equal parts excitement, confusion and intrigue. between end­less station stops, formidable vaulted ceilings and commuters frantically running to their yellow line transfers, i initially found it hard to believe there was any semblance of order in this place at all . in other words, no way on god’s green earth was i going to be 
protect religious freedom 
Sean Long 
guest columnist 

Today, the supreme court hears oral arguments to decide this question: can the federal government force owners of secular, for-profit businesses to vio­late their personal religious beliefs and provide full contraceptive coverage to employees? 
you — a past, current or future student at notre dame — should answer, “yes.” let me explain why. 
in hobby lobby v. sebelius, owners of hobby lobby, a private, secular craft store chain, believe the government mandate compels them to violate their religious beliefs by paying for health in­surance coverage that includes full con­traceptive coverage.  
First, i will explain why this case is not really about the law promoting or protecting human life, but rather about financial obligation; therefore, one’s opinion on the case should not turn on one’s opinion of contraceptive use. second, i will argue that a victory for hobby lobby and similar corporations is a loss for catholic institutions like notre dame and little sisters of the poor, which have a separate lawsuit against the man­date. if your interest is to protect human life and, as someone connected to notre dame, to protect religious organizations that aim to do the same, root against hobby lobby. 
note: since the supreme court must only decide whether the contraception mandate is constitutional .— not whether it is “good” or “bad” policy .— view this able to navigate this city on my own. That was, until, i met my savior in the metro tunnels . the metro map. 
at the beginning, getting used to the colors, dots and array of squiggles was quite the challenge, but getting down there in the midst of the craziness and navigating the system by simply using it was the only way i was able to be­come familiar with it at all. 
as it turns out, my experience in the metro was indicative of my experience in d.c. that week. The seminar func­tioned in a similar way to the metro map, except, in this case, the depths of our careers and aspirations were be­ing navigated instead of the streets of washington d.c. due to the organic and convoluted nature of both science and politics in this city, however, go­ing from point a to point b with your research or policies is not as simple as going from the capitol south to pentagon city stations. every agency we visited that week had a unique set of scientific innovations, policy initia­tives and professional opportunities to offer that are contributing to the great­er good, with each day offering a new route to take on the journey of life. 
in this day and age, every infini­tesimally small decision we make seems to have an infinite number of consequences. i know that i am not alone in having moments of immense uncertainty with the decisions i make today and their far-reaching impacts for tomorrow. whether it is which class to take, which graduate school to apply for or how a Facebook status will be seen six years from now, our generation has come to realize . with a certain degree of accuracy . that the decisions we make now will have a profound impact on our futures for better or for worse. a side effect of this attitude, however, is the pigeonholing of our futures into distinct, set, tried-and-true paths from which there can be little or no deviation, if “success” is the end goal. oftentimes, individu­als, especially young people, neglect pursuing what they truly love in lieu of what they think will get them where they want to be. in high school, for example, one might stop pursuing art or music courses because the aps would look better for colleges, or stu­dents might discontinue involvement in clubs they were passionate about to take on a more impressive résumé­builder . i know i did. not only is this perception fundamentally untenable, it actually may not be the right way to think about our futures. 
my trip to d.c. continually chal­lenged the notion that there are set tracks to life-fulfillment. The common thread that emerged with the people we met . all either scientific policy experts or people involved in policy­making . was that there is no common thread. There is no set track that gets you from point a to point b on The hill, a fact that is easily applicable to all facets of life, whether it is profes­sionally, emotionally or spiritually. rather, the roads to “success” in life are as varied and diverse as life itself, making it nearly impossible to map out what our lives will be 10 days from now, let alone 10 years from now. From the microbiology ph.d. that wound up as a legislative assistant for an indiana congresswoman, to the m.d. who ended up as managing director of the global network for neglected Tropical diseases, it became clear to me as the week progressed that embracing the flexibility necessary to conform to the changes in any trajectory life can offer is key. The next time i’m faced with a big decision, i’ll try to remem­ber this lesson, realizing that the map in front of me is a guide . not a set of commands. 

Michael is a science-business and Middle East studies sophomore currently residing in Duncan Hall. He can be reached via email at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
argument in the context of the legal implications of a ruling in favor of ei­ther side, not on personal views of the mandate. 
on the first point: hobby lobby’s own­ers sincerely believe in protecting the “sanctity of human life.” This i do not dispute. lower courts in similar cases note that religious owners of these cor­porations sincerely believe the “termina­tion of a fertilized embryo constitutes an ‘intrinsic evil and sin against god to which they are held accountable.’” however, hobby lobby’s owners do not argue against contraceptive use in this case . they “do not seek to control what an employee or his or her dependents do with the wages and healthcare dollars” and “do not consider themselves morally responsible for the choice of employees.” 
hobby lobby’s owners only argue that the government cannot force them to directly provide contraceptive coverage; they acknowledge and claim no moral responsibility for an employee’s indepen­dent decision to use wages for contracep­tive use. 
The case is not about contraceptives . use occurs in both scenarios .— it is about who pays for contraception, a criti­cal distinction. one might argue that contraceptive use will decrease if paid for outside an employer-provided plan. however, this is question of policy, not law, and unnecessary as a constitutional issue. 
in short, a ruling against hobby lobby does not denigrate the sanctity of human life before the law. 
on the second point: what does a hobby lobby victory mean for religious institutions like notre dame? The supreme court will weigh hobby lobby’s claim through its religious freedom test: a government action “shall not substan­tially burden a ‘person’s’ (emphasis add­ed) exercise of religion” unless it furthers a “compelling governmental interest.” because hobby lobby is legally defined as a corporation — not a “person” — its owners must first establish the legally separate corporation as a “person” ca­pable of exercising religion. 
Keep in mind that debate over whether a “compelling” government interest in women’s health exists to justify a restric­tion of religious freedom does not begin unless hobby lobby clears the hurdle of establishing that a secular, for-profit corporation qualifies as a “person” for purposes of this case. if not, the rest is irrelevant. 
The court below the supreme court argued that hobby lobby indeed quali­fies as a “person,” concluding: “as a mat­ter of constitutional law, Free exercise rights may extend to some for-profit or­ganizations.” This eliminates the special rights of religious nonprofit organiza­tions like the catholic church — which the supreme court has classified as a “person” under the religious Freedom restoration act. 
Further, in a 2012 supreme court decision upholding a church’s firing of a woman on otherwise discriminatory grounds, chief Justice roberts declared that the First amendment gives “special solitude to the rights of religious orga­nizations.” The lower court in hobby lobby v. sebelius used cases like these . each brought by religious organizations . to grant secular organizations similar rights. by applying existing statutes for religious organizations to secular sce­narios, such as hobby lobby’s case, a religious owner of a secular corporation is treated the same as an actual religious organization. 

a hobby lobby victory would denigrate catholic institutions like notre dame before the law, removing a key purpose of registering as a religious group in the first place. The supreme court could remove 
— for the first time — a fundamental distinction between religious and secular corporations. if hobby lobby wins its case against the hhs mandate, secular corporations and religious organiza­tions will be incorrectly understood as synonymous in a court of law. moreover, a hobby lobby victory would place the government in the business of deciding which for-profit corporations are “suf­ficiently religious” to receive religious protections traditionally granted only to religious organizations. 
in sum, a hobby lobby victory is not a victory for the protection of human life. instead, a hobby lobby victory is a seri­ous loss for religious, nonprofit organi­zations like notre dame. For those who support notre dame’s lawsuit against the federal government: cheer, cheer for old notre dame, but root against hobby lobby. 
Sean is a political science and international economics junior. He can be reached at slong4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
scene writer 

“it feels like, feels like i’m coming of age.” 
These lyrics ring true in one of Foster the people’s lat­est songs, “coming of age.” The band’s newest album, “supermodel,” was released march 18 to high anticipa­tion, and it is an impressive sophomore album.
 Foster the people, headed by musician mark Foster, released their first single, “pumped up Kicks,” in 2010. after the song went viral on youTube, their debut album, “Torches,” was released in may of 2011. with solid dance-pop beats, “Torches” quickly became an indie-crowd favorite. From there, the popularity of the band skyrock­eted, as they racked up grammy nominations and sold out their tour. Their initial single could still be heard on the radio constantly, and by the time it was just sizzling down, Foster the people was like a ticking bomb it was a matter of time before new material and sound would come from them. 
generally speaking, the newest record, as a whole, came at just the right time. The album’s fiery opener, “are you what you want To be?” rockets “supermodel” right out of the gate, with energetic guitars, drums and a strong vocal backbeat. This track is slightly reminiscent of reg­gae, but the element is not overpowering. The repetition makes this track one that definitely has the potential to get stuck in your head. 
another unique aspect of this album is the way Foster the people integrates other musical elements into their 
By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

“divergent” may have been number one in the box office this past weekend, but it fails to diverge from the dystopian plotline that has recently become a cliché. a girl grows up in an oppressive society. she realizes her society is oppressive and rebels. she happens to have flawless skin and high cheekbones. her defiant spirit wins the heart of her chiseled male comrade. 
dystopian novels used to be novel. my obsession with dystopias started in middle school when my english teacher assigned “The giver” for summer read­ing. i was hooked. The book was not overly creepy, but it was creepy enough to make me curious about the old man with the memories. i was intrigued by the alien, to­talitarian society, in which students were assigned ca­reers much like wizards in “harry potter” were assigned houses. 
when i gleefully graduated to the young adult section of the library, i fell in love with the “uglies” trilogy a summer must-read for any eighth-grade female. in the “uglies” world, a girl lives with other ugly also known as normal-looking people until her 16th birthday. Then, songs to create freshness in their music. “pseudologica Fantastica” takes on a dreamlike quality, taking listeners through a ride reminiscent of The beatles’ “lucy in the sky with diamonds.” 
Just like their first album, Foster the people propels “supermodel” along with truly memorable lyrics. This, in my opinion, is one of the band’s greatest strengths: producing a record that is danceable and lighthearted, but not sloppily so. The lyrics have meaning, which takes Foster the people’s experience as a band a step further. “ask yourself” questions the path of the dreamer and questions the human existence in general. “and you say that dreamers always get what they desire / well i’ve found, the more i get, the less i want / is this the life you’ve been waiting for / or are you hoping that you’ll be where you want with just a little more?” 
The similarity between the two albums from Foster the people is apparent, but the second distinguishes itself in its own way. The sound on this record is mature, but at the same time stays true to Foster the people’s overall es­sence: Fun, fresh beats collide with lyrics to remember. 
There are few tracks on this record that are not exactly weak but are certainly lesser than the others. granted, “The angelic welcome of mr. Jones” is the shortest song on the album, and maybe that is why it did not distin­guish itself for me among the other songs. “best Friend” was another that did not resonate with me long enough to stick. 
Throughout this album, the spectrum of songs is wide, but not wide enough to be confusing or unnecessary. all 
she gets an operation from the government that makes he a mindless “pretty,” so that she can go live on the oth­er side of the river and party her life away. spoiler alert: The heroine finds a group of runaway “uglies” and helps them stop the government from cutting down forests. 
This book became wildly popular with feminists and tree-huggers. i personally liked the idea that pret­ty people are not to be envied because they are gov-ernment-controlled robots. The reason this series has not yet been made into a blockbuster is probably that hollywood cannot figure out how to film “uglies” with­out using ugly actors. There’s no oscar for frizziest hair. 
as i graduated from middle to high school, i started reading more mature, disturbing works in my english classes, such as “Fahrenheit 451” and “1984.” instead of focusing solely on plot, we analyzed the texts’ political messages. “Fahrenheit 451” taught me that i was lucky to live in a society with a government that didn’t burn my books. “1984,” on the other hand, made me wonder if i was choosing to do a workout video or if the govern­ment was forcing me to do it. it justified my opinion that in order to exercise my freedom, i had to refrain from exercising. needless to say, it became one of my favorite books, especially on lazy pajama days. 

of them fit with one another in a way that is both vocally and emotionally pleasing. with “supermodel,” older fans of Foster the people will hearken back to memories of their first album, while new fans will have plenty of mate­rial to hold onto and build upon. i am excited to see what this new album brings to the band overall, and i see this quickly becoming a favorite on my “Top rated” playlist. “supermodel” is a record that i will certainly be keeping around for a while at least until their next single comes out. 
Contact Bridget Dedelow at bdedel01@saintmarys.edu 
“Supermodel” 
Foster The People 
Label: Columbia Records 
Tracks: “Coming of Age,” “Fire Escape,” “Pseudologica Fantastica” If you like: The Strokes, MGMT 

unfortunately, my love of dystopias was destined to end. when i read “The hunger games,” i had the strange feeling that i had read the series before. while plowing through “divergent,” i started confusing the main character Tris with Katniss. i felt guilty at first, as if i had called my friend by the wrong name, but then i re­alized that it was an honest mistake . the names rhyme, and the girls are arguably interchangeable. moreover, the covers of their respective books both picture fiery, circular shapes. how’s a reader supposed to keep the books straight? 
i did not want to admit it, but i had become disillu­sioned with dystopias. i tried forcing myself to read stephanie meyer’s “The host,” but i couldn’t conjure up enough care to finish. i shut the book without marking my place. my chapter with dystopias was over. 
i’ve learned that dystopias can float my boat from time to time, but when i try to swim in a stream of dystopias, i drown. i’m not dissing dystopias forever; in fact, i envy those who are still in their dystopian phase. The moral of the story is: enjoy your dystopias while you can. you can only delight in “divergent” for so long. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 

ERIN RICE | THE OBSERVER 
The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By KEVIN NOONAN 
senior scene writer 

did your favorite non-notre dame team get knocked out of the ncaamen’s basketball tournament by one of notre dame’s traditional football rivals, a stupid school with a stupid mascot, which just may have rejected you outright when you applied as a senior in high school as well? 
did the college basketball team of your youth, whose apparel makes up 60 percent of your available wardrobe on any given day, lull you into a false sense of security about the tournament by avoiding a second round match-up with an underrated team from the meth capital of the united states, not to mention setting itself up for a tee-ball of a sweet sixteen matchup against an 11-seed overplay­ing its potential, only to rip your heart out and stomp on it with missed jump shot after missed jump shot on their way to a loss against a west coast ivy league wannabe? 
me too. let’s be friends. we can talk about Kansas Jayhawks basketball. 
with notre dame missing the tournament, as well as taking a breather and passing on any potential post­season play, we were all forced to put our fandom eggs in different baskets for this year’s field of 64 if we wanted to invest in more than just our brackets. some of us grew up in families in which we learned to appreciate scott pollard’s facial hair for what it was and to develop a deep hatred for mike bibby and arizona, and so people like me were able to fall back on their hometown teams forooting interest in the tournament. 
By MEGHAN CLEARY 
scene writer 

schoolboy Q’s newest album, “oxymoron,” rounds out the trifecta of Q’s musical output over the past four years. after giving the entire album a good listen, there was a perplexing response. many of the songs satisfied me individually. schoolboy Q displayed a very defi­nite ability to create an expansive spectrum of sound within his genre; however, this was the uprising and downfall of this album. although songs were individu­ally enjoyable and well-made, there was no sense of schoolboy Q establishing a “signature.” Q featured many identifiable artists, such as 2 chainz and Tyler, the creator who also produced the track he on which he is featured along with fellow black hippy members Jay rock and Kendrick lamar. without looking at a tracklist, these featured artists can easily be identified, whether it is through the raspy tones Kendrick exudes or the production tone that Tyler, the creator presents from the beat off of “The purge.” schoolboy Q’s abil­ity to make great music with whomever he works is commendable, yet it left me hanging to find any idea of what the real schoolboy Q sounds like. 
The introduction track of the album is “gangsta,” in which Q takes the opportunity to embellish on a mes­sage frequented in hip-hop: drugs, women and fame. The beat is standard, with the simple piano and drum 
but now, with the first rounds over and most brack­ets decimated by losses by teams like Kansas, duke and syracuse, we have to find new ways to stay invested in the tournament. if your other favorite team took a surprise slap to the face and caught the early flight back home out of the tournament, here are some suggestions for other ways to keep yourself interested in the tournament. 
1. Root against whomever your friends are rooting for. 
This is a time-tested strategy. Take the first few minutes of any tournament game and listen closely to whom your friends are rooting for, how hard and for what reasons. or better yet, scope out their social media profiles and take a look at their online bracket to get an idea of where their interests lie. once you know who they have their heart set on, run as fast as you can in the opposite direction. The harder they cheer for their team of choice, the more fun it will be to rub it in their face when their team loses. 
2. Root against Notre Dame’s rivals. 
we don’t get as into basketball season here as we do football, but hatred knows no season and hatred knows no bounds, so feel free to let the fiery, irrational rage you feel during football games rise up within you and take com­plete control of your thoughts and actions, as is the notre dame way. as previously mentioned, stanford remains alive through some combination of witchcraft and po­litical blackmailing, and they’re joined by both michigan and michigan state. if we could’ve thrown usc in there, we’d be one misguided penalty for targeting on one of our 
sequence that takes us through a nostalgic feeling op­posed to the futuristic and electronic-influenced style of hip hop we see develop later on in the tracklist. 
next we are presented with “los awesome,” which features black hippy artist Jay rock.  pharrell pro­duces the track, which was surprising, to say the least. considering pharrell’s recent release of the  disco­esque and light-hearted album “g i r l,” this track takes on a very upbeat but intense persona. although the sound of the song is enjoyable, delving into the lyr­ics of this song shows no surprises. The lyrical content with which the album began merely continues on, unchanged. 
a notable change of pace in the album was when “studio” came on. This track, featuring bJ the chicago Kid, is much less focused on timely tough-imagery and much more focused on bringing forth the message of sensuality through heavy bass and vocal background, which takes us back to the days of Twista’s “slow Jamz.” This vibe, alongside “grooveline pt. 2,” a track featured later in the album and a follow-up to “grooveline pt. 1” from Q’s previous album, is a surprising yet pleasing change of pace for the listener. 
Then we have songs such as “hell of a night,” “man of the year” and the promotional single, “yay yay.”  all three of these songs have very similar bass-dense and futuristic sounds, which keep a lower beat-per-min­ute strong with the support of a consistently present defensive linemen away from a full-blown riot of intercol­legiate hatred. and isn’t that what sports are all about? 

3. Root for the underdogs. Unless they’re coached by Calipari. Or Pitino. Or Izzo. 
For some fans, one of the most exciting aspects of the ncaa tournament is the wild card factor of underdog teams rising up, hitting big shots and knocking off a top-seeded team. The spectacle of the unexpected is on full display, the equalizing factor of the deep three-point shot never more important. but for other fans, fans who, say, have watched bradley, bucknell, northern iowa, vcu and now stanford pull off memorable upsets against Kansas over the last ten years, the concept of the under­dog gets a little worn. For me, i just love to see guys like John calipari, coach at the university of Kentucky, rick pitino, louisville’s coach, and Tom izzo, michigan state’s coach, get knocked off their perches. There’s no real rea­son. maybe it’s the collective use of hair oil. whatever it is, i love to root against them. 
4. Root for Arizona. 
have you ever read “The secret?” pretty cool book, you should check it out. anyway, i have an outside shot at win­ning my bracket pool if arizona wins the national cham­pionship, so i could really use all your positive energy and thinking and wishing or whatever voodoo that book is about to make it happen. Thanks guys, i appreciate it. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
hi-hat. although each could certainly be considered a “crowd-pleaser,” there is little variation between their lyrical content and, specifically, the beats themselves. 
overall, there was seldom a track that disappointed me. songs like “hoover street” and “prescription­oxymoron” kept beat variation amidst the songs that west coast rap has stayed so true, i.e. Kendrick lamar in tracks such as “m.a.a.d city.” schoolboy Q deliv­ered an album that is not by any means difficult to en­joy. Q has proven his ability to be versatile and work with many different genres. There are high hopes that future work will establish a firmer grasp on what schoolboy Q considers to be “his sound.” 
Contact Meghan Cleary at mcleary2@nd.edu 
“Oxymoron” 
ScHoolboy Q 
Label: Interscope Records 
Tracks: “Man of the Year,” Collard Greens” 
If you like: Kendrick Lamar, Tyler, the Creator 


ERIN RICE | THE OBSERVER 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Musings on the early ‘Madness’ 
A.J. Godeaux 
sports writer 
yesterday in this column mary green wrote that it was easy to get caught up in march madness, yet proceeded instead to write about baseball in australia. 
i’d like to apologize, because i do not possess the “intestinal forti­tude” — the most overused phrase of sideline reporters this weekend — of mary green. i am bedridden with march madness fever, so without further ado, here’s what i’ll take from the first weekend of madness. 
College basketball has more parity than ever, but upsets still don’t make any sense. 
considering my bracket looks like a treasure map with the amount of “X’s” i have through it right now, i’m joining in the rest of america in wondering how in the (insert whatever word you used this weekend here) duke lost to mercer, vcu lost to stephen F. austin on a four-point play, mercer beat duke, mercer beat duke and — oh, that’s right — mercer beat the duke blue devils, led by mike Krzyzewski, a $15.1 million basketball budget and two surefire lottery picks in rodney hood and Jabari parker. 
i have no idea why this happens, although charles barkley tells me it’s because of terrible team basketball. 
it wasn’t as if mercer was the only team that challenged the college basketball goliaths, either. albany, of the hideous purple and yellow uniforms — look them up, but hopefully at a time when you wouldn’t mind going blind 
— played Florida to a 12-point game. eastern Kentucky, a team that lost to youngstown state, led Kansas until the seven-minute mark of the second half. That Kansas team, highlighted by consensus top-three pick andrew wiggins, turned around 40 hours later and got railroaded by an average stanford team. granted, the Jayhawks had a chance to tie the game at the buzzer, but the cardinal clearly outplayed them 
for the entire game.  
The McDermott embrmy favorite moment weekend.  ace of  was the  

odds are you turned this game off once baylor center isaiah austin showed up to the gym as the second coming of Kareem abdul-Jabbar, but if you didn’t, you saw a great moment. with about 3 minutes left and creighton down around a trillion, creighton coach greg mcdermott subbed out his son doug, the fifth all-time leading scorer in division i history, for the final time. both, especially doug, were emotional, and i don’t blame them. everyone dreams of having his dad coach him, and not the dad who’s screaming at the referee and yelling at his kid, but the one who chest bumps him after a com­plete-game shutout. as someone whose dad coached him in little league and in the last two years of high school, i know exactly how that feels. it’s one of the most bit­tersweet feelings ever, with flash­backs to playing in the backyard, to t-ball, to your first homerun, or, in the mcdermotts’ case, doug scoring a gazillion points every time he stepped on the floor. 
Kyle Anderson is the most fun player to watch. 
Kyle anderson is my type of player. his nickname is slo-mo, and for good reason, but he cap­tures your attention the entire game, and not just because he’s 6’9” playing point guard. no, it’s because, despite his molasses-quick first step, the guy does whatever he wants on the court. he’ll post up; he’ll take his man into the lane at will; he can get into passing lanes; he passes like magic Johnson, and he somehow plays serviceable defense. he does everything. and then he defies the laws of athleticism by waltzing into the paint and dunking over someone. 
Marquee players can’t lead a team to a championship anymore. 
This is probably the answer to my first observation, but i’m too scared to put the two together. one of the reasons march madness used to be great was there was always one team with an absurdly talented player who you thought might be able to lead their team on a deep run into the tournament. Just in the first weekend, though, Jabari parker, doug mcdermott, marcus smart, andrew wiggins, Tyler ennis and aaron craft have all been eliminated. all except smart were eliminated by lower-seeded teams. i hope the Kemba walker-led uconn team of 2011 isn’t the exception these days, but it seems to be. The likely formula for a championship now is probably in the mold of this year’s Florida or arizona team. or it could be Kentucky, which has five of those absurdly talented players. 
Chris Webber needs to be removed from TV screens everywhere. 
i don’t even want to write about this abomination of a commercial. go call a nonexistent timeout somewhere, chris. as lou holtz once said, “if you’ve seen it, no explanation is necessary. if you haven’t, none is adequate.” 
or something like that. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

depaul upsets duke 
Associated Press 
durham, n.c. — megan rogowski scored 22 points and megan podkowa add­ed 18 to help depaul up­set duke 74-65 on monday night in the second round of the ncaa tournament. 
brittany hrynko added 14 for the seventh-seeded blue demons (29-6). They earned their third appear­ance in the round of 16 by hitting 14 3-pointers and forcing second-seeded duke into 21 turnovers with their high-pressure defense. 
depaul will play the James madison-Texas a&m winner on saturday in the lincoln regional semifinals. 
elizabeth williams scored 12 points, and se­niors haley peters and Tricia liston each added 11 in their final game at cameron indoor stadium. 
duke (28-7) led for only 12 seconds and became the first top-four seed to lose in the tournament. The blue devils — who made four straight appearances in the regional finals — became the first no. 2 seed to lose this early since Xavier lost to louisville in 2011. 

Jasmine penny added 11 points for depaul, which has won 18 of 19. 
coach doug bruno’s team was coming off a 104-100 win over oklahoma in the first round, the highest-scoring regulation game in tournament history. 
it joined connecticut, notre dame and north carolina as teams to come into cameron this year and beat the blue devils. 
They won this one with defense, using relentless pressure against a blue devils team with no healthy point guards. 
Ka’lia Johnson scored 11 points and oderah chidom added 10 for duke, which lost an ncaa tournament game at cameron for the first time since 1996 and was denied its 17th regional semifinal berth in 18 years. 
duke had one last chance to make things interesting after liston hit a layup af­ter a steal to make it 67-60 with 1:45 left and hrynko missed the front end of a one-and-one. 
but penny blocked liston’s layup, and after the teams traded turnovers, depaul bled the clock be­fore duke fouled Jessica January with 1:09 left. 
liston’s 3 went in and out, and rogowski hit two free throws with 42.1 seconds left to push the lead back to 10. 
duke had closed to 49-46 on chidom’s layup with 7 minutes left. 
penny countered with a jumper in the lane and hrynko followed with a 3 in front of the depaul bench 
— and afterward held her shooting hand high for a moment. 
rogowski, who finished with six 3s, hit one to push the lead to 57-48 — the sev­enth time the blue demons countered a duke bucket with a 3 — and she then gave depaul a double-fig­ure lead on its next posses­sion with two free throws with 5:02 left. 
by then, duke was on its way to dropping to 21-2 in ncaa tournament games at cameron. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

ogwumike leads stanford 
Associated Press 
ames, iowa — chiney ogwumike had 19 points and nine rebounds, and stanford broke open the game with a 30-2 run span­ning the halves in a 63-44 victory over Florida state in the second round of the ncaa women’s tournament monday night. 
The second-seeded cardinal (31-3) won two games in ames to advance to the regional they’ll host at maples pavilion start­ing saturday. They’re in the sweet 16 for the seventh year in a row. 
stanford’s opponent in the regional semifinal saturday will be no. 11 Florida or no. 3 penn state. Those teams meet in a second-round game in state college, pa., on Tuesday 
The 10th-seeded seminoles (21-12) struggled to score in both of their two tournament games, follow­ing a 55-44 win over iowa state with another dud. 
lili Thompson add­ed 14 points and bonnie samuelson had 11 with three 3-pointers. The cardinal had 17 assists on 22 field goals. 


Fsu’s natasha howard had nine points and seven rebounds, all in the second half. 
The last time stanford and Florida state met was in the 2007 ncaa tourna­ment. The seminoles, a no. 10 seed then as well, won 68­61 on stanford’s home court to reach the sweet 16 for the first time. 
There was no threat of an upset this time, even though stanford trailed by eight points early. Then the cardinal went on their 30-2 run that made it 36-16. 
The cardinal began the game in a tightly packed 2-3 zone defense and challenged the seminoles to shoot from the outside. The seminoles made 5-of-6 shots. 
stanford extended its zone after the first media time­out, and things didn’t come as easily for the seminoles. Fsu missed 20 of 22 shots to end the half and was held scoreless for nearly 10 minutes. 
howard, the seminoles’ all-america candidate who has a school-record 15 dou­ble-doubles this season, couldn’t get open. it took her 12 minutes to take her first shot, a miss, and she also was off on her next five. 
ogwumike, the cardinal’s national player of the year candidate, also started slowly. she had two touches and one shot on stanford’s first eight possessions be­fore she scored on amber orrange’s entry pass. ogwumike scored three straight baskets, bonnie samuelson made a 3-pointer and ogwumike sank a free throw to tie it at 14. 
ogwumike’s three-point play and a couple more baskets by Thompson and samuelson highlighted a 16-0 surge that ended with a jumper by Fsu’s cheetah delgado. 
The cardinal rolled off the next 10 points to make it a 16-point game at half. They made nine straight shots over the halves be­fore samuelson missed a 3-pointer. by then it was 40-18. 
howard finished her ca­reer as Fsu’s second-leading scorer (1,811 points) and career rebounding leader (1,047). 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC LACROSSE | concordia 20, sainT mary’s 3 
Concordia rolls over Belles 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
after a narrow road loss to aurora on Thursday, saint mary’s struggled against concordia university–wisconsin, losing 20-3 to the Falcons on saturday. 
The Falcons (4-0) came out strong on offense to start the game and took a 16-0 lead over the belles (0-6) by halftime. concordia out-shot saint mary’s 24-2 and picked up 27 ground balls, compared to 13 for the belles. 
“we had a difficult time in the first half because concordia ran a very high-pressure defense that we had not seen before,” belles coach amy long said. “concordia forced a lot of turnovers by pressuring the ball anywhere it was on the field. we had a difficult time controlling the ball with that added pressure.” 
The belles managed to slow the Falcons in the second half and generated some momentum of their own, as they were able to cap­italize offensively and score three goals. Freshman midfield aubrey golembieski put the belles on the scoreboard seven minutes into the second period before fresh­man defense Jackie loesch added a second goal 33 seconds later and scored once more later in the sec­ond half to close out the scoring for the belles. 
“by the second half, our team was able to adjust to the high-pressure defense concordia was running,” long said. “we spread out on offense and really protected the ball in our offensive end. This helped us out-shoot our competi­tion, 11-10, in the second half.” 
despite the increased offense, concordia scored four more goals, closing out the game for a 20-3 win. 
belles reshman goalie stephanie szymas made three stops in goal before sophomore Tess guerrero switched from attack to goal and added three more saves in the sec­ond half. golembieski and sopho­more defense sarah neeser each collected four ground balls, and neeser led the team with five draw controls. 
“i am proud of our improve­ment during the second half,” long said, “we out-shot our op­ponent and won more draws than the Falcons did in the second half. we went from being out-hustled on ground balls in the first half to having an equal number of ground balls as concordia in the second half. i am also proud of our defense because they were able to limit concordia to just four goals in the second half to our three.” 
despite the loss, long said the belles now know what they need to improve on as they prepare for their games later in the season. 
“This game against concordia definitely helped prepare us for future games in which the oppo­nent will be running a high pres­sure defense,” long said. “This is hard to re-create in practice, and i am proud that we were able make the appropriate adjustments by the second half. going into our next game, we will continue to work on protecting the ball as we move it down the field and in our offensive end.’ 
The belles return to the field sunday, when they host illinois Tech in the program’s first-ever home game. The opening draw is scheduled for 1 p.m. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

SMC SOFTBALL | sainT mary’s 5, domincian 3; sainT mary’s 5, domincian 2 
belles sweep dominican 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
The belles swept their sunday doubleheader against dominican in rosemont, ill., rallying twice to earn their fifth and sixth consecutive wins by scores of 5-3 and 5-2. 
in the first game, the belles (8-4) went down early, 2-1. The momentum shifted in the top of the fourth, however, when saint mary’s rallied to score three runs, starting with a dou­ble from sophomore first baseman Jillian busfield that plated the tying run. sophomore second base­man angela dainelli then put the belles ahead to stay with a single, which brought home two more runs. 
dominican (8-6) got back one run in the bottom of the fourth, but dainelli opened the fifth inning with a walk and came around to score the game’s final run on a single by junior outfielder nina vlahiotis. 
along with those those well-timed hits, the belles rode senior pitcher callie selner’s arm to the two-run victory. selner pitched the entire game and racked up four strikeouts for her fifth win of the season. 
The belles’ pitching stayed strong in the second game, as sophomore sarah burke also tossed a com­plete game for a win, which boosted her record to 3-2. 
belles’ coach Kelli Zache said she was pleased with her team’s pitching perfor­mance over the weekend. 
“i though the pitching was solid,” Zache said. “in pre­paring for the game, i’d told them that these would be the toughest hitters we’ve faced thus far, and both pitchers had great com­posure and really brought their game.” 

selner chipped in at the plate in the second game, going 3-4 with three dou­bles. burke added a double to go with her dominance on the mound, which was a pleasant, according to Zache. 
“That was her first dou­ble, which was great to see,” Zache said. 
Zache said she was also pleased with the play of sophomore outfielder moranda hegedus in the day’s second game. 
“moranda did well,” Zache said. “i mean she nearly had a cycle. The whole team hit well, but it was great to see players like moranda really step up.” 
hegedus’ pivotal hit came in the fifth inning with the belles again down 2-1. hegedus laced a line drive, which scored two runs as she raced all the way to third. she then tal­lied the belles’ fourth run of the game on a groundout. dainelli would score the game’s final run on another groundout in the sixth after a single and stolen base. 
dominican managed only five runs in the two games combined, which Zache said made her optimistic about her team’s level of play. 
“dominican is a solid team and we knew they’d be stiff competition,” Zache said. “i think half their line­up hits over .300, so i was really happy with the way we came together. we made adjustments. we knew we were going to have to have great composure and we did.” 
The belles will try to con­tinue their winning streak at manchester on wednesday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS | smc 9, oliveT 0 

belles, Faller blank olivet 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s started its con­ference slate off on the right foot sunday, winning 60 of 64 games contested en route to a 9-0 victory over olivet. 
The belles (5-3, 1-0 miaa) got out to a hot start against the comets (0-2, 0-2) in the doubles matches, snag­ging wins at no. 1 and no. 3 doubles without dropping a game. senior co-captain mary catherine Faller and junior Kayle sexton took the win at no. 1 doubles while sophomores margaret Faller and andrea Fetters also swept their opponent at no. 3 doubles. 

The strong showing con­tinued for the belles in the singles matches where they continued to perform well and sweep olivet in the sin­gles matches. mary catherine Faller swept her opponent at no. 1 singles while sexton dis­patched her opponent quick­ly at no. 2 singles. Juniors Jackie Kjolhede and shannon elliott won in twelve straight games at nos. 3 and 4 singles respectively. 
“it was an overall team effort,” belles coach dale campbell said. “we had con­trol of the matches but i ap­preciated the focus of the team and to try and improve as they were playing their matches. i think they did a good job with that.” 
The win was a first step to­wards a top-four spot in the miaa and postseason quali­fication for the belles, but campbell said that he didn’t want to get carried away after one game. 
“The standings aren’t im­portant now other than that we won our first confer­ence match,” campbell said. “all conference matches are important.” 
The belles are back in ac­tion Thursday as they travel to marion, ind., to take on no. 17 indiana wesleyan in a non-conference contest. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND SOFTBALL 

irish host emu after off week 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after battling poor weather conditions that cancelled their series against pittsburgh over the weekend, the irish are ea­ger to hit the field again as they take on eastern michigan at 4 p.m. wednesday at melissa cook stadium. 
“The biggest challenge is we haven’t played a game in a week,” senior pitcher laura winter said. “Keeping the en­ergy up during practice is tough. once you start games it’s tough to go so long without them.” 
with their three-game se­ries against pittsburgh can-celled, notre dame’s [19-7, 3-3 acc] matchup with eastern michigan (8-16) will be it’s first game of the spring in melissa cook stadium. Though the irish have managed to get some outdoor practice in, winter said struggling through constant weather delays takes its toll. 
was named mid-american conference west pitcher of the week after the matchups with youngstown. in the sec­ond contest, huntley pitched six full innings and recorded three strikeouts. 
meanwhile, winter has led the charge for the irish pitch­ing staff this season, earning acc player of the week honors after pitching all 13 innings against Florida international on march 13. 
senior captain chloe saganowich enters the contest on a seven-game hitting streak, hitting .333 over the stretch. 
The irish enter the matchup off a win over virginia Tech on march 16 that snapped a three-game losing streak.  after dropping the first two games of their series against the hokies (16-14, 5-6 acc), the irish bounced back in the final game and knocked out fifteen hits — more than the first two games put together. 
winter said the irish would be relying on every player 
CLUB SPORTS 

ND Cycling captures first criterium win of season 
Special to The Observer 
in the classic midwestern cold, clouds and wind, the irish cycling team took to the streets of cleveland, ohio, for case western reserve university’s cri­terium on sunday. The course wrapped around the cleveland browns’ football stadium and saw tempera­tures in the mid-20s with snow flurries at times. 
The men’s a team scored notre dame’s first crite­rium win of the season and the first ever a-criterium win in school history. early in the race junior John pratt jumped into the day’s win­ning six-man break, while back in the main field, junior Jim snitzer and senior luke Tilmans slowed the pace at the front to ensure the move with pratt would stay clear to the finish. The team tactics worked to perfec­tion and pratt was comfort­ably in the top six heading into the final hundred me­ters. he started his sprint early and sailed to the line in front of riders from var­sity programs lindenwood, lindsey wilson and marian. after a hard day of control­ling the field, Tilmans and snitzer finished solidly with 15th and 17th-place finishes respectively. 

in men’s d, graduate stu­dents Tom Frederick and mike lorenzen set a fast pace at the front through­out the race. The high speed reduced the field in num­bers, setting them up well for the final laps. Frederick, who spent much of the day leading the race, was caught in an untimely crash with only half a mile to go while lorenzen managed to keep a high position going for the sprint and took an impres­sive second place. 
Freshmen riders sarah cullen, emma-Kate conlin and devin stalker proved to be a young but resilient trio for the irish in the women’s b/c category. early in the race, two riders from michigan and marian started a breakaway that ended up sticking until the end. despite attempts by cullen to bridge the gap, the field had to settle for a sprint for third. conlin had a strong performance, fin­ishing eighth, and helped keep cullen at the front. in the final sprint, cullen struck early and found her­self finishing a career-best fifth. stalker rounded out the great day’s ride for the women’s team by finishing 12th. 
notre dame solidified its lead of division-ii team standings, while pratt and snitzer remain first and third respectively in the individual division-ii standings. 
John pratt jumped to second overall in the con­ference after his victory sunday. 
“getting back into the groove on game day will be key,” winter said. “we have been able to be on the field ad­justing to the weather, so we are thankful for that. Finding our rhythm quickly will be important.” 
The eagles enter the match-up having recently split a se­ries with youngstown state, taking the second of two games 6-3.  The irish will need to look out for freshman pitcher alyssa huntley, who 
BASEBALL 
to step up and lead against eastern michigan. 
“every day, someone finds a way to step up and rally,” winter said. “using that en­ergy to keep the flow going will help us tremendously.” 
The irish hit the field wednesday at 4 p.m. for their home opener against eastern michigan at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



irish-uic game postponed 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame was sched­uled to play illinois-chicago at Four winds Field in down­town south bend this af­ternoon, but the game was postponed late monday. 
Forecasts call for snow showers throughout the day on Tuesday, with predicted temperatures in the mid-20s at the time the game would have been played. officials have not set a make-up date yet. 
This is the second time this week winter weather has af­fected notre dame’s spring sports. all three softball games against pittsburgh were called due to low tem­peratures on saturday and sunday. 
The irish (8-14, 1-8 acc) have lost eight of their last 11 games and all but one of their nine conference match-ups, but they did win their first two midweek games against appalachian state and robert morris. illinois­chicago (6-12, 2-4 horizon league) is on a two-game winning streak after taking two of three from valparaiso over the weekend. 
weather permitting, the irish will host wake Forest in a three-game set Friday, saturday and sunday. The games on Friday and sunday will be played at Four winds Field, while the saturday contest will take place at the 
u.s. steel yard in gary, ind. 



MEN’S GOLF 

Irish post best score of spring season 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish posted their best score of the spring season in the second round of the lone star invitational on monday. The irish finished the after­noon round four-under-par, which marks their best score on the season. 
notre dame will enter the third and final round of the tournament in 11th place with a two-day score of 586 (302 and 284). 
“The team did a great job coming back from a poor round,” senior captain niall platt said. “we improved by 18 shots in the second round, and everyone showed a lot of determination to put up a good round two.” 
after a first-round team score of 14-over-par, four of the team’s five starters con­tributed rounds at or under par, which is the first time this season that the irish had four starting scores of par or better. 
platt rallied from a two-over first round to birdie six holes in the afternoon for a three-under-par 69 and secure a 16th place finish.  This marks his eighth under par round of the 2014 season. 
“i was happy to make a comeback in the second round,” platt said. “in the first round i didn’t hit the ball very well and was pretty dis­appointed with a 74. second round i hit the ball great and probably could have shot a lot lower if had made more putts, [but] overall i was happy with a second round of 69.” 
Junior patrick grahek bird­ied four holes in the first round for an even-par 72. in the second round, grahek had consecutive birdies at the par-five 13th and par-four 14th hole to counter a bogey earlier in the round. he closed the round after 10 straight pars with a birdie-bogey finish for another even 72 and a 19th place overall ranking. 
“i played very well today,” grahek said. “i didn’t make many mistakes and really kept my game under control.” 
Freshman matt rushton gained greater control of the course in the afternoon round. rushton’s double-bo­gey in the first round contrib­uted to his five-over-par 77, but he notched five birdies in the second round that brought him to an even-72 in the sec­ond round. 
Freshman liam cox, who shot a seven-over-par score 79 in the first round, birdied his last three holes of the second round for a one-under-par 71, while senior tri-captain andrew carreon finished the day with a combined score of 186 (82-76). 

“we did a great job showing up to play on the second 18 in the afternoon,” grahek said. “we were all very comfortable and our freshmen especially stepped up to post some good scores to help the team.” 
no. 20 new mexico opened the tournament with a nine-stroke lead to card a two-round score of 13-under-par (281-282). no. 38 purdue stands in second place at four-under-par after posting a 280 in the second round (292-280­572). southeastern louisiana (288-285) and no. 25 baylor (283-290) enter the third round in third place at three-under-par 573. 
while the irish have a solid starting point heading into the final round of the tour­nament, they have keep their control and focus if they want to move past their opponent, platt said. 
“we all need to stay pa­tient,” platt said. “we all have a desire to shoot a low round tomorrow but it’s important that we don’t get frustrated if things don’t go our way or if we start missing some putts. 
“everyone started hitting the ball really well in the sec­ond round today so if we con­tinue to do that the good scores will come with patience.” 
The irish head into the third and final round of the lone star invitational today for an 
8:30 a.m. shotgun start. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

irish struggle at lsu golf classic 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
notre dame finished 11th out of 15 teams at the lsu Tigers golf classic last weekend, with a final score of 919 (55 over par). arkansas won the tourna­ment with a score of 18 over par. 
Though the team strug­gled, especially early on in the tournament, irish coach susan holt said her team would learn from it and move forward. 
“it certainly wasn’t the finish we were looking for,” holt said. “we had an op­portunity to pick up some quality wins and we weren’t able to do that. we got better every round and we had some good individual performances, but we’ll just continue to work and get better.” 
senior Kristina nhim led the irish for the second con­secutive week with a score of eight over par, tying for 13th place individually. last weekend, nhim came in first at the clover cup in arizona, where notre dame took second place as a team. 
due to weather concerns, the tournament in baton rouge, la., was condensed from three days into two, beginning Friday and end­ing saturday afternoon. 
Four out of the five notre dame golfers improved af­ter the first round on Friday, scoring better in the back-to-back rounds saturday. nhim made the most sig­nificant improvement, pro­gressing from an 81 Friday to scores of 74 and 69 in the next two rounds. 
Freshman Jordan Ferreira had the second best score for the irish at 11-over, put­ting her in a tie for 20th overall in the tournament. sophomore Talia campbell was next for notre dame with a score of 234 (18 over par), followed by juniors ashley armstrong (20-over) and Kelli oride (27-over). 
“Kristina’s bounce back was a highlight. she’s play­ing really well right now,” holt said. “Jordan Ferreira after the first day played really well, too. after a long, taxing day, she really stepped up.” 
with a two-week break be­fore their next tournament, the irish have time to work on their game. holt said she is optimistic about the team’s ability to get better. 
“we’ve got ole miss next, which will be another op­portunity for us to get some good wins,” holt said. “we’ve had the opportu­nities and now we need to make the most of them.” 
notre dame will head to oxford, miss., on april 4 for the rebel intercollegiate tournament. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

Fencing 
conTinued From page 16 
2013 semifinal opponent, sophomore Jackie dubrovich from columbia, and bested her by a score of 6-4 in a high­ly defensive bout. 
Zeiss and Kiefer competed fiercely in the championship bout, going back and forth until the score was 10-9 in Kiefer’s favor. as the clock wound down, Kiefer got three more touches to win 13-10 and take home the ncaa women’s foil title for the sec­ond consecutive year, this time with her teammate Zeiss next to her on the podium. 
Juniors nicole ameli and ashley severson represent­ed notre dame in women’s epee, with each turning in an up-and-down competition. ameli would finish in eighth with a 13-10 record, while severson followed closely in 10th. 
in sabre, sophomore Johanna Thill posted a strong opening round, beating five of her first six opponents. she lost some steam as the tour­nament continued, however, winding up in 15th place with a 10-13 record. 
The men’s competition began saturday morning, with foilists meinhardt and freshman Kristjan archer leading the charge for the irish. meinhardt, the second-ranked foilist in the world, was a nearly perfect 14-1 on saturday and continued his success on sunday. he topped penn state sophomore nobuo brav 15-11 in the semifinal, but fell behind 9-5 early in the championship match against brav’s teammate, se­nior david willette. Finding a spark, however, he came back to tie the score at 12-12. meinhardt got the final three touches to win 15-12, adding a second ncaa title to his list of accolades. archer finished in 10th place at 13-10. 
sophomore epeeist garrett mcgrath went just 8-7 in the first day of competition, but he bounced back and won his first five sunday bouts, landing himself in the semi­final match, which he won 13-9 in a well-fought contest. despite putting up another strong showing in the final, mcgrath was unable to hang on to an early lead against st. John’s freshman yevgeniy Karyuchenko. he lost 15-13 and finished in second place. 
sophomore John hallsten and senior Kevin hassett, the competitors in men’s sabre, were unable to find their rhythm, finishing 13th and 18th respectively in the tournament. 
when the team scores were totaled, the irish fell into sixth place with 138 points, 72 from the women and 66 from the men. They were eight points behind fifth-place harvard and well behind the victori­ous penn state, which fin­ished with 180 points. 

M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
corrigan said. “They’re strug­gling a bit record-wise but it’s not indicative of the quality of the team they have. They’ve played some really great teams to with­in one play. not making just one play here or there is the differ­ence between winning and los­ing. we expect to see their best in a game that we know they need to win, at their home.” 
The irish and the buckeyes have a long history dating back to notre dame’s first varsity sea­son in 1981. The two teams have played every year, with the irish leading the all-time series 31-21, including wins in the past nine meetings. 
This year, ohio state will have to contain irish senior midfielder liam o’connor, who has won 
70.1 percent of his face-offs to rank second in the nation in that category. The senior is sixth in the nation in ground balls per game as well. o’connor was added to the Tewaaraton award watch list on Friday, alongside sopho­more attackman matt Kavanagh and senior defenseman stephen o’hara. The Tewaaraton award is given annually to the top col­legiate lacrosse player. 
“i was thrilled for liam [to be added], and he’s earned it with his play to date,” corrigan said. “but there is still a lot of season to go. The best thing that [the watch list] says to me is that we have an attackman, a midfielder and a defensemen, all of whom people think are among the best in the 
NBA | bulls 89, pacers 77 
country. That really speaks to the balance of our team and that’s a strength that we have, so we’re going to continue to build off not only their play but the play of ev­eryone around them.” 



The irish square off against the buckeyes on Tuesday at 4 p.m., in columbus, ohio. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

bulls, gibson top pacers 
Associated Press 
chicago — Taj gibson led five players in double figures with 23 points and the chicago bulls brushed off a poor offen­sive first half to rally for an 89-77 victory over the indiana pacers on monday night. 
Kirk hinrich had 18 points on 7-for-13 shooting, mike dunleavy scored 13, Jimmy butler 12 and Joakim noah added 10 points, eight rebounds and eight assists. 
gibson, who was 9 for 15 from the field, also had eight rebounds in 32 minutes off the bench. 
The bulls (40-31) pulled within two percentage points of Toronto (39-30) for third place in the eastern conference. 
The win also prevent­ed indiana from clinching the central division title on chicago’s home court. The pacers are looking to win con­secutive division crowns for the second time since joining the nba (1998-99 and 1999-2000). 
The pacers, who were led by paul george’s 21 points, have dropped three straight and six of eight on the road. They’ve lost four of five at the united center, including both visits this season. 
The pacers earned a 91-79 vic­tory over the bulls on Friday night at indiana. 
with the nba’s top two defen­sive teams on the court, points figured to come at a premium, and that certainly was the case in the first half. 
neither team managed to score 20 in either of the first two quarters, and the pacers took a 34-33 halftime lead when george hill (12 first-half points) hit a 3-pointer with 1.4 seconds left. 
The bulls were 14 of 44 (31.8 percent) from the field in the first half, including 1 for 10 on 3-pointers. 
perhaps the most entertaining portion of the half came when the crowd got on pacers center roy hibbert for an apparent flop, a hot topic between the teams in recent days. 
on the play, hibbert was fouled by noah as he was beginning to go up for a shot attempt. while there definitely was enough con­tact to warrant a foul, it appeared to be light. hibbert, though, dropped to the court flailing as if he had been hit by a flagrant foul. 
after the replay was shown on the scoreboard, the crowd began to boo. noah stood off to the side with a big grin on his face. 
Following Friday’s game in indiana, gibson accused the pacers of flopping, and it was still the topic of conversation at the morning shootaround for both teams. 
“i mean, i haven’t taken a charge in probably four years,” hibbert said at the shootaround. “he’s entitled to his opinion. i’m just going to go out there and play hard.” 
The bulls finally got into an of­fensive rhythm in the third quar­ter, starting the second half with a 16-5 run to take a 49-39 lead. 
a few minutes later, indiana had cut the lead to 55-49 and george had the ball on a fast break ahead of the field. hinrich, though, caught him from behind and looked as if he was going to give an intentional foul. instead, hinrich stripped the ball and the bulls headed in the opposite di­rection as george complained that he was fouled. 
The bulls completed the four-point swing on gibson’s dunk to make it 57-49 with just more than 4 minutes left in the third quarter. 
The bulls took a 64-56 lead into the fourth after scoring 31 points in the third. They had balanced scoring in the quarter with dunleavy and hinrich each tallying seven points. carlos boozer, butler and gibson added five apiece. 

W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 

The irish responded in the second half by outscoring the sun devils, 52-41, hitting 52.9 percent of their field-goal at­tempts and taking a 25-17 ad­vantage on the boards. 
“we did a much better job of honing in on what we were try­ing to accomplish in the sec­ond half,” mcgraw said. 
in a microcosm of the game, mcbride made her first two la­yups of the night but missed her next 11 shots. however, she closed out the second half shooting 6-of-7 to finish with 22 points and nine assists. 
“i think it came down to me being relaxed,” mcbride said. “i thought i was pressured a little bit with [freshman guard lindsay allen] out of the game, and i felt like i was doing too much. i think in the second half, i just settled down and started taking better shots.” 
one of those 11 misses from the acc player of the year was a 3-point attempt that missed the rim, which led to chants of “air ball” throughout the entire game from the arizona state band. 
“oh, yeah, i definitely heard it,” mcbride said with a laugh. “every single time, all the way up to the last free throw — that was terrible. it was awful.” 
senior forward natalie achonwa led all players with 25 points and 11 rebounds in 27 minutes on the floor and pro­vided much of notre dame’s offense during mcbride’s struggles. redshirt senior guard deja mann led the sun devils with 12 points. 
“we thought she had an ad­vantage, speed-wise,” mcgraw said of achonwa. “we thought she could put it on the floor and drive by them. we were looking for her to get it on the move, off the dribble. she was really able to get it going in the second half.” 
while a large part of notre dame’s 93 points in the first round saturday against robert morris came from the bench, non-starters contributed only 12 monday. achonwa, mcbride and sophomore guard Jewell loyd (19) totaled 66 points for the irish. 
“They’re capable of doing that,” mcgraw said of her three leading scorers. “That’s why we don’t worry if they are in a little bit of a shooting slump. we know they will pull them­selves out of it. 
“in a pressure game like this, you’ve got to rely on your big three.” 
in addition to overcoming its early offensive woes, notre dame also had to battle with foul trouble for much of the game. 
arizona state hit the bonus just a little over four minutes into the second half, and at that point, mcbride, achonwa and senior forward ariel braker each had two fouls, while allen and freshman for­ward Taya reimer had both picked up three. no irish play­ers fouled out, however. 
“no matter what the circum­stances in the game, it’s al­ways hard to sit on the bench,” achonwa said. “but i think the team did a great job of re­sponding and picked up the responsibility.” 
with the win, the irish ad­vance to the sweet sixteen to face no. 5-seed oklahoma state (25-8, 11-7 big 12) on the familiar hardwood of purcell pavilion. 
“our fans, family and friends do so much for us, so to be able to go back and play in front of them as a senior means a lot to me, and i know Kayla and ariel are the same way,” achonwa said. “To be on our home court is going to be really exciting.” 
notre dame, looking to extend its undefeated sea­son and move on to the elite eight, takes on the cowgirls on saturday at 3:30 pm at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: consideration will have to be taken this year with regard to the people you choose to spend time with professionally and personally. emotional factors will lead you down the wrong path. you have to separate your feelings from your decisions in order to reach your goals in the simplest, most effective and efficient manner. make romance a priority. your numbers are 6, 17, 24, 28, 31, 37, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): put your skills to the test. don’t get upset over trivial matters. Focus and make every moment count. speak with confidence and you will get your way in the end. romance and passion will improve your personal life. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make suggestions based on your past experience. don’t count on others when taking a leadership position will bring higher returns. express your thoughts and follow through with your plans. don’t depend on others to handle your responsibilities. Follow your instincts and win. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): diligence is key. do what must be done and ask questions if you don’t like the way things are going. deception is apparent and excess will lead to financial loss or a poor reputation. Focus on being and doing your very best. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): organize and make sure you are fully prepared before you jump into a situation or make impulsive changes. emotions will skyrocket if you let the little things get to you. Focus on being creative as well as keeping the peace. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t mess with rules or those in a position of authority. stick to what you know and be responsible for what you do. it’s your ability to get things done that will keep you out of trouble and heading in a positive direction. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): size up each situation you face. determine your best plan of attack and concentrate on moving ahead until you feel you’ve reached your goal. networking will open doors and encourage partnerships. share your concerns and your intentions. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) avoid criticism by following through with any promises you make or responsibilities you take on. avoid taking drastic measures if it will upset your domestic scene or an important partnership. incorporate suggestions from others in order to keep the peace. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): raise your standards. refuse to let anger get the better of you. Take on and complete whatever task you are given, but focus on the activities, events or endeavors that bring you greater satisfaction and joy. home improvements will pay off. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll have to navigate your way through all the information you are given. weed out anything that sounds too far-fetched. sticking to the basics will enable you to reach your destination with the least amount of interference. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Question anyone trying to coerce you into doing something that doesn’t feel right. Follow your intuition and make decisions based on what you know, as well as past experience. emotional manipulation is apparent. don’t overreact. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): set your sights on what you want and go after your goals. a healthy, positive, go-getter attitude will impress some and threaten others. do your best and don’t be afraid to negotiate on your own behalf. love is on the rise. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): attitude will make the difference when it comes to dealing with touchy subjects. letting your emotions lead the way will backfire. Take a cautious and controlled approach to anything that has the potential to be unpredictable. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, flexible and insightful. you are unique and passionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 84, asu 67 
Irish take down Sun Devils 

Achonwa leads Irish with 25 as Notre Dame clinches Sweet Sixteen berth 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
Toledo, ohio — seven min­utes into the second half, irish se­nior guard Kayla mcbride’s jumper rolled around the rim and through the hoop. on the next trip, arizona state sophomore guard elisha davis’s layup rolled around the rim and off. 
The game had finally gone notre dame’s way. 
much like the play of their lead­ing scorer, the no. 1-seed irish had to fight through first-half struggles to earn a second-round win in the ncaa tournament over the no. 9-seed sun devils, 84-67 monday at savage arena in Toledo, ohio. 
notre dame (34-0, 16-0 acc) entered halftime with a 32-26 lead but also with 12 turnovers and a 16-12 rebounding deficit to arizona state (23-10, 11-7 pac-12). The sun devils even took a brief two­and-a-half minute lead midway through the first frame, the first time the irish have trailed in the tournament. 
“we couldn’t get in transition because we weren’t rebounding in the first half,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “we looked at their numbers at halftime, and 17 of [arizona state’s] 28 points were off either turnovers or offensive rebounds. we told them we just needed to take care of the ball and rebound.” 
see w basKeTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

nd prepares for rival ohio state 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
halfway through the regu­lar season, no. 7 notre dame is still working out some kinks, but has the chance to build on its first win streak of the season against long-time rival ohio state on Tuesday in columbus, ohio. 
The irish (3-2, 2-0 acc) dominated then-no. 8 virginia at home on march 16, taking first place in the acc with an 18-9 win. with eight days to recover and prepare for the buckeyes (2­5, 1-0 ecac), the team fo­cused on resolving issues that plagued them in losses against no. 18 penn state and no. 6 denver, irish coach Kevin corrigan said. 
“we’re still learning about ourselves,” he said. “it’s a process. what we’ve shown is that if people are willing to go up and down the field with us and play a high possession game, then we can be pretty good. what we haven’t shown is that we can be effective in a game when they hold the ball and limit possessions. we still need the courage to make plays and take risks, but with a little more selec­tivity. That’s something that we’ve yet to prove on game day but … we’re a signifi­cantly better team than we were three weeks ago.” 
The eight days off mark the longest break in the season for the irish, who used the time to heal several nagging injuries and give players a brief respite from training before returning to practice later in the week, corrigan said. 
The buckeyes have strug­gled so far this season, enter­ing the year ranked no. 14 in the nation before losing five of their first six, including two in overtime. The ohio state defense ranks 17th in the country, surrendering 9 goals per game, but the of­fense has sputtered, pro­ducing just 8.43 goals per contest, good for 55th out of 67 div. i lacrosse programs. 
“They’re a very good team,” 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 
FENCING 

Irish capture sixth at NCAA championships 

graduate student gerek 
Observer Staff Report 

meinhardt each captured indi­
after competing from vidual national titles in the foil. Thursday through sunday Ten notre dame fencers at the 2014 ncaa national qualified for the competition, championships in columbus, five each on the men’s and ohio, the irish wound up in women’s side. Kiefer and junior sixth place as a team, while foilist madison Zeiss posted sophomore lee Kiefer and identical 19-4 records in the opening rounds and entered the semifinals as the first and second seeds, respectively. 
Kiefer advanced with a 15­12 victory against ohio state freshman alanna goldie. meanwhile, Zeiss gained a her 
see Fencing PAGE 13 

Men’s Golf at Lone Star Invitational 11th Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago Tues. ND Women’s Tennis vs. Marquette Wed. 
ND Womens’s Basketball vs. Arizona State W 84-67 Men’s Lacrosse vs. Ohio State Tues. Track at Texas Relays Wed.-Sat. 
ND Softball vs. Northwestern Tues. Baseball vs. UIC Tues. 




