ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg ThE TRuTh NOTRE dAME ANd ANd REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCuRATELy 

VOLuME 47, ISSuE 80 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND amends harassment protocol 
Administration combines former policies on sexual, discriminatory provocation 
By MARISA IATI 
Assistant Managing Editor 
In an attempt to stream­line treatment of sexual and discriminatory harassment, the Office of Institutional Equity published revisions to the university’s “Policy on Sexual and discriminatory harassment” in late december. 
“This is an overarching pol­icy that applies to everyone at the university that says we have no tolerance for instances of sexual or discriminatory ha­rassment,” Sarah Wake, direc­tor of the Office of Institutional Equity, said. “It is also a general policy statement about what the university expects of every member of this community.” 
The policy applies to stu­dents, faculty and staff mem­bers, but the “du Lac” student handbook, and not the “Policy on Sexual and discriminatory harassment,” governs student­on-student sexual harassment. 
The revised policy combines two previous policies: one on sexual harassment and one on discriminatory harassment, Wake said. She said the sexual harassment policy largely mir­rored the student-on-student sexual harassment policy in “du Lac,” whereas the dis­criminatory harassment pol­icy contained some different procedures. 


“There wasn’t as specific of a time frame, it wasn’t as clear I think who to contact and what the process was,” Wake said. “By condensing the two poli­cies … we have the same policy and procedure governing both sets of conduct. 
“It also shows that we take discriminatory harassment just as seriously as we take sexual harassment. They’re treated the same way, they’re investigated in the same way, they have the same time frames involved. It shows to me that they’re treated on equal footing here and that we’re committed 
see POLICy PAGE 5 


Former sociology professor dies 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Notre dame sociolo­gy professor Maureen hallinan died Jan. 28 in South Bend at the age of 73 after an illness, 

according to a university news release. 
hallinan, the William P. and hazel B. White Professor of Sociology Emeritus at Notre dame joined the College of Arts 
Maureen Hallinan
former sociology professor 
see hALLINAN PAGE 5 



Exxon Mobil rep discusses the future of energy 
By JESSICA MERDES 
News Writer 
Vice president and trea­surer of Exxon Mobil Corp. Robert Schleckser spoke at the Mendoza College of Business on Friday as the first of seven lecturers for the one-credit course “Notre dame Ten years hence Speaker Series: The Future of Energ y.” 
The series aims to “explore issues, ideas and trends like­ly to affect business and so­ciety over the next decade,” according to Mendoza’s website. 
Schleckser, a Notre dame graduate who earned a de­gree in chemical engineering, said investments his oil com­pany makes will cause effects well beyond the year 2040. gas companies are look­ing and planning ahead in a world suffering from an ener­gy crisis and unprecedented human population growth, he said. 

“There is no purpose in us to be self-serving … because we look at the prospect of getting a good return over time,” Schleckser said. 
Schleckser said Exxon be­lieves in “letting market force dictate the solution” to the environmental issues. Since “global progress drives de­mand,” he said he considers 
see EXXON PAGE 5 


SMC kicks off Heritage Week, honors Sr. Madeleva 
By KELLY KONYA 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the first installment in a three-part series exploring the unique characteristics of the Saint Mary’s alumnae, leaders and places on campus in honor of the College’s annual Heritage Week. 
This week marks Saint Mary’s annual celebration of heritage Week, a time for students to reflect on the rich tradition of the College.  
     One of the most important figures in the College’s history is Sr. Madeleva Wolff, a woman who embodied the College’s four core values of spirituality, learning, community and justice, junior grace McSorley said. 
see hERITAgE PAGE 6 


Photo courtesy of Grace McSorley 

Sr. Madeleva Wolff was president of Saint Mary’s College from 1934 to 1961 and is responsible for much of the College’s core values. 

SMC FORMAL PAGE 4 VIEWPOINT PAGE 8 SCENE PAGE 11 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 20 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Super Bowl snack? 

Sean Himel 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“Potato pancakes.” 

Austin Burgett 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“girl Scout cookies.” 

Jake Castellini 
sophomore 
Alumni hall 
“Skyline Chili dip.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



James Harkins 
sophomore 
duncan 
“Celery.” 


Kerry McCartan 
sophomore 
howard hall 
“guac.” 


Danny Shawhan 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“diced pineapples.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Carolyn hutyra Joseph Monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Tori Roeck Mary green Emily McConville Alex Wilcox 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Maria Massa Kevin Noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

ACMS colloquium Human rights lecture Career and Love Languages Hospitality lunch 
grant Tobin dan Brombach 
Hayes-Healy Center Hesburgh Center for internship fair Coleman-Morse Geddes Hall 
4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. International Studies Joyce Center Center 11:45 a.m. - 1 p.m. With Bledar Konomi of 12:30 p.m. - 2 p.m. 4 p.m. - 8 p.m. 12 p.m. - 1 p.m, $5 donation benefits 
Corrections 

the Pacific Northwest With Dr. Christopher Professional dress Which of five love St. Margaret’s House. 
The Observer regards itself as National Laboratory. McCrudden. recommended. langauges fits you? a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Vincent Who?” Lecture: Don “As You Like It” Concert: Piano Meyo Invitational 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
LaFortune Student Drakeman Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Loftus Sports Center, 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Innovation Park 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center Meyo Field 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Shakespeare’s famous 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 4 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
On the Asian American On new medicines and comedy with London Bach, Schubert with Track and Field, 
we can correct our error. 

Civil Rights movement. biotech companies. Stage actors. Daniel Schlosberg. continues on Saturday. 

NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | ThE OBSERVER 

Professor discusses global impact of Irish literature 
By JACK ROONEY 
News Writer 
On Friday, dr. Kasia Bartoszyska, a professor at Bilkent university in Turkey, presented a lecture titled “Ireland Among Others,” as part of the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies’ Lectures and Public Talk Series. 
Bartoszyska, who received her Ph. d. in Comparative Literature from the university of Chicago in 2011, spoke on the significance of Irish literature in a global and transnational context. 
Irish Studies typically draws comparisons to its west­ern European neighbors, Bartoszyska said, but a bet­ter understanding comes from comparing Ireland to countries with similar features. 
“Irish Studies has long had an implicitly comparative dimen­sion, often seeing its cultural output in relation to, and in turn set by, that of its nearest neigh­bor, great Britain,” Bartoszyska said. “Recent years have seen an increase in different forms of comparison. 
“In examining Irish writ­ing alongside that of other cul­tures, be that of other colonies, other islands or other predomi­nantly Catholic nations, new geographical coordinates, it is suggested, have the poten­tial to highlight aspects of the tradition that have heretofore received less attention, giving us a new perspective on Irish literature.” 
Bartoszyska said she based her lecture on a comparison be­tween two novels, one Irish and one Polish. Bartoszynska focused on “Melmoth the Wanderer,” written by Irish author Charles Maturin and “The Manuscript Found in Saragossa,” written by Polish author Jan Potocki. 
“Focusing on these concrete examples gives us a pathway to the bigger questions by see­ing how some of the theoretical paradigms play out in practice,” she said. “They were written around the same time, in the late 18th and early 19th cen­tury, and they’re oddly similar to each other in many ways, ex­cept that one has a Polish author and the other, an Anglo-Irish one. They are not exactly world-famous classics, but neither are they completely unknown.” 
The novels share a similar style of seemingly unrelated characters telling interconnect­ed stories, Bartoszyska said. 
“What ‘Melmoth the Wanderer’ and ‘Manuscript Found in Saragossa’ share is a highly interconnected char­acter structure, where people who have seemingly nothing to do with each other are shown as related in various ways,” she said. 
Bartoszyska said it is common for scholars to attribute simi­larities like these to the similar cultural and socio-political fac­tors present in both Ireland and Poland. 
“After all, weren’t both Poland and Ireland countries with ex­tremely powerful neighbors, 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

places that had to struggle to keep their cultures alive in the face of constant threat or even a total loss of sovereignty,” she said. “didn’t both have a last­ing, deep connection to the Catholic Church?” 
The connection runs much deeper than superficial charac­terization, Bartoszyska said. 
“As a starting point, we can say that when we compare Polish and Irish literature, we learn that neither is the anom­aly it often imagines itself to be,” she said. “In both Polish and Irish Studies, references abound to the uniqueness of each as a dominated region within Europe.” 
Bartoszyska said comparative study of such literature helps develop an overall better under­standing of world literature. 
“Examining the way these two texts create fictional worlds and articulate the relationship between those worlds, and the world, we can begin to consider the question of how they fit in to a more global understanding of literature,” she said. 
Studies like hers may ulti­mately lead to a better con­ception of literature overall, Bartoszyska said. 
“So comparing Irish literature to other traditions, paradoxi­cally, may help us move beyond such narrow comparisons, and to contextualize Irish writing within a more transnational frame,” she said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 


Academic fraternities foster scholastic excellence 
By JACK ROONEY 
News Writer 

Contrary to popular belief, greek life does exist on Notre dame’s campus. Although the university does not sanction any social fraternities or so­rorities, a number of academic fraternities provide students with unique scholastic and professional opportunities and networks. 
According to the Student Activities Office (SAO) website, nine undergraduate student clubs, in fields ranging from accounting to political science and engineering, are part of national academic organiza­tions that use greek letters as identifiers. 
Senior dominic Romeo, the co-president of Notre dame’s chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha, a political science honor society, said the organization provides its members with excellent scholarship opportunities as well as a valuable network. 
“There are some scholar­ships through the national or­ganization that students can apply for,” Romeo said. “They can also get grant funding through the national organiza­tion, too. Pi Sigma Alpha also puts you into a global network of people who have excelled in political science.” 
Ashlee hunt, a first year stu­dent in Notre dame’s Master of Science in Accountancy (MSA) program serves as president of Notre dame’s chapter of Beta Alpha Psi, an accounting honor society. She said Beta Alpha Psi hosts a variety of events for its members to network and per­form service. 
“We have professional events when someone from a com­pany like deloitte comes in and gives a presentation,” hunt said. “We also have service events where students will go out and volunteer at places like the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
“We also do interactive ser­vice activities with companies. KPMg is coming on Feb. 26 and we are making shoebox school supply kits for elementary school students.” 
As honor societies, these organizations often require members to maintain out­standing grades and display strong leadership character­istics. hunt said along with a rigorous gPA requirement, Beta Alpha Psi requires stu­dents to perform service and attend events sponsored by the organization. 
“Members are inducted during their junior year and then they are required to com­plete six service hours and six professional hours per semes­ter to remain members,” she said. 
Senior Jane Mcguinness, president of Notre dame’s chapter of Tau Beta Pi, an engi­neering honor society, said her organization chooses members based on “character, service, leadership and scholarship.” 
“Tau Beta Pi has a selective process of initiating people,” Mcguinness, an electrical en­gineering major, said. “They invite the top eighth of the ju­nior engineering class and top fifth of the senior engineering class to apply.” 
Mcguinness said Tau Beta Pi also runs tutoring sessions as part of its academic and ser­vice mission on Notre dame’s campus. 
“The main way we give back to the school is our tutoring programs,” Mcguinness said. “We have nightly sessions for upper level engineering classes in all of the different engineer­ing fields.” 
Senior Taryn green, a mem­ber of upsilon Pi Epsilon (uPE), a computer science honor soci­ety, said students could also re­ceive significant scholarships for their work. 
“Because we are an honor society, we mostly just exist on this campus to recognize student’s academic achieve­ment and provide them an additional scholarship route through the national upsilon Pi Epsilon organization,” green said. “Members can apply for a scholarship through the execu­tive uPE council. Scholarships range between $750 to $1500.” 
Romeo said members of Pi Sigma Alpha are eligible for scholarships and grants and gain access to an expansive professional and academic network. 
“There are some scholar­ships through the national or­ganization that students can apply for,” Romeo said. “They can also get grant funding through the national orga­nization, too. It also puts you into a global network of people who have excelled in political science.” 
Notre dame also has chap­ters of Pi Tau Sigma (engineer­ing), Psi Chi (psychology), Chi Epsilon (civil engineering), Eta Kappa Nu (computer and electrical engineering) and Lambda Alpha (anthropology). 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 



SMC connects with summer program in utah 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students inter­ested in summer service may want to consider applying for the holy Cross Ministries utah Summer Program in Salt Lake City. 
The Sisters of the holy Cross in utah are looking for enthusiastic, service-mind­ed students to help with a summer education program for elementary school-aged children. 
“It’s something we have been doing for quite some time,” Sr. Mary Ann Pajakowski, di­rector of education for holy Cross Ministries, said. “The summer service program gives students the opportuni­ty to engage in more outreach projects.” 
Office of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) repre­sentative Erika Buhring said the Sisters run the program for approximately 200 el­ementary school children in first through fifth grade dur­ing the summer months. 
The utah Summer Program is the College’s largest sum­mer service program. While other summer opportuni­ties generally allow students to spend a couple weeks do­ing service, this opportunity spans a period of eight weeks. 
The utah Program current­ly offers students numerous opportunities for education experience, including work­ing with children on mathe­matics, creating fun activities and going to the pool. 
Junior Meaghan garofalo said her favorite experience involved taking the students to the pool and helping them learn how to swim. She also said she enjoyed working with the Sisters of the holy Cross and spending time with them and her fellow peers in the program. 
“It’s hard to choose one fa­vorite activity,” garofalo said. “The entire utah program was just amazing.” 
According to the OCSE ap­plication, college partici­pants are provided housing through Saint Mary’s and Notre dame alumni who live in the area. host families pro­vide interns with both hous­ing and meals. 
garofalo said she was placed with a graduate of Saint Mary’s and appreciated the opportunity to connect with an SMC alumna. 
The experience was hum­bling, garofalo said. 
“Many of the children that I worked with were in hard situations, but they highly valued obtaining their educa­tion,” she said. 
According to the OCSE ap­plication, the population of the area is largely Latino, and knowledge of Spanish is helpful. 
 “The students we worked with were adorable and in­credible,” garofalo said. “So many of them were bilingual [in English and Spanish], but continually, they were work­ing their hardest to improve their language skills.” 
Buhring said interns are ex­pected to manage a group of about 12 kids, plan the pro­grams and provide a different theme every week. 
despite the large number of applicants, OCSE only selects two Saint Mary’s students to participate in the program. The deadline for applying to the utah Summer Service Program is March 7, 2014. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 

Students weigh in on all-school formal 
pleased with her first college formal at Saint Mary’s. 
“I think it’s really fun to dress up and get ready for a dance again like we did in high school but to do it in col­lege with all our friends,” she said. 
Before the formal, the orga­nizers of dance Marathon, a charity event meant to raise money for the Riley hospital for Children, provided hair and nail services in the Reignbeaux lounge in Le Mans from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.. Salon Rouge was painting nails for $5, curling and braiding hair for $2, doing makeup for $2 and applying hair extensions for $7. All the money went to support dance Marathon. 
First-year student Catherine Miller had her nails painted in Le Mans before the for­mal. Miller said she thought it was such a fun idea for dance 

that bought tickets. Marathon to offer these ser-
By ALAINA ANDERSON 

News Writer “We sold at least 780 tickets, vices for girls. so we are pretty happy about “My nails looked so great for 
Saint Mary’s students and that,” Baker said. formal and you couldn’t beat their guests relived their The theme for the formal those prices,” Miller said. “I’m high school dances when this year was “prom” and in-so happy dance Marathon did Saint Mary’s Residence hall cluded the crowning of a prom this because doing my own Association (RhA) hosted the queen for the upperclassmen nails is always a struggle and all-school, prom-themed for-and a prom princess for the it feels great being pampered mal on Friday at the hilton lowerclassmen. once in a while.” garden Inn. “This year we have a very First-year student Madeline 
RhA president Kaitlyn large freshman class,” Baker Rafferty said although she Baker said the event was a said. “We thought it was pret-had a great time at the for-huge success and received ty practical so most of the girls mal, she was upset the dance positive feedback from stu-could wear their prom dresses was held on Friday instead of dents in attendance all night. again. That’s what drew us to-Saturday. 
Eight hundred tickets went wards the prom theme.” “My boyfriend goes to up for sale to support RhA. First-year student Ali university of Wisconsin Baker said she was pleased Mahoney was excited about Madison so he would have had with the number of students the prom theme and was to skip his classes on Friday to make it in time to formal.” “Formal has been a lot of Rafferty said. “A lot of other fun. We just came with our girls have significant others friends and no dates, which 


can be even better,” Mcglone said. “We’re just having a lot of fun on the dance floor.” 
“We just came with 
First-year student yosline 
our friends and 

Camacho said she never at-no dates, which tended prom in high school can be even better. and was happy to share this 
experience with her best 
We’re just having 
friends. 
a lot of fun on the 

“Saint Mary’s did such a dance floor” good job with formal this year and I was so excited it was 
Annie McGlone 
prom themed. There are al­
sophomore 
ways so many dances at Notre 

dame and we never have that don’t go to Notre dame dances here, so when we do or holy Cross so it would have it’s a great way for the com-been nice if formal was on munity to come together, get Saturday.” dressed up, and have a blast,” 
Sophomore Annie Mcglone Camacho said. “I can’t wait said she had a great time for next year’s formal.” dancing with her friends and really enjoyed the prom as-Contact Alaina Anderson at pect of formal. aander02@saintmarys.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | ThE OBSERVER 



Policy 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
to having a zero tolerance policy for both types of harassment.” 
The revised sexual and dis­criminatory harassment policy eliminates the option of pro­ceeding informally to attempt to resolve a case. Wake said under the previous policies, a department of the university could conduct its own inves­tigation about an instance of alleged harassment. She said this informal procedure was troublesome because different departments used distinct pro­cesses and sometimes reached different outcomes. 
“We want these to be treated consistently … across campus, so we want to know that all of our students, all of our faculty and all of our staff who are ever making a complaint, that they know that they can trust in the process and that they’ll get a consistent result any time that they come forward,” Wake said. 
The revised policy provides students with two options to make complaints: communi­cating directly with the alleged defender or undergoing the university resolution process. Wake said this new set of options provides consistency among cases of alleged harassment. 
“It allows us to track what’s going on on campus,” she said. “Before, if things were handled informally, we might not ever know, someone at the university might not ever know, that in a given department there was whatever complaint. … Now, with this process, … we’re going to have an accurate picture of where potential problems might be and where we might need to do more, to conduct additional training or make people more aware of a policy and of what the university expects.” 
The “Policy on Sexual and discriminatory harassment” also states that the university aims to complete investigations of complaints within 60 calen­dar days of the initial report, as opposed to the 60 business days mentioned in the previous, sep­arate policies. 
A provision of the revised pol­icy ensures the confidentiality of people who report instances 
“We want people to come forward, and we want people to feel comfortable, not only with the process, but with people here at the University who are designed simply to help deal with situations like this.” 
Sarah Wake 
director 
Office of Institutional Equity 
of harassment. A separate pro­vision protects them against retaliation. 
“When [university President Fr. John Jenkins] speaks about these issues, he says that it nev­er serves Notre dame to keep is­sues like this quiet,” Wake said. “We want people to come for­ward, and we want people to feel comfortable, not only with the process, but with people here at the university who are designed simply to help deal with situa­tions like this.” 
Wake said her office recently redesigned its website, equity. nd.edu, to make clearer the av­enues through which people can report harassment. She said policies regarding sexual and discriminatory harassment also have become more integrated into faculty and staff orientation programs. 
Additionally, Wake said so far in the 2013-14 academic year, her office has received four times as many complaints of sexual or discriminatory harassment in­volving a staff member as it did in the entire 2012 calendar year. 
“I just think there’s been a huge renewed commitment to making sure people are aware of and understand these issues,” Wake said. 
Although the student-on-stu­dent sexual harassment policy outlined in “du Lac” is not cur­rently up for revision, Wake said the university is conducting focus groups with students and is open to considering improve­ments that could be made to the “du Lac” policy in the future. 
Wake said she hopes the revisions to the “Policy on Sexual and discriminatory harassment” help people to un­derstand the avenues through which students, faculty and staff can report issues or receive guidance. 
“I hope that people also gain confidence in the process, that if I come forward, I’m always go­ing to be treated with respect,” Wake said. “I’m going to have a fair process, it’s going to be a prompt process, it’s going to be a thorough process, and at the end of the day, that they feel the resolution is fair.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Hallinan 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
and Letters in 1984, the release stated. She was the second woman at the university ap­pointed to an endowed chair and the founding director of the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the Center for Research on Educational Opportunity. 
“It is impossible to think about Notre dame sociology without thinking of Maureen hallinan,” department chair Rory McVeigh said in the re­lease. “her extraordinary re­search accomplishments and her high visibility in sociology, and in education research more generally, put a spotlight on our department in a way that benefitted her colleagues and attracted strong faculty members and graduate stu­dents to Notre dame.” 
hallinan authored or ed­ited nine books and more than 120 peer-reviewed ar­ticles in scholarly journals. her research in the field of so­ciology of education included work on the effects of school characteristics on student achievement and social devel­opment, the formation of in­terracial friendships in middle and secondary schools and achievement gaps between races. She was renowned for her research on academic tracking and children’s re­sponses to being tracked above or below their capabili­ties, the release stated. 

during  her  28-year  ten­ 
ure  at  the  university,  
hallinan  received  Notre  

dame’s Presidential Award Citation in 1997, the Research Achievement in 2003, the Faculty Award in 2006 and the Excellence in Research on Catholic Education Award in 2007. Beyond her work at Notre dame, hallinan served as president of the American Sociological Association in 1996 and president of the Sociological Research Association in 2000. 
A visitation will be held from 6 to 8 p.m. on Monday at Kaniewski Funeral home, 3545 N. Bendix drive, South Bend. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 9:30 
a.m. Tuesday at the Basilica of the Sacred heart, followed by interment in Notre dame’s Cedar grove Cemetery. 
Memorial contributions can be made to the university’s Alliance for Catholic Education. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
Exxon 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
the world’s expected popu­lation growth. 
There are approximate­ly 7 billion people in the world right now, but by the year 2040, the world population is expected to be 9 billion, Schleckser said. Energy consumption is also expected to change due to global urbanization and the growth of major cities.  
The energy consump­tion for a person living in an urban area is about three times as high as it is for someone living in a rural area, Schleckser said. As the world contin­ues to become more urban, Schleckser said energy use is expected to increase. 
“[The goal is] to grow the economy without chang­ing the amount of energy used,” he said. “[Because] as much energy as the world uses today in total … the largest source of new energy is saving the energy that we are using today.” 
Schleckser said this goal is achievable by making the process of transmitting energy more efficient and by increasing the percent­age of energy that comes from cleaner sources. he said vehicle efficiency is expected to increase to 45 miles per gallon by 2040. 
Projections that extend to 2040 show that energy demands will increase along with population growth and urbanization, Schleckser said, but saving energy and increasing the efficiency of technology are important to creating a sustainable future. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu  

Mass mobs fill pews, lift prayers 
Associated Press 
BuFFALO, N.y.  — Playing off the idea of using social media to summon crowds for parties or mischief, mobs of Buffalo-area Roman Catholics have been filling pews and lifting spirits at some of the city’s original, now often sparsely attended, churches. 
It works this way: On a given Sunday, participants attend Mass en masse at a church they’ve picked in an online vote and pro­moted through Facebook and Twitter. Visitors experience the architecture, heritage and spirit of the aging houses of worship and the churches once again see the numbers they were built for, along with a helpful bump in do­nations when the collection bas­kets are passed. 
“I call these churches faith en­hancers. you can’t help but walk in and feel closer to a higher pow­er,” said Christopher Byrd, who hatched the idea in Buffalo last fall and has organized two Mass mobs so far, both of which drew hundreds. he’s heard from other cities about starting their own. 
The aim, he said, is to reig­nite interest, support and per­haps even membership in older churches that “kind of fall off the radar screen of people.” 
One such church is Our Lady of Perpetual help in a neighbor­hood settled by Irish immigrants along the Buffalo River. The church once brimmed with 800 families when it was dedicated in 1900. Today, fewer than 50 worshippers typically amble into the gothic-style sanctuary for Sunday Mass. 
It’s a familiar story among city churches that were built for waves of Polish, german, Irish and Italian immigrants but whose congregations have dwin­dled with the city’s population decline and suburban sprawl. Buffalo’s population is less than half what it was in 1950, when it peaked at 580,000. 
“We’re still here,” said the Rev. donald Lutz, who welcomed a crowd of more than 300 on a re­cent Sunday after Our Lady of Perpetual help, known to locals as “Pets,” was selected for the Mass mob. 
Organizers sought nomina­tions from the public for churches on the Mass mob website and put the top three up for a vote. Online voting begins this week for the next mob, planned for March 23. 
“It’s wonderful,” said Lutz, who learned his church had been chosen two weeks before. “It just shows that we are not just one parish, that it’s the whole fam­ily of the diocese. We take care of each other. 
“And,” he added, “if it helps us pay a few more bills ...” 
With every pew occupied, later-arriving worshippers stood against the back wall, remind­ing 88-year-old parishioner Elizabeth Barrett of the way it used to be in the church she has attended since birth, a block from her lifelong home. 
“you had to get here very ear­ly when I was young, it was so crowded,” she said. “And now there are just a handful. It’s hard to accept, but you have to.” 
during the sign of peace, Lutz spent several minutes breezing up and down aisles, smiling and shaking hands. he invited all to a nearby community center for a pastry and coffee after the service. 


ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

event in the Student Center internationally acclaimed be immersed in a global reality Mary’s Women,’” Sullivan said. 
Heritage 

Lounge to celebrate her poetry poet and brought a great deal and worked hard to bring the “We studied Sr. Madeleva’s bi-
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 

and life. of recognition to Saint Mary’s world to Saint Mary’s. ography and analyzed her po­said. English professor Sr. Eva through her connections “her promise to the students etry, and it was interesting to 
McSorley, who has studied hooker selected and read nine around the world. Many refer to of her day was one of discover-see how different she was from Wolff ever since she learned poems from one of Wolff’s col-those as the ‘golden years.’ ing the universe and one’s place the other sisters of her time. of her many contributions to lections, including famous po-“I was an English major dur-in it. That is still true for the She’s still very much a part of Saint Mary’s, said she thinks all ems “Apology for youth” and ing my years as a student and College today.” our curriculum and inspires students should know her story. “Song of Bedlam Inn.” of course, I have read all of her Wolff’s legacy can still be our students to follow their be­
“She is truly fascinating to “These nine poems in some books and biographies. I ad-seen throughout the College, liefs, despite what anyone else me,” she said. “She was edu-way read Sr. Madeleva as I knew mire her work ethic and love for Wiedower said. says.” cated at Notre dame, [the her through the years both as a Saint Mary’s very much.” “[It’s in] the beauty of the For Sullivan, the greatest way university of California] student and as a young sister,” Wolff set Saint Mary’s course campus, in the curriculum to honor Wolff as a Saint Mary’s Berkeley, Oxford. She ran with hooker said.  “She was presi-as the leading Catholic wom-that embraces the liberal arts woman is to try to make a dif­an impressive literary circle, dent when I came here as a first-en’s college in the country, and and professional arts, and in ference in the world. with friends like Edith Wharton year student in 1958, and she she truly cared about the stu-the excellence of our faculty; in “I think each student should and C.S. Lewis, and she pub-retired from the College not too dents, Mooney said. our dedication to study abroad model what they do on the mis­lished over 20 books in her long after that. She would come “In fact, she ate dinner with and global studies and environ-sion statement.,” she said. “It’s lifetime.” over on Sunday afternoons and them in Reignbeaux Lounge mental studies,” she said. no secret that Saint Mary’s 
during her tenure as the read poetry to us, and I got the regularly,” she said. “She is Wiedower said she hopes she women are prepared to make third Saint Mary’s president be-privilege of walking her back also rumored to have stood can be equally committed to a difference in the world, and ginning in 1934, Wolff headed and forth between one side of on her balcony (her bedroom her ministry and find the time that’s an exact reflection of the English department and in-the campus and the other. was in the southeast corner of to nourish both her own reli-what Sr. Madeleva embodied. troduced many distinguished “She was always the person LeMans) to watch the young gious life and love for music. “I think modeling yourself programs, McSorely said. who best represented Saint women coming home from “The thing I personally after the Saint Mary’s mission 
“She formed a school of the-Mary’s.” their dates.  find most inspiring about Sr. while also creating your own ology here that made Saint After the reading, College “She also was responsible for Madeleva was her ability to stay mission is what each student Mary’s one of the only colleges archivist John Kovach shared much of the beauty of our cam-true to herself in whatever cir-can do to honor Sr. Madeleva.” at the time offering graduate a variety of memorabilia be-pus,  working with the head cumstances she found herself. Since 2013 marks the 50th degrees in theology to women, longing to Wolff, including her gardener at the time to bring “She would have loved to fo-anniversary of Wolff’s death, and she also ordered the con-college scrapbook, old photo-as many species of plants and cus solely on the artistic and Saint Mary’s professors Susan struction of the Moreau Center graphs and many of her letters, trees to campus as possible. She aesthetic aspects of her life — Baxter and haigwood are cur-for the Arts, which was one of McSorley said. was a believer in the presence her poetry, her love of nature, rently working on a play show-the first buildings in the nation “John also played a recording of god in nature.” her delight in travel, her love of casing her life and legacy, set to to have galleries, theaters and of Sr. Madeleva reading her own Vice President of the division religious life — and yet she gave be released in March, McSorley classrooms for the pursuit of poetry, which I really enjoyed,” for Mission Sr. Veronique over 30 years to administration said. art,” she said. McSorley said.  “It was great to Wiedower said Wolff is also re-because she believed in the “In the words of Sr. Madeleva, 
“One of my favorite facts be able to hear her poems spo-sponsible for inspiring students mission of education.” ‘We [at Saint Mary’s] promise about her, though, is her role ken by her own voice. I have al-to expand their worldviews Student body president Kat you discovery: the discovery of in establishing the nursing ways been a fan of her poetry, while remaining firmly rooted Sullivan said the students to-yourselves, the discovery of the program. As a nursing major, and I was glad other students in the Catholic and holy Cross day acknowledge Wolff’s moti-universe, and your place in it.’” I don’t know where I would be could hear it, too.” heritage. vational legacy in many of the McSorely said. “Because of Sr. without Sr. Madeleva and her Saint Mary’s President Carol “Sr. Madeleva was, as she College’s courses and in daily Madeleva, there is no place else accomplishments while presi-Ann Mooney said Wolff is still says of herself, a person who life. in the world I’d rather discover dent. She truly molded Saint widely studied, read and even dreamed and then worked hard “I was a teaching assistant myself.” Mary’s into the great place it is quoted today. to make her dreams come to for an English class of mostly today.” “She is truly legendary,” fruition,” Wiedower said. “She freshmen with Professor Laura Contact Kelly Konya at 
Sunday, the College held an Mooney said. “She was an believed that women needed to haigwood last year called ‘Saint kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Immigrant reform raises price of citizenship 
Associated Press 
EdINBuRg, Texas — hilda Vasquez squirreled away the money for her u.S. citizenship application by selling batches of homemade tamales at South Texas offices. Carmen Zalazar picked up extra babysitting jobs at night after caring for kids all day in houston. 
The women scrimped and saved for months to pay for the $680 application, but for oth­er applicants in the future, it might not be enough. 
As President Barack Obama renews his quest for immigra­tion reform, some proposals would impose fines of $2,000 on top of application fees, mak­ing the financial hurdles much taller for people who are here illegally. 
“you have more rights when you are a citizen, like to vote,” said Zalazar, a legal resident. As soon as she started a citizen­ship class, “I started to save be­cause I knew otherwise it won’t be possible.” 
The struggle is familiar to millions of immigrants. A 2012 survey by the Pew hispanic Center showed that only 46 per­cent of hispanic immigrants eligible to become citizens had done so. The top two reasons were lack of English skills and lack of money to pay for the application. 
Manuel Enrique Angel made learning English his first pri­ority upon arriving in houston from his native El Salvador two years ago. he now speaks English clearly and deliberately and plans to apply for citizen­ship as soon as he becomes eli­gible later this year. 
Trained as a lawyer in El Salvador, the 28-year-old works as a cook in a houston burger joint. his wife, an American citizen, is a hair stylist. he es­timates it will take him up to eight months to save the money for the citizenship application. 
“It’s really hard when you have to pay rent around $600, when you have car notes for $300 and $500,” Angel said. 
Republican supporters of the proposed fines say penalties are necessary to defend against any appearance that creat­ing a pathway to citizenship amounts to amnesty. 
Mark Krikorian, execu­tive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based think tank that supports tighter immigra­tion controls, said if immigrants who are in the country illegally are allowed to seek citizen­ship, they should have to pay the costs, which will increase if millions of applications need to be processed. 
however, he said, the costs should not be so high that peo­ple can’t afford them. 
“It’s stupid to price people out of the market,” Krikorian said.w 
Angel plans to take advan­tage of a program at a houston credit union that offers small low-interest loans specifically to help clients become citizens. The Promise Credit union partners with Neighborhood Centers Inc., a nonprofit net­work of community centers in the houston area that cater to immigrants. 
Credit union President Randy Martinez said the program be­gan as a pilot in 2012 and only officially started last fall. 
“We don’t want that to be­come an obstacle for them not to become citizens, just be­cause they don’t have the entire fee to pay,” he said. 
The credit union’s $455 loans include $380 toward the citizenship process plus a $75 processing fee for the loan ap­plication. They carry a fixed 5 percent interest rate for a 12-month term, so the monthly payments work out to about $38. 
Applicants must contribute $300 of their own money. They are all pre-screened by the Neighborhood Centers legal team to make sure they qualify for citizenship and have all the necessary documentation. 
The credit union has already discussed expanding the loans if Congress approves a reform package that offers people in the country illegally a costlier path to citizenship, Martinez said. 
An immigration reform bill passed by the Senate in June did not set the costs of the proposed 13-year path to citi­zenship. Lawmakers left that up to u.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, with the idea that fees would make the system self-sustaining. 
While the fees remain un­specified, the Senate bill lays out penalties totaling $2,000 to be paid at various steps along the way. The legislation would create a new status called “reg­istered provisional immigrant” and require anyone with that status to pay taxes. 
during the 13-year wait, im­migrants would be “working on the books, and you will hopefully be able to make a better income and be progress­ing in your life,” said Ellen Battistelli, a policy analyst with the National Immigration Law Center, who has argued against making the process too costly. 
“There are so many require­ments and financial burdens, this is a very rigorous path to go,” especially for low-wage workers, Battistelli said. 
On Thursday, the house re­leased its immigration-reform principles, which included no special path to citizenship for the 11 million people already in the u.S. illegally but would make those here illegally “pay significant fines and back tax­es” to gain legal status. 
In an interview with CNN broadcast Friday, the president signaled that he may consider legislation that does not offer a path to citizenship — a no­ticeable shift from his previ­ous position, which was that it “doesn’t make sense” to leave that aspect of immigration unresolved. 
On Friday, Obama reiterated his preference for a concrete route to citizenship but said he doesn’t want to “prejudge” what might land on his desk. 


NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | ThE OBSERVER 

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 

Counterterrorism law alarms activists 
Associated Press 
duBAI — Saudi Arabia put into effect a sweeping new counterterrorism law Sunday that human rights activists say allows the kingdom to pros­ecute as a terrorist anyone who demands reform, exposes cor­ruption or otherwise engages in dissent. 
The law states that any act that “undermines” the state or society, including calls for re­gime change in Saudi Arabia, can be tried as an act of ter­rorism. It also grants security services broad powers to raid homes and track phone calls and Internet activity. 
human rights activists were alarmed by the law and said it is clearly aimed at keeping the kingdom’s ruling Al Saud fam­ily firmly in control amid the demands for democratic reform that have grown louder since the Arab Spring protests that shook the region in 2011 and toppled longtime autocrats. 
Saudi activist Abdulaziz al-Shubaily described the law as a “catastrophe.” And human Rights Watch researcher Adam Coogle warned: “The new law is draconian in spirit and letter, and there is every reason to fear that the authorities will easily and eagerly use it against peace­ful dissidents.” 
The measure was approved by the Cabinet on dec. 16 and ratified by King Abdullah. It was published in its entirety for the first time on Friday in the gov­ernment’s official gazette um Al-Qura. 
In defense of the law, the Saudi minister of culture and information, Abdel Aziz Khoja, was quoted in december as saying that the legislation strikes a balance between pre­vention of crimes and protec­tion of human rights according to Islamic law. 

Saudi Arabia is one of the world’s last absolute monar­chies. All decisions are centered in the hands of 89-year-old King Abdullah. There is no parlia­ment. There is little written law, and judges — implementing the country’s strict Wahhabi inter­pretation of Islam — have broad leeway to impose verdicts and sentences. 
An attempt to pass a similar counterterrorism law in 2011 was shelved after rights groups in Saudi Arabia and abroad leaked a copy online. 
Since then, dozens of ac­tivists have been detained, a prominent rights organization was shut down, and authori­ties more aggressively moni­tor social media websites like Facebook and Twitter, where jokes about the aging monarchy are rife and anger over corrup­tion, poverty and unemploy­ment is palpable. 
The new law defines terrorism as any criminal act that “desta­bilizes the society’s security or the state’s stability or exposes its national unity to harm.” It also states that terrorist acts include disabling the ruling system or “offending the nation’s reputa­tion or its position.” 
Activists said that simply ex­posing corruption could be seen as a violation of the law. Some also warned that Saudi women who get behind the wheel of a car in violation of the ban on fe­male drivers could be tried un­der the new anti-terror law. 
The law also gives the inte­rior minister the power to end sentences and drop charges. It says only the interior minister can order the release of a person on trial. Judges would have no say. 
Other worrying aspects, ac­tivists said, include an article that says police can raid homes and offices on suspicion of anti-government activity without prior approval from a judge or even a superior. Suspects can also be held incommunicado for 90 days, and lawyers are not required to be present during the initial interrogation. 
Lori Plotkin Boghardt of The Washington Institute for Near East Policy said the new law will not likely have a huge impact on the way in which the Saudis fight militants. She said the law provides technical cover for many of the measures the au­thorities were employing. 
Coogle of human Rights Watch said the law “enshrines some of the unlawful practices that Saudi authorities were al­ready committing,” such as detention of suspects for many years without trial. he said it also does not specify the pun­ishment for crimes committed under the new law. 
however, he said the measure does not include some of the most controversial language of the 2011 draft, which went fur­ther by criminalizing insults against Islam and protests as acts of terrorism. 
Al-Shubaily is among 12 activ­ists in the country who founded the Saudi Association for Civil and Political Rights, known in Arabic by its acronym hASEM. The group was shut down, eight of its founding members were imprisoned, and he is facing trial. 
BEIRUT 

Syrian air raids kill at least 36 
Associated Press 
BEIRuT — Syrian government helicopters and warplanes un­leashed a wave of airstrikes on more than a dozen opposition-held neighborhoods in the north­ern city of Aleppo on Sunday, firing missiles and dropping crude barrel bombs in a ferocious attack that killed at least 36 peo­ple, including 17 children, activ­ists said. 
Aleppo has been a key battle­ground in Syria’s civil war since rebels swept into the city in mid­2012 and wrested most of the east­ern and southern neighborhoods from the government. Since then, the fighting has settled into a bloody grind, with neither side capable of mounting an offensive that would expel its opponents from the city. 
But over the past two months, President Bashar Assad’s air force has ramped up its aerial campaign on rebel-held areas of Aleppo, pounding them with bar­rel bombs — containers packed with explosives, fuel and scraps of metal — that cause massive dam­age on impact. 
On Sunday alone, Syrian mili­tary aircraft targeted 15 opposi­tion-controlled neighborhoods, said an activist who goes by the name of Abu al-hassan Marea. 
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for human Rights monitoring group said the Tariq al-Bab district on the eastern edge of the city was the hardest-hit, with at least eight barrel bombs raining down on it Sunday. Marea said one of the air raids in the neighborhood struck a vegetable market and another landed near a mosque. 
The Aleppo Media Center activ­ist group said the strike near the 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

Abdullah bin Masoud Mosque killed more than 10 people. 
The Observatory put the day’s death toll in the air raids at 36, including 17 children. Marea said that more than 50 people were killed in the airstrikes, although he did not have an exact count. 
An amateur video posted on-line showed a helicopter circling in the blue sky, and then a bar­rel plummeting from the aircraft until it slams into buildings on the horizon, sending a pillar of smoke and dust into the air. The video appeared genuine and cor­responded to other Associated Press reporting of the events depicted. 
This is not the first time that Assad’s air force has waged an in­tense campaign over Aleppo. In december, military helicopters pounded rebel-held districts of the city with barrel bombs, lev­eling buildings, burying people under the rubble and killing more than 500 people over a two-week stretch. 
The misery in Aleppo was then compounded in early January by an outburst of rebel-on-rebel fighting, which has weakened the opposition’s grip on parts of the city. 
Over the past two weeks, Assad’s forces have slowly chipped away at the rebels’ hold on neighborhoods in southeast­ern Aleppo. While the advances have been small, they still mark the most significant government gains in the divided city since op­position fighters seized the areas in mid-2012. 
As intense as the airstrikes have been, the rebels’ position in the city and across northern Syria has been undermined to a greater de­gree by the bloody bout of infight­ing that pits the al-Qaida-linked Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant against an array of ultra­conservative brigades and more moderate factions. 
The rebel clashes have killed more than 1,400 people since they began a month ago, and the fight­ing shows little sign of coming to an immediate close. 
On Saturday, a twin suicide bombing killed 26 people, includ­ing a senior military commander of the Tawhid Brigade, a promi­nent rebel group opposed to the Islamic State. 
The attack, widely blamed by both pro- and anti-al-Qaida activ­ists on the Islamic State, targeted the base of its rivals in the Tawhid Brigade and killed senior leader Adnan Bakkour, said Observatory director Rami Abdurrahman. 
The Islamic State also killed another prominent commander, Abu hussein al-dik of Suqour al-Sham, on Saturday near the cen­tral city of hama, the Observatory said. Abdurrahman said al-dik was killed in an ambush outside of hama, where he was traveling to try to help rebels encircled by Islamic State fighters. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

‘Flappy Bird’ frustration 

Miko Malabute 
Scene Writer 

This past Saturday night, I made a grave mistake. One of those mistakes that you know you will instantly regret the minute you fall into the trap, but proceed to give into the temptation regardless. 
The mistake? I downloaded the app “Flappy Bird.” A simple, eight-bit­themed mild-mannered action game that provides a bit of a cheap thrill and a lot of frustration. 
There really isn’t much to the game. Just tap the game to get your Flappy Bird to stay afloat in mid-air, but don’t lead it to make any kind of contact with the pipes that treacherously jut out from the top and bottom sides of the screen. Easy, right? 
It is an extremely easy concept, yet with exponentially frustrating execu­tion. If you haven’t made the mistake of downloading the app, allow me to paint a picture for you of what hap­pens within the first hour of falling into the bittersweet temptation. you may get past the first set of pipes, but then you come crashing down quickly after. however, you get how to play now and you’re convinced that you can get the timing and execution down next time. So you go again. And again. And, yes, again. 
It’s not a coincidence that this game has been invading my Twitter time­line, as it’s the latest thing everyone seems to be talking about. Really, we’ve seen this type of behavior be­fore, with people seemingly obsessed with something so simple despite los­ing time after time (see: “Candy Crush Saga”). 
It seems to me at first glance that we are addicted to losing, that we are in­fatuated with failure. yet clearly this is not the case. We are not obsessed with the process, but with the end result. 
We want to succeed, to supersede what has already been accomplished and achieve despite the odds. I am of the belief that this is just humanity’s nature and what may seem like an un­healthy relationship with losing is re­ally a journey towards success (despite the countless roadblocks in-between). We can see this attitude applied to many facets of life, whether it be in the classroom, out on the hardwood, on the gridiron, in the office or truly in almost any situation. People just strive for more. They work to be better. The numerous encounters with failure only seem to add fuel to the fire within each of us, and with each reminder that we did not achieve what we set out for, we grow increasingly obsessed with succeeding next time. 
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to try to beat my own score of 15. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christian Nofziger 
Ask the greenman 

Retirement is a concept that probably never crosses the mind of the normal Notre dame student. We haven’t even begun our careers yet, so why should we be planning for the golden years on the golf course? Well, the fact of the mat­ter is that the moment we all put pen to paper and sign our first job contract (before graduation obvi­ously), we will start hearing things like 401-K, diversification and nest egg. Since my time to spout green propaga ... er, I mean “advice,” is limited to your years in col­lege, allow me to talk to you about savings. 
I love finance. however, some­times the media portrays Wall Street’s objectives as opposed to those of tree huggers like me. They are not. Over the past few years, the boom of new green businesses, along with the greater emphasis placed on social responsibility by investors, has given rise to new investing strategies for people who want to do more with their money. Naturally, green investors can buy the stock of green companies. In fact, if you had bought a share of First Solar a year ago today, you would have almost doubled your money by now. however, as I found out during the whole Enron scandal, investing in single stocks is a risky business. Investors like to diversify. 
diversification is a word that every finance major on Notre dame’s campus, including my­self, use on a daily basis to sound smart. however, we never actually explain why it is so important. It is essentially a magical way to re­duce the risk of investing and is actually very simple. diversifying your portfolio is the act of buying stocks in companies that operate in a different industry than the other stocks you own. If you own Microsoft and Apple, buying Ford would be a step towards diversi­fying your portfolio. This helps because it reduces the effects of firm specific risks. Remember the Enron example? Imagine what happened to my holdings when they came out and said, “Remember all that money we said we made last year? We didn’t actu­ally earn any of that per se.” Now imagine if I put my money evenly into 50 companies. Sure, the col­lapse of Enron wouldn’t have made me happy, but I definitely wouldn’t have been forced to sell my LEEd Platinum house. 
diversification and sustainabil­ity have traditionally been hard to merge, but thanks to several new mutual funds, life is easy. Mutual funds have managers that select stocks and diversify for you. you give them money and they invest it for you (sustainably in this case). There are several sustainable mu­tual funds provided by Calvert, domini and even Vanguard. These funds take into account not only the profitability of a firm and the prospects of growth, but also the way that corporations invest in sustainable infrastructure and how they make efforts to green their operations. The number of these socially responsible mutual funds has jumped from 173 in 2007 to 250 in 2010. These funds also often screen for other social con­cerns depending on what issues (other than sustainability, which is obviously your top concern) you care about. 
Investing is an exciting tool that will be a necessity for all of us af­ter graduation. It is a tool used by most to secure financial security for the years to come. however, I hope that Notre dame graduates can also use it as a tool for good. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Examining the 77-cent myth 
Conor Durkin 
Thinking differently 

For every dollar men make, women only make 77 cents. It’s one of the best-known and most repeated statistics I know of, and last week we heard it again in the middle of President Obama’s annual State of the union Address as he reiterated his support for equal pay for equal work. It’s a statistic meant to outline the ex­tent of gender discrimination in the workplace today. There’s just one problem. It’s an outra­geously misleading comparison, almost to the point of being untrue. 
First, the actual fact. yes, according to the u.S. Census Bureau, the 2012 ratio of median earn­ings between full-time working women and men was roughly 77 percent. But what does this ac­tually tell us? A lot less than you’d expect. This compares the salaries that all women receive to the salaries that all men receive, with no con­sideration at all of an individual’s education, work experience, occupation, hours worked or basically anything else. That makes a big difference. 
Let’s start with hours worked per week. The department of Labor defines full-time work as more than 35 hours per week, but there’s a lot of variation among full-time workers, and women are more likely to work fewer hours (or work part-time). Restricting a comparison of men and women to those working forty hours a week is enough to reduce the gap to 87 cents (inciden­tally, women working part-time made 110 per­cent of what men did). 
But this still doesn’t give you an apples-to­apples comparison. To do that, you need to control for those other factors that affect sal­ary, including education, work experience, firm tenure, industry and occupation. Women are more likely to leave the workforce for extended periods of time (often to start a family) and also tend to choose entrance into lower-paying fields — ignoring this biases your conclusions. Former Congressional Budget Office director and Baruch College economist June O’Neill did just that in one of the best-known studies on the gap, and she found that women actually make between 91 and 98 cents for every dollar men do. 
A similar study from economists at Stanford found similar results. Some work has even sug­gested that some of this two-to-nine cent gap isn’t the work of discrimination. Rather, it’s a result of things like women being more risk-averse and less aggressive in asking for raises or bargaining over salary. 
To be clear, I’m not saying discrimination doesn’t exist, or that women making two percent less then men somehow means we don’t still have a problem. But for me, the really impor­tant thing is this: focusing on the 77 cent figure instead of looking at the underlying analysis of this topic hides the actual issues we should be concerned about with respect to gender equality and the workplace. 
For instance, women tend to enter into lower-paying occupations, as I mentioned. high-paying industries like finance and engineering tend to be male-dominated, while workers in sectors such as education or nursing are dis­proportionately female. Some of this probably has to do with personal preference, but some is likely not. Are there barriers of entry into these fields for women? Are our government’s child­care and family leave policies inadequate for encouraging women to enter into higher-paying fields instead of those offering more flexibility? And why are women more risk-averse than men in the workplace? These are all key questions in considering the gender pay gap, but they’re also the questions that get ignored when we focus on the 77-cent number and the topic of equal pay for equal work. 
One of the most interesting studies about gen­der relations I have read comes from behavioral economists uri gneezy and John List in their new book “The Why Axis.” The two ran a set of experiments to study differences between men and women in several diverse cultures with dif­fering attitudes on gender. They discovered that much of the difference between men and women with respect to competitiveness or risk aversion is a result of cultural upbringing, not innate difference. given that, one of the keys to erasing the gender gap rests not with the government, but with the family. Fostering self-confidence and exposure to competitive environments at a young age is crucial in bringing about profes­sional success later in life. Moreover, rather than crafting yet another law prohibiting legal discrimination, government resources would be far more effective if devoted to programs that boost such efforts for girls of a young age. Of course, if you’d rather, we could just keep talk­ing about how women only make 77 cents. 
In the age of Twitter and the 24-hour news cycle, it’s become the norm to distill all of our ideas and beliefs into as few words as possible. But the world we live in is complex, and so are the issues we’re facing. To have any hope of focusing on real problems, we need to think beyond the first 10 words of any issue and get at the deeper analysis. The 77-cent statistic is a perfect example why. 
Conor Durkin is a senior studying political science and economics. He can be reached at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Want to serve the poor? get to know them first 
I am writing to clarify a few things in Bianca Almada’s latest Viewpoint article “Catholic Social Ignorance” from Jan. 30. To start with, I agree with Bianca on a number of points. I agree that “there is more to Catholic thought than abortion, gay marriage and premarital sex” and that one aspect of their faith that “Catholics are continu­ally unfamiliar [with] is that of Catholic Social Teaching.” 
however, I disagree with Bianca that a “vast amount of Catholic Social Teaching leans toward the left.” At first glance the Preferential Option for the Poor and Vulnerable can sound a lot like the left agenda. This principle follows from Mathew 25: 31-46 when Jesus says, “Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.” As Catholics (honest­ly, as human beings) we have an obligation to the poor, to protect them and take care of them. 
Some people will look at this and say that in order to fulfill this principle we must extend jobless benefits, increase funding for social programs, etc. But I think that this is one of the shallowest things that you can do for the poor. yes, the poor need food, shelter and clothing, but simply throwing money at them accomplishes little, and honestly is quite demeaning. Instead of simply checking a box next to a political can­didate that says they are committed to helping the poor, why don’t you help them yourself? 
Last summer, I participated in the Summer Service Learning Project through the Center for Social Concerns, and one of the most important things I learned is that service is not about serv­ing others. Service is about letting them serve you. you cannot let a homeless man serve you until you get to know him personally. Extending jobless benefits will undoubtedly help a lot of people, but it will not make them feel loved. Simply paying your taxes to support the less fortunate does not fulfill your obligation to the poor and vulnerable. Instead you must commit yourself to the common good and genuinely sac­rifice your time, energy and often money to help others. 
The plural of anecdote is not data. But in my experience, private philanthropic institutions (like Catholic charities) do more good, change more lives and save more souls than government programs and benefits. 
Bianca concludes her piece by pointing out, “If people are attempting to follow these Catholic principles, then it may require a shift in their views.” I think she is implying a shift in political views, and I disagree. Attempting to follow these Catholic principles requires a shift in your heart. 
The moral test of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members. The most vulnerable members of our society are undoubtedly the un­born. They have no voice and they are too weak to fight for themselves. 
Joshua O’Brien 
sophomore dillon hall Jan. 31 


ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

I sat next to an enthused little girl for Saturday night’s presentation of “The Intergalactic Nemesis Book Two: Robot Planet Rising.” She wanted to talk about the play as soon as she sat down in the seat to my right. had I seen the first play? yes, I had. did I like it? yes, I did. This play, Book Two, was the second performance of the day from the Intergalactic Nemesis team (they’d done Book One, “Target Earth” earlier in the day). I’d seen the first in­stallment when it played at the deBartolo Performing Arts Center two years ago, but this little girl had been to the show ear­lier that day — and she was back for the sequel. 
I didn’t really need to ask whether or not she liked it. her grandmother had already told me that she’d been called on duty to chaperone because the little girl’s parents were busy but the girl had been insistent on making it to the sequel. This was past her bedtime, no doubt, but the T-shirt she was wearing — “Intergalactic Nemesis” themed with signatures from the entire cast and crew — hinted that trying to make this little girl go to bed without see­ing this play would’ve been a losing battle. So even though I was fairly confident I knew how she’d reply, I asked her any­ways. did you like the play? 
“Oh yeah. I liked it. A LOT.” 
And that’s the appeal of “The Intergalactic Nemesis” series — it’s fun. In an innocent, non-cynical and easily ap­proachable way, it’s a whole lot of fun. The second installment in the series, “Robot Planet Rising,” keeps up the spirit of the first. It can be pulpy, cheesy and corny at times, but it embraces those qualities and executes them in the most entertaining ways possible. 
The performance, which the actors described in an introduction before the show began as a live-action graphic nov­el, is what drew me to the original show two years ago in the first place. A mix of graphic novel panels on a screen behind the stage, three voice actors performing all the speaking parts, a foley artist center stage creating sound effects to match the action and a pianist improvising the score as the show went on, the whole thing is a whir of energy and constant movement on stage. going into the sequel, I didn’t know if the concept would hold up a sec­ond time, since the idea no longer had the novelty of the first time around. 
As is probably obvious by this point, I had no need for concern — if anything, the second time around was even bet­ter than the first. With an idea of how the show would look and an understanding of how to watch it, I was able to take in even more of the fun. 
I especially noticed the score, some­thing I didn’t even remember from the first time I saw the show, performed by Kenneth Redding, Jr. In the introduction, the emcee (Christopher Lee gibson, one of the spectacular voice actors) explained that the score would be improvised, leav­ing Mr. Redding some freedom to play it how he felt it. he couldn’t have done any better. The score drove the action of the play, pounding and hot at times, slow and haunting at others. 
The storyline almost doesn’t even matter in a show like this, but for what it’s worth, it’s good. It’s not “Citizen Kane,” and it doesn’t quite hold up to muster with the film that the show’s creator and director Jason Neulander said inspired it, “The Empire Strikes Back,” but for an in­tergalactic mystery with intertwining sto­rylines and characters full of reveals and double crosses, it shines. 
Neulander and company are currently at work on the third and final piece in the series, due to premiere this fall. If the first two are any indication, start marking your calendars now and plan on catch­ing the show when it (hopefully) comes to Notre dame, because otherwise you’ll have to wait to catch it on Broadway or, more likely, when the film version hits the big screens at a movie theater near you. 
And if you need any more evidence for the entertainment value of “Robot Planet Rising,” take it from the little girl who sat next to me — “Oh yeah, that was REALLy good.” 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

Will Neal 
Scene Writer 

Just when you think 2015’s “Batman vs. Superman” couldn’t spark anymore needless debate and contro­versy, director Zack Snyder throws another curveball to the field: Jesse Eisenberg will be playing super villain, Lex Luthor. Following his past (consistently awkward) roles of an Internet icon, an endangered tropical bird and a criminal magician with the personality of a bag of rice, Eisenberg will now be embodying Superman’s most notorious adversary. Considering that actors Bryan Cranston (the one who knocks), Joaquin Phoenix (the one who falls in love with his OS) were rumored to be taking on the role of a villain in the film, the news of Eisenberg comes off as even more of a shock. As strange as the announcement is, it’s not receiving nearly as much backlash as the film’s earlier announcements. 
Shortly after the Zack Snyder announced Batman and Superman’s first joint film at San diego Comic Con, fans went crazy in figuring out who would follow Christian Bale to take on the cowl of the beloved dark Knight. It would later be announced that Boston’s favor­ite comeback kid, Ben Affleck, had been offered — and accepted — the role. And the world responded with the same maturity level as a 5 year-old boy whose Batman action-figure had been tossed into a wood-chipper. In time, the hatred of the fans would turn into a wait-and-see attitude towards Affleck, but three3 months later another piece of casting news would rock the nerd community. despite the film’s unofficial “Batman vs. Superman” title, Snyder dropped another bomb by announcing that the iconic Wonder Woman would be making her onscreen debut and would be played by the relatively unknown (minus “Fast and Furious” fans) gal gadot. Once again, comic book fans across the country held their pitchforks and torches high as they headed to the online message boards for metaphorical witch burn­ing of the talented and beautifully innocent actress. This was the 2013 epitome of body bashing as every inch of gadot’s figure, when compared to Wonder Woman, was scrutinized by the public. When dC diehards made the joint realization that the human body has the capability to gain muscle, they turned their attention breast size … because that’s what puts the “Wonder” in Wonder Woman, right? Needless to say, this discussion went in an entirely unnecessary direction of self-image territory in a debate that once began with, “Oh, I don’t think she’s right for the part.”  As with Affleck, however, most of the public is saving their criticisms for the film … or at least first trailer. 
And now we get to Eisenberg. Surprisingly, I think the fan community is worn out after debating the last two casting choices, but there’s still a lot of hate floating around. Personally, I commend Zack Snyder for making such a bold move in his casting here, and the same goes for his last two choices. Superman has always been sym­bol of strength, and while adaptations of Lex Luthor over the years have turned him into a force that can physi­cally go toe-to-toe with the Man of Steel, that’s not what he’s about. Superman fights with his might while Luthor fights with his mind. Eisenberg’s weaker stature and history of playing intellects makes this casting choice seem like perfect sense. Jesse Eisenberg has shown the world that he can play and intellectual villain (of sorts), and he’s certainly a talented actor (have yOu been nominated for an Oscar?). Oh what, he’s not bald? Too bad there’s no device on earth that can rid someone of his hair. I’m not saying that any of these casting choices are going to shine, but we have to put faith in the direc­tor and believe that he chose these actors for a specific reason. until we see Eisenberg take on Superman, we can only hope that Snyder made the right call. I believe he did. Oh, and Jeremy Irons will be playing Batman’s butler Alfred … but that piece of news doesn’t seem to be getting too much attention. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Associate Scene Editor 
“This is about you, you yuppie nerds!” 
garrity McOsker yells into the microphone, pointing to the pumped-up crowd at Legends last Thursday. McOsker’s punk band, Sober Sinners, played an impressive hour-long set at the club’s “Student Band Night.” Fans and friends came out for the show to hear the stu­dent group’s original music, and McOsker’s exclamation, said (mostly) in jest, provided the perfect snapshot of Sober Sinners — a smart punk band at Notre dame with lyrics that may not always jive with the larger student body but a sound and sense of humor that could get any audi­ence going. 
While it may seem from Sober Sinners’ hilarious mid-set jab or musi­cal genre that the band isn’t interested in their Notre dame home base, the opposite couldn’t be truer. In fact, McOsker, lead singer and band founder, has been trying to get other on-campus musicians to start their own bands and write their own music. 
“I try to get people to start bands all the time. I let them use my equip­ment … We support on-campus musicians and go to their shows too. I want to encourage more people to do that,” he said. 
Sober Sinners certainly know a thing or two about the process of writing original content. Among a group of on-campus musicians who mostly perform covers and play occasional live sets, Sober Sinners stands out by putting an immense amount of time into writing, re­cording and touring. 
“We get together, practice all the time, write our own music and re­cord. We are super active, and it takes a lot of work … I know a lot of stu­dent musicians have had their frustrations, but I decided a long time ago to stop talking about those frustrations about the music scene and go ahead and do something about it,” he said. 
With a now-untitled album on the way, Sober Sinners was able to perform nine original songs from their upcoming album on Thursday. The band also completed a Midwest tour last year and plans to con­tinue to tour this semester. 
“We did a tour in the fall, and we’re trying to go to Boston and out east this semester, meeting new bands and making connections,” McOsker said. 
Started by McOsker, now a junior, during his freshman year, the band has seen many changes along the way. Thursday’s Legends set featured a lineup of McOsker singing lead vocals, Alex Mcdermott on guitar, Patrick Samuels on drums and Brennan Jacobson on bass. 
One important resource the band found during its formation and subsequent changes was the South Bend punk scene. Though Sober Sinners has seen frustrations and speed bumps during their career at Notre dame, the local punk scene has been supportive of the group, providing venues, recording space and guidance along the way. 
“I’ve really been interested in the South Bend punk scene for a while. They get good bands to come through here. I’ve become good friends with guys from shows, and it’s just turned into sort of, a friendship with these guys in town. They’ve shown us the ropes, gave us recording time and it’s been good. It’s all about building those connections,” he said. 
While McOsker and the rest of Sober Sinners may have found the music connection between Notre dame and South Bend early on dur­ing their years of hard work, they’re also participating in a new project at Notre dame, called the Bridge Project, focused on building more connections between Notre dame and South Bend. 
The Bridge Project was started by a group of students and is aimed at fostering a connection between the arts in South Bend and Notre dame. One of the project’s first events featured another impressive performance by Sober Sinners, as well as several other student musi­cians, at an off-campus venue called The Pool last Friday. There, a di­verse group of Notre dame musicians met a South Bend audience in an intimate showcase, and The Bridge Project’s vision began to come to life. 
Along with Sober Sinners, student artists Bandajour, John Schommer and the Cute Townies, hill & Murray and Rednight all took the stage Friday night. They were also joined by South Bend group Anival Fousto Band, which undoubtedly left with a group of Notre dame fans after a wonderful performance. 
Will Murray, a musician himself (making up one half of hill & Murray) and one of the founders of The Bridge Project, spoke about what else he envisions for the Notre dame and South Bend communi­ties, describing the disconnect between students on campus and the growing art scene in South Bend. 
“There’s a huge crowd at Notre dame who are either underage or dis­satisfied with the dorm party scene, and this is a way to set them up with an easy way to explore the talent that South Bend has to offer that no one really knows about,” Murray said. 
The project hopes to help “bridge the gap” between the two com­munities by facilitating attendance of live music in the city and helping establish connections between like-minded students and South Bend residents. 
“Music is a great force for unity. But eventually, we want this to ex­pand into a full-on connection between the city and campus,” Will said. 
The show at The Pool on Friday was one of many South Bend live music performances, and The Bridge Project’s mission is to open up Notre dame students and South Bend residents to these kinds of per­formances. Students heading the project hope to do this by using skills from their majors and on-campus resources and collaborating with friends in South Bend. Sean Fitzgerald, a computer engineering ma­jor, is working on creating an app that will help Notre dame students and South Bend residents take advantage of the bus system to connect them to local music venues. Another version would help coordinate carpools to events in South Bend. 
“I’m writing an app for South Bend and Notre dame, a collaboration. One of the things I love about this is that in order to get people together, you need public transportation … The app will have a cultural aspect to it. In order to get times of a stop, you tap the stop, and it will have a tab that will include venues on stop and upcoming [shows],” Fitzgerald said. 
Whether it’s The Bridge Project aiming to connect Notre dame stu­dents to the arts and music South Bend has to offer or musicians like Sober Sinners working hard to put out new music at Notre dame, excit­ing things are happening with Notre dame’s music scene. Events both out in South Bend and on campus and groups like Sober Sinners and The Bridge Project show that there’s an interest from both sides. 
“We’re trying to establish an interpersonal connection between the communities,” dan Courtney, another musician and Bridge Project member, explained. “We’re working on bringing South Bend bands to campus and having people from South Bend and students meet on campus. It’s very much bidirectional.” 
It’s clear that both South Bend and Notre dame are involved in these changing tides, and it’s up to the student body to take advantage of the talent our school and city have to offer. 
“The thing about this is that literally anyone can help,” Murray said, “All you have to do is go on the calendar and share an event. you can go to an event, take a picture and share it with your friends, and it’s just going to spread like wildfire.” 
So start a band, see a show or just help out by supporting your local musicians, on and off campus.
 “I’m very enthusiastic about The Bridge Project,” McOsker added. “Now we need to make the music.” 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bigger dome tops cozy Cameron 

Mary Green 
Sports Writer 
In case you missed it, the biggest game of the year took place this weekend. 
No, I am not talking about the Super Bowl. Sure, that was a good one that certain­ly receives a lot of fanfare and draws in a good-sized crowd each year. 
But the game to which I referred actually broke a record for its magnitude. 
Still guessing? you should ask one of the 35,446 fans who packed into the Carrier dome in Syracuse, N.y., to watch Saturday’s tilt be­tween No. 2 Syracuse and No. 17 duke, and he or she could probably help you out with the answer. 
The contest set a new mark for the largest atten­dance for a college basket­ball game at an on-campus site. Not surprisingly, the Carrier dome, which also hosts football games for the Orange, held the previous record, set when Syracuse beat georgetown in 2013 to close out one of the nation’s best rivalries. 
The clash between the Orange and the Blue devils matched up two historic programs, two of the coun­try’s top freshmen in Tyler Ennis and Jabari Parker and the winningest two coaches of all-time in men’s college basketball, as Jim Boeheim and Mike Krzyzewski brought in a combined 1,914 v ictories. 
despite so many simi­larities, the two squads also represented a stark contrast in two different, but no less famous, home courts. 
Syracuse boasts the mas­sive Carrier dome, while duke takes on opponents in the much more intimate Cameron Indoor Stadium in durham, N.C., where the schools will meet Feb. 22 for chapter two of this blossom­ing rivalry. 
So when it comes down to looking at these notable but dissimilar venues, which one is tops? 
In my opinion, bigger is better. 
While playing in Cameron Indoor, where it seems all 9,314 fans are piled on top of each other and breathing down the backs of visiting players on the court, can be daunting, the Carrier dome brings no less of an intimi­dation factor with its over­whelming size compared to most collegiate facilities. 
That size can be a benefit for a team like Syracuse come March, when it will play in more spacious are­nas during the NCAA tour­nament, with the sites only getting bigger as the team makes a deeper run towards its one shining moment. 
While the sheer enor­mity of a venue like the 80,000-seat AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas, host to this year’s Final Four, might be imposing to any basket­ball team, it would probably have the smallest effect on a squad like the Orange, who are used to playing in front of a large crowd and under a shot-altering high ceiling. 
Plus, the sound levels at the Carrier dome about match the ones at Cameron Indoor, with both register­ing around 120 decibels, so close confines do not neces­sarily make for a more rever­berating experience. 
home-team help: advan­tage, expansive arenas. 
Now, look at the compari­son from the perspective of a fan. 
Though the showdown between the Orange and the Blue devils nonetheless sold out in a matter of minutes, it would have been a lot easier to find an available ticket in the dome than in Cameron Indoor. 
As a student, camping out for a seat in the dead of winter would have more of an appeal knowing that you would be sitting in a larger student section and would have a better chance of claiming an available spot. 
It would also be more fun to watch the game with 35,446 of your closest friends than with only 9,314 
— the more, the merrier. Fan experience: advan­tage, vast halls of basketball. 
Finally, what would the schools rather have — under 10,000 tickets to sell or over 30,000? 
university profit: advan­tage, cavernous sites. 
So there you have it, the reasons why the spacious Carrier dome and arenas like it delivers an overall better experience than co­zier settings like Cameron Indoor. 
But if someone wants to offer me a ticket to the Feb. 22 rematch at duke, I cer­tainly would not pass that up. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA MENS BASKETBALL 

Syracuse stays perfect, beats duke in OT thriller 
Associated Press 

Coach K said he hoped this game would live up to its bill­ing. It did, and then some. 
Jerami grant scored eight points in overtime to fin­ish with a career-high 24 and Jim Boeheim’s No. 2 Syracuse stayed unbeaten, topping Mike Krzyzewski’s No. 17 duke 91-89 on Saturday in a matchup of the two winningest coaches in division I history. 
The Orange withstood a ty­ing 3-pointer in regulation and won before a Carrier dome re­cord crowd of 35,446. 
“It was just a great game,” Boeheim said after career vic­tory No. 941. “I don’t think I’ve ever been involved in a better game in here where both teams played at such a high level. Both teams just went after it. We’ve had a lot of games that have been here that are great. There’s never been one as good as this one.” 
C.J. Fair scored a career-best 28 points as Syracuse (21-0, 8-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) set a school record for consecu­tive wins to start a season. The Orange remained one of two undefeated teams in the na­tion, along with No. 4 Wichita State. 
Top-ranked Arizona was handed its first loss of the season late Saturday night at California, putting Syracuse in position to take over the No. 1 ranking on Monday. 
“I knew for us to win I would have to contribute offensively,” said Fair, who shot 12 of 20. “I was able to not force things once I got going. I felt I was the hot hand and my teammates kept giving me the ball.” 
grant took over in the extra period, slamming home three dunks as duke was forced to downsize after Jabari Parker 

WANTED 

ND alum in search of a summer caregiver for 3 boys ages 1, 3,9 for June(or May) to early August in Milton, MA, south of Boston. We need an en­ergetic, reliable, warm and caring ND/ SMC student who can become part of our family for the summer. 5 days a week, with some evenings and week­ends. Though we prefer someone local who has their own transportation, will­ing to consider someone from outside the Boston area. Along with a valid driver¿s license, a sense of humor and love of minivans is a must. If interested respond with a brief bio to Joanna at currentstudents@ndboston.com 
and Amile Jefferson fouled out in the final two minutes of regulation. 
“They were playing small. We knew we had a lot of mismatch­es around the court,” grant said. “After I got the first dunk, they just kept feeding me.” 
duke’s Rasheed Sulaimon beat the buzzer in regulation with an off-balance 3-pointer that tied it at 78. The Blue devils led 87-84 with 80 seconds left in overtime before Syracuse rallied. 
“Both teams played with so much heart,” Krzyzewski said. “We were scrambling a lot be­cause of our foul trouble and our kids scrambled well. They scrambled well enough to put us in a position to win ... Just a tough loss.” 
Syracuse students camped out in the bitter cold for nearly two weeks and were part of a crowd that was charged up from the start for the first ACC meeting between these long­time powers. It was duke’s first game against the Orange in the Carrier dome. 
Parker had 15 points and nine rebounds for duke (17-5, 6-3). The Blue devils, who had won five in a row, get their chance to avenge the loss in three weeks when the teams meet again at Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
“We just needed one more play, whether it was a rebound or a shot going in,” said Andre dawkins, who scored five points in overtime before foul­ing out in the final minute. “We just needed one play.” 
From the moment Boeheim and Krzyzewski walked onto Jim Boeheim Court to a deaf­ening roar and hugged at mid-court surrounded by a sea of orange, the atmosphere was electric. Singing and acting star Vanessa Williams, a Syracuse alum and former Miss America, performed the national anthem. 
The game was chock full of story lines, well before the tipoff. 
Two hall of Fame coaches and good friends with a com­bined 1,914 wins who had only met twice before on opposing benches, each winning once. Boeheim’s signature 2-3 zone defense vs. Krzyzewski’s in­tense man-to-man. 
Fair, Syracuse’s leading scor­er, vs. dawkins, a fifth-year senior who leads the ACC in 3-point shooting. Parker vs. Syracuse point guard Tyler Ennis, two of the most ac­complished freshmen in the country. 
The game was tied at 78 after regulation, and there were two more ties in the extra session. grant had three straight slams for the Orange, while dawkins hit a follow and a 3 from the top of the key as duke took a three-point lead with 1:20 left. 
Two free throws by Ennis got Syracuse within one and two more by grant put the Orange up 88-87 with 39 seconds left. 
duke’s Rodney hood missed a dunk attempt against Rakeem Christmas with 12.2 seconds remaining — hood wanted a foul but nothing was called. Two more free throws by Ennis as Jefferson fouled out made it 90-87. 
Sulaimon sank a pair of free throws for duke to make it a one-point game with 9.4 sec­onds left. Fair made one of two from the foul line with 5.5 sec­onds to go. 
duke scrambled to get off a last shot and Quinn Cook missed a rushed fling from the right wing at the buzzer as Syracuse escaped. 
grant had 12 rebounds. Trevor Cooney and Ennis each scored 14 points for the Orange. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Super Bowl Prop Bets 54 percent chance lowest tem­
Over/Under for number of times perature anytime during game is Peyton Manning says “Omaha” OVER 28 degrees (Yes -140 | +100) during the game: 27.5 times 
56 percent chance tempera­23 percent chance Michael Crabtree ture at kickoff OVER 32 de­mentions Richard Sherman in a tweet grees (Yes -150 | No +110) during the game (Yes +300 | No -500) 
Over/Under for number of people 26 percent chance Knowshon who will view the game: 112 million Moreno cries during National Anthem (Yes +250 | No -400) Will the power go out in the sta­
dium during the game: 20/1 against 31 percent chance it will snow dur­ing the game (Yes +200 | No -300) First Bruno Mars song . . . 
Locked out of Heaven: -125 31 percent chance Erin Andrews will Treasure: 3/1 interview Richard Sherman live af-Grenade: 11/2 ter the game (Yes +200 | No -300) Just the Way You Are: 9/1 

NCAA BASKETBALL | INdIANA 63, MIChIgAN 52 
Indiana pulls off upset of Michigan at home 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINgTON, Ind. — yogi Ferrell scored 27 points, hitting seven 3-pointers in eight tries, to lead unranked Indiana to a 63-52 upset of No. 10 Michigan on Sunday. 
Indiana (14-8, 4-5 Big Ten) had lost three of four but led most of the way in im­proving to 12-2 at Assembly hall. Noah Vonleh added 10 points and 12 rebounds for the hoosiers, who shot 54 percent to the Wolverines’ 40 percent. 
Michigan (16-5, 8-1) pro­duced a season-low point total as a 10-game win­ning streak came to an end. 
derrick Walton Jr. scored 13 points and Caris LeVert had 12. They were the only Wolverines in double fig­ures, as leading scorer Nik Stauskas was held to six points. 
Ferrell, a point guard, was the primary defender on Michigan’s small forward, and Stauskas missed five of six attempts, failing for the third time this season to score in double figures. 
The hoosiers may have reinvigorated their hopes for an at-large berth to the NCAA tournament by secur­ing their second victory over a top-10 opponent. 
The Wolverines are no strangers to coming up short in this series. 
dating to last season’s run to the national title game, the Wolverines are 27-12 in their last 39 games — with three of those losses to the hoosiers, who are now 24-8 against Michigan over the last 18 seasons. 
The Wolverines’ prolific offense was off from the start. Michigan had more turnovers (eight) than bas­kets (seven) in the first half and scored just six points on its final 11 possessions to trail 25-22 at intermission. 
It took a few breaks to stay that close. Walton Jr. was fouled twice in the half shooting behind the arc and converted all six free throws. The Wolverines also pushed the ball effectively for tran­sition opportunities, scor­ing eight fast-break points. 
After Indiana’s defense was slow to get back and allowed Zak Irvin a layup, Indiana coach Tom Crean used a timeout with 10:08 left in the half. Out of the stoppage, the hoosiers scored on five of their next six possessions to grab a 22­18 edge. 
Facing their fourth half­time deficit since November, the Wolverines never got over the hump. 
Three free throws from Austin Etherington and a fast-break layup by Evan gordon gave Indiana a 49-41 lead with 7:41 to play, caus­ing John Beilein to call time out. 
After Stauskas’ free throws cut the deficit to 53-49 with 
4:04 to play, the hoosiers clamped down, getting two stops before another basket by gordon pushed the lead to six. The Wolverines came up empty on their next two trips before Etherington’s free throw made it a seven-point game. 
Michigan was out-rebounded 31-22 and shot just 3-of-13 from behind the arc. 

NCAA WOMEN’S | VANdERBILT 71, TEXAS A&M 69 
Vanderbilt tops Texas A&M in final seconds 
had 11 for the Commodores the hurricanes (12-10, 4-5 of the program’s only title. late turnovers that allowed 
Associated Press 

(17-5, 6-3 SEC). Atlantic Coast Conference), head coach Sylvia hatchell, the Boilermakers to remain 
NAShVILLE, Tenn. — gilbert had 26 points who snapped a three-game who has missed the entire in the hunt, Penn State Morgan Batey made two free and 12 rebounds to lead losing streak. season while being treated went 11 for 12 from the throws with 2.2 seconds to the Aggies (17-6, 7-2), and Xylina Mcdaniel and for leukemia, joined her free-throw line in the fi­go to lift No. 16 Vanderbilt Tavarsha Scott-Williams diamond deShields had team for the ceremony. nal 1:07. The Boilermakers to a 71-69 victory Sunday scored 14 points and 18 points each for the Tar missed shots underneath against No. 17 Texas A&M. grabbed nine rebounds. heels (17-5, 5-3), who fell Penn State 79, Purdue 68 the basket and were forced 
Batey drove from the Texas A&M took its first behind by 19 in the first half STATE COLLEgE, Pa. — to foul. right wing to draw the foul lead at 40-39 on gilbert’s after a 22-4 run by Miami. d.J. Newbill, Tim Frazier Purdue (13-9, 3-6), which on A&M’s Tori Scott for the layup with 12:38 left and uNC managed just one field and Brandon Taylor com-has lost four straight games game-winning free throws. played back-and-forth the goal in seven minutes dur-bined for 52 points as Penn since defeating Penn State 
Karla gilbert had just rest of the way. ing that stretch. State defeated Purdue 79-65-64 on Jan. 18, was pulled Texas A&M even on While the hurricanes al-68 on Sunday for its third paced by 18 points from a three-point play with 10.2 Miami 83, North Carolina 80 lowed uNC to go on a 15-2 straight victory. A.J. hammons and 12 from seconds left. The Aggies had ChAPEL hILL, N.C. — run to close the first half The Nittany Lions (12-10, Ronnie Johnson. previously pulled to within Adrienne Motley scored a and briefly fell behind early 3-6 Big Ten) got 19 points Penn State, which start-one point three times in the career-high 27 points as in the second, their 57 per-from Newbill, 18 from ed conference play with a final 2:25. Miami upset No. 6 North cent shooting ensured the Frazier and 15 from Taylor. six-game losing streak, re-
Batey finished with 17 Carolina 83-80 on Sunday. win. Taylor scored nine points corded its first three-game points and scored nine of Keyona hayes added 14 North Carolina honored down the stretch, enough conference winning streak Vanderbilt’s last 11 points. points, including a cru-its 1994 national champion-to keep Purdue at arm’s since the 2008-09 season. Christina Foggie added 14 cial second-chance layup ship team at halftime to cel-length. Taylor also pulled down points and Jasmine Lister with a minute to go, for ebrate the 20th anniversary despite committing some eight rebounds for the 
Lions and Frazier had seven 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

as Penn State controlled the boards by a 40-36 count. 
The Boilermakers pulled to within 34-29 at the half, then started the second half by drawing the third foul each of Penn State’s Frazier, Taylor and donovon Jack. 
But the Lions’ balanced scoring continued as John Johnson sank a pair of free throws, Taylor popped a long 3-pointer and Frazier completed a coast-to-coast drive for a 10-point advan­tage at 51-41. 
Purdue’s hammons and Errick Peck answered with eight straight points to pull within two, but Penn State recovered when Frazier sank two foul shots, Newbill drove uncontested for a la­yup and Johnson scored on a nifty reverse layup to build back to an eight-point lead. 
Penn State used a 21-4 run in the first half to rally from a 14-7 deficit to a 28­18 lead. 


ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S LACROSSE | Nd 12, BELLARMINE 5; Nd 22, dETROIT 7 
Notre Dame rolls through exhibition contests 
By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
The offense was out in full force over the weekend for No. 4 Notre dame, who started off its season on a high note inside the Loftus Center, sweeping through the exhibition schedule with wins over Bellarmine and detroit, by scores of 12-5 and 22­7, respectively. 
In both games, the Irish attack started off slow before explod­ing in the second half. Against Bellarmine on Saturday, the Irish went down 5-1 midway through the second quarter before reel­ing off 11 unanswered goals for the win. Sunday against detroit, the two squads entered halftime locked in a 5-5 tie before the Irish scored eight consecutive goals to take a lead they would never relinquish. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he was particu­larly pleased with the depth his squad showed. 
“We got a lot of guys who can score,” Corrigan said. “I’d be hard pressed to single out just one of them that was that much better. A lot of people played well today. They were within them­selves, but played well.” 
Leading the way for the of­fense was senior attack Ryan Mix and freshman midfielder Sergio Perkovic. Perkovic scored three early goals against Bellarmine to keep the Irish close, while Mix netted four goals against detroit. 
On defense, Notre dame struggled early but came on strong to allow just two sec­ond-half goals in both games combined. Corrigan credited the turnaround to several mid-game adjustments. 
“Scrimmages are a differ­ent animal from practices,” Corrigan said. “We were adjust­ing on the fly this weekend. In practice, we know what we’re going up against so we spend most of the time working nu­ance into our system, espe­cially defensively. But for these games, we didn’t scout them or anything, so we had to adjust in the game. It was great for us to develop.” 
Early foul trouble against detroit did not make defense any easier for the Irish. Five of the Titans’ seven goals came on man-up opportunities, as the Irish spent most of the first quarter down a player. 
“We’re not a team that usually fouls a lot,” Corrigan said. “So if we can figure that out [we’ll be fine]. If we’re not man-down, I would say that we’re playing pretty good defense right now.” 
With the loss of all-American goalie John Kemp to graduation, Corrigan started junior Conor Kelly in both matchups, but also gave substantial playing time to freshman Shane doss. 
The Notre dame offense also had trouble producing in the first quarter, but picked up steam as each game went on. At the start of the second half against detroit, the Irish scored five times in two and a half min­utes to pull away. Corrigan said the offensive firepower was a re­sult of better execution. 


“I’d love to take credit for the adjustments we made,” Corrigan said. “But that was just our guys making plays, honest­ly. We were getting to the right spots and everyone was making good, smart, hard plays with the ball. As a team we can score a lot, especially when we play that unselfishly.” 
Saturday’s game was the first matchup between Bellarmine and Notre dame since 2009, but detroit nearly knocked the Irish out in the first round of the NCAA tournament at the end of last season. The Irish eventually prevailed over the Titans, 9-7. 
The Irish begin their regu­lar season on Feb. 16 against Jacksonville, in Jacksonville, Fla. 
Contact Greg Hadley at            ghadley@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish split squad for N.M., Indiana meets 
outstanding 60-meter hurdle,” senior Aragon sealed the Piane said. “That should be win by over 30 seconds with fast enough to get her in [to the a finish of 9:46.08. A pair of NCAA championships].” sprinters earned victories for Irish graduate student the Irish when junior Josh 
Jeremy Rae also continued Atkinson took home the win 
his dominant season, win-in the 60-meter dash B section 
ning the men’s one-mile run by turning in a time of 6.84 and 
by almost four seconds with a senior Patrick Feeney won the 
time of 4:02.62.  After setting 400-meter dash with a time of 
the school record for men’s 46.53. 
1,000-meter run last week at Back in Indiana, the Irish 
home, Rae has not stopped took on a familiar venue in the 
moving up in the national Indiana Relays. Notre dame 
ranks, moving all the way up collected 15 top-five finish-
to second in the mile run. es, including a victory in the 
“Not only is he a good run-men’s 400-meter run by sopho­ner, but he trains really hard more Aaron dunn, who turned and everybody on the team in a time of 50.03.  Connor knows that,” Piane said of Rae. Stapleton finished right behind “If you want to emulate some-him, grabbing the silver in body, he is the guy to emulate.” 50.34.  In the men’s 800-meter, 
Piane said a host of other freshman grant Koch, senior Irish runners performed well Eddy gibbons and freshman over the weekend, as well, in-Adam Turner all turned in top­cluding a pair in the 3,000-me-five performances. Koch fin-
Mexico and continued their “We beat uCLA, beat Arizona ter run. ished second in the event with 
By MATTHEW GARCIA 

Sports Writer strong annual presence at the State, beat New Mexico, beat “Another guy that ran well is a time of 1:51.54, slightly ahead Indiana Relays. TCu, beat Air Force. It was a [graduate student] Nick happe. of gibbons and Turner, who This weekend Notre dame The men finished in third at very successful meet,” Piane he won the 3,000-meter and is took third in 1:51.64 and fifth 
sent half its track and field the New Mexico Invitational, said. ranked about 10th in the coun-in 1:54.78, respectively. 
team to the New Mexico falling behind only Nebraska The Barber sisters were at try,” Piane said. “[Senior] Alexa The Irish will look to con-
Invitational, while the rest and LSu. The women placed it again this weekend for the Aragon won the 3,000-meter tinue their strong performanc­
of the team stayed close to fourth, with LSu, Nebraska Irish, accumulating six top-and did a great job.” es this weekend, when they 
home for the Indiana Relays in and New Mexico taking the three finishes between juniors happe turned in a time of host the Meyo Invitational on 
Bloomington, Ind..  Miles away top three. Irish coach Joe Piane Kaila and Jade, including a 8:15.25 and claimed the vic-Friday and Saturday. 
from home and their team-was with the team in New win by Jade in the 60-meter tory by over 11 seconds, with 
mates, the Irish placed highly Mexico and said he was excited hurdles. Irish junior Jake Kildoo com-Contact Matthew Garcia at 
in a nine-team field in New about the results. “Jade Barber ran an ing in behind him, while the mgarci15@nd.edu 


NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | ThE OBSERVER 

FENCING 

Shorthanded Nd earns seven wins 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
Squaring off against some of the nation’s top teams Saturday in the Northwestern duals, the young Notre dame fencing squad 
— missing some of its key mem­bers — finished the day with sev­en team wins and six losses. The women ended with four team wins and three losses, while the men split their six matchups. 
The women’s team started off strong with a 20-7 first-round win over Stanford. The foilists, sopho­mores Nicole McKee and Sarah Followill and senior Adriana Camacho, posted a 9-0 record in the matchup. 
The men’s squad was not as successful to start the day, fall­ing 19-8 to Penn in its first bout. however, the men were able to bounce back and pulled out a 15­12 victory against the defending national champion, Princeton. The foilists finished 6-3, despite missing senior captain and the world’s top-ranked foilist gerek Meinhardt, who was out with a minor injury on the same knee he had surgery on in 2011. 
“We thought it would be bet­ter not to risk any further injuries at the beginning of the season,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “he had leg surgery in the past and it was a bit swollen, so we were very careful.” 
As the day continued, the wom­en pulled off a 16-11 win against duke before dropping three in a row to Princeton, Penn and Temple. Women’s foil was miss­ing its two key members, sopho­more 2013 national champion Lee Kiefer and junior Madison Zeiss. Both were recently called to compete for the united States in the World Cup in Poland. 

“you have to make sacrifices,” Bednarski said. “It was difficult for the young fencers to step in and take the places of the big fencers.” 
The men’s squad began to wear down as well, losing 15-12 to Stanford. Bednarski cited in­experience and inconsistency as tough hurdles for the Irish squads. 
“We have to be stable, not win against the best and then lose against teams who are supposed to lose to us,” he said. 
The women regained energy and bounced back to win 16-11 over North Carolina and 22-5 over uC San diego. The men lost 14-13 to duke but won decisively 24-3 in their final bout against Lawrence, including a 9-0 victory for the epeeists. 
Although a few of the loss­es were disappointing to the Irish coach, Bednarski said a few young fencers performed very well relative to their ex­perience, including freshman foilist Kristjan Archer. he also remained hopeful for the team moving forward. 
“We lost a couple of match­es, but we also had some good rounds and gained experience, giving hope that we will be strong in the future,” Bednarski said. 
“Now in the qualification path in the NCAA we want to be in the top group, so we’ll get back to work and prepare for the upcom­ing tournaments.” 
The Irish will be back in action next weekend when they host the deCicco duals at the Castellan Family Fencing Center. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING | Nd 263, IOWA 106 
Notre Dame celebrates seniors, sets new records 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

The Irish came to win on senior day, taking the gold in 16 out of 20 events at the Shamrock Invitational against Iowa this weekend and outscoring their oppo­nent 263-106. 
Irish junior Emma Reaney said the large margin of vic­tory was a good testament to the senior class. 
“We always like to protect our house,” Reaney said. “To be able to do it by so much and on our senior night was great.” 
Reaney said the use of a new, faster swimsuit by the Irish gave them a leg up on their competition. 
“We wore fast suits and the other teams didn’t,” Reaney said. “It was defi­nitely an advantage. We wanted to get a feel for the suits before conference to get prepared.” 
The biggest victory of the weekend came when the Irish broke the pool record in the 800-yard freestyle relay. The team of Reaney, senior Kelly Ryan, junior Bridget Casey and freshman Katie Miller finished with a time of 7:22.65, defeated the previous record set by Ohio State in 2011 by .20 seconds. 
Reaney also broke a pool record in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley with a time of 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

1:58.42. Reaney won four in­dividual events, with NCAA B cut times in each event, and participated in three relay gold finishes. 
Ryan took first in three individual events, qualify­ing for the NCAA B cuts in the 100- and 200-yard back­stroke with respective times of 54.42 and 1:57.57. 
Miller also made a name for herself this weekend, taking first in the 400-yard individual medley and qual­ifying for the NCAA B cuts in the 200- and 400-yard individual medleys with times of 2:00.99 and 4:17.62, respectively. Miller also earned an NCAA B cut in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 1:58.55. Finally, Casey rounded out the 10 NCAA B Cuts for the Irish with her 1:59.30 finish in the 200-yard butterfly, good for a first-place finish. 
The meet also took a few minutes to honor Ryan and her fellow seniors: Sarah dotzel, Mikelle Masciantonio, Christen Mcdonough and Lauren Stauder. 
Reaney said the senior’s reflections on their time with the Irish resonated with the team. 
“hearing them say what they loved most about Notre dame was really emotional and heartfelt,” Reaney said. “We’re going to miss them so much.” 
The Irish will close out their regular season with a home meet against Cleveland State on Saturday before preparing for the ACC Championships on Feb. 19. 
Contact Katie Heit at      kheit@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Hockey 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
forward Matt Willows snuck around the Irish defense and made a nice move past Irish senior goaltender Steven Summerhays to give New hampshire a shorthanded goal and a 3-2 lead. 
The Wildcats added an­other goal early in the third to double their lead, then closed out the scoring at 5-2 with an empty-netter in the final minute of the game. 
All in all, the Irish pow­er play was 0-for-6 on the weekend, while surrender­ing the key Willows goal. 

After the sweep, the Irish now sit in a tie for eighth in the hockey East stand­ings, with just seven con­ference games left on its schedule. Notre dame is now 1-6 on the road in con­ference games, and its three remaining road games will come against No. 2 Boston College and No. 7 Providence. 
The Irish will return home next weekend though, as they’ll face off with Maine in a pair of games on Friday and Saturday night. 


W Bball 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 

when asked about the open­ing minutes of the second half. “We didn’t rebound, and they got some offen­sive rebounds. They’re a really good team, so you ex­pect they’re going to have a stretch where they’re going to make some shots and I felt we weathered the storm and were able to come out on top.” 
Kayla McBride made her first five shots and finished the afternoon with 23 points and 11 rebounds. duke’s leading scorer, Liston, also netted 23 points. 
“She played well,” Mcgraw said of Liston. “I thought that we actually did a pretty good job on her for a stretch in the second half, but she still ended up with 23 points. She’s one of the best players in the league, re­ally hard to guard, and she played well.” 
Achonwa and Allen both scored 15 points, while Loyd added 17. The Irish bench added an extra 18 points, while the duke bench scored just three. 
“I thought the bench was critical in the win,” Mcgraw said. “We just got such great production from everybody who came in the game. And that’s kind of a hostile en­vironment, a really great crowd and atmosphere, and we really played well.” 
The loss was the second of the year for the Blue devils, who have now lost to the No. 1 and No. 2 teams in the country, both times by double digits. No. 1 uConn won, 83-61, when the two teams met in durham, N.C., on dec. 17. 
The Irish are still unde­feated after 21 games, but Mcgraw said she is not wor­ried about keeping her team focused. 
“It’s easy,” she said. “We have a goal, and we’re work­ing every day to it. We can’t get too high after one win, and we have to get ready for Florida State.” 
The ACC gauntlet contin­ues Thursday when the Irish head to Tallahassee, Fla., to take on No. 23 Florida State at 7 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at         vjacobse@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 



M Bball 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
to 37-36. 
“When you’re down nine or 10 early in the second half, I think you’re at a crossroads a little bit,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “But I thought what helped us offen­sively was we went smaller like we did in the duke game and just started ball-screening for Eric and let him make plays for us.” 
But Boston College again be­gan to take control of the game. The Eagles went up 45-38 with 
9:31 left in regulation after for­mer Irish guard redshirt ju­nior Alex dragicevich drilled a 3-pointer for Boston College. The transfer ended the game with seven points and endured a plethora of boos from the Irish faithful each time he touched the ball. 
The Irish then used a breakout performance from freshman for­ward V.J. Beachem to come back. Beachem scored seven points in a 4:18 span, including a layup with 2:59 remaining in regula­tion to tie the game at 60. 
“My teammates have a lot of confidence in me, especially the older guys like [senior center] garrick [Sherman] and Eric,” Beachem said. “I know if I’m open — even when I was miss­ing when I was open — they were still hitting me, expecting me to be able to knock those shots down, and to be able to hit them today was really big.” 
The freshman also tallied Notre dame’s first points of the extra session on a 3-pointer to give the Irish a 69-68 advantage, their first lead since the first half. his 10 points were a career high. 
“Big night for V.J. Beachem; we’ve been waiting for this,” Brey said. “It was only a matter of time, only a matter of time with 
V.J. I think he’s kind of joined the club now. huge minutes for him and he made big shots for us.” 
Boston College gained a 64-60 lead with 57 seconds remaining in regulation before an Atkins 3-pointer made the score 64­63 with 48 seconds left. Eagles junior guard Lonnie Jackson scored two of his 15 points on a pair of free throws with 16 sec­onds left before Sherman cut the deficit to one again with 
7.8 seconds left. Eagles sopho­more guard Olivier hanlan then missed the front-end of a one-and-one before Atkins sent the game to overtime with his free throw on the other end. 
In overtime, the Irish gained a 73-69 lead before Boston College scored four unanswered points to tie the game with 35.5 seconds remaining and set the stage for Atkins’ heroics. 
After scoring just four points in the first half on 1-for-5 shooting, Atkins finished the night 9-for-17 for 24 points. Irish junior forward Pat Connaughton contributed 17 points and nine rebounds, while sophomore forward Zach Auguste added 10 points and eight boards. 
The Irish next head to Syracuse for a Monday night matchup with the No. 2 Orange (21-0, 8-0) at 7 p.m. The Orange are coming off a 91-89 overtime home win over No. 17 duke on Saturday night, and the Irish are winless in their last three games in the Carrier dome. Syracuse is also one of just two remaining un­defeated teams in division I and will likely move into the top slot when the new national rankings are released Monday morning after No. 1 Arizona’s 60-58 upset loss to Cal on Saturday night. 
“What a great opportunity,” Brey said. “We won’t have much of a shot in there — maybe they’ll be No. 1 in the country — but I sure like going to Syracuse and competing Monday night after what happened this afternoon than the alternative or what could have happened and not getting [the win]. So I think we’ll go up there with a positive frame of mind with nothing to lose and let it rip.” 
Contact Sam Gans at              sgans@nd.edu 



Football 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
entire offense and really set the table in making sure that all that is put together and laid out there so we can have a great Saturday moving the ball effectively.” 
“It’s my responsibility to really make sure this thing looks the way coach Kelly wants it to look, have the menu, if you will, avail­able to him,” denbrock said. 
LaFleur, meanwhile, spent the past four seasons as the quarter­backs coach of the Washington Redskins. The 33-year old began his coaching career at his alma mater, Saginaw Valley State, in 2003 as an offensive assistant and later served in the same role in 2004 and 2005 under Kelly at Central Michigan. 
LaFleur played two seasons at Western Michigan before trans­ferring to Saginaw Valley State, where he made his first career start at quarterback — a 28-21 victory — against Kelly’s grand Valley State squad in 2000. 
“[I] first got a chance to watch Matt as a player — just a great competitor, loved the way he played the game,” Kelly said. “… And then was able to hire him when I was at Central Michigan, did a great job developing a du­al-threat quarterback that we had at Central Michigan in dan LeFevour. 
“I loved the way he was able to communicate with him and build a great relationship with him.” 
Along with the new coaches, Kelly expressed the desire to transition back to an offense that he believes “is best suit­ed for the personnel that we have.” Kelly said that philoso­phy starts at quarterback, where he would like to see more plays being made outside the pocket. Overall, the offense figures to move at a faster tempo. 
“he likes to be very aggressive with what he does,” denbrock said of Kelly’s offenses through the years. “I think that’s the di­rection we’re certainly moving into with the athletes that we have. We really feel like we’re in a position offensively to push the tempo a little bit more and to put our playmakers in posi­tions where they can make big plays and sustain drives and do the things that all of us hope our offense looks like, one that’s dynamic, can score more points and can move the football consistently.” 
Much of that dynamism will start at quarterback, where Kelly made sure to note there will be a competition between Everett golson and rising sophomore Malik Zaire for the starting role. 
“I’m not ready to hand every­thing over to Everett,” Kelly said. “I like Everett … but I’m also somebody that wants to make sure … that we give everybody an opportunity to compete for that position.” 
In addition to working with LeFevour — who graduated from Central Michigan as the only player in NCAA his­tory with 12,000 career passing yards and 2,500 career rush­ing yards — LaFleur coached Redskins quarterback and 2011 heisman Trophy winner Robert griffin III the last two seasons in playmaker ability out of that quarterback,” LaFleur said. 
Washington.  
“There’s  a  fine  line  that  
you  can’t  be  too  strict  in  
your  teachings  to  take  that  

Injury updates 
Kelly said rising senior line­backer Ben Councell and rising senior center Nick Martin “have exceeded all expectations” in their recoveries. Councell tore his left ACL against Navy on Nov. 2, and, Martin tore his left MCL three weeks later against Byu. 
“If they walked through here right now, you would not know they had surgery,” Kelly said. “They are well ahead of schedule.” 
Kelly said rising senior line­backer Jarrett grace’s recovery is progressing, but at a slower pace. grace broke the fibula in his right leg Oct. 5 against Arizona State. 
Rising junior safety Nicky Baratti (shoulder) could be cleared for contact in April, but Kelly said they may hold him out of contact through the spring and have his first contact come in the fall. 
Kelly added that rising sopho­more linebacker doug Randolph (shoulder), rising sophomore of­fensive lineman John Montelus (shoulder) and rising senior defensive lineman Chase hounshell (shoulder) have all had “excellent” recoveries. 
Rising senior defensive line­man Tony Springmann (knee, infection) “is moving around quite well” and “has made some really good progress.” Kelly said if he continues to show no side effects, he could possibly be cleared for spring practice. 
Contact Mike Monaco at            jmonaco@nd.edu 


NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | ThE OBSERVER 

CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hILLARy MANgIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: New beginnings will help you discard dead weight. Weigh what’s important to you and what isn’t. Strive to make the most of your talents, skills and knowledge. Explore the possibilities and don’t shy away or feel inadequate when presented with foreign suggestions. Embrace what’s offered by adding your own personal touch. use your intuitive insight to guide you. your numbers are 6, 17, 20, 23, 35, 37, 43. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep your thoughts to yourself and be mindful of those around you. It isn’t worth getting into an argument over a trivial matter that will pass if left alone. Focus on fitness, health and self-improvement, and you will make positive gains. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll have everything going for you if you step into action and follow through with your plans. don’t hold back, especially if there is something you want to share with someone special. Romance will be heightened. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Tread carefully, especially when dealing with emotional matters. Listen attentively and be honest but kind in your response. you’ll benefit most if you do not interfere or take sides. Reassess your personal position but don’t make a move. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Express your feelings and follow through with your plans. A commitment or promise will go a long way, ensuring that you have a bright future. Talk over your plans and visit places and people who can help your dreams come true. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will discover information that will lead to a significant change. Fixing up your home or looking at real estate will be misleading. Think twice before you spend on something you don’t need to do. A partnership change will benefit you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): discuss important plans with someone who has knowledge or experience to offer. A partnership will bring about an unusual change in your life and your direction. Socializing and romance will lead to an interesting realization. Say what’s on your mind. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Assess personal situations but don’t make an impulsive move. Play out any situation you face by observing, understanding and being mindful of those around you and what they may be experiencing. Not all the facts will be visible. Wait for greater clarity. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Creative alterations at home will help you get a project off the ground. you’ll be persuasive in drumming up the support you require to reach your goals. A trip or engaging in a cultural event will be eye opening. Love is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Not everything will be as crystal clear as you think. Question what’s being said and try to be as precise in your description or communication with others as possible. Misunderstandings will end up being costly. A quick response will be required. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look over your past accomplishments and you will find an interesting way to incorporate the old with the new in order to come up with a fabulous and interesting way to advance in the future. Celebrate with someone you love. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look for any opportunity that will help you to generate greater cash flow. Taking on a challenge may pose a problem, but a unique and innovative approach will lead to your success. Ask questions if someone is not giving you a straight answer. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look over personal papers, investments or old lottery tickets. Something you may have missed in the past will help you out monetarily now. Put a romantic twist on your day by divulging your feelings and making special plans for two.  


Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, intuitive and creative. you are loving, gracious and kind. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 

City State Zip 

ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2014 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 88, duKE 67 
Nd tops duke, stays perfect 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 duke kept No. 2 Notre dame within striking differ­ence for the first 25 minutes of Sunday’s matinee, but the Irish ran away with the sec­ond half to hand the Blue devils a 88-67 loss, their first defeat at home by a confer­ence opponent since 2008. 
“I’m really, really im­pressed with the game,” Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “We could have rebounded better, but the offense did a really nice job. I thought [se­nior guard] Kayla McBride, [sophomore guard] Jewell Loyd, [freshman guard] Lindsay Allen and [senior for­ward] Natalie Achonwa, they really came out and played one of their best games of the year.” 
Allen scored a layup four seconds into the game, and from then on the Irish (21-0, 8-0 ACC) never trailed. The Irish jumped out to an 8-2 lead in the opening min­utes, but four consecutive duke baskets by senior guard Tricia Liston cut the advan­tage to two halfway through the first period. The Irish went on a 11-0 run several minutes later to extend a 26­23 lead to 37-23 before head­ing into halftime up 44-34. 

The Blue devils (21-2, 8-1) came out of the break with a vengeance, opening the half with a 5-0 run. They were able to hold the deficit in the single digits for a time, but a three-point shot by Irish sophomore guard Michaela Mabrey with 14:13 remain­ing put Notre dame up by 10, and after that the Blue devils could never catch up. 
“We got a little sloppy, turned the ball over a cou­ple of times,” Mcgraw said 
see W BBALL PAGE 16 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
With his team tied at 73 as the clock wound down in over­time against Boston College on Saturday afternoon, Eric Atkins had the ball in his hands and re­demption on his mind. 
Minutes earlier, the Irish se­nior guard and captain had a chance to win the game. down 66-65, Atkins drew a foul with 
0.7 seconds left in regulation and went to the line for a one-and­one opportunity. he made the first free throw but missed the second and the potential game-winning put-back attempt. 
“I felt like I let my team down [by] not hitting that free throw,” Atkins said. “So in overtime, es­pecially coming down to that last shot, I knew it was going to be me.” 
he delivered. 
Atkins nailed a 3-point at­tempt with 0.8 seconds remain­ing in the game to snap Notre dame’s three-game losing streak and give the Irish (12-10, 3-6 ACC) a much-needed 76-73 victory over the Eagles (6-15, 2-6) in Purcell Pavilion. 
“I just knew that I wanted to take the last shot of the game and make sure that they really didn’t have another chance,” Atkins said. “When I got it, I just rocked [the defender] a little bit, went between my legs. And then when he went for the crossover, I really had a clean look at it and as soon as I shot it, I knew it was going in.” 

FOOTBALL 

Kelly introduces Denbrock, LaFleur 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Editor 

Irish head coach Brian Kelly officially introduced two new coaches — offensive coordina­tor Mike denbrock and quarter­backs coach Matt LaFleur — in a joint press conference Friday. 
denbrock, who previously coached Irish offensive tackles and tight ends from 2002-04, re­joined the Notre dame staff in 2010 and spent his first two sea­sons coaching the tight ends. during the past two seasons, denbrock has been the outside wide receivers coach and the passing game coordinator. 
After former offensive co­ordinator Chuck Martin left in december to become the head coach at Miami (Ohio), denbrock served as inter­im offensive coordinator in the Pinstripe Bowl win over Rutgers. 
“[denbrock has] a great un­derstanding of the offense that we want to run and certainly has my trust in putting together the offense on a day-to-day ba­sis for us,” Kelly said. 
Kelly reaffirmed Friday that he will call the plays next 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 76, BOSTON COLLEgE 73 (OT) HOCKEY | NEW hAMPShIRE 4, Nd 2; uNh 5, Nd 2 
Atkins’s 3 lifts Irish over Wildcats sweep Boston College in OT Notre dame 


season, a task Martin carried out in 2013. 
“Mike will put it all together,” Kelly said. “he’ll oversee the 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 18 

The Irish had to mount a sec­ond-half rally to get in position to force overtime. up 29-26 at halftime, the Eagles began the second half on a 6-0 run to open a 35-26 lead before Notre dame used a 10-2 run to cut the deficit 
see M BBALL PAGE 18 
Observer Staff Report 

With its trip to New hampshire this weekend, No. 14 Notre dame was hop­ing to keep its momentum rolling through a key road series. Instead, the Irish got more than they could handle from the Wildcats, who used 4-2 and 5-2 victories to send Notre dame home without a point. 
The Irish (15-11-1, 4-8­1 hockey East) outshot the hosts by double-digits on both nights, but New hampshire (16-13-1, 8-6-0) made the most of its chanc­es and shut down the Irish power play to secure the weekend sweep. 
On Friday night, the Irish had to contend with a brand new environment, facing off against both a rowdy crowd (roughly 6,000 on both nights) and an unfamiliar rink (the far wider, Olympic-sized sheet). Still, the Irish came out firing early as a shot from junior defense-man Eric Johnson caromed in off the skate of sopho­more winger Mario Lucia to give the visitors a 1-0 lead in the second period. however, that was the only lead Notre dame would hold all week­end, as New hampshire fin­ished off the period with two goals of its own. 
up one, the Wildcats ap­peared to be in the driver’s seat when they went on the power play with just over five minutes to play. Irish senior forwards T.J. Tynan and Bryan Rust took a long rebound and started a break, where Rust took a pass from Tynan and buried his shot to get a late shorthanded equalizer. The Wildcats took the lead back just 29 seconds later though on the power play, and added a late empty netter to claim a 4-2 victory on Friday night. 
The Irish didn’t start as well on Saturday night, though goals from Lucia and Tynan — both assisted by freshman center Vince hinostroza — dug them out of early 1-0 and 2-1 deficits. 
The Wildcats flipped the tide of the game in their favor late in the second period, when sophomore 
see hOCKEy PAGE 16 




