The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 119 | TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame petitions for new hearing 
University claims U.S. Court of Appeals panel opinion on HHS lawsuit contradicts Supreme Court precedent 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
lawyers representing notre dame in its affordable care act lawsuit filed a petition in the u.s. court of appeals for the seventh circuit seeking a rehearing in front of the whole court instead of a panel of three judges. 
The petition, submitted by attorney matthew Kairis and filed Friday, argues that the panel’s Feb. 21 opinion deny­ing the university an exemp­tion contradicts supreme court precedent and legal standards. 
“The panel majority should have accepted notre dame’s honest and undisputed assertion that it has a religious objection to taking the actions necessary to comply with the ‘accommodation,’” the petition reads. “by refusing to accept that assertion, and instead en­gaging in a protracted quarrel with notre dame’s description of its own religious beliefs, the panel majority strayed well be­yond the proper realm of legal inquiry.” 
paul browne, notre dame’s vice president for public affairs and communications told The observer on monday that “at its core, this is a religious liberty issue.” 
notre dame’s lawsuit against 
see hhs PAGE 4 




Mass commemorates genocide victims 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
Twenty years after the 1994 rwandan genocide, members of the notre dame community commemo­rated the lives of the vic­tims and prayed for healing with a memorial mass at the basilica of the sacred heart on monday, april 7. 
some 1 million rwandans perished during one hun­dred days of violence 
see mass PAGE 5 



san antonio mayor addresses civic duty 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
san antonio mayor Julian castro spoke about his career in a lecture titled “american politics in the 21st century: latino civic engagement” monday night in the Jordan hall of science. 
The lecture, which was jointly organized by the multicultural student programs and services, the 
see mayor PAGE 5 



 SAGA sponsors Pride Week 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
This week, saint mary’s college straight and gay alliance (saga) will be host­ing pride week in celebration of the lgbTQ community. 
sophomore coordinator bridget venard said pride week is an opportunity for saint mary’s students to support friends who identify as lgbTQ. 
“[pride week’s] purpose is to remind people that it’s hard to be of a different sexual orientation in our society, but that you should still be proud of it,” venard said. “[sexual orientation] shouldn’t be something that could set you back. … it’s celebrating that community and making our presence known that, yes, there are gay people on our campus, 
see pride PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 baseball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Finish the sentence: April showers... 

Bridget Doyle 
sophomore 
howard hall 
“april showers bring all the boys to the yard.” 
Holly Higden 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“isn’t it april showers bring may flowers? isn’t that the saying?” 
Martin Orjales 
junior 
morrissey manor 
“april showers happen just as often as showers in every other month.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Molly Farrington 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“... lead to awesome superpowers.” 
Patricia Bartlett 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“april showers bring may flowers.” 
Danielle Valcourt 
junior 
welsh Family hall 
“... make for a lot of unhappy snowmen.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie mccarty aaron sant-miller Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jack rooney Zach Klonsinski henry gens conor Kelly 
Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
erin rice erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 
Hesburgh Lecture on Fascism and War Bookish History Ten Years Hence Blue-Gold Spring 

Karla moreno austin Taliaferro 
Public Policy DeBartolo Performing Flanner Hall Mendoza College of Football Festival Hesburgh Center for Arts Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Business Notre Dame Stadium International Studies 4 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Lecture on Irish 10:40 a.m.-12:10 p.m. All day 
Corrections 
4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Panel on the Spanish romanticism and the Lecture on emerging Irish civil war. Kick-off 

in the april 7 edition of The observer, On Nelson Mandela. Civil War. culture of the copy. issues in business. at 12:30 p.m. the photo accompanying the story “wofford gives talk on hesburgh and 
Crisis in Ukraine We Are What We Tell ZumbaThon Women’s Lacrosse Theater: Blood 

and humans rights” misidentified 
Kroc Auditorium McKenna Hall Rockne Memorial Gym Arlotta Stadium Wedding 

former u.s. senator harris wofford. 
7 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 

The photo shows journalist hedrick 
Dinner and discussion Lecture by Margaret Register online via The Irish take on the Arts Center 
smith, not wofford. The observer 
with leading scholars Atwood on the impact RecRegister. Duke Blue Devils. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
regrets this error. 
on the Ukrainian crisis. of stories. Lorca on lovers. 



Student, professor to launch book on cyber threats 
boy sparked the desire to 
By EMMA BORNE 

news writer write a book, nordstrom 
said. 

anthropology professor she talked to the boy carolyn nordstrom and se-in the chicago o’hare nior lisa carlson launch international airport, and their book “cyber shadows: she said his extensive knowl­power, crime, and hacking edge and nonchalant atti­everyone” on Tuesday at 4:30 tude about hacking inspired 
p.m. in the hammes notre her. dame bookstore. nordstrom said she pro­
“I would love if this book made it into 
the mainstream and out of the niche 
group that identifies with cyber issues. 
Technology is a part of the mainstream 
now, but conversations about that 
technology are not. I’d love for this book 
to introduce people to the cyber world, 
just as it did for me.” 
Lisa Carlson 
senior 

co-author, “Cyber Shadows: Power, Crime, and Hacking Everyone” 
nordstrom said the book ceeded to pull out her phone focuses on emergent threats and text carlson, who was in the digital world, espe-the last student who came cially hacking. she said she to her office asking to work first started to learn about with her on research. hacking from her personal “i had not ever seen a piece experience of being hacked of her writing nor had ever four years ago. had her in class,” nordstrom 
“people knew so little said. “[i asked myself], about [hacking],” nordstrom ‘what if i take an average said. “The head of the office notre dame student and of information Technology said we’re going write a book said, ‘start going to hacking together?’” conferences and learn about nordstrom said carlson it,’ and this was essentially told her she knew noth­to find out what was going on ing about cyber crime, but with me, but i didn’t intend nordstrom was enthusiastic to write a book on it.” about the idea, regardless. 
Then, a twelve-year-old carlson said “cyber shadows” discusses the sub­ject of digital threats in ac­cessible terms. 
“cyber shadows is about what it means to be human in the age of technology,” carlson said. “Too often, dis­cussions of cyber crime leave out the human element. This is, in some ways, an ethnog­raphy of the digital age.” 
nordstrom said the book is meant to inform people about cyber crime, a topic too infrequently addressed. 
“it’s so far beyond iden­tity theft, and a lot of this is not known about, so it’s not illegal,” nordstrom said. “literally people are col­lecting massive profiles on everybody that’s connected to anyone that has to make a decision about you … and buying and selling these all over the world … and you don’t know about it, and you can’t control it.” 
carlson said she has high hopes for the future of “cyber shadows.” 
“i would love if this book made it into the main­stream and out of the niche group that identifies with cyber issues,” carlson said. “Technology is a part of the mainstream now, but con­versations about that tech­nology are not. i’d love for this book to introduce peo­ple to the cyber world, just as it did for me.” 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 
observer claims slew of awards 



paid adverTisemenT 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A previous version of this article ran in the April 7 issue of The Observer. Complete award listings are included below. 
The observer earned third place in the division i “newspaper of the year” category at the 2014 indiana collegiate press association (icpa) awards ceremony saturday at indiana university-purdue university indianapolis. staff members took home 15 other awards. 
The observer’s new web­site, launched in January and designed by assistant managing editor Kevin song and former graphics editor steph wulz, won first place in both “best overall website” and “best overall website design.” The site, ndsmcobserver. com, won third place in “online publication of the year.” 
The staff took third place in “best use of Facebook” in the online category. 
viewpoint editor and for­mer scene writer gabriela leskur won first place in “best entertainment column” for her sept. 10, 2013, column “how to avoid your ex on cam­pus.” associate scene editor miko malabute took first place in “best entertainment Feature story” for “breaking bad’s 
r.J. mitte talks disability” published oct. 21, 2013. 
For “best entertainment Feature story,” scene editor allie Tollaksen won second place for her Jan. 22 piece “John Jeremiah sullivan.” columnist matt matt miklavic took first place in “best opinion column” for his april 26, 2013, column “hold on to hope.” 
Two submissions placed in the “best video” cat­egory. videographer wei cao won second place for “Thanksgiving at notre dame,” published dec. 4, 2013, and former multimedia editor colby hoyer won third place for her oct. 29, 2013, video 
“notre  dame  women’s  
boxing.”  
Former  assistant  

managing editor marisa iati won third place in “best news Feature story” for “my brother’s and my sister’s keeper,” which was published oct. 8, 2013, as the second installment of a three-part series on mental health at notre dame. 
Former editor-in-chief andrew gastelum earned second place in the “best sports column” category for his nov. 11, 2013, col­umn “everything catches up to nd in crucial loss.” 
Two entries placed in the “best sports news story” category. Former sports editor mike monaco and former assistant managing editor matthew deFranks won second place for “swarbrick talks apparel, stadium expan­sion and basketball prac­tice facility.” assistant managing editor isaac lorton took third place for “Thunderstruck.” 
The sports department earned second place in the “best stand alone/pull out section” for the irish insider “The Four-year plan.” 
other notre dame pub­lications represented at icpa included scholastic in the news magazine cate­gory, dome in the division i yearbook category and Juggler in the literary mag­azine category. 
scholastic took first place in “news magazine of the year” and brought home 27 additional awards. dome shares first place in the “division i yearbook of the year” category with indiana university’s arbutus and returned with 12 other awards. The Juggler tied for third place in “literary magazine of the year” with lighter from valparaiso university and red cents from goshen college and earned five more awards. 
The observer’s award-winning submissions are available on its website. 



Career Crossings Office provides job guidance 
By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
news writer 
saint mary’s college students struggling with future career choices, resumes or an intern­ship search can find resources in the smc career crossings office (cco), director of the cco stacie Jeffirs said. 
The center can help students find jobs after graduation, but it also offers many more resources, Jeffirs said. 
“it is an office students can come to for help with exploring career options, job and intern­ship searching, post-grad service and graduate school preparation,” Jeffirs said. 
“we do mock interviews with students, [both] one-on-one and group, and workshops.” 
more recently, the cco has branched out with cco on The 

HHS 
conTinued From page 1 
the department of health and human services argues that the provision of the affordable care act that orders health care plans to cover contraceptives violates its religious beliefs, even if the university isn’t pay­ing for the coverage, according to a report in the south bend Tribune. last summer’s revi­sions to the law enable religious nonprofit organizations to shift the cost for contraceptives to the government or to a third-party health care administrator by submitting an opt-out form. notre dame currently provides the coverage through meritain health. 
The appellate court’s February ruling upheld a deci­sion by a u.s. district judge in south bend that denied notre dame a preliminary injunc­tion that would have allowed the university’s health care plan to refrain from covering contraceptives until the case is resolved, according to the Tribune. 
The petition states that the appeal is especially important because the panel majority’s “erroneous new legal standard … casts secular courts in the untenable and unconstitution­al role of arbiters of religious doctrine.” 
The full text of the petition can be found online. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

go, another resource for students. 
“cco on The go differs from the regular cco in that students can come over and see us for open hours in the student center,” Jeffirs said.  “you can come over and get a quick resume or cover letter reviewed or get questions about applications, processes or websites.” 
Jeffirs said the idea for cco on the go developed when the cco realized many students’ sched­ules make it difficult for them to visit the main office. 
“The cco on The go was a group effort between the assistant by the cco . students. director and myself,” Jeffirs said. “last year, i had never written a “if you’re struggling with what “we’ve been doing it for three or resume before, and wanted to ap-to do for your major, they can help four years now, and we came up ply for an ra job,” mcdowell said. you there as well,” mcdowell said. with it as a way to reach out to the “i went to the cco for examples of “it’s super personable. i’ve had a saint mary’s student community.” resumes and help on what to write good experience with the cco in 
sophomore veronica mcdowell for my resume.” general. i would definitely go back said more students should take mcdowell said she highly rec-there again for help with intern-advantage of the resources offered ommends the cco to fellow ship materials.” 

To get in touch with the cco office or cco on The go, contact stacie Jeffirs at sjeffirs@saint­marys.edu or stop by the cco table in the student center on wednesdays from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Contact Bridget Dedelow at bdedel01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




talk and celebrate how we 
Pride Mayor 

are different,” venard said. 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

“you don’t have to be gay [and] not everyone is the to be in the club; you can 
institute for latino studies same.” just come to the club and 
and the rooney center for the venard said pride week learn from our events and 
study of american democracy gives allies a chance to be-try to think about it in a 
focused on castro’s latino in­come more educated about different way. as a liberal 
fluence in american politics. the lgbTQ community as arts school, we try to learn 
“what we wanted to do was well. a panel discussion on in different ways, [and] it’s 
find a dynamic speaker who Tuesday at 7 p.m. will allow very important let people 
could talk about things that students to hear about cur-know that people identify 
our institutes are really con-rent events from different in different ways.” 
cerned about,” event coordi­perspectives. after overcoming ob­
nator arnel bulaoro said. “it’s another chance to stacles within the club, se­
castro said his leadership celebrate diversity and nior coordinator brookelin 
focused largely on what his equality here on campus,” propes said she is looking 
community can accomplish in senior coordinator hayley forward to seeing the im­
the future. he said he has cre­miller said. pact of pride week. 
ated a plan, with the help of “we worked so hard, so 

his community, detailing what i’m excited to watch it all 
they want to accomplish in the 
“We often live in a 

come together,” propes future. 
binary where you said. “hopefully [we] see a 
“in terms of trying to lead, 

are either one or lot of people come out to the 
my approach was to engage events we have created.” 
the community in forging the 
the other, or you 
vision for the future of the 
venard said she is look­
don’t talk and 
city and then executing on 

ing forward to the week 
that with all of the institu­

celebrate how we ahead because of the per­
tions [of san antonio] work-

be made on campus. 
are different. You sonal connections that will 
ing together,” castro said. 
don’t have to be 
“i was elected in 2009 and i
“i really value this week 
gay to be in the 
launched something called 

in that it creates personal 
sa 2020 in [september 2010] 

club; you can just connections among peo­
asking a question to the com-

week is meant to empower come to the club ple,” venard said. “This 
munity, ‘where do we want to 
and learn.” 
be on Friday, september 25th, 

people to be proud of who 
Bridget Venard 
[2020]?’” 

they are and speak out and 
sophomore 

castro said he attributed po-politicians can transcend be-to look at a list of people that they choose so.” 
represent their identity if litical success to having a real ing defined solely by their race. have graduated from college, 
venard said saga is of-miller said she believes 
connection with the place they “as latinos grow in numbers i want that list to be substan­fering a variety of activities this week will be rewarding 
are governing or representing. … you are going to see suc-tially longer than when i start-for students to celebrate the because of the many signa-
For castro, that place is san cessful latino/latina candi-ed, partly because the work lgbTQ community, includ-tures already on the pride 
antonio, where he was born dates more and more at bigger that i done.” ing a community outreach week banner, which is 
and raised. and bigger levels,” castro said. stanford university profes­with the glbT resource available for signing in the 
“if you want to actually go “however, if you are talking sor luis Fraga said he was im­center of michiana. noble Family dining hall. 
into politics you have to be about state-wide candidates in mensely proud to be the mentor The purpose of pride “we had to overcome a 
from somewhere,” castro said. big states or diverse states or of such a great politician. week is to make students, lot of obstacles to put this 
“The smartest thing to do is to nationally, it will help if you’re “For a political science pro-no matter what their sexual week on, so the fact that we 
be where you are from, where in any position to win that fessor to see one of his stu­orientation, aware of the have so many signatures on 
you grew up, and have a net-people cannot overly identify dents become a real leader and organizations and clubs, the banner already is re­
work of folks who can identify you as just latino.” have real substance on what it like saga, that are avail-warding,” miller said. “it’s 
with you, know you and know castro said he wanted to is they want to accomplish as able to support students something we believe, and 
your family.” leave a legacy of increased op-a political leader is a dream and build a better commu-we want others to believe 
Though castro said he sees portunities for the citizens in come true,” Fraga said. “i am nity, venard said. in us as well.” 
many colored politicians on his district. immensely proud.” “we often live in a binary 
the state level, a future of “i want more people to have where you are either one Contact Alex Winegar at 
more colored national politi-the opportunities that i had in Contact Alex Cao at or the other, or you don’t awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
cians is possible only if those life,” said castro. “if we were acao@nd.edu 

Mass 
conTinued From page 1 
directed by directed by hutu rwandans against Tutsi rwandans. in addition to remembering the immense loss of life, the mass memo­rialized four members of the congregation of holy cross who perished in the genocide: brothers eulade gasasira, Jean-baptiste mundeli, leonard Karemangingo and Fr. claude simard. 
alice cyusa, a notre dame budgets and grants coordi­nator who is from rwanda, organized the event with the help of dr. catherine bolten of the Kellogg institute of international studies and Fr. 
paul Kollman. she said the mass emphasized prayer and remembrance as forms of memorial. 
“as a christian [and] as a catholic, i think a memorial mass is the best way to cel­ebrate the lives of lost loved ones, but also the best way to support genocide survi­vors,” cyusa said. “here in south bend, we have many rwandan genocide survivors. praying with them and for them and asking god to con­tinue to strengthen their faith is very important to me.” 
cyusa said april 7 has served as a day of remem­brance for the rwandan genocide since the initial tragedy, making it the ideal day for the memorial mass. to its focus holy cross broth­
“every year on april 7, ers and priests. people from all over the “For the first time, we cel­world come together with ebrated the lives of the csc 
“As a Christian [and] as a Catholic, I think a memorial mass is the best way to celebrate the lives of lost loved ones, but also the best way to support genocide survivors.” 
Alice Cyusa 
budget and grants coordinator 
rwandans to learn about brothers who were killed and commemorate the geno-during the genocide,” cyusa cide against the Tutsi,” cyusa said. said. at the international level, 
cyusa said this memorial cyusa said the twentieth an-mass was important for the niversary will be commemo­notre dame community due rated through the Kwibuka 20 movement. cyusa said “kwi­buka” means “remember” in Kinyarwanda and describes a commitment to renewal and unity valued by the rwandan people.
 “rwandans are resil­ient people,” cyusa said. “rwanda as a nation, as one people overcame hatred as many of the perpetrators came forward and asked for forgiveness. in rwanda, sur­vivors, victims and neighbors are united with people who participated in the genocide. That is the rwandan spirit, to which rwanda owes the survival.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Psychos and HIMYM fans 

Jodi Lo 
associate photo editor 

This year marked the end of two television dynasties, how i met your mother (himym) and psych. These two great shows both ended with pomp and circumstance, but at the same time with wonderment and a bit of confusion. 
These two shows had a rather ying­yang relationship with one another in terms of plot and character building over the course of their final seasons. in himym, we fell in love again with the characters for who they were and who they have become. each episode up to the season finale of himym was coming together in a brilliant fashion. standing jokes were acknowledged; the slap bet finally ended, and char­acters were beginning to move on to the unknown. The finale was a differ­ent story, however. it was good for the writers to go back to the beginning and explain Ted’s drawn-out story of how he met the kids’ mother. however, in doing so, they seemed to have taken away the endless possibilities and fu­tures implied throughout the entire season, and they almost completely disregarded the character building that took nine years to develop. but perhaps what was most disheartening was that i didn’t laugh. i didn’t find the season finale funny, just rather depressing and frustrating. 
psych was the exact opposite of this. character building on the show seemed to have deteriorated com­pletely during the last season. in fact, the characters acted like their origi­nal, pilot-episode selves, and it felt like it wasn’t ending at all. guster took things too seriously; shawn seemed like a bumbling fool who forgot to see and connected things that papa spencer spent more than one season teaching him to do, and half of the cast seemed to not even have existed yet. however, the finale made me al­most forgive the writers completely for their indiscretion in the rest of the season’s episodes. unlike himym, psych had the characters move on with their lives . heck, half of the char­acters are now in new cities entirely. psych and the writers made a series finale the right way, with endless paths for the characters to take and a new beginning in their lives, all with laughter and comedy that they are known for. 
These two wonderful shows ended with a bang, yet i somehow have a bit­ter taste left in my mouth with each of them. i think they need to get together and have an intervention on last sea­son do’s and don’ts. 
and i should get an intervention for over-analyzing Tv shows. 
Contact Jodi Lo at jlo1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Popping the question 
Michael Fliotsos 
my musings 
“so, why did you pick notre dame?” 
it’s a question we’ve all been faced with at one point or another. whether it was in our senior year of high school or just recently with the flood of prospective first-year students arriving on campus. Formulating an answer to this question is an inevitable aspect of being a student here. This past week involved my being asked .— and asking myself .— this very question on more than one occasion. 
and, even after nearly two years on campus, i don’t know if i’ve arrived at the “right” answer. 
Through working for the office of undergraduate admissions, i’ve been forced to think about this question more frequently. sure, making a list of the char­acteristics that drew me to this school is an easy enough task: the intersection of quality academics and spirituality, the university’s commitment to service projects on the local, national and inter­national levels, the (literally) incredible acceptance rates to medical school, the fifth-year-in-a-row, number-one under­graduate business program in the coun­try, the world-class liberal arts education in the college of arts and letters, the tight-knit residence hall life, the rich his­tory of the university and its influence. during a tour, an open house or a phone call, though, it’s important to keep things clear and concise, meaning that i had to try to find a common thread between all these seemingly unconnected attributes of the notre dame experience for both parents and prospective students. after all, if someone asks me about the “one thing” about notre dame that i love the most, giving them a list of things that they could easily glean from a visit to “www. nd.edu” isn’t particularly helpful. it took a great deal of thinking and sitting at my computer staring at this list of things i love about nd to arrive at a single “a-ha” conclusion. Then, like the proverbial light bulb, it hit me. The answer to the ques­tion “what makes notre dame, notre dame?” 
The answer is you. 
yes, you, the student reading the newspaper at the dining hall, in between classes or online. 
The more i thought about the above laundry list, the more i came to the re­alization that it is the students at notre dame who make this university so spe­cial. it’s students who go on isslp and sslp trips to learn and serve. it’s students who get into medical or graduate school or enter the workforce with a sense of drive and purpose. it’s the students who participate in unique research projects that enhance an existing body of knowl­edge in the arts, sciences or related fields. it’s students who take their faith and apply it with passion and purpose to their daily lives. and, perhaps most important­ly from the perspective of continuing the notre dame vision, it’s the students who will years from now remember nd and how it got them to where they are now. 
now, this isn’t to say that the profes­sors, administrators and staff at nd have an insignificant role — this couldn’t be further from the truth, seeing as how they are the ones who mentor us, run innovative research labs and make pos­sible the quality education and student life that prepares us for our various roles beyond our time at nd. The role of the student body to keep the notre dame fire burning even after we graduate, however, is often times overlooked while we are in the hustle and bustle of being undergraduates. 
i am continually blown away by the dedication, passion and sense of purpose demonstrated by students here. now, this wasn’t something that was immediately obvious when i was a prospective student here because, let’s face it, a campus visit or tour can only reveal so much. however, the general awesomeness of the student body has become abundantly clear after i’ve been able to interact and learn with fellow students here for the past year and a half. being able to grow and learn with these remarkable individuals has been an absolute blessing, serving as a source of both inspiration and motivation to be the best person i can be spiritually, intellectually and emotionally. i mention this on every tour to explain why i feel notre dame truly is a big family . a group of people from all over the country and world, from different faiths and back­grounds, united under the slogan: “we are nd.” 
Michael is a Science-Business and Middle East Studies sophomore currently residing in Duncan Hall. He can be reached via email at mfliotso@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




UWIRE 

Kelly’s Korner: avoiding inappropriate questions 
Kelly Schafler 
The daily cougar 

There comes a time in every rela­tionship — whether it is new or old 
— when the time to ask a potentially awkward question stares you in the face. sometimes this moment arrives during the introductions; sometimes it will happen a few minutes into the conversation. 
either way, asking one of the fol­lowing questions before knowing the person’s middle name should be considered off-limits in all areas of society. holding oneself back from asking these itching questions will be difficult, but i believe that you can choke down the word vomit and re­frain from creating an uncomfortable moment. 
some of these many seem like per­fectly innocent questions, but they have the potential to be detrimental. 
are you pregnant/when is the baby due? it’s common sense as to why this question is off-limits in casual conversation. unless you were pres­ent during the conception — and i pray to beyoncé you were not — you should not ask whether a woman is pregnant. i don’t care if her wa­ter breaks on your shoes; until told directly from the pregnant woman’s mouth that she is expecting, assume she had an accident after drinking too much cola. 
do you have a significant other? asking someone whether they have a significant other opens a huge flood­gate. There are three kinds of water levels that can be reached with this question. The first option is that you get completely flooded with their blissful happiness from their rela­tionship, which sends them into a novella of rainbows and sunshine. 
The second option is that they are in a relationship but are unhappy. This causes them to say something along the lines of, “eh, unfortunately. my significant other is a (expletive),” and causes you to be soaked in their displeasure. 
The third option is the forever alone choice — and we all know that this option ends in them drowning in their sorrows. 
what is your sexuality? no, negative. 
what’s your major? This question is as common as anxiety before finals is for a college student. you meet an­other student. “what’s your major?” 
you meet a professor. “what’s your major?” 
you meet a friendly squirrel. 
“what’s your major?” 
This question should be off-limits because the likelihood of remember­ing this major is miniscule. Think about it: if you are asking multiple people this same question within a five-minute time frame — such as at a party, social gathering or scholarly function — the majors will mix to­gether. Then you’re just the idiot who asks someone’s major a million times. 
what are you planning on doing with your major? This seems like another seemingly innocent ques­tion. of course, it’s the next logical thing to ask after finding out some­one’s major. however, as you watch the light leave the eyes of this poor, unfortunate student, you begin to doubt exactly how blameless you are. watching the person switch from offhand laughter to a vacant stare, followed by the facial expression of someone internally screaming, is not worth the question. you can envision the wheels in their brain squeaking to a halt as they think, “what am i doing with my life?” 
what is your ethnicity? unless we are friendly enough to have each other’s phone numbers, it’s altogether awkward to ask someone’s ethnicity. There is too much room for someone to be offended by this question. if i do not know you, there is no reason for you to know a detailed description of my family tree. 
why are you crying? The response to this question can go one of two ways. either the crying person opens up about their entire life, in which case you are stuck in an awkward mo­ment in which you are trying to de­cide whether a hug is appropriate, or they tell you to go away. if you know the person, sometimes it’s better to just pat their shoulder with an affec­tionate “there, there” until they open up to you on their own. if you do not know the person, asking this question is risky. maybe they do need a ran­dom good samaritan’s shoulder to cry on and ease their worries — or maybe they are just suffering through al­lergy season and really need a tissue. 
Keep in mind that these are just suggestions. it is a completely vi­able option to let whatever thought crosses the mind fly out if one wishes. however, you have been warned. 
This article was originally published on April 5 for The Daily Cougar, the student newspaper for the University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
stop telling women to smile 
Madeline Gallegos 
rocky mountain collegian 

last semester, one of my professors told an anecdote in class that was in­credibly impactful. even though the story was short, it was quite memorable. she had just come from a coffee shop on campus where she, like anyone else, was waiting for her order before heading to class. while she was waiting, a man approached her and told her that “[she] would be a lot prettier if she smiled”. The man then proceeded to grab his coffee and walk away like it was no big deal. my professor was less than thrilled by this man’s comments, as, i hope, most women would be. in addition, it’s important to note that my professor didn’t know this man, nor had she even seen him before. interesting situation, isn’t it? 
it would be nice to say that this was an isolated event and that women don’t get unwelcomed comments like this all the time. it would be even better to say that women don’t get harassed at all, but in our society, there’s absolutely no truth in that statement. when a man verbally harasses a woman, it’s no big deal, but when she responds back, it becomes a problem. 
catcalling and verbal harassment is, unfortunately, something that hap­pens all too often. in the media, it’s typical to see a woman be shouted at by construction workers while she’s walking down the street of a highly populated urban area, but this is not always the case. verbal harassment can happen basically anytime, anywhere, whether you’re walking to school, out with friends downtown, or even at your favorite coffee shop. in addition, catcall­ing doesn’t just have to be a greasy look­ing man with a mustard-stained tank yelling “hey baby”. it can be calling a woman any assortment of names (baby and sweetheart are seemingly the most popular), providing any unwelcomed comments, or even whistling or just be­ing creepy in general. 
however, one artist in brooklyn is taking a stand for women everywhere and has made an amazing and, to some, enlightening series of art that expresses exactly how women feel about catcalling and other types of verbal harassment. Tatyana Fazlalizadeh has dedicated her time and efforts to creating posters of women who want to speak out against gender based verbal harassment. 
each portrait is of a different woman and has a caption geared towards men who think catcalling is a perfectly ac­ceptable type of social interaction. ranging from “stop Telling women to smile” to “my name is not baby” to “women do not owe you Their Time or conversation,” these simple posters that are exhibited around the borough are short, sweet and to the point — women don’t like being yelled at by strangers (what a concept), nor do they appreciate the lewd comments. 
The poster series has become so popular that Fazlalizadeh has begun travelling to cities around the u.s. to create city-specific posters with the help of local people who have a desire to get involved. some of the cities included in the new project include detroit, los angeles, and miami. with increasing presence in more cities around the na­tion, women’s power against catcalling and verbal harassment will only begin to increase. in addition, this presence will allow men to finally understand that what to them seems harmless and victimless, is actually devastating to women. 
women all around the world deal with verbal harassment and catcalling, but finally, someone is speaking up about it, because it’s a bigger deal that most people think. when a man tells a wom­an that she should smile or calls her something like “princess” or “baby”, it’s not only annoying, but also degrading. women do not go outside for the sole purpose of pleasing men (i know, hard to believe). as crazy as it sounds, women do have jobs, like to go out with friends to eat, and even, god forbid, go out for a walk when the weather is nice. 
as awareness increases and more voices are added to the protest against verbal harassment, things can only get better. women shouldn’t have to pre­tend they didn’t hear a derogatory com­ment and men shouldn’t feel compelled to yell at female strangers, even if they do find them attractive. more and more action is needed so that society stops allowing for catcalling to be minimal­ized so that it’s seen as a victimless act. however, with activism in art and a new generation of feminists, hopefully, that change is in the near future. 
This article was originally published on April 4 for Rocky Mountain Collegian, the student newspaper for Colorado State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

season four of hbo’s wildly popular “game of Thrones” began sunday night, re-immersing viewers in the world of westeros. after last season’s bloody red wedding all but wiped out the stark family, the season four premiere got to work rearranging the pieces on the game board that is westeros. 
like most “Thrones” premieres, “Two swords” is mainly exposition, laying the groundwork for the inevi­table conflict to come in the episodes ahead. at the risk of spreading itself too thin, the premiere deftly reintro­duces the characters and where they stand after three seasons of conflict. despite its thrilling action sequenc­es, the characters remain the show’s most compelling aspect. 
The episode opens with Tywin lannister forging ice, ned stark’s valyrian steel great sword, into two new swords, one of which he bestows on his newly-returned son Jamie. The scene symbolizes that, for now, the stark family has been effectively extinguished. The protago­nists introduced in the first season are no longer real players in the power structure of westeros. 
yet the lannisters, who have seemingly quashed ev­ery obstacle on their way to complete dominance of 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

on april 1, australian boy band 5 seconds of summer (5sos) released its first ever music in the united states. Their single “she looks so perfect” was already no. 1 on the u.K. single charts, the first australian band to accomplish this feat in 14 years. by the end of the week, their ep “she looks so perfect” would top the canadian iTunes chart and sit at second on the u.s. chart, just behind the Frozen soundtrack. 
Fans of one direction will know these four boys as the band who opened for the british group on its north american tour last summer. 5sos will also open for one direction on its u.K.-ireland-europe-north american tour this summer. but don’t let this associa­tion fool you: 5sos is definitely not one direction. 
if we are comparing bands, 5sos has a sound close to all Time low or mayday parade. The band is made up of four boys: luke hemmings (lead singer/guitar­ist), calum hood (bassist/vocalist), michael clifford (guitarist/vocalist), and ashton irwin (drummer/ vocalist). 
The four are based in sydney, australia, and the band began when hemmings started posting covers on youTube, which you can still find on their chan­nel. clifford and hood attended the same school as hemmings and contacted him about forming a band together, and when they started to look for a drum­mer, they found iriwn on Facebook. by december of the continent, are not content. Jamie is back in King’s landing, although he was not met with a warm wel­come as his father threatened to disown him, and Joffrey mocked him as “a 40-year-old knight with one hand.” Tyrion is stuck married to sansa, whose depres­sion has only spiraled since the lannisters killed most of her family, while shae is angered by Tyrion’s attempts to end their relationship. even cersei drowns herself in unending glasses of red wine and complains that Jamie “took too long” to return home. back in season one, cersei told ned stark, “when you play the game of thrones, you win or you die.” while the lannisters have managed to survive thus far, winning the game doesn’t guarantee any happiness. 
apart from the lannister clan, the episode also of­fers glimpses into numerous other plot lines: daenerys Targaryen and her ever-growing dragons, Jon snow reporting the wildling’s amassing army to the night’s watch, the introduction of the lannister-despising oberyn martell. all discussion of the state of affairs must be qualified . the lannisters rule “for now” . because, as always, change is the only constant in westeros. as the massive wildling army crosses south of the wall and daenerys amasses an army of freed slaves in essos, the power struggle is certain to continue tumultuously. 
The final scene of any “Thrones” episode is generally 
2011, 5sos as it exists today was formed. 
The band released its new ep through their self-created record label “hi or hey records” in conjunc­tion with capital records. The digital ep includes four songs: the single “she looks so perfect,” “heartache on the big screen,” “The only reason” and a cover of The romantics’ “what i like about you.” The physical cd version features an extra song, “disconnected.” 
The single “she looks so perfect” was released on the internet in February, with a video released on Feb. 
24. it was written by clifford and irwin in conjunction with Jake sinclair. in an interview with mTv, the band discussed the writing of the song. when sinclair came to the band with the idea for the song, he warned the band that it was “kind of weird.” Their response: “we love weird.” 
“she looks so perfect” is the kind of song that gets stuck in your head, and you find yourself singing it for days afterward. The lyrics are easy to learn, and the beat is catchy. 
The third track on the ep was written by clifford and steve robson while the band was in l.a. according to clifford, it is a “lyrically heavy song” and it is definite­ly the darkest portion of the ep. The music is slower than either of the previous songs and focuses more on the vocals behind it. 
The ep ends with one of the band’s best covers to date. “what i like about you” was originally released in 1979 by The romantics, but 5sos version definitely livens up the track. 
reserved for its most shocking and exciting moments, and “Two swords” is no exception. The episode’s final moments focus on arya, who is still sharing a horse with the hound on the way to her aunt in the vale. she spots polliver, the lannister soldier who captured her and stole her sword, needle, back in season two. a brawl breaks out in a tavern and arya gets her revenge, killing polliver and reclaiming her sword. arya triumphantly rides away on her own horse, with needle proudly by her side. 
although the scene is a much-needed victory for the youngest stark daughter, it’s also a chilling reminder of how death looms over the series. That the premiere’s most redeeming moment comes in the form of a 12-year­old’s violent revenge speaks volumes about the series’ persistent darkness. war has ravaged all of westeros, stripping even children of their innocence. 
hbo has promoted the fourth season with the tagline “all men must die,” and it seems likely that this season will continue the series’ descent into brutality and mis­ery. There will certainly be more deaths ahead . yet, in “game of Thrones,” staying alive is just as terrifying a prospect. The war of the Five Kings may have ended, but death has only begun to exact its toll on westeros. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
on youTube, 5sos has several other original songs as well as covers of ed sheeran, blink-182 and wheatus. some of the highlights of their previous work are “heartbreak girl” and “out of my limit.” 
Their lyrics are definitely geared towards a teenage girl audience, hearkening back to the support they’ve received from one direction. still, with each member playing an instrument, self-written songs and their own record label, 5sos is set to create their own niche in the music industry. 
The band begins their headline tour, called the stars and stripes and maple syrup Tour, of the united states and canada on Friday with a show in san Francisco. on april 17, they will perform at the riviera Theatre in chicago. The ep is available on iTunes and at Target. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at  cmoriari@nd.edu 
“She Looks So Perfect” EP 
5 Seconds of Summer 
Label: Hi or Hey Records & Capital Records Tracks: “Heartache on the Big Screen” If you like: All Time Low, Mayday Parade 



ERIN RICE | The Observer 




By KEVIN SALAT 
scene writer 

From cable network shows like “adventure Time” and “workaholics” to the brilliant web series “high maintenance,” it’s been boom time for stoner Tv. looking at the promos for hbo’s new sunday night comedy “silicon valley,” i got the sense that hbo was going to hop on the same bandwagon, using drug cul­ture and humor as a central theme in the tech world. or, even worse, i thought the show might follow the classic, male-dominated nerd sitcom formula that have made shows like “The big bang Theory” so tiresome. i’m so glad that creator mike Judge has proved me wrong on both counts. 
at the center of “silicon valley” is Thomas middleditch’s character richard, one of the geeky pro­grammers at a fictional version of google called hooli. he lives in an “incubator” ranch house where the arro­gant pothead erlich allows his tenants to work on proj­ects in exchange for 10-percent stake in case they make it big. richard’s roommates include best friend bighead (Josh brener), pakistani immigrant dinesh (the hilari­ous stand-up comedian Kumail nanjiani) and satanist gilfoyle (martin starr of “Freaks and geeks” fame). 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

although post-oscars film releases have been un­derwhelming, cinephiles have something else to get up in arms about: a slew of new casting announce­ments and rumors. From the controversial to the downright confusing, here’s an update on the casting news. 
bradley cooper has been rumored to take harrison Ford’s place as the next indiana Jones now that disney owns the rights to the franchise. if true, it’ll be a strange transition into a new generation of indy, but it’s likely that anything will be better than “Kingdom of the crystal skull.” 
rooney mara has officially been cast as Tiger lily in the upcoming peter pan-based film. This choice has stirred up plenty of controversy, as Tiger lily is clearly a native american character in “peter pan,” and mara is not native american. entertainment writers and activists alike have openly protested the casting de­cision, claiming that the film’s production company, warner bros., is missing a valuable opportunity to bring a native american actress into the public eye. still, others argue that the casting choice would still be problematic due to the offensive stereotypes that 
in the pilot, we learn of richard’s dream of develop­ing his own application revolving around copyright infringement in the music industry. it’s not a very ex­citing idea by northern california standards, but in his programming code there is an algorithm that could be so groundbreaking for data compression that it eventu­ally pits two billionaires against each other, fighting for stake in his company. after inevitable anxiety and vom­iting in trying to decide his next move, richard finds himself heading up his own company with his friends and $200,000 to get it started. 
it’s a show full of sharp observational humor and smartly-written characters, but “silicon valley” wouldn’t work if it weren’t accurate in its portrayal of the tech start-up world. Fortunately, before he was spearhead­ing animated comedies like “beavis and butt-head” and writing the cult-classic work satire “office space,” mike Judge himself was an engineer in silicon valley. since that time, he has felt its portrayal in television and mov­ies has been lacking. in a chicago Tribune interview, he stated, “hollywood was still doing the pocket-protector thing, the high-wasted pants, and that had disappeared decades ago. either that or a computer engineer (in a movie) was a hot actress you never believed it a second.” 
Judge eliminated those outdated stereotypes 
accompany Tiger lily’s character. it seems that warner bros., will have to proceed with caution with this one. 
another apparently controversial casting choice an­nounced recently was that of michael b. Jordan as the human Torch in marvel’s upcoming “Fantastic Four 2.” The “Fruitvale station” actor is set to star along­side Kate mara (rooney mara’s sister), Jamie bell and miles Teller in the second iteration of the “Fantastic Four” series. however, some followers of the super­hero series are reportedly upset over the fact that Jordan, who is african-american, was chosen to play the human Torch. despite the outcry of close-minded “fans” claiming marvel should stick to the look of the blonde-haired, blue-eyed character created in 1961, the production team and Jordan have not shown any indication of change, and the film is in development. 
Kevin spacey has just confirmed a role as winston churchill, hollywood reporter recently announced. spacey will play the british politician for a role in “captain of the gate,” a world war ii film focused on churchill as the prime minister of england. The film is in early development, but the news that spacey will get to put his stellar acting and dead-on impression skills to use is exciting news. an underrated and often typecast actor, spacey could do great things with this role, and though we love to see him as a villain, this immediately in the first episode of “silicon valley,” re­placing them with an updated cast of ponytail-wearing guys called “brogrammers” and with intelligent jabs at tech corporate culture. i’d say if there’s one area of con­cern for the show early on, it’s the lack of a female pres­ence. This may be a predominantly male world, but i think “silicon valley” could benefit from a different gen­der perspective in the central cast, if only for comedic purposes. as long as she doesn’t fall into the attractive typecast that Judge has so adamantly denounced. 
however, thanks to the show’s home being the oft-unconventional hbo, these outcasts that would usually be the token of a larger sitcom group get to play off each other instead, creating richer character dynamics. and it’s clear from the last scene of sunday night’s episode that the series has a lot of heart to go along with its in­cisive tone. 
“silicon valley” has all the elements of everyone’s fa­vorite stoner or nerd series, but mike Judge has created his own refreshing formula that make it one of most promising comedy pilots of the year. Just like richard’s company, “silicon valley” appears to have a lot of poten­tial that make it a show worth watching. 
Contact Kevin Salat at ksalat@nd.edu 
could be a refreshing moment in spacey’s career. 
Finally, it appears that every actor in hollywood will star in the fourth film in the “Jurassic park” franchise, titled “Jurassic world.” Though the plot is still not known, the film has already signed on chris pratt, Judy greer, bryce dallas howard, Jake Johnson, bd wong, vincent d’onofrio and omar sy, making for one of the most unexpected casts in recent history. while cast­ing rumors remain, including whispers about idris elba and the coveted Jeff goldblum, the film will be released in 2015, 13 years after “Jurassic park 3.” 
continuing with bizarre casting choices, the ac­claimed german director werner herzog has report­edly signed on pamela anderson, mike Tyson and russell brand to his upcoming film “vernon god little.” The “Jurassic world” cast may be a bizarre col­lection of actors, but herzog takes the cake by hiring some of hollywood’s most bizarre actors. The film is apparently an adaptation of a novel of the same name, which follows the aftermath of a school shooting tragedy. of all of the casting choices mentioned, this has to be the most puzzling, but is possibly the most intriguing. For “vernon god little” and all the films mentioned, only time will tell. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Replay in baseball still has its kinks 
A.J. Godeaux 
sports writer 
“it’d be easy,” they said. “it’d take two minutes, tops,” they said. “it wouldn’t take away from the flow of the game,” they said. “look, it worked so well in spring training,” they said. 
but, alas, what “they” the mlb marketing machine said about major league baseball’s newly-implemented instant replay system met its first re­sistance this week, as multiple flaws were exposed in the in­stant replay system. 
let’s start with the first fiasco, which occurred in wednesday’s game between the oakland a’s and visiting cleveland indians. with a’s catcher derek norris on third base, third baseman Josh donaldson hit a chopper down the third-base line. cleveland third baseman carlos santana fielded the ball and threw home to catcher yan gomes, who tagged norris for the out, much to the irritation of a’s manager bob melvin, who challenged the call. 
what followed was a snooze-fest. The one, single instant replay crew in mlb’s new york offices was already dealing with another instant replay call, and this one took a back­seat. a five-minute backseat. put it this way: if mets pitcher bartolo colon were still on the a’s, he would have had plenty of time to go fetch a hot dog, eat it and get back on the mound with time enough to lick his fingers. 
i don’t want instant replay delays that give bartolo colon time to eat more. you shouldn’t either. 
in all seriousness, though, did no one see this coming? with upwards of 15 games hap­pening nightly, no one thought: “hey, there might be multiple reviews at the same time; wouldn’t multiple replay offi­cials be a decent idea?” 
clearly not. 

on top of that, after the re­play, indians starting pitcher corey Kluber gave up an rbi single to a’s shortstop Jed lowrie, giving the a’s a 3-0 lead. 
Kluber claims the prolonged break didn’t affect his pitch­ing that night, saying he had been “searching” for his stuff all game. still, you can’t help but question if replay, the goal of which is to even the playing field, might end up skewing it if the replay times lengthen. 
a second flaw, one that doesn’t have as simple a solu­tion as sticking another re­play official in the booth, was exposed in Friday’s nl east tilt between the washington nationals and atlanta braves. in the bottom of the fifth with atlanta up 1-0, nationals short­stop ian desmond hit a line drive that settled for lack of a better word under the padding that covers the left-field wall. 
braves left fielder Justin upton ran after the ball but immediately threw his arms up when he saw the ball under the padding. The umpires signaled nothing; braves shortstop andrelton simmons ran out to left field yelling and screaming at upton to throw the ball in as desmond circled the bases for the game-tying inside-the-park homerun. 
braves manager Fredi gonzalez, who couldn’t even see the play from the third-base dugout, challenged the play, arguing the ball was “lodged” under the padding, which would incur a dead-ball situation and, hence, a ground rule double for desmond. after replay, the umpires agreed with gonzalez, and desmond walked from the dugout back to second. 
The problem was, of course, that even with replay, the um­pires got the call wrong. upton picked up the ball from under the padding about as easily as a tee-baller picks up dandeli­ons in right field, which is to say, with zero effort. The rules state the ball must “stick” for a ground rule double to occur. The padding was five inches above the ground. a baseball has a three-inch diameter. do the math. 
To make matters worse, mlb confirmed that the umpires made the correct call in revers­ing the original call, which i suppose means “lodged” now carries a whole new definition. or, of course, major league baseball could simply be cover­ing its own behinds a week into their new system. 
no one expected the new replay system to be absolutely perfect, and replay systems in the nFl and college football still have flaws, even occa­sionally getting calls wrong themselves. 
but the fact of the matter is football can get away with those flaws, for whatever rea­son. baseball can’t. in a slow game, added time is precious, and the opportunity cost, to speak economically, of stop­ping a game for minutes more at a time must be worth it. if it is not, critics of america’s pastime will continue to get louder. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | connecTicuT 60, KenTucKy 54 
Huskies stand alone on top 
Associated Press 
no conference wanted them. several teammates and their coach left them. The ncaa wouldn’t have them. 
uconn won it all anyway. 
shabazz napier turned in another all-court masterpiece monday night to lift the huskies to a 60-54 win over Kentucky’s freshmen and a national title hardly anyone saw coming. 
napier had 22 points, six re­bounds and three assists, and his partner in defensive lock-down, ryan boatright, finished with 14 points. 
uconn (32-8) never trailed. The huskies led by as many as 15 in the first half and watched the wildcats (29-11) trim the deficit to one with 8:13 left. but aaron harrison, Kentucky’s big-moment shooter in the last three games, missed a 3-point­er from the left corner that would’ve given the ‘cats the lead. Kentucky never got closer. 
one key difference in a six-point loss: Kentucky’s 11 missed free throws — a flash­back of sorts for coach John calipari, whose memphis team blew a late lead against Kansas after missing multiple free throws in the 2008 final. The wildcats went 13 for 24. uconn went 10 for 10, and when lasan Kromah made his last two with 
25.1 seconds left for a six-point margin, the celebration was on. 
in all, calipari’s one and doners got outdone by a more fundamentally sound, more-seasoned group that came into this tournament a seventh-seeded afterthought but walked away with the program’s fourth national title since 1999. They were the highest seed to win it all since rollie massimino’s eighth-seeded villanova squad in 1985. 
napier and boatright now go down with Kemba walker, emeka okafor and all those other uconn champs of years past. This adds to the school’s titles in 1999, 2004 and 2011. 
This one was, by far, the most unexpected. 
a short year ago, uconn was playing its first season in the new american athletic conference after being booted from the big east and not wel­comed by any of the so-called power conferences. longtime coach Jim calhoun left be­cause of health problems. and most damaging — the ncaa made the huskies sit out of last year’s march madness because of grade problems, which trig­gered an exodus of five key players to the nba or other schools. 
napier stuck around. so did boatright. and calhoun’s re­placement, Kevin ollie, figured out how to get the most out of their grit and court sense. 
They were one step ahead of Kentucky all night, holding off furious rally after furious rally. 
Kentucky’s biggest push started when James young (20 points, seven rebounds) posterized amida brimah with a monster dunk to start a three-point play and trigger an 8-0 run. 
napier and niels giffey made 3s on uconn’s next two posses­sions, and suddenly, that one-point lead was back up to five 
— comfortable by this tourna­ment’s standards. 
NHL | calgary 1, new Jersey 0 
devils’ hopes dashed in loss 
Associated Press 
Karri ramo made 31 saves to record his second nhl shutout as the calgary Flames topped the new Jersey devils 1-0 on monday night. 
mark giordano scored for calgary, which improved to 34-38-7. The Flames are 16­20-4 on the road this season. 
cory schneider stopped 21 of 22 shots for new Jersey, which fell to 34-29-16. new Jersey’s loss also allowed the new york rangers to clinch a playoff berth. 
both calgary and the devils have three games re­maining this season. 
neither the Flames nor devils scored until giordano’s power-play goal 23 seconds into the third as both teams were un­able to take advantage of opportunities. 
new Jersey had a goal dis­allowed with 1:26 left in the first, as referee brad watson waved off what would have been a game-opening score by ryan carter. The ruling was upheld by a video re­view by the nhl in Toronto. replays showed carter kicked the puck, but it was inconclusive whether the devils left wing was able to get his stick on it before it rolled under ramo. 
NHL | minnesoTa 1, winnipeg 0 
wild one point from clinching 
Associated Press 
charlie coyle scored in the second period and ilya bryzgalov made 24 saves as the minnesota wild defeat­ed the winnipeg Jets 1-0 on monday night. 
coyle’s one-timer off a pass from Zach parise at 
1:05 of the second came just after a penalty to winnipeg defenseman mark stuart had expired. 
The wild (41-26-12) closed in on a playoff berth in the western conference with the win. minnesota would need to lose its final three games with phoenix winning four straight in order for the wild to miss the playoffs. 
bryzgalov wasn’t bothered by a taunting crowd as the trade-deadline pickup from edmonton earned his fourth shutout of the season. 
The Jets’ michael hutchinson, a 24-year-old rookie who began the season in the echl, made his first career nhl start with regular backup al montoya still deal­ing with a lower-body injury. his only blemish on 17 shots came on coyle’s one-timer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2 BR 1.5 BA close to campus. 1 to 
FOR RENT 
2 year lease. Call 574-360-6910 
FOOTBALL/COMMENCEMENT/ SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL. Great lo-3 Bed house for rent cation -next to Eddy Street Commons. $850, 574-302-5312 Call 574-360-6910 
Do you love me? Do you wanna be my friend?/ And if you do, well then don’t be afraid to take me by hand/ I think this is how love goes/ Check Yes or No. 



TRACK | sTanFord inviTaTional 
Irish individual competitors cruise to top finishes 
By MATTHEW GARCIA 
sports writer 
The irish men and women put in stellar performances over the weekend at the stanford invitational. while the weekend was highly successful for the team, even more impressive were the national ranks achieved by the athletes. 
on the women’s side, junior hur­dler Jade barber took home the victory in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 13.13 seconds, put­ting her eighth in the ncaa for outdoors competitions this sea­son. sophomore sprinter margaret bamgbose finished second in the 400-meter dash (52.74), also giving her fifth place in the nation. in the first heat of the women’s 3000-me­ter steeplechase, senior alexa aragon finished sixth, matching her current ncaa rank, with a time of 10:14.29. michelle brown finished first in the second heat of the women’s 200-meter dash, set­ting a personal record with a time of 23.75 seconds. 
The men saw similar accolades come their way, starting with the first heat of the men’s 400-meter dash. senior patrick Feeney fin­ished first in 45.56 seconds, while teammate junior chris giesting finished behind him at 45.62 sec­onds.  The two currently hold the second- and fourth-best times in the ncaa for the event. Freshman sprinter harvey smith said that the run by Feeney was a big personal accomplishment. 
“pat set a personal record by about half a second which is a huge personal record for him,” smith said. “he had been wanting to go 45 [seconds].” 
senior Jarrod buchanon ran a season-best 52.14 in the 400-meter hurdles, but smith said he knows his teammate is capable of an even greater time. 
“he feels like he can break into 51 [seconds], so that is a big goal for him,” smith said. 
graduate student nick happe took home the top spot in the ncaa by running the men’s 5,000-meter race in 13:43.55. 
while the rest of his team faired exceptionally well, smith was criti­cal of his own relay time. however, he said he continues to focus on the positive side. 
“The good news is there is a lot of room for improvement and all of us can drop our times so there is hope there,” smith said. 
with the irish having traveled almost 7,000 miles in the last two weeks, harvey noted that the team has had a challenging time. 
“going to california this week­end and Texas last weekend, just a lot of travelling, [it] wears us down,” smith said. “it is very exhausting. we are all tired, so this is a good week to gain our energy back.” 
Though the irish will participate in the border battle next weekend, some athletes will not make the trip to Kentucky, smith said. 
“i know some people are go­ing to the meet next weekend and some people aren’t,” smith said. “so we’re trying to renew ourselves before the acc tournaments start in two weeks.” 
The irish will compete in the border battle, beginning Friday in louisville, Ky. 
Contact Matt Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu 


ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Senior Alexa Aragon pushes to the finish during the Notre Dame Invitational on Jan. 25 at the Loftus Sports Center. Aragon finished sixth in the first heat of the women’s 3000-meter steeplechase over the weekend at the Stanford Invitational. In the same event, Aragon claimed eighth during the NCAA outdoor championships in June 2013. 
SMC GOLF | sT. louis inviTaTional, 11Th 
smc finishes 11th 
By MANNY DeJESUS 
sports writer 
at the washington university in st. louis invite, where 10 of the 16 competing teams were ranked in the top 25, the belles finished 11th with a two-day score of 681. 
despite having little time to practice due to weather, saint mary’s beat out no. 23 wisconsin­stout to take 11th place by a single stroke. leading the way for the belles was junior Janice heffernan, who notched a score of 85 on the first day of the event and an 80 on the second day to finish in 46th place individually. 
“i think that by playing in a tour­nament where there are so many ranked ncaa division iii, naia and nJca schools will hopefully help us realize that we can com­pete with them,” belles’ coach Kimberly moore said. “it just takes a few less mental errors and mak­ing a few more putts. i think when­ever you get an opportunity to play with quality teams that it is always going to help you.” 
The belles’ senior captains alexi bown and paige pollak both com­peted well, finishing 60th and 63rd as individuals out of the 96 golf­ers who competed. both seniors finished the fall season with first-team all-miaa honors. 
“each individual sets specific goals at the beginning of the sea­son, and i am always hoping that by the end of the season i have helped them achieve those goals,” moore said. 
This year, both bown and pollack captain the belles. 
“i have had the opportunity to play college golf, and i have been in their shoes, and every time they execute a great shot or have a great hole, i am extremely happy for them and proud,” moore said. “i know how difficult this game can be and the many trials and tribu­lations you have during a typical round, and i know how much time and effort they put into practice, so it is extremely gratifying when that practice pays off.” 
The belles will have the chance to continue their stretch of good play this weekend at ohio wesleyan’s laura bump invitational at mill creek golf club in ostrander, ohio. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL | smc 8, albion 6; smc 8, albion 2 
Two-win weekend for belles 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s got its miaa con­ference season off to a strong start sunday with a doubleheader sweep of albion. 
The belles (10-6, 2-0 miaa) erupt­ed for eight runs in each contest and allowed only a combined five earned runs as they won the opener 8-6 and finished the sweep with an 8-2 victory over the brits (1-14, 0-4). 
in the first game’s second in­ning, belles sophomore first base­man Jillian busfield opened the scoring with her second home run of the season to make the score 2-0. Two innings later, saint mary’s brought 12 batters to the plate and scored six runs to take an 8-0 lead. Freshman shortstop caitlyn migawa drove in two runs with a single, while sophomore third baseman Kayla chapman and ju­nior catcher cecily reyes each tal­lied an rbi as well. 
“[busfield’s] home run was nice,” Zache said. “it was like, ‘okay, we can do this. These pitchers are hit­table.’ From there, it was nice to see other people outside the meat of the lineup step up and have big games. reyes going 4-for-7 with two doubles on the day was great and [sophomore second baseman angela dainell] did great going 3-for-6, which she hadn’t done all season. it was just great to see. even [sophomore pitcher sarah burke] went 4-for-7 in the doubleheader, and she’s only had like 20 at-bats all season.” 
burke was not only a force at the plate, but she also earned the win in the first game, pitching five innings, allowing three runs and striking out five. 
senior pitcher callie selner fin­ished off the first game and then tossed the entire second to earn her sixth win of the season. 
albion senior first baseman Kaitlyn downey hit a two-run home run in the third inning, but those were the only runs selner allowed. all told, selner pitched a combined nine innings allowing just two runs and racking up nine strikeouts. 
“normally i start her in the first game, but she had a slight injury, and i wanted to give her more time to heal,” Zache said. “i ended up bringing her in late in the first game, and she did really well . closed it out. Then she just shut them down in the second game.” 
selner’s work was more than enough for a saint mary’s offense that got off to another strong start in the doubleheader’s second game. after scoring two in the first inning, the belles used five consec­utive singles and a two-rbi double from reyes to stretch their lead to 7-0 at the end of the second inning. after the brits’ home run, reyes hit another rbi double in the fourth inning to finish the day’s scoring. 
“we made some mental er­rors, particularly in the fist game,” Zache said. “we’ve been working on those, and if we can eliminate them, our momentum will carry over even better. it was nice to get under way and start to see where we are in the conference. we have a tough week ahead, but this start allowed us to make a statement.” 
The belles’ week features two conference doubleheaders on the road. They will visit hope on wednesday at 3:30 p.m. before traveling to face olivet on saturday starting at 1:00 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




SMC LACROSSE | smc 16, illinois Tech 4 
Belles claim first program victory over weekend 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
overcoming early-season troubles and capitalizing on its goal-scoring opportuni­ties, saint mary’s broke out offensively against illinois Tech en route to a 16-4 vic­tory saturday, the first win in program history. 
The belles (1-7, 0-1 miaa) jumped ahead early with two goals from freshman mid­field aubrey golembieski, but the scarlet hawks (0-9) re­sponded with a pair of their own to bring the score to 2-2. 
The saint mary’s offense exploded for eight goals to end the half, including two more from golembieski and two from freshman midfield 
emilie vanneste, her first five goals on the game. exciting,” long said. goals of the season. meanwhile, the saint long said the belles’ recent 
sophomore attack Tess mary’s defense held illinois outdoor practices gave them guerrero, sophomore de-Tech scoreless for nearly an edge in adjusting to the fense sarah neeser, fresh-46 consecutive minutes. field. man defense Jackie loesch The belles were 15 for 18 on “i think the grass field was and freshman attack lauren clearances and forced 12 definitely an advantage for us Telford netted goals as well, turnovers. Freshman goalie . it took [illinois Tech] quite and the belles took a 10-2 stephanie szymas was key to a while to adjust to that,” lead into halftime. belles the defensive effort with sev-she said. “getting outside coach amy long said she en saves. and practicing ground balls was thrilled by the variety of “we played well defensive-helped us a lot.” scoring. ly, and stephanie had a great The belles had a 33-23 ad­
“offensively we finished game,” long said. “overall, vantage in ground balls and well and had a lot of different everyone just executed what controlled 14 of 22 draws. players get goals, which was we’ve been working on very with one win now under exciting to see,” long said. well.” their belt, the belles will 
in the second half, fresh-The game ended in a 16-4 travel to face conference op-man midfield cathy baxter win for the belles. ponent hope on Tuesday. notched a goal 45 seconds “we’ve improved a lot each The Flying dutch (2-5, 0-2 in, and vanneste added two game, and to actually take miaa) are led by two seniors, more goals to finish with four. hold of the game and get midfields Katie sabourin and golembieski had a team-high such a big win ... was really molly greenfield, who have 
paid adverTisemenT 


19 and 14 goals on the season, respectively. long said the disparity in experience will be a challenge in the upcom­ing conference games for the first-year saint mary’s squad, 
which  is  over  two-thirds  
freshmen.  
however,  she  said  the  

win over illinois Tech was promising. 
“going into [Tuesday’s game against hope], i think it just gives us a lot of con­fidence that we can execute what we’ve been talking about well,” she said. 
The belles and the Flying dutchmen will square off Tuesday at 6 p.m. at hope. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
pitched 3 1/3 innings in relief and allowed two runs on four hits while walking four and striking out one. 
“nick is a guy we trust to throw some strikes, notwithstanding the way that things went for him on Friday,” irish coach mik aoki said. 
mccarty has been hit-and-miss during his starts this season. in four of his seven starts, mccarty has gone at least six innings and al­lowed two or fewer runs. in the oth­er three, he has gone a combined 7 2/3 innings and given up 18 runs. 
“he needs to get back out there,” aoki said. “he’s an important piece of our staff, and i think he gives us a good chance to win every time he goes out and takes the ball.” 
chicago state will send junior right-hander andrew wellwerts to the hill. wellwerts (1-5, 7.36 era) will be making his seventh start but just his second midweek start of the season. 
in his last start march 30 at grand canyon, wellwerts lasted just 1 2/3 innings and surrendered seven runs (five earned) on three hits and four walks. wellwerts has struggled with his control, throwing 10 wild pitches, walking 12 batters and hit­ting seven more in 36 2/4 innings. 
The cougars have five players hitting at least .290 and are led by freshman infielder sanford hunt. hunt is batting .367 with eight rbi. Junior infielder chase matheson and outfielder Jordan stroschein lead the team with 18 and 17 rbi, re­spectively. both are hitting .291. 
chicago state has lost nine games in a row since march 21 and has averaged only four runs per game during the skid. 
“i know that they’ve struggled a little bit, but so have we,” aoki said. “hopefully, we can get back out there and play at a similar level to what we did for the majority of this weekend and come out on the right end of the score.” 
notre dame and chicago state will play Tuesday night at 7 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
great to have the two best teams in the country playing each other for a national championship.” 
The irish (37-0, 16-0 acc) have a long history with the huskies (39-0, 18-0 aac) that dates back two de­cades but has especially heated up in recent years, culminating last season when the two teams played four times. The irish took the first three games . all of which came down to the final minute . including the big east tournament champi­onship. but the huskies got the win when it mattered most: in the Final Four. 
after winning the national cham­pionship, the huskies entered the current season as the heavy favor­ites to add a ninth national champi­onship to coach geno auriemma’s resume, which would push him past Tennessee legend pat summitt for the most ncaa titles in women’s basketball history. 
“what i think is more significant [is] for [senior guard] bria hartley and [senior center] stefanie dolson to win a national championship their senior year,” auriemma said. “That’s pretty significant, because they only get ‘x’ amount of chances to do it.” 
connecticut returns three start­ers from last year’s championship team, including the 2013 Final Four most outstanding player and 2014 ap player of the year: sophomore forward breanna stewart, who av­erages 19.4 points, 8.1 rebounds and 
2.8 blocks per game. 
“i don’t know if you can stop her,” mcgraw said. “i don’t think you can. i think she’s a great player. … she can score in so many different ways.” 
The irish, on the other hand, en­tered the season ranked no. 7 in the nation without graduated star guard skylar diggins before they ran the table in the acc, went unde­feated in the regular season for the first time in program history and advanced to their fourth straight Final Four. 
in each of the past three years, the irish have played connecticut in the semifinals, winning in 2011 and 2012 before dropping last year’s game. notre dame lost to Texas a&m in the championship three seasons ago before falling to baylor the following year. The irish are seeking their second title in pro­gram history after cutting the nets in 2001. 
notre dame will play tonight without senior forward natalie achonwa, who tore her acl in the elite eight against baylor. but in their Final Four matchup sunday against no. 4-seed maryland, achonwa’s absence hardly slowed the irish. notre dame ended the night with a 50-21 edge in rebound­ing, despite maryland’s plus-10.4 rebounding margin average on the season. The irish collected 19 offensive rebounds and 20 second-chance points in the 87-61 victory. 
connecticut, playing second-seeded stanford in the semifinals sunday night, had more trouble on the boards, edging the cardinal, 35-33. without achonwa, however, the huskies have a significant size advantage in the post in stewart, dolson and junior center Kiah stokes. 
“i mean, it’s definitely been a chal­lenge [without achonwa],” said irish freshman forward Taya reimer, who started in achonwa’s place against the Terrapins. “she’s been our leader all year and obviously one of our best players in general and a great presence for us inside. but we’re going to work as hard as we can [and] be physical down low. and we did a pretty good job against maryland.” 
“They’re more than just one player,” auriemma said when asked if connecticut would try to exploit the post more against notre dame. “They’re more than any one individ­ual. and if they can continue to get contributions from their other three post players like they got [sunday], they won’t miss natalie at all.” 
irish senior guard Kayla mcbride has been a part of all of notre dame’s recent Final Four teams and is still looking for a national cham­pionship. against baylor, mcbride struggled with foul trouble and put up only 11 points and two rebounds. against maryland, however, she bounced back to score 28 points, 19 of which came in the first half, and sparked a 16-4 run that began eight minutes into the game and put the irish ahead for good. 
win or lose, the all-acc guard said Tuesday night would be special for her. 
“it’s kind of surreal that this is go­ing to be my last game in a notre dame uniform,” mcbride said. “This program has meant so much to me over the years. … To be able to play in the national champion­ship game and to be able to play for coach mcgraw and with these girls, it means more than you know.” 
The irish and the huskies resume their rivalry tonight with the na­tional championship on the line at the bridgestone arena in nashville, Tenn. Tipoff is scheduled for 8:30 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
highest scorer for the golden eagles. 
marquette and notre dame are former conference foes, but have played each other just once, after marquette in­troduced its lacrosse program in 2013. on april 2, 2013, in wilmette, ill., the irish best­ed the golden eagles, 17-5, the start of a four-game win streak for the irish. 
despite their recent strug­gles, the irish boast a top-20 offense and still have four more regular season games, including one last acc game against maryland. 
“going forward to marquette, we will just stick to our game plan and do what needs to be done,” sophomore defense edwin glazener said. “[it’s a] long way to may so it’s better to learn from our mistakes now rather than later.” 
notre dame and marquette square off in milwaukee, wis., on Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


Rivalry 
conTinued From page 16 
irish coach muffet mcgraw acknowledged the relation­ship between her program and connecticut coach geno auriemma’s had turned sour. 
“i think we’re past that point,” mcgraw replied when a reporter asked how civility could be re­turned to the rivalry. 
auriemma maintained that hard feelings were the inevitable result of meeting 12 times over the past three seasons. 
“once you start playing each other two, three times, four times a year, it gets pretty intense for lots of reasons,” auriemma said. “it’s only natural. it will probably die down, now that we’re not in the same conference, now that we probably are only going to play each other once a year.” 
connecticut sophomore for­ward breanna stewart, who was named the associated press player of the year on saturday, agreed that familiarity fueled the rivalry. 
“i don’t think [the rivalry] was anything when i was in high school,” stewart said. “i didn’t have any sense of rivalry between college teams. but i think that last year when they beat us three times in a row, that created a sense of rivalry just because they were all so close. The games were all so close and came down to the last minute.” 
auriemma also said he does not think it is unusual for rivals like notre dame and connecticut (39­0, 18-0 aac) to have contentious relationships. 
“This is a function of women’s basketball: sometimes we act like girls, like we’re supposed to go to dinner every night,” auriemma said. “we’re supposed to play each other, try to beat each other’s brains in, try to win a national championship and compete like hell, muffet and geno, and then we’re supposed to get together afterwards and go have a bottle of wine? That’s just not going to happen. so stop asking us why it doesn’t happen.” 
although the animosity be­tween the programs can mostly be traced to on-court competition, several comments suggested saturday’s ap player of the year announcement increased the hard feelings between the teams. 
“i think that there were two teams in the room and they were both supporting their respective player and coaches,” said stewart. “and i don’t think that we are very fond of each other. i think every­one knows that. but, at the same time, we still respect each other and know that tomorrow night it’s going to be a huge battle.” 
mcgraw, who was named the ap coach of the year at the same conference, acknowledged she found the event, during which both teams, their supporting staffs and the media were crammed into a small room inside bridgestone arena, uncomfortable. 
“i think there was definitely ten­sion in the room,” mcgraw said. “i think, for us, we wanted Kayla mcbride to win the player of the year award. so, i think it was a little bit of that. and certainly the rivalry has gone a little away from the civility it was when we were in the league together.” 
auriemma said he did not sense anything amiss during the award ceremony, but he did comment on the negative responses from opponents and their fans when the huskies and their players are successful. 
“nobody knows what it’s like be­ing us,” auriemma said. “nobody knows what we go through every day, what our players go through every time they win an award. everybody gets pissed off … be­cause it’s connecticut all the time. people are sick of it. it’s just natural.” 
Two undefeated teams, a heat­ed rivalry and a chance for the huskies to win their ninth na­tional championship, eclipsing Tennessee’s eight. 
as mcbride said, no one could have scripted a more compelling final game for the seniors on the court. 
“we have a history,” mcbride said. “especially the last couple of years, we had some great games. it’s definitely exciting. i know we’re excited, two great programs going at it. so i can’t wait.” 
neither can anyone else. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Across 35 Shoppe sign 62 San Antonio 1 Rocky outcrop 
word landmark, with “the” 
36 Begins to pursue 63 Mont Blanc,5 ___ Ness 
9 Self-mover’s 

vigorously par exemple rental 39 Wander (about) 64 Artery’s 14 “Bloody” counterpart 
40 Part of a shirt 
15 Ship-to-ship that may 65 Keep for call 

develop a hole another three 
16 Irritable weeks, say, as
41 Callers of a library book 

17 “Picnic” strikes and playwright balls 66 Like some William batteries 
42 Prefix with 

18 Circumstance’s cycle or city 67 “I hate to break partner up ___” 
43 Night before 
19 Earns 44 Test at a 

20 1991 film that Down 
football tryout 
earned John 1 Nursery sights 48 Cook in oil Singleton a 2 Went long, as aBest Director 49 ___ Arbor, sentence

nomination Mich. 3 Sweater or
23 NBC fixture 50 Lend a hand sock pattern since ’75 51 Nosh 4 “Man!” 
24 In addition 
54 Singer of the 
5 Portable 25 U.S.N. rank 
1975 #1 hit 
computers26 Train alternative “Before the 6 “Call on me!
Next Teardrop 
29 What a blind Call on me!” 
Falls” man mistakes 7 Accompany, for a snake, in 57 Like some with “with” 

a fable bears 8 Like Olivia 
33 Twisty turn 60 Lucy’s husband Newton-John’s or son34 “Gloria in last nameExcelsis ___” 61 Shrek, e.g. 
9 Absolute maximum
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Focus of a phrenologist 11 Seek answers 12 Beehive State native 13 Fleur-de-___ 
21 Mushroom cloud producer,in brief 
22 No longerfooled by 26 Onion, for one 27 Cancel 28 Twist, as facts 30 Absolute minimum 31 Legendaryfirefighter Red 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

PUZZLE BY DAN SCHOENHOLZ 
32 Actors’ parts 42 Daly of “Cagney& Lacey” 
36 In a ___ 
43 Spiritually
(indignant) 
uplifted 37 Roman god of 
45 Peter of Peter, 
love 
Paul and Mary 38 Surprisingly 46 Place for agile for one’s pampering age 47 Yard separators 39 Pop’s pop 
52 Nest that maybe found on a 40 Dodge 1-Across 
53 Singer Terence ___ D’Arby 
54 Stardom 
55 Edit out 
56 Kind of lox 
57 Standard for the course 
58 Bullring“Bravo!” 
59 Office computerlinkup, for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 

234 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2013 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

4/2/13 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: choose your battles wisely, but don’t run and hide. if you want to get ahead, face opposition smartly and with all your facts in order. swift action and precise strategic maneuvers will ensure your success and your safety. accept the inevitable so that you can move on to make improvements that are doable. your numbers are 7, 12, 22, 28, 34, 39, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): emotions will spin out of control if you let trivial matters get to you. don’t get into an argument because someone doesn’t think the same way you do. Keep your life simple, get your chores out of the way and keep the peace. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): check out your options and make a decision. sign up for an activity or event that interests you, but reserve judgment. now is the time to learn, not to make an impulsive decision based on limited information and knowledge. love is highlighted. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Taking action may be your way of getting what you want, but do your research before getting started. you are likely to make a mistake if you base your choices on what you hear in passing. get the facts before you proceed. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your imagination and you will find ways to have fun without being indulgent. emotions will run high, making it necessary to be positive and mindful of others. romance will improve your personal life. live, love and laugh. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): an abrupt change may be unsettling, but if you stay calm and look at the pros and cons, you will find a way to turn a lemon into lemonade. Travel delays can be avoided by mapping out your route prior to leaving. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your heart is in the right place, and offering assistance can lead to personal benefits, but refrain from making cash donations. your time and expertise are sufficient. wasting money will cause a problem between you and someone you love. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) don’t share your concern with a colleague, peer or anyone who can affect your position or reputation. Keep your life simple and your expenses down. domestic problems and regrets are apparent if you aren’t willing to compromise. Keep the peace. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): explore, experiment and live life to the fullest. expand your interests, friendships or romantic relationship with someone special. do something unique that will lead to greater joy, happiness and longevity. health, wealth and love are highlighted. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): not everything is as it appears. an unfortunate situation will develop if you get involved in a joint money venture. The truth may hurt, but it will be necessary. Focus on making your home life better and your residence more efficient. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t feel pressured to jump into action because someone is being demanding. rethink your plans. get together with someone you love or an old friend, and you will be able to turn a negative day into a positive and fruitful experience. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): get back to basics and consider the things you used to do that made you happy. The activities you enjoy and are skillful at executing can be incorporated into something that can also generate extra cash. invest in your interests and your future. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): spend time with people you enjoy. socializing or hosting an event will put you in the spotlight. share your creative plans for the future with people you feel can make a contribution. love is in the stars. mix business with pleasure. 

Birthday Baby: you are sympathetic but not a pushover. you are proactive and energetic. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Undefeated rivals clash in championship 
No. 2 Irish face 

Notre Dame-No. 1 Huskies in Connecticut 
the NCAA finals rivalry boils hot 
By GREG HADLEY By VICKY JACOBSEN 
associate sports editor sports writer 
no. 1-seeded connecticut and 

when irish senior guard Kayla no. 2-seeded notre dame, two of 
mcbride was asked at monday’s college basketball’s fiercest rivals, 
press conference what makes will play for the national champi­
connecticut-notre dame match­onship tonight in nashville, Tenn. 
ups so exciting, she did not bother Fans across the country hoped 
to sugarcoat her answer. for the matchup . the first ever be-
other teams are intimidated by tween unbeaten teams in either 
the connecticut jerseys, mcbride the men’s or women’s division i 
said, “and they’ve already lost the national championship. president 
game.” but notre dame’s “swag” barack obama, along with dozens 
allows the irish (37-0, 16-0 acc) to of pundits, predicted it. and now 
compete against a program with that it is finally here, both squads 
eight national championships, she are prepared to renew their rivalry 
explained. in the biggest game of the year. 
“we already don’t like each oth­“i think it was kind of inevita­
er, so that adds to it too,” mcbride ble, wasn’t it?” irish coach muffet 
added. mcgraw said. “you guys [the me-
Forget about the first-ever meet­dia] probably had that one on your 
ing of undefeated teams in the na­calendars probably by Feb. 1. i think 
tional final . it was the animosity the whole country was so distracted 
between the two teams described with that [matchup] and enamored 
by mcbride that became the take-with that matchup that it’s kind of 
away from monday’s press confer-nice to be in that moment. … it’s GRANT TOBIN | The Observer ences in nashville. 
Irish freshman forward Taya Reimer drives to the hoop during Notre Dame’s 87-61 victory over Maryland see w basKeTball PAGE 14 on Sunday. Reimer is tasked with replacing injured senior forward Natalie Achonwa in today’s game. see rivalry PAGE 14 
BASEBALL 
mccarty to start at cougars 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
senior sports writer 
notre dame will play a road game Tuesday at its home away from home when it takes on chicago state at cougar stadium. 
The irish (10-20, 1-14 acc) played one “home” game at cougar stadium when they beat robert morris 3-0 on march 18. but now, notre dame will be the visitor for the host cougars (9-17, 0-6 wac). 
sophomore right-hander nick mccarty will start on the mound for notre dame. mccarty (1-6, 4.81 era) will be making his first start since earning his first win during a 4-1 vic­tory over valparaiso on march 28. 
mccarty took the loss Friday dur­ing notre dame’s 8-7, 12-inning set­back against no. 1 Florida state. he 
see baseball PAGE 13 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
no. 7 irish look to shake off last loss 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
stuck in a rut and the bot­tom half of the acc, no. 7 notre dame has the chance to rebound Tuesday from its 15-7 loss to no. 3 duke on saturday, when the team heads to milwaukee, wis., to take on marquette. 
with the loss to the blue devils, the irish dropped to 4-4 on the year and 2-2 in the acc, good for just fourth place out of six teams in the conference. in the home matchup, the irish never led and were down 6-3 early in the third quarter before surrendering six unanswered to put the game out of reach. 
since defeating ohio state13-7 at home on march 25, the irish have lost two in a row, their first losing streak of the season. in addition to the loss to duke, notre dame dropped a narrow 11-10 decision to syracuse on march 29, its first acc loss of the season after winning its first two conference contests and taking first place. 
The golden eagles (4-7, 2-1 big east), on the other hand, have recovered from a rocky 1-5 start to win three of their past five, including a thrilling dou­ble-overtime triumph over st. John’s. among their losses, the golden eagles have dropped games to Jacksonville and ohio state, both of whom the irish have defeated this year. 
against duke, the irish of­fense struggled early and often, falling behind 13-3 and regis­tering below their average of 
11.5 goals and 4.88 assists per game. The marquette defense, however, ranks 58th of 67 pro­grams nationally, allowing 
11.91 goals on average. 
on offense, the golden eagles average 9.82 goals per game and are led almost sin­gle-handedly by senior attack-man Tyler melnyk, who leads the team in points, goals and assists. melnyk’s 32 goals is double the total of the second 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish senior attack John Scioscia attempts to set up the offense from the side of the goal during Notre Dame’s 15-7 loss to Duke on Saturday. 


SMC Lacrosse vs. Illinois State  W 16-4  ND Women’s Basketball vs. Connecticut  8:30 p.m.  SMC Tennis at Hope  Wed., 3:30 p.m.  
SMC Softball at Albion  L 8-6 W 8-2  Men’s Lacrosse at Marquette  4 p.m.  ND Softball at North Carolina  Wed., 6 p.m. Wed., 6 p.m.  
SMC Golf at St. Louis Spring Invitational  11th  Baseball at Chicago State  6 p.m.  Baseball at Michigan  Wed., 7 p.m.  





