The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 55 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NSF awards veteran with grant 
ND graduate student and Army veteran earns Graduate Research Fellowship 
morales said. “The nsF has never The nsF expressed interest in from the military to undergradu-
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer done anything like this before. helping veterans overcome any ate or graduate education. They honored the veterans while obstacles that may prevent them “i wasn’t in a science field when i The national science also showing how they had con-from pursuing a civilian career in was in the military,” morales said. 



Club raises funds to 
“i just had this drive to do it. i fol­lowed my heart. i took all the op-

provide 
portunities that were given to me.” 
Foundation (nsF) recognized 
sTem, morales said. 

11 united states military veter­
ans for their contributions to the 
science, technology, engineer­
ing and mathematics fields in 
washington, on nov. 5. united 
states army veteran and notre 
dame physics graduate stu­
dent luis morales and 10 others “Throughout the day, we [talk­
ed] about the relationship be­
tween veterans and the sciences,” according to a press release 

flu kits 

he said. “we’re not traditional stu­from the college of science, 
dents. many of us start schooling “the nsF graduate research 
with families. it can be a struggle Fellowship program provides 
to manage this financially and three years of support for the grad-
By BIANCA ALMADA 

time wise.” uate education of students who 
news writer 
were honored with nsF-funded graduate research Fellowships. “The ceremony in washington was a veteran’s day event,” 

tributed to—and made the tran­sition from—the military to the sTem fields.” 
morales said that he and the other nsF Fellows honored in d.c. were asked what could be done for veterans to help with the transition have demonstrated the potential for significant achievements 
see nsF PAGE 5 

architecture library releases two apps 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The architecture library recently made two collec­tions widely available by developing a website to show­case the archives of a small Florida town and an ipad app to pull together the library’s rare books on the roman Forum. 
architecture librarian Jennifer parker, who oversaw both projects, said the school ofarchitecture was interested in seaside, Fla. because it was the first town to use the new urban style of architecture, an “argument against subur­ban sprawl” which empha­sized traditional city design. 

“new urbanism states that a mixed-use, walkable com­munity will yield a better quality of life,” parker said. “seaside was designed in the early 1980s to test this theory.” 
parker said the university acquired the town’s archives from robert davis, seaside’s founder. she said the library would house the archives and create a permanent exhibit on the town in ad­dition to digitizing docu­ments and maintaining the seaside research portal, a collaboration between the architecture library and the school of architecture. The architecture library pro­vided content for the proj­ect, while the digital library services department devel­oped the program and oiT academic Technologies pro­duced the panoramic images. 
portal users can view the town’s building plans, its codes and profiles of its ar­chitects. The site also has a “virtual tour,” where users can click on spots on a map of seaside and see a panoramic view of the town. 
parker said the portal is a research tool for architecture students, some of whom go to seaside for an architecture studio class taught by lucien steil. 
“They study from the portal first before they go there,” she said. “They research the his­tory of seaside. [The site] con­tains original essays written by the founders of seaside, so they study those. There’s the about section of seaside, and it has [information] about building seaside and about building the portal, and it has 
see apps PAGE 5 
social Justice in american medicine (sJam), a cam­pus organization that stud­ies healthcare injustices and participates in related com­munity service, is raising money to build flu kits for the sr. maura brannick clinic in south bend. The club is host­ing a fundraiser at Five guy’s burgers and Fries on eddy street all day Tuesday, nov. 18, on behalf of the clinic ded­icated to serving those in the south bend community with­out health insurance. 
“as we all know, south bend winters are no joke, nor are the bouts of flu that sweep the local and student popu­lations,” sJam co-president junior david boothe said. “every year we make flu kits containing things like water and ibuprofen that we donate to the clinic so that the clinic 
see sJam PAGE 5 


Saint Mary’s Women’s Choir hosts fall concert 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
The saint mary’s college women’s choir will celebrate their fall concert Thursday and then travel to the alice Tully hall of the lincoln center for the performing arts in new york city on saturday, nov. 29. 
The fall concert Thursday includes performances by the saint mary’s women’s choir, the collegiate choir and bellacappella, a student a cappella group. 
according to the press release, director of choral activities and the mary lou and Judd leighton chair of music, saint mary’s music professor nancy menk will conduct at both events. The performances will feature music by gwyneth walker, an american composer who will attend the concerts and work with saint mary’s music stu­dents while on campus. 

menk is excited for her students to experience new york city, she said in a press release. 
see choir PAGE 4 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 cross counTry PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite thing about winter? 


Camelia Hegarty 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“makes me think of christmas.” 
Chey McWilliams 
fifth year 
off-campus 
“snowfall.” 
Grace Weissend 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“my mom makes good christmas cookies.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Katy Kiely 
fifth year 
off-campus 
“The smell of snow.” 
Laura Lucini 
sophomore breen phillips hall 
“hot chocolate.” 
Maggie Blaha 
sophomore 
breen phillips hall 
“seeing people fall on ice.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kayla mullen Zach Klonsinki peter durbin ben padanilam 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mammograms on Notre Dame GIS Day Men’s Hockey Women’s Basketball Notre Dame Football 
emmet Farnan Tabitha ricketts 
Campus Hesburgh Library Compton Family Ice Purcell Pavilion Notre Dame Stadium Hesburgh Library 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Arena 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Workshops and 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. Notre Dame versus Irish take on Louisville 
Corrections 

Must be at least 40 sessions throughout The Irish take on Chattanooga. in final home game. 
The observer regards itself as years old. the day. UMass Lowell. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Careers That Matter International Taste Remembrance Vigil Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall of South Bend The Grotto TBA Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
6:30p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 8 p.m.- 9 p.m. 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Discussion of post-6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Vigil for the 43 missing Pep rally for Notre 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
graduate service Free and open to the students in Mexico. Dame vs. Louisville Music by the Women’s
we can correct our error. 

opportunities. public. football game. Liturgical Choir. 


‘ban the box’ destigmatizes ex-convict employment 
By MERCEDES DE LA ROSA 
news writer 
on Friday afternoon in the coffee house of geddes hall, carolina arroyo, associate director of undergraduate studies and a member of the political science department, joined cheryl ashe, founder of ex-offenders information and referral services for a lecture as part of the higgins lunchtime labor raps. The lec­ture, titled “ban the box: one step Towards re-entry for ex-offenders,” centered on a re­cent campaign in south bend to encourage employers to leave questions about criminal records off job applications. 
“people that are released from prison and are trying to get back into society, if they can have jobs … won’t re­turn to prison.” arroyo said. seeking to dispel the stereo­type of “once a criminal always a criminal,” arroyo referred to former criminals as “returning citizens.” 
The ban the box initiative seeks to remove the criminal record box from applications of all kinds so returning citi­zens are judged on skill and possibly given the chance to interview. 
Foreseeing common con­cerns, arroyo quickly assured that the campaign, “does not require any employer to hire a returning citizen. … [it] does not prohibit an employers from asking the question. it simply asks employers to wait to give the person the chance to have the interview and then we can proceed.” 

arroyo said an interview gives returning citizens the opportunity to explain their criminal record and their cur­rent rehabilitation. 
“This way people are not seen as ‘criminal’ [or] ‘not criminal,’” she said. 
ashe encouraged employers to perform background checks because it will show not only convictions but arrests. 
“if you notice [the returning citizen] hasn’t been arrested after that last crime four years ago, then you’re pretty safe hiring that person,” ashe said. “why? because trust me, any self-respecting drug dealer is going to have been arrested in four years if they’re still using.” 
ashe said the passage of the legislation for the ban the box initiative came surprisingly easily. 
“very much to my surprise, … it sailed through without even a formal vote. ... all of the council members agreed … and we got ban the box,” she said. 
while the problem of hy­perincarceration is a compli­cated issue that needs a lot more, arroyo said ban the box is a step towards reducing the amount of repeat offenders. 
“we know for a fact that ap­proximately 600 people are 
“People that are released from prison and are trying to get back into society, if they can have jobs ... won’t return to prison.” 
Carolina Arroyo 
associate director 
Undergraduate Studies 

released from prison every year and return to st. Joseph county,” she said. “so we need to help them. They need jobs, they want jobs, and it’s an eco­nomic bonus for the county and for all of us as tax payers to have them be employed. 
“it benefits all of us because if they don’t have jobs they have to find a way to make a living, so they’re going to re­turn to what they were doing before.” 
Contact Mercedes de la Rosa at mdelaro5@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Professor explores ramifications of digital scholarship 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
as arts and humanities encounter the digital age, their intersection remains a hot topic among liter­ary scholars. in a saturday lecture titled “what’s all the Fuss about the digital humanities?,” assistant pro­fessor of english matthew wilkens explored this junc­tion and the ramifications of technological advancement in literary scholarship. 
The lecture, the penulti­mate installment of the snite museum’s saturday scholars series, explored the emerg­ing field of digital humani­ties, an area of research that uses technological tools to investigate patterns in liter­ary and cultural expression. wilkens said recent decades have seen a transformation in the perspectives literary scholars adopt toward great literary works and believes the field of digital humani­ties helps answer the new questions that come as a result. 
according to wilkens, liter­ary scholars are shifting away from questions that ask what universal messages readers can gain from the traditional literary cannon and said “the questions have become much larger, and much more cul­turally oriented.” 
“in the last few decades, there’s been something that we’ve described under the blanket term ‘the cultural turn,’ in which we’ve started to ask questions that involve what writers like shakespeare or writers of great books can tell us about the culture in which they were produced,” wilkens said. 
wilkens said he hopes lit­erary scholars will use com­putational tools to analyze larger amounts of contem­porary literature, rather than focusing on the tradition canon of great texts. 
“what we’d like to do in­stead is find ways to get some kind of information from that huge body of texts, and one way to do that would be to treat those texts as the material for data analysis,” he said. 
wilkens elaborated on some of the tools in the digital humanities such as literary text mining — a tech­nique that analyzes word patterns in large volumes of texts — geolocation extrac­tion and network analysis, and how he was able to use these tools to complete his research on american civil war literature. wilkens said the tools allowed him to dis­cover surprising trends in lo­cation-based literature, and said these types of literary works were often overlooked in history, yet provided valu­able insights about the time period. 
“it makes it easy, when we focus on the really canonical stuff, to lose sight of whats going on in a lot of day to day fiction that we might want to know something about,” wilkens said. 
wilkens said several schol­ars are critical of the ad­vance of digital humanities because they feel it might al­ter the unique essence of hu­manities and they would like to retain at the core of the humanities a sort of feeling for books. 
“There’s some legitimate fear of change,” he said. “if we start adopting quantita­tive methods, i think there’s little doubt that literary studies and other humani­ties are not going to look the same 20 or 30 years down the road thirty or fifty years from now.” 
wilkens said while he un­derstands the concerns, he sees digital humanities as a way of complementing and expanding scholarly research in the arts, rather than the destroying its essence. 
“[digital humanities tools] are a range of approaches that are reshaping the way that literary studies work and more broadly reshaping the way the humanities work in order to do better the things that we already want to do,” he said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

expert confronts irish­english homosocial diction 
By PAUL STEVENSON 
news writer 
The Keough-naughton institute for irish studies pre­sented a lecture on Friday by associate professor of irish literature and language sarah mcKibben on the queering of early modern irish colonial en­counters with the english. 
“Queering early modern ireland … provides a common grammar of disparate mate­rial in multiple languages that has not heretofore been read together or understood as part of the same political dynamic,” mcKibben said. “it discloses the common motivations of hereto­fore isolated genres, such as love poetry and so-called political poetry, … offers new insights into familiar material, recov­ers an irish iteration of what has long been grasped in con­temporaneous england … and enables new forms of compari­son and offers an early model of a pattern and process found elsewhere. 
“by in turn queering modern ireland, that is unsettling and perturbing it, reading it athwart and critiquing prior assump­tions to discern the non-heter­onormative nature of its very texts, encounters and ideologies across discursive communities, we can recover a lost cultural logic of the period.” 

“Because such bonding is so central to native Irish society ... this prompts a correspondingly vehement response that shapes early modern anti-colonial rhetoric and lives on in the Irish.” 
Sarah McKibben 
associate professor 
Irish Literature and Language 

mcKibben said the male-male bonding typical of a male-dominated society, though it may not have all been consid­ered homosexual, was identi­fied and observed in some of the works from author gerald of wales, whose propaganda-laced works depicted the irish harshly for being homosexual, among other things. 
“put simply, colonialism queers pre-existing male homo-social bonding, that is, it dislo­cates, unsettles, spoils, renders strange native homosocial bonding,” she said. “because such bonding is so central to na­tive irish society … this prompts a correspondingly vehement re­sponse that shapes early mod­ern anti-colonial rhetoric and lives on in the irish.” 
years later, once irish resis­tance to english colonialism had begun to boil over, irish po­ets turned against the english through their own literary works, which mcKibben said was a return, “back to gerald, but viewed from the other side.” 
The irish resistors wrote “acts of violence as the under­lying truth, …‘The english are treacherous, not to be trusted, and when they offer bonds of friendship, you should not be misled.’” 
Contact Paul Stevenson at psteven4@nd.edu 
Choir 
conTinued From page 1 
“choirs love singing the music of american composer gwyneth walker for it’s beau­tiful lyricism, energy, and hu­mor” menk said according to the press release. “i’m excited for our students to experience new york city, including the macy’s parade, at this festive time of year, and our alice Tully hall concert will be the icing on the cake.” 
claire stewart, a senior in the women’s choir, said she is impressed by walker’s ability to move the audience through her music. 
“she has this incredible talent for capturing the emo­tions of the texts that she uses,” stewart said. “she truly brings the words to life. she can take texts that i’ve heard a million times and make me feel something completely new. That is something that i find to be very special about her music.” 
distinguished concerts international-new york will host saint mary’s students performance, “with grace, the choral music of gwyneth walker,” on nov. 29 at 7 p.m. in the lincoln center. 
according to the press re­lease, the concert features the women’s choir and other choirs from across the coun­try, including two conducted by saint mary’s alumnae. Katherine chmelko, ’09, con­ducts the choir from nazareth academy high school in philadelphia and Jennifer chester Ferguson, ’06, con­ducts the colorado women’s chorale. 
stewart said she is excited for the incredible opportu­nity to sing in new york city and for the time she will have with her fellow choir members. 
“experiences like these are incredible opportunities for musical growth,” stewart said.” “much of my growth as a musician has come from learning alongside others who share in my passion. i think that our performance in new york will be a great op­portunity to foster that level of growth. i also look forward to spending four days in new york with some of the most incredible women i know. 
“i am immensely blessed to be part of a group of women who share in my love for mu­sic. Trips like these are won­derful opportunities to spend time with people that you may not get to spend as much time with outside of choir.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




NSF 
conTinued From page 1 
in science and engineering research.” 
after more than five years of service in the army, morales moved to elkhart, indiana, to pursue an undergraduate degree in physics and applied math­ematics at indiana university 
– south bend in 2011. There, morales collaborated with a group in the nuclear science lab at notre dame to design a new detection system for the st. george recoil separator (strong gradient electro-magnet online recoil separator for cap­ture gamma ray experiments). 
“during my time as an un­dergrad, i spent about three summers on the st. george,” morales said. “we ended up sim­ulating and designing a new de­tection system, constructing this system and testing it to make sure it worked properly.” 

morales said the coming stag­es of his research will work with the st. george accelerator to test chemical reactions and ele­ments in stars. 
“we want to study the sun,” morales said. “This system will help us study particular reac­tions in the sun. right now, i’m working on putting all of the dif­ferent parts of the system togeth­er and making sure they work right.” 
morales said the financial support the nsF offers helps vet­erans integrate in civilian life on many levels. 
“The event in washington was a pleasant experience overall,” morales said. “it made me feel like they [the nsF] were genu­inely interested in helping future veterans with interests in science pursue them.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
Apps 
conTinued From page 1 
the history of the founding of new urban community by robert davis.” 
in addition to the seaside archives, parker said spQr­nd, an ipad app showcasing the roman Forum, was de­veloped as a resource for ar­chitecture students studying in rome to have access to the architecture library’s rare books in the city. 
“The idea is to showcase traditional library materi­als like rare books in a new and exciting way, to make students interested in us­ing library materials,” parker said. “... students spend an entire year in rome, and this way we’re able to provide ac­cess to the rare books in this application.” 
users of the app can choose any building or monument in the Forum and see a descrip­tion of the structure and ar­chitectural drawings of the buildings dating back hun­dreds of years, parker said. users can also superimpose historical maps of the Forum over a current satellite view. 
michael lykoudis, dean of the school of architecture, said the digital projects pro­vide a unique insight into how cities change over time. 
“To understand [the] layer­ing of time is essential, and what modern technology al­lows us to do is illustrate that quickly and effectively,” he said. “it can be done in other ways too, but the digital tech­nology makes it more accessi­ble to a really broad audience, including our students.” 
parker said architecture stu­dents were involved in both projects, writing content for the site and the app, helping with the design and conduct­ing research on the buildings. she said students’ drawings are on the seaside portal along with the architects’. 
“we like to put the students’ work alongside the profes­sional architects’ so they can use it as a tool to promote their work, so they can put it on their resume when they grad­uate,” parker said. “students have written essays on their work and on other people’s work.” 
Fifth-year architecture stu­dent courtney haddick said she is working on a bibliogra­phy for the archives and plans to conduct video interviews with the seaside’s architects. she said working on the proj­ect allowed her to practice filming, introduced her to undergraduate research and taught her how to use library resources. 
“i have such a better understanding of how to uti­lize a bibliography to find oth­er resources, or how to utilize different search engines on the library website,” haddick said “... i learned in my class­es how to use some of them to look for articles, but it had never been put into practice, and now i’ve actually learned a lot. ... i’ve used my search skills for my other classes, and for my thesis.” 
parker said the library was working on a website similar to the seaside portal show­casing the history and archi­tecture of south bend, and she hoped to expand spQr­nd to include the entire city of rome. she said both digi­tal projects would serve as a “template” for future projects. 
“seaside came about as, ‘how can we provide access to archival materials in a new and exciting way?’” parker said. “and then spQr-nd came about as, ‘how can we provide access to rare books in a new and exciting way?’ ... it was always this concept of, ‘how can we build something, and then use the same tools that we designed for this in another site, so that we didn’t have to reinvent the wheel ev­ery time we wanted to try a new project?’” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv@nd.edu 


homeless and is currently trying to make volunteer con­nections with other south bend medical organizations, walter said. 
“our mission as a club is to educate our members about social injustices that particu­larly involve medicine and healthcare,” walter said. “we then also do our part as vol­unteers in the community to help correct these injustices by helping the underserved in the local south bend area.” 
boothe said the club focus­es specifically on how the is­sues plaguing the american health care system especially affect the underprivileged — the group most likely to be susceptible to the system’s shortcomings. 
“The medical system in american is a faulted system … and no matter what walk of life you take, it will affect you in one way or another,” boothe said. “Through dis­cussion and action, sJam seeks to spawn the future generations of informed citi­zens and medical profession­als who can make an impact in steering our system to the better.” 
SJAM meetings are held every other Thursday at 8 p.m. in LaFortune, with a meeting being held this week. For more information about the club or how to get involved, contact sjam@nd.edu 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 

SJAM 
conTinued From page 1 
can give them to its under-served patients to help molli­fy the sometimes debilitating flu symptoms.” 
Junior nick walter, sJam co-president, said the club will receive 25 percent of the profits from Five guy’s customers that specifically state that they are with the sJam fundraiser. “The flu-kit 
paid adverTisemenT 
project is always our most ex­pensive and biggest group do­nation every year, with a cost of around $600. our hope is to cover at least half of that cost with this fundraiser,” he said. 
besides the annual flu kit project, boothe said the club hosts talks from various med­ical lecturers and organizes movie watches for topical films. 
sJam recently began teach­ing nutrition classes at the south bend center for the 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The eternal moment 
Twenty thanks 
Alaina Anderson 
news writer 

with the holidays approaching, everyone is excited to go home and be with family. but this year, Thanksgiving will be a little different for me. not only am i celebrat­ing my 20th birthday on the 27th, but one important family member will be missing from this day of double celebration: my grandmother, who passed away on october 17th. 
my grandma nancy will be missed this Thanksgiving, but it will be a time to give thanks for all the memories she’s shared with me throughout my 20 years. 
1. 
it’s a time to be thankful for love, espe­cially the love my grandma and i shared. 

2. 
i’m thankful for my gifts of writing and love for english, shared with my grandma 


— an english teacher for over 20 years. 
3.it’s a time to appreciate family and friends we’ve been blessed with — those with us and those who have entered god’s kingdom. 
4. 
i’m thankful for food, even though her pie will be missing from the table. 

5. 
it’s a time to be thankful for yourself, and i would not be the woman i am today without my grandma’s influence. 

6. 
i’m thankful for laughter: my grand­ma’s unique and contagious laugh. 

7. 
it’s a time to appreciate my catholic education from st. Joseph high school where my grandma was an alumna. 

8. 
i’m thankful for teachers, dedicating their lives to students like my grandma did. 

9. 
it’s a time to be thankful for health. my grandma was a swimmer, healthy and active. 

10. 
i’m thankful for every concert and musical my grandma attended to watch me. 

11. 
it’s a time to take pictures and remi­nisce over photos of Thanksgiving’s past. 

12. 
i’m thankful for sports, and the team my grandma and i love: the green bay packers! 

13. 
it’s a time to appreciate the world: memories of the view outside my grand­ma’s cabin on pioneer lake. 

14. 
i’m thankful for tea, time my grandma and i spent over drinking tea and giggling. 

15. 
it’s a time to appreciate the scarves my grandma always wore and bought me. 

16. 
i’m thankful for sweets, always found in bowls all over my grandma’s condo. 


17.it’s a time for great conversations and to remember how my grandma could chat up anyone and make them feel special. 
18. 
i’m thankful for my mental strength, credited to my grandma and her example. 

19. 
it’s a time to appreciate the irish on my grandma’s side that makes me love nd. 

20.
 ’m thankful for the precious gift of life. even though my grandma’s was taken too soon, she will forever live in my heart 


Family is everything; i hope everyone has a wonderful holiday, wherever they may be. 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

last week, a play ended. six performances repre­senting endless weeks of rehearsal, long hours in hesburgh and countless almost-missed assignments finished on the ninth of november. six performances that are now gone. a few photographs and a group message are all that is left. 
i’ve never been able to properly explain why i put myself through hell and back to do something many people see as a thankless and sometimes pointless pastime. Theatre is an experience that leaves you breathless, and it is not for the faint of heart. 
There will be battle wounds: a welt left from a badly aimed jab with a practice sword or bruises from being thrown to the ground a little too passionately. 
There will be tears: the senseless and emotional crying in a single corner of hesburgh as you stare at an empty computer screen that should be a seven page paper and drink the dregs of the leftover coffee you bought over two hours ago. 
There will be days when you want to murder the entire cast and crew, simply over the fact that you are surviving on an extreme lack of sleep, which is not helped by your desperate need for two-to-three hour naps during the day. 
and there will be the day when you give everything you’ve got, think maybe you got it right this time and then have a long list of notes to deal with that prove to you, no, you are actually absolutely inadequate. 
but there will also be moments of complete giddi­ness. The first day you are completely off book after pondering whether it will be truly possible. 
The day someone decides it would be a good idea to slap five little pieces of gaff tape on your back and you realize halfway through an emotional few lines and burst into real laughter, the kind that stops you mo­mentarily and makes you double over, while everyone else joins in. 
That insane warmup routine everyone complains about having to do, but secretly loves. standing in a circle while everyone wishes “i give you my best,” and suddenly realizing you have a bond with these people that you won’t have with any of your other friends (al­though you love them equally). 
but those moments are over. They happened, you loved them, you hated them and now you are trudg­ing through south bend weather, knowing that at the end of the day all you have to do is go to the library or laFun or your dorm or see your other friends, and that you don’t have to trek to dpac in the complete darkness. 
but maybe one day you’ll wander back onto the decio. you’ll stand next to the ghost light no one real­ly knew the real use for, and look at the yellow netting your stage manager used to struggle with after every rehearsal and smile a little. 
maybe you’ll close your eyes, and for a moment, it’s the sunday matinee. 
your heel is stuck in your dress, and you’re limp­ing a bit, and your old person makeup has smeared into your gloves and sweat is making the back of your heavy black shawl stick to you and you’ve just carried a little girl, and almost lost someone’s very precious crochet hook. 
The last thing you want to do is run onstage and look at an audience, but you do it anyway, even if it is just for all the wonderful people who stand on either side of you. 
and there’s a standing ovation. and in a whirlwind you take a bow, mindlessly clapping. and you take a second bow and look out at the audience and catch someone’s eye and then you are taking a surprise third bow and there is utter confusion and you have a big mindless grin on your face and then you open your eyes and you are standing on an empty stage, looking out into the dark house and that big grin has not left your face. 
and that was just a moment. Just like all those other moments. a moment that will live forever on the back of your eyelids, that will pop up when you least expect it. a moment that makes you laugh and cry because it was so wonderful but it can never happen again. 
and if that is the only moment you have, then you’re pretty much set. 
Kitty Baker is a PLS-FTT major, eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls and proud resident of Cavanaugh Hall (go Chaos) who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 

since the mid 1970s there has been a widening gap in american society. This gap is the disparity between the growth in wages and the growth in productivity in the united states. The divergence occurred after a sustained period when the two statistics tracked each other in the decades follow­ing wwii. 
as productivity has increased, naturally so have corporate profits. since the early 1980s cor­porate profits have reached new highs year after year. despite this growth in productivity and profits, wages for the average worker have largely stagnated. 
even upper class white-collar workers have not seen the type of percentage spike in income that the rise in productivity would seem to indicate. The people who have benefitted from the increases in productivity are the corporate executives and fi­nancial managers. 
due to the way the stagnation hit and the tim­ing of the wages plateau, executives have reaped the lion’s share of income gains over the last few decades while the typical american household fell behind. 
before exploring compensation inequality, the shift in productivity and wages must be examined. From 1948 until 2010, wage compensation increased by 113.1 percent. This rise seems impressive until compared to the percentage growth of productivity during the same period: 254.3 percent. 
The two measurements grew at similar paces 
mind the gap 
until the 1970s, each doubling their 1948 totals. it was then that the growth rates diverged. after that decade, wages only gained an additional 13.1 per­cent. productivity, on the other hand, went on to increase another 150 percent. 
no longer did productivity and average wage tack each other closely. The gap now widens year after year as wage growth remains flat and productivity increases steadily. 
as productivity and profits grow, the excess capi­tal must be distributed. not all of the profits can be poured back into a company, and one group has been especially adept at collecting the dividends from increased production. 
corporate executives have seen an astronomical increase in compensation over the last 40 years. in 1965 a company ceo earned about 24 times what the average employee made. by 2007, the typical worker was receiving 300 times less than the ceo. 
how could this go unnoticed? 
First, workers were not directly hurt by these ex­travagant payouts. Their potential for growth was hampered, but there was no direct loss taken be­cause the manager received a bonus.  instead, aver­age compensation in today’s dollars was stifled at roughly $40,000 per person — and has been since. The modest gains made in income earnings barely outstrip the rate of inflation. 
however, in the 1970s and 1980s the united states boasted one of — if not the — highest standard of living in the industrialized world. per-capita gdp, life expectancy, average height and other factors were on the rise, and the u.s. was enjoying its most dominant years on the world economy. 
having reached such a lofty place at that time, it may be reasonable that families grew content with their station. when increasing the standard of living was no longer a necessity for the average american household, the dampening of wages in relation to productivity received less resistance from the working and middle classes. 
between the rapid rise of executive pay and the lack of growth in worker compensation, income in­equality has risen to levels not seen since the 1920s. The top .1 percent of income earners accounted for 20 percemt of all income between 1979 and 2005. 
This disparity — as an effect of the gap between productivity and wages — implies larger problems for the u.s. economy than just stagnant income. it harkens back to the conditions that sparked the first great depression. 
without wages tracking closely to productiv­ity, executives gain from the increased profits while worker compensation remains unmoved. as the profit gap widens, so does income inequal­ity. income inequality was a key feature in the u.s. economy that collapsed so catastrophically in the late 1920s/early 1930s. 
The gap in productivity and wage growth must be studied to better understand the predicament that we face today, and may face tomorrow. mind the gap. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

will the university listen? 
last march, residents of Zahm house discovered to their dismay that their traditional “five-man” and “eight-man” common rooms were going to be no more. This was a decision made by the office of housing, announced just 15 days before room picks. 
The office of housing claimed that the break-up of these common rooms was done in part to cre­ate new community social spaces, yet they did not contact the community itself to see what it thought. according to a viewpoint published by a Zahm resi­dent at the time, “the proceedings of these changes were hidden from [Zahm residents] until they were finalized” (“Zahm’s fight to preserve community,” march 24). 
despite a strong, civil and unified response to the policy change, the pleas of the residents fell on deaf ears in the administration. with little time given for students to respond, the policy change was imposed on the residents and is still in place. 
upon our return to school this year, everybody was taken by surprise by the new print quota system. confusion and anger could be heard all over campus by students who had suddenly seen a drastic reduc­tion in their ability to print all of the materials they would need for classes and other purposes. 
The strong reaction seemed to be met with sur­prise by the people at the office of information Technologies, who have since worked with members of the student senate and others on the issue. This tumultuous process could have been avoided, how­ever, if the people at oiT had instead consulted the students on the best way to go about changing the print quota system instead of imposing the change. 
This august, amidst preparations for the flurry of activity and fun that was the first football weekend, students were notified that this year’s commence­ment would not be held in notre dame stadium. as we all know by now, this came as a shock to the se­niors, who were suddenly unsure about whether they would be able to bring all of their friends and fami­lies to see them graduate. 
in the process leading up to this decision, it ap­pears that very few students were consulted in any capacity, and the majority of them were blindsided. since then, seniors have reached out to the admin­istration multiple times to see if there was a way to rectify the seating limitations, but nothing has changed. 
at this point you are probably wondering why i am rehashing the debates which any student, especially regular viewpoint readers, are probably well aware of. i am writing because i have recently been made aware of a new issue that is coming to light, and the administration’s track record on consulting students worries me. This is an issue that will have far greater implications for people’s lives than new university lounges, commencement seating or limited print quota. 
The administration is contemplating a change in its 14-year-old ban on the manufacture of university-licensed products in china, opening up manufactur­ing in a few select plants. This policy affects workers both in china, where their freedom of association is banned, and in the countries where notre dame’s licensed products and apparel are currently manu­factured.The administration has claimed that the way the change is implemented will encourage work­ers rights in china, but i am highly skeptical. 
The administration has recently indicated to stu­dent and faculty leaders that they will be opening a public discussion to seek the input of the university community on the policy change. while i applaud this move by the administration as a step forward, i think we have good reason to be skeptical of the le­gitimacy of this dialogue. 
First of all, the administration has a poor track record when it comes to listening to and valuing the input of the student body, as they demonstrated in the examples above. 
second, and more importantly, it appears that the university almost moved forward with the china policy change with no dialogue at all; i have been told that production at the factories in china was go­ing to start in January. 
if true, this indicates that the minds of many ad­ministrators have already been made up about the change, and they have rarely changed their minds before. They have decided instead to open discus­sion first, but the administration has not earned the benefit of the doubt, and to me this “dialogue” looks like little more than a superficial pr move. 
when this dialogue does open up, i want the ad­ministration to understand one thing; the students will oppose any change that does not respect the rights of workers, and we will make that loud and clear. i hope this time, when it could truly matter most, they will listen to us. 
Skylar Hughes 
junior stanford hall nov. 16 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BY ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

now that we’re approaching our last leg of the semes­ter, you may be tiring just a bit of your normal study spac­es on campus. 
and that’s okay. as i learned in my introduction to psychology class as a first-semester freshman, changing where you study is actually beneficial to your learning and memory. it’s also pretty great for your sanity as finals approach and the days get shorter. 
if you can take advantage of the free Transpo bus or even a friend with a car, try these cozy spots in south bend if you want to switch up your study routine. it’ll be good for your brain and, oftentimes, your stomach. 
Main St. Coffee House 

located on main street in downtown south bend, main st. coffee house is an independent café with great drinks and a great community. with plenty of tables, a cozy fireplace and local art on the walls, main st. coffee house is a go-to study spot. plus, if you make it over on saturday for a marathon study session, you can start your day with an excellent breakfast panini. 
main st. coffee house is located at 102 north main 
BY ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

Kim Kardashian, the 34-year-old socialite notorious­ly famously known for simply being famous (as well as some other questionable activities), attempted to “break the internet” this past week with some controversial photos in paper magazine’s winter issue. yet, if you are anything like me, you already know this. 
Kardashian’s almost ubiquitous media presence makes it almost impossible for her to take a selfie and have it not end up somewhere in my social-media-dominated life. Though it isn’t just Kardashian’s bare-all photos them­selves that have stirred all the discussion surrounding the situation. 
people tended to react three different ways in response to Kardashian’s photo shoot with the legendary French photographer Jean-paul goude: positively, negatively and, like me, indifferently. Though many people love to hate her, there is no denying Kardashian has a tremen­dously strong and loyal fan base. with more than 25 mil­lion Twitter followers, it comes as no surprise Kardashian received much praise for her bold move. with almost every moment of her life constantly captured through reality Tv and social media, Kardashian gives many an 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

street, south bend, in 
Chicory Café 
another coffee place in the heart of downtown south bend, chicory offers not just drinks, but delicious new orleans-inspired fare. grab a nola latte (my personal favorite) and a beignet and get to work. be warned, how­ever, because chicory does have plenty of live music and weekly trivia that may make the place a bit too social for pre-test cramming, but if you can grab a wicker chair and coffee at the right time, it’s nothing but smooth studying with cajun food at your fingertips. 
chicory café is located at 105 e Jefferson blvd #103, south bend, in 
The Crêperie 
Formerly known as smoothies, crêpes and coffee, the brand new crêperie offers an excellent study space with late hours perfect for hitting the books in the eve­ning. located inside The emporium building next to the st. Joseph river, the café offers sweet and savory crepes, smoothies made of organic, locally-sourced ingredients and intelligentsia coffee. They even make their own ha­zelnut-chocolate spread (think nutella), which everyone knows is the most effective studying fuel. 
opportunity to live the life of the rich and famous vicari­ously and her supportive fan base is certainly a testament to that. 
yet, there were also those who criticized Kardashian for baring it all. many disgusted people pointed to Kardashian’s status as a mother. other people pointed at paper magazine for embracing such candid nudity. however, much of the hate was directed at the media in general for fostering such immoral and inappropri­ate acts. many have even used Kardashian’s stunt as evidence of the unrealistic body standards the media endorses. 
Then there is my own reaction: a casual glance on my Facebook feed and an indifferent scroll down as i passed the time before my class began. i have no ani­mosity towards Kardashian, but at the same time i view Kardashian’s actions as completely irrelevant and just plain boring. apparently though, not enough people take my view on Kardashian. many were upset because too many people care about Kardashian. america seems to be slipping intellectually and many believe society’s seeming indifference towards substantial news is proof. 
Fortunately, it is not as bad as it all looks. The pub­lic is not as irreverent and dumb as many people like to paint it. The wall street Journal recently released a The crêperie is locat at 121 s. niles ave., south bend, in 
The Well 
in case you haven’t kept up with our scene in south bend series, The well is a volunteer, donation-based coffee shop with an emphasis on community and ser­vice. Though the coffee shop is only open wednesdays through Fridays, the unique and welcoming environ­ment is one you most certainly need to check out during your time in south bend. 
The well coffeehouse is located at 2410 w mishawaka ave, south bend, in 
Purple Porch Co-Op 
so, you may not want to post up in the purple porch as if it were the library, but a visit to the locally-sourced grocery story is a must for at least one working meal or productive coffee outing. There, you can check off any groceries from your shopping list and grab one of the best breakfast burritos i’ve ever had, along with plenty of cof­fee and well-lit sitting space for those dining in. 
The purple porch co-op is located at 123 n. hill st., south bend, in 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
report showing that the wednesday’s european philae spacecraft comet landing generated more tweets then Kim Kardashian’s photo shoot did. This makes sense. The comet landing is huge step for astronomical science and humanity alike, and Kardashian’s photos are, well, pictures of Kardashian balancing a champagne glass on her butt. so for the large crowd of people pessimistic about our society, such a fact may come as a bit of wel­come shock. 
Kim Kardashian’s photo shoot may not be real “news.” but, if nothing else, it truly did usher in a very positive reflection of society. while many blame the media for fo­cusing on the wrong news, it’s clear the media’s negative effect on the public has not been devastating. maybe it’s the case that most people are like me, indifferent towards Kardashian. still, we can be certain the real news is not going unnoticed. 
so instead of finishing with more useless news about Kardashian, i will end this about the real big news this week. as our generation stands on the forefront of an age defined by innovation and discovery, the words of the great buzz lightyear echo, “To infinity and beyond,” philae is just the beginning. 
Contact Adam Ramos at  aramos6@nd.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BY ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

Tired of spending the night overly conscience of your body-conscious dress? sick of shivering in short skirts? it’s time for a going-out look that will leave you with snow regrets. 
although its length suggests otherwise, the crop-top has not been a short-lived trend. despite the temperature drop, the crop top is still on top. make the girls shivering in their lightweight, summery versions envious in a thick knit or sweatshirt with a cropped hem. 
To make your crop-top stand out for the right reasons, pair it with a skirt or pant in the same color or print for a matching set. This ensemble will channel a dress or jumpsuit vibe with just a peek of skin. The monochro­matic look is great in any color, but opt for a fashionable winter white ensemble or a rich, jewel tone for a cold-weather appropriate look that stands out from the inevi­table sea of black outfits. 
it seems like everyone dons black on the weekends; 
BY JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

lcd soundsystem was one of those once-in-a-genera­tion kind of bands, the kind that inspires electro-heads, punks and aspiring dJs for years after they quit making music. lcd soundsystem went out with quite the bang back in 2011, playing an epic farewell show to 20,000 cra­zy fans in madison square garden for over three hours. after that, the band has been pretty quiet. sure, leading man James murphy has been up to his eccentric projects 
— producing his own coffee, directing short films and remixing david bowie songs — but beyond that, none of the members of lcd soundsystem have pushed forward into a new career. 
That is, until earlier this year, when drummer pat mahoney formed museum of love with The Juan maclean’s beat producer dennis mcnany (a.k.a. Jee day) and started their first eponymous lp under murphy’s dFa label. The “museum of love” lp is different from lcd soundsystem’s discography and other albums re­leased through that label; it’s more artsy and less in-your­face, but it is, nevertheless, a remarkable debut album. 
The album opens up with the 54-second intro track “horizontalator,” but things really get started with the perhaps because it goes with anything, is supposed to slim you and everyone is actually really nostalgic for the 90s goth/stretch-choker phase. 
but with shows like “orange is The new black” why not take a hint and choose a color that stands out? an especially easy way to wear a bright top without clash­ing is to go for the monochromatic, matchy-matchy look i mentioned above — pairing it with a bottom of the same color. 
you can also forgo the coordinated two-piece trend for a sleek one-piece. we’re not talking swimwear or miley­inspired onesies with ears and tails here, but rather chic jumpsuits. Jumpsuits are a great going out look to keep your legs protected from the elements — because blue legs only look good on Jennifer lawrence in “X-men.” 
There are many variations on this look that won’t channel a convict or auto mechanic. The monochromat­ic, lengthening look will have you pulling a sandra dee in no time. There are lots of printed versions out there as well, but opt for a small, repeated print so as not to be­come overwhelmed. 
dark, clubby “down south.” This song builds upon a sin­ister synth riff emerging from the underbelly of the eight­ies and incorporates some funky vocal tracking from mahoney himself. even though mahoney is an accom­plished drummer, he shifts most of the rhythmic work of this album to the machines and instead focuses on showing off his vocal prowess. 
The song “FaThers” is probably my favorite example of this and one of my favorite tracks from the album. mahoney takes some risks on this track vocally by ex­posing us to his fuller range and it certainly pays off. The bouncy synths and floaty trumpets compliment his vo­cal performance, combining to create an awesome track. 
The best song on the album, though, is “monotronic,” which succeeds in creating emotional dissonance as it builds and tears down within its wonderful five min­utes. Throughout the track, the arrangement tenses and builds, introducing synth riffs, drum machines and a keyboard line before stripping us of everything to leave us only with the line “i wasn’t meant for this much hap­piness, i can’t believe it’s come to this” echoing in its mystery. 
here again, mahoney’s vocal work is impressive, espe­cially in its imperfection, which he manipulates to proj­ect a melancholic mood. it is the album’s standout song, 
you may think printed, full-length jumpsuits will do nothing for your body, but think about how tall and dig­nified giraffes look. That’s because they perpetually wear full-length print, avoiding body proportion distortion. 
when pursuing a jumpsuit, choose a style that is not restricting to allow you take full advantage of the fact that you don’t need to worry about a short skirt or dress riding up. a jumpsuit (and some matrix experience) will let you bust out the splits and backflips on the dance floor with no worries. wide leg versions are on trend and low-backs allow you to show some skin — just avoid long sleeved, polyester jumpsuits to prevent looking like you just left comic con. 
opt for closed-toe, heeled booties — you can sneak some warm socks underneath — over pumps that leave your toes and feet numb by the time you get to main circle. 
or you could just snuggle up on your couch all winter in pajamas with netflix, nutella, no friends and no regrets. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
and those who have been fans of the track since its initial release will be thrilled to see it sitting amongst songs of a similar strong quality. 
as strong as each song on “museum of love” is, the band museum of love fails to tie it all together. each song feels expertly crafted in its own right, but feels discon­nected from its brethren. other than that, my only major concern for the album is its brevity. coming in at 9 songs (one of which is an intro) and 41 minutes, “museum of love” is a solid album that leaves us wanting more, which is never a bad thing for a debut. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Museum of Love” 
Museum of Love 
Label: DFA Tracks: “Monotronic,” “FATHERS” If you like: LCD Soundsystem, The Juan McLean 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Kobe: the ultimate competitor 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 
i’ll never forget watching Kobe bryant pull off one of the greatest meaningless performances of all time. it was game 5 of the 2010 nba Finals in boston. The lakers were down 11 points, and suddenly Kobe couldn’t miss. 
he nailed a jumper one-handed falling out of bounds, he got the roll on a long 3-pointer and he capped of a run of 17 points in less than six minutes with a 3-point shot from so far be­yond the arc that dwyane wade was spewing reverent profanity from the crowd. 
it was an amazing display of competitive willpower. There was only one problem 
— the lakers were still down eight and would eventually lose the game by six. 
watching the beginning of this lakers season, i can’t help but think about that game and how much this season is just like that — a waste of some of the most competitive nature ever seen in sports. 
certainly, Kobe is not at the peak of his powers like he was in 2010, though he is averaging 27 points per game to go with roughly five rebounds and four assists, all while coming back from a year of injuries. all Kobe’s been in the news for this sea­son is his new record for all-time most missed field goals. every night he’s gone out and desperately heaved up shot after shot, making about 38 percent of them and getting absolutely nowhere. 
The lakers are just bad. They are 1-9 with no sign of a reprieve in sight, and even Kobe is realizing there is nothing he can do. it’s tough to watch. Kobe may not be everyone’s favorite guy, but there has never been any doubting his competitive fire. 
This is the man that lebron James, carmelo anthony and wade deferred to in the 2008 olympic gold medal game against spain. This is the man who chased down 81 points. This is the man who drained two free throws in agonizing pain with a torn achilles. This is the black mamba. 

Kobe has largely been defined by his pursuit of michael Jordan and six rings. no player since Jordan has looked more intense and more cold-blooded on a court than Kobe. every tri­umph of Kobe’s career has gotten him closer, but every shortcoming is a reminder that he’s not quite like mike. with every year, it seems less and less likely that Kobe will get a sixth ring and perhaps he is doomed to spend the rest of his career chasing the scoring record — he’s in fourth place, just 300 shy of Jordan and about 6,500 behind the record holder Kareem abdul-Jabar.  it would be a sad ending to a great career, a career mired in both greatness and con­troversy. The high standards he set for himself are now his own enemy. 
yet, we all should appreci­ate the endangered species that is the black mamba. The new generation of great play­er still has nothing like him. lebron James is the consum­mate pro, but takes heat for not having a killer instinct. anthony davis is the laid back unibrow, Kevin durant is criticized for too often de­ferring to russell westbrook and westbrook takes heat for not referring enough. bryant isn’t Jordan. he may not even be the best player of this generation, but he’s shown us a competitive spirit and style of play we may never see again. and he’s running out of time. 
in 2010, there were two more games for Kobe and the lakers to make up for the waste of game 5. now, there’s no game 6 and 7 coming. Kobe is in a place where all the competitive­ness inside him is nowhere close to enough. more losing is coming, but sometimes the lowest of lows show Kobe at his greatest. The mamba is in a corner. There’s not a way out, but it should still be a once-in-a-lifetime show. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Kentucky seeks to take advantage of Indy ties 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — Kentucky is turning indianapolis into its second home. 
last fall, the wildcats came here to chase prized recruit Trey lyles and eventually signed the 6-foot-11 center to a national let­ter-of-intent. They then returned to the circle city in march seek­ing a spot in the Final Four and left with the most cherished tick­et in college basketball. 
on Tuesday night, the na­tion’s no. 1 team will be back in town for one of the early season’s premier events, the state Farm champions classic, and a poten­tial precursor for another trip in april. 
“This team needs to be chal­lenged to see where we are, and this is going to be one of those kinds of games,” coach John calipari said. 
it’s going to be that kind of night. 
no. 4 duke faces no. 19 michigan state in the opener Tuesday, before Kentucky and no. 5 Kansas meet in the night­cap — a doubleheader that will give fans a glimpse of a potential Final Four with four of college basketball’s true blue bloods. The only real difference is that these games will be played in bankers life Fieldhouse instead of lucas oil stadium, the site of this season’s championship game. 

“That setting will be a Final Four setting,” duke coach mike Krzyzewski said. “all four of them are potential, along with about 20 others, of being a Final Four team so that will be a great setting for this squad to be in this early.” 
each of these programs has Final Four memories of indy, too. 
spartans coach Tom izzo won his only national championship here in 2000. Krzyzewski won the first and last of his four national titles in indy, surviving gordon hayward’s last-second heave to beat butler in 2010. Kentucky’s bid for back-to-back titles ended here in the 1997 title game with a loss to arizona, and Kansas finished second to Krzyzewski’s blue devils in the 1991 champi­onship game. 
This time, though, Kentucky (1-0) is the overwhelming favorite. 
after falling to connecticut in last year’s title game, some coaches, such as smu’s larry brown are already predicting an undefeated season for the 
wildcats.  
That’s  not  good  news  for  
Kansas  coach  bill  self,  who  
considers  brown  a  men­ 

tor. The Jayhawks (1-0) beat 
california-santa barbara 69-59 in Friday’s opener, and now faces what may be its biggest test all season. 
“They’re long and they’re go­ing to be hard to score against,” self said. “cal is a good defensive coach and they’ve got so much length. so we need to be sure we’re really good rebounding on the defensive end ourselves.” 
michigan state (1-0) also has some things to prove after get­ting past navy 64-59 in a closer­than-expected game Friday night. 
but izzo has often relied on strong non-conference sched­ules to help his team round into form before big Ten play begins. and the spartans might not face a better team than duke (2-0) all season. The blue devils wal­loped presbyterian 113-44 on Friday and Fairfield 109-59 on saturday. 
The effects of a big win this night can be lasting: last year, it was the doubleheader in chicago that convinced Jahlil okafor to choose duke. 
now he, Tyus Jones and Quinn cook are trying to lead the blue devils back to the Final Four. The journey begins Tuesday night — in the wildcats’ other hometown. 
“it’s kind of like the ncaa tournament,” cook said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

hoosiers hope to finish strong for seniors 
Associated Press 
bloomingTon, ind. — indiana is hoping Zander diamont can build on his performance against rutgers when the hoosiers visit no. 7 ohio state on saturday. 
The true freshman had his best game of the season in last weekend’s 45-23 loss to the scarlet Knights. he was 15 for 31 for 179 yards in his fourth start, with his first career touchdown pass and an interception. 
drops in key situations prevented diamont from having an even bigger game. The hoosiers were 1 for 15 on third-down conversions. 
“without those drops i think he had a phenomenal day,” offensive coordinator Kevin Johns said monday. “he played well enough for us to win that game. he’s practiced his butt off. he’s studied a ton of film. he’s doing all the right things.” 


indiana (3-6, 0-6 big Ten) has lost five in a row head­ing into the matchup with the buckeyes (9-1, 6-0, no. 8 cFp), who are trying to grab a spot in the college Football playoff. 
The hoosiers have two games left in their seventh consecutive losing season. The program hasn’t reached a bowl game since 2007, but coach Kevin wilson said the team is focused on a strong finish for its seniors. 
“if you look at what we’ve done the last couple weeks, i don’t think there is a lot of give up in them,” wilson said. “we’re not going to hang our heads as coaches, and i don’t think those kids are.” 
indiana finishes with a home game against rival purdue on nov. 29. 
The hoosiers had several encouraging offensive per­formances against rutgers. Tevin coleman rushed for a career-high 307 yards, and senior wide receiver shane wynn had 11 receptions for 120 yards and a touchdown. 
wilson has been most im­pressed with wynn’s leader­ship off the field. 
“i had a player just off to the side today tell me they really thought he was do­ing as good a job as he’d ever seen anyone just in the locker room with the guys,” wilson said. “you know you go through a quarterback change, you don’t get the ball as much; i thought at michigan he was the best guy on the sideline. so, i have a lot of respect for him and the seniors.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


FENCING | nd 60, norThwesTern 45; bucKeye eliTe cup 
Irish beat Northwestern, win titles in Columbus 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
notre dame opened the sea­son strong with a solid week­end of competition, as both the men and women were victori­ous at the buckeye elite cup in columbus, ohio, on sunday. 


The weekend technically be­gan on Friday with a home ex­hibition against northwestern, which the irish won, 60-45. but irish coach gia Kvaratskhelia said the team focused on enjoy­ing itself Friday before bearing down for sunday’s regular-sea­son action. 
“northwestern was a fun ex­hibition and largely about intro­ducing the larger student body to the sport of fencing as well as performing for alums who were on campus,” Kvaratskhelia said. “it was a fun event to start the season, but the real business ac­tually occurred on sunday when we had to face four of the top six ranked teams in columbus.” 
at ohio state, the irish men went 4-1, while the women were a perfect 5-0. The men’s squad knocked off pennsylvania, 18­9, behind unblemished efforts from the two freshmen sabres, ian Jones and Jonah shainberg. notre dame then clobbered north carolina, 24-3, and took down princeton, 19-8, before facing penn state. against the nittany lions, the irish sabres struggled, as penn state won the weapon, 7-2, on its way to a 14-13 overall win. however, the irish bounced back and dispatched the host buckeyes, 15-12, to end the day. 
on the women’s side, the irish cruised to four easy wins and pulled out a fifth victory over princeton, 16-11. notre dame was led by freshman sabre Francesca russo, who posted a 13-1 bout record to lead all fenc­ers. Kvaratskhelia said he ap­plauded the way she not only fenced at a high level, but showed leadership and maturity. 
“The whole team was solid, but freshman Francesca russo was a leader amongst all weapons,” Kvaratskhelia said.  “she had the best record at 13-1 and truly established herself as a national championship contender down the road. The sabre was the most wanted weapon for us com­ing into the season, and russo, who is a junior world champion, should really be a focal point for us throughout the season.” 
russo’s effort stood out, but Kvaratskhelia said he was pleased to see how the entire team came together as a unit. 
“surprisingly, things went very smooth,” Kvaratskhelia said. “This early and already the freshmen performed better than expected, and our returning up­perclassmen held their serve in terms of just doing really well. 
That combination was pretty much a stellar performance.” 
when asked what the team learned about itself, Kvaratskhelia said he felt the competition had helped shed light on all fronts. 
“i think all missions were accomplished for us,” Kvaratskhelia said. “we were able to see how cohesive we are and the chemistry we have across the weapons and inter­nally in the squad. also, for the team, they were able to learn about each other and how to face pressure.” 
next up for notre dame is a vis­it to state college, pennsylvania, for the penn state garret open. The competition will primar­ily serve as a chance for second-string team members to get exposure to competition, as the irish’s top talent will spend the week at world championships. 
The penn state garret open is a two-day event that takes place saturday and sunday. 
Contact Josh Dulany at         jdulany@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL | wheaTon 78, smc 41 
belles drop season opener to wheaton 
inside the first three minutes team,” henley said of the belles and that they will need — including seven forced by 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 

sports writer of the game. The Thunder Thunder. “They set the tem-to improve their teamwork senior forward ariana paul — (1-0) soon pulled away, how-po and controlled the entire and team psyche in order to and collected 20 points off of 
saint mary’s dropped its ever, scoring 31 of the next game.” be successful this season. them. This was not enough, opening game of the season 33 points on their way to saint mary’s kept the game “overall, we did not play however, as the difference in against no. 19 wheaton on establishing a 35-8 lead by closer in the second half, con-well as a team,” henley said. field-goal shooting proved saturday, 78-41, but will get halftime. verting 13 of 19 free throws “Fortunately, one game does costly. saint mary’s converted a chance to rebound quickly belles coach Jennifer while scoring 33 points in the not define a season. we have only 12 of their 60 attempts, when it faces north park on henley said that the Thunder half. however, wheaton con-to be better prepared men-scoring only four first-half Tuesday at saint mary’s. proved they deserved their tinued to hold onto its com-tally and find the discipline points from the field, and 
against wheaton, junior national ranking, as they fortable lead and earned the to do the little things for the did not make a single three-forward Krista Knapke gave commanded the game from 37-point victory. entire game.” point shot, while the Thunder the belles (0-1) an early 3-2 the start. henley said she felt a lack saint mary’s was able to sank over 40 percent of their lead with a three-point play “They are a very good of team chemistry hurt the force 26 wheaton turnovers attempts. wheaton also con­

trolled the front court, re­paid adverTisemenT 
cording 65 rebounds to the belles’ 34. 
Knapke led the belles in scoring with nine points on the day, while freshman for­ward gabby diamond added six and finished with a team-leading six rebounds. 
Five freshmen made their first ever appearances for the belles, with diamond leading the scoring for the first-year players. 
saint mary’s will hope to earn its first win of the season when they play north park (1-0), but henley admitted that it may be difficult for her team to bounce back so soon after such a lopsided defeat. 
“we don’t have much time to turn things around before we play north park,” henley said. 
The belles will face the vikings at angela athletic Facility at 7:30 p.m., Tuesday night. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING | nd 157, illinois 143 
Irish hold on against Illinois 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
notre dame wrapped up its fall home schedule Friday evening with a 157-143 vic­tory over illinois at rolfs aquatic center. 
The team victory over the illini (3-3) was marked by individual wins in 10 events for the irish (4-5), including a dominating performance in the diving portion of the meet. notre dame took the top three spots in both the 1-meter and 3-meter div­ing events, which irish in­terim head coach Tim welsh said gave a huge boost to his team. 
“we love our divers,” welsh said. “1-2-3, 1-2-3. you look at the scoreboard, that’s 32­
6. That’s more than we won by.” 
irish senior allison casareto claimed the 1-me­ter diving crown, followed by juniors emma gaboury and lindsey streepey. gaboury then swapped places with casareto in the 3-meter to earn the victory. 
notre dame also swept the 200-yard breaststroke, but illinois returned the favor in the 500-yard freestyle event, taking the top three spots. 
“it was a three-point meet, and then the breaststrokers go 1-2-3,” welsh said. “and then because was going to be a toughness test, illinois came back in the 500[-yard freestyle]. it was that tough a meet. you look like you get an advantage, and then no, you don’t.” 
welsh said that, as the meet stayed close through­out, he thought the dual would come down to the fi­nal race, the 400-yard free­style relay. 
“The meet was within three points [again],” welsh said of the moment. “we huddled with the swim­mers and … they said, ‘we’re tough. we’re good to go.’ … we thought it was going to end with the last relay.” 
irish sophomore Katie miller changed that, com­ing through in the second-to-last event to win the 200-yard individual medley. miller out-touched illinois sophomore gabbie stecker by three-tenths of a second to seal the win for notre dame. 
“Katie miller was in the huddle before and i asked her, “Katie, are you tough?’ and she said, ‘i’m tough,’” welsh said. “[she] won that 200 im with the meet pretty much on the line. … That was a very, very big win for us.” 

senior emma reaney continued to lead the irish overall, collecting victo­ries in the 100- and 200­yard breaststroke, while also helping the 200-yard medley relay team give the irish a strong start to the dual meet. The squad, com­posed of reaney, sophomore catherine mulquin, senior courtney whyte and junior catherine galletti, beat the illinois relay team by over a second in a race welsh had said looked very even on pa­per before the meet. 
“as we said at the begin­ning, that first race was go­ing to be an indicator race,” welsh said. “if you turn that around and say we only got six points instead of the 11 [for winning], we end up at 152 for our final score, and you need 151 to win. so it was still a heck of a meet.” 
mulquin picked up an in­dividual victory in the 100­yard freestyle while galletti earned two individual crowns in the 50-yard free­style and the 100-yard but­terfly. senior bridget casey also finished fastest in the 200-yard butterfly. 
welsh said wednesday that the meet would serve a test of his team’s resiliency. after the meet, he said the team handled it very well. 
“illinois was tough. They raced us tough, and a lot of the races came down to who was going to be tough all the way through the race,” welsh said. “what that re­ally means is heart. who’s got the biggest heart? who’s going to keep going?” 
notre dame now has a break over the next few weeks. The irish swam in four events over the last two weeks and welsh said the chance to rest is coming at the perfect time. 
“The beauty of having Thanksgiving in there is you get to sleep for five days,” welsh said. “i think anytime you give a college team a chance to get a good night’s sleep five nights in a row, they’re going to feel better. 
“i can tell you we’re look­ing forward to that.” 
The irish are back in ac­tion in early december, with the swimming team trav­eling to austin, Texas, for the Texas invitational on dec. 4-6. at the same time, the diving squad will head west to iowa city, iowa, for the hawkeye invitational on dec. 5-7. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at      zklonsin@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING | nd 171, michigan sTaTe 127 
Notre Dame defeats Spartans in East Lansing 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
despite getting off to a slow start on the road this season, the irish rebounded quickly, cruising to a 171-127 victory over michigan state on Friday in east lansing, michigan. 
The victory puts notre dame at 3-2 on the season in dual meets. 
For notre dame, it was busi­ness as usual out on the blocks, irish coach matt Tallman said. 
“we just raced pretty well,” Tallman said. “a lot of guys, once we got into the meet, just pushed through. it wasn’t an easy week of practice, and getting off the bus expecting to swim fast isn’t the easiest thing either. early going, it looked like michigan state was ready to go and interested in maybe shocking us a little bit, and the guys bounced back.” 
in addition to strong show­ings from the upperclassmen, the irish also continued to re­ceive impressive results from their freshmen. benjamin Jany came in third during the 1,000­yard freestyle with a time of 

9:36.87. robert whitacre gave a strong performance in the 100-yard backstroke, plac­ing third with a time of 51.68. Joseph Krause capped things off for the class of 2018, notch­ing a fourth-place finish in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 47.12, and fifth place in the 50-yard freestyle. 
Tallman said he was happy with how the younger swim­mers have stepped into div. i competition with little grow­ing pains, as well as the effort they have put in. 
“The guys just keep showing improvement,” Tallman said. “and the work they’re doing in all aspects of the program in the water and in the weight room are really paying off. 
“like i keep on saying, we just gotta do the little things right and that’s gonna make the biggest difference. Turns, breakouts off of the walls, put­ting your head down to finish … things like that.” 
This is the last meet the irish take part in for several weeks, before they travel to iowa city, iowa on dec. 5 for the annual hawkeye invitational. last season, the irish won the meet with 1,228.5 points, the second highest team score in meet history. 
For now, Tallman said he sees the victory over the spartans as an important step in notre dame’s attempt to defend its meet title and con­tinued success for the rest of the season. 
“leaving [east lansing, michigan] with a win is al­ways good,” Tallman said. “we had some guys step up and race well, and had some good times and certainly showed signs of good things to come.” 
The irish return to competi­tion on dec. 5, when they head to the hawkeye invitational. The meet is scheduled to begin that Friday, and will continue throughout the weekend. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at    mginocch@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




W Interhall 
conTinued From page 16 
to take a 20-14 lead before the third quarter came to an end. 
at the start of the fourth quar­ter, the phoxes matched the pyros’ score with a passing touchdown of their own and completed a one-point conversion to take a 21-20 lead.  Following a three-and-out by pasquerilla east, gargan com­pleted yet another throw to the end zone to extend the lead to 27-20. with only a few minutes remain­ing in the game, the pyros were un­able to move the ball and turned it over on downs. gargan sealed the victory for pangborn with one fi­nal rushing touchdown, giving the phoxes a 34-20 win. 
The game was a rematch of an early regular season game in which the pyros won, 14-6.  pangborn of­fensive coordinator and senior daniel lempres said he was very proud of his team for finding a way to come out on top this time around. 

“[it feels] great,” lempres said. “They beat us in the regular sea­son, so it was great to come back and win the second round.” 
pangborn offensive line coach and senior henry deTrempe said the key adjustment by the phoxes between the two games was the increased role of the their offensive line. 
“we really wanted to get our offensive line more involved,” detrempe said.  “[we had] a big contribution from [junior] lauren groody and [senior] ally weaver, and we didn’t have that in the first game.” 
with the victory, the phoxes end­ed their three-year streak of semi­final losses, earning them a spot in the championship game in notre dame stadium on sunday at 2 p.m. 
No. 1 Welsh Family 34, No. 4 Ryan 21 
no. 1 seed welsh Family pulled away from no. 4 ryan, 34-21, on sunday to remain unbeaten on the season and secure a spot in the interhall championship in notre dame stadium. 
The game got off to a quick start, as welsh Family (8-0) scored a touchdown in the first two min­utes. The whirlwinds then shut down the wildcats (5-3) on their ensuing possession. 
within the next two minutes, welsh Family added to its lead, tacking on a 35-yard touchdown. This time ryan responded, as a trick play by sophomore quarter­back Kathleen conaty allowed her to run 20 yards downfield to the end zone. 
with twelve seconds left in the first half, ryan sophomore line­backer and receiver clare conaty, Kathleen’s sister, nabbed an inter­ception. The efforts by the conaty sisters left the wildcats only one score behind the whirlwinds go­ing into halftime, 13-7. 
despite several successful rush­es, ryan was unable to convert its opening drive of the second half into a touchdown. after getting the ball back, welsh Family soph­omore running back Francesca mancuso ran 35 yards for a touchdown. 
The wildcats quickly retaliated when Kathleen conaty connected with clare on a 20-yard touch­down pass. 
a touchdown by welsh Family with six minutes left in the sec­ond half made a comeback by the wildcats look unlikely, until clare conaty caught a second touch­down to bring the wildcats within seven points, as the whirlwinds led 28-21. 
however, a catch-and-run for a touchdown by whirlwinds sopho­more receiver ariel navotas with just over a minute left foiled ryan’s hopes for a game-winning drive and put the final score at 34-21. 
The whirlwinds are the only re­maining undefeated team going into the championship. 
“it means a lot,” welsh Family senior captain and wide receiver natalie branch said. “we’ve been playing really well this season and we worked incredibly hard for this.” 
claire conaty said she was proud of ryan’s ability to overcome several obstacles throughout the season, including the early injury of senior captain Tatum snyder. 
“we’ve had different people step up into different leadership roles,” conaty said. “our quarterback Kathleen conaty has really come into her own. [Junior] receiver erin clark and [sophomore] linebacker shawn hall have really stepped up as well.” 
many of welsh Family’s players have experience playing in notre dame stadium, as the whirlwinds’ b-team won the championship last year against Farley. 
“we’ve made it to the champi­onship two years in a row but [how we are going to prepare for the championship this year] is kind of a secret,” mancuso said. 
welsh Family will face pangborn for the championship in notre dame stadium on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu and Christine Mayuga at             cmayuga@nd.edu 
M Interhall 
conTinued From page 16 
Keenan. This play proved to be the winning score in the game, and digenova said the long pass was the best play of the contest. 
“it was fourth down and five and we were trying to draw them offsides,” digenova said. “we got them to jump and after we got them to jump, we had a free play and at that point i just threw it up there and [Koller] made a great play. phenomenal play by him and that was the difference.” 
in the second half, siegfried tried to put together a comeback, but junior quarterback spencer Judd threw two costly intercep­tions in Keenan territory that ended long drives for siegfried. Judd had 141 yards passing on the day — 134 of them to schmidt. For Keenan, Koller had one interception and freshman inside their own seven-yard line. on the following play, stanford freshman quarterback andrew Foster bobbled a snap, recovered it in the end zone and conceded a safety, giving the manor a 2-0 lead. 

immediately after the safety, morrissey got a pass interfer­ence call to set up in scoring po­sition just before the end of the half. however, griffins freshman cornerback matthew o’brien in­tercepted a pass in the end zone to keep the game close entering halftime. 
The second half saw both teams continue to trade stops early on. 
morrissey captain and ju­nior running back erik rayno praised his team’s defensive performance. 
“The defense was outstanding today,” rayno said. “They needed to step up when our offense made mistakes, and they did just that. 
all season, they’ve backed us up and kept us in each and every game.” 
ultimately, morrissey’s run­ning game was able to break through early in the fourth quar­ter. manor junior running back hunter white broke a tackle at the line of scrimmage and outpaced the stanford defense for a 25-yard touchdown run. a blocked extra-point kept the one-score game as morrissey went ahead, 8-0. 
stanford rallied, going deep into morrissey territory but an in­terception from morrissey senior defensive back James mcentee in the red zone halted the drive. 
stanford burnt it’s timeouts and got the ball back in time for a final drive. after griffins se­nior receiver Kevin connor came down with the ball at the 6-yard line for a 23-yard gain, Foster spiked the ball with four seconds left. however, his final pass sailed just over connor’s hands to clinch the victory for morrissey. 
despite the tough ending, stanford junior captain dan babiak praised his offense’s final drive after the game. 
“when it kept coming down to those key plays, fourth down and a couple third downs, ev­eryone was in the huddle saying, ‘all right, right here, we need this play,’ and we kept getting it done,” babiak said. “i was confident with our quarterback, our receivers, our line was blocking well, and i was confident we could get in.” 
rayno praised the griffins after the hard-fought win. 
“stanford played a tremendous game, and our guys got revved up and played with fire today to match them,” rayno said. “we need to carry over that toughness into next week.” 
morrissey and Keenan will square off to determine a cham­pion next sunday at 3:30 p.m., in notre dame stadium. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu and Hunter McDaniel at              hmcdani1@nd.edu 

cornerback peter buseck had two interceptions, including a key pick with 1:30 remaining in the fourth quarter. in total, the Knights forced four turnovers in the game, and wiese said their defense was the reason they won the game. 
“we’ve trusted our secondary all year,” wiese said. “[michael Koller] and peter buseck played great back there. we’re just get­ting more and more picks every game. i don’t think we’ve had a game so far where we haven’t had any interceptions. we felt re­ally great about our defense.” 
The Knights will now prepare to face unbeaten morrissey next week with the championship on the line. wiese said his team will be ready for the challenge. 
“morrissey’s a great team,” wiese said. “They show a lot of different looks and they obvi­ously haven’t lost this season. we’re really hoping we can get out [and practice] with the snow, i’m not sure if we’ll be able to. regardless, we’re probably go­ing to gameplan and throw a couple of wrinkles in. overall, we’re just going to stick to our bread and butter hard — nose defense and getting our offense on pace because we know it can be explosive.” 
No. 1 Morrissey 8, No. 5 Stanford 0 
on a snowy sunday afternoon at notre dame stadium, no. 1 morrissey advanced to the men’s interhall title game with an 8-0 win over no. 5 stanford. 
The weather played a part in each team’s play-calling scheme early, as there were very few pass attempts and they traded punts for most of the first half. 
The turning point of the first half came late in the second quar­ter after a punt from morrissey (6-0) pinned the griffins (3-2-1) 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Regionals 
conTinued From page 16 
national level in high school and last year at the ncaa meet,” sparks said. “Those op­portunities, undoubtedly, gave him the confidence to know he could compete with anyone in our region. he had some injury issues in august that slowed him down early in the season. now, michael’s fitness contin­ues to progress and i know he has some lofty goals going into the ncaa championship.” 
senior Jake Kildoo clocked a time of 31:03 (39th), ju­nior Timothy ball finished in 
31:07 (40th), sophomore Jacob dumford completed the race in 31:23 (54th) and sophomore chris marco rounded up the top five, in 31:35 (66th). 
“The men’s team this year was very young,” sparks said. “our top two men most of the year were [juniors clevenger and ball]. we also had to count on [sophomore] chris marco and scott milling, as well as freshman calvin Kraft. we lost a lot of senior experience last year with four of our sev­en athletes competing at the ncaa meet graduating. we are already looking forward to next year and getting the en­tire group back to the ncaa championship.” 

looking towards next week’s national championship, sparks said his runners are getting mentally ready for the most im­portant meet of the season. 
“we have already talked about not being satisfied about simply going to the the ncaa championship meet,” sparks said. ” we need to go into the race with a very specific pur­pose and targeted goals. This week will be more about men­tally preparing for the race than the physical preparation.” 
The ncaa championship will take place saturday in Terre haute, indiana. preparation.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus  at mdejesus@nd.edu 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
saturday that notre dame’s kick­ing-game struggles played a ma­jor role in the decision to try for two points, he admitted sunday that special teams play wasn’t necessarily the first consider­ation in the decision to attempt the conversion. 
“i think probably more than anything else, chasing the points, and that was probably the first thought, and then the kicking game,” he said. “i don’t think the kicking game was the first thing 
that came into my mind.”  
Tranquill moves starting lineup Freshman safety  into drue  

Tranquill made his second career start saturday in place of sopho­more safety max redfield, who had started the first nine games of the season. 
Kelly said the change was ne­cessitated by a lack of production at the position. 
“we thought that drue gave us a better chance at that position,” Kelly said. “but we’ll evaluate it from week to week, but no, we felt like we weren’t getting the kind of production we wanted there, and that’s why we went with drue.” 
Tranquill had seven tackles and recovered a fumble against northwestern. 
“drue has a little bit better feel for the game,” Kelly said. “it doesn’t mean he’s there. he cer­tainly made a lot of mistakes in his first start. but we just felt like tackling and football knowledge, he may have been a guy that we wanted to give a shot, and we gave him a shot at starting, and now we’ll evaluate where we are at that position today and tomorrow.” 

Kelly said some time off might be beneficial for redfield, who has 49 tackles and one intercep­tion on the season. 
“he’s really just a freshman,” he said of redfield. “but we felt like he needed to see the game from the sideline, and hopefully he’ll be able to learn more and understand what’s going on and take that to the practice field, and hopefully we see more and more development.” 
redfield is far from the only defensive player with room for development, Kelly said. 
“we’re in the process of still developing a lot of young guys, so nobody has made yet themselves into that consistent player, and max is not the only one,” he said. “There’s a number of guys in that similar boat.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME  NUTS  | aleXandria  wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: make this your year to excel. Focus on details and finishing what you start. refuse to be tempted or lured into excess and indulgence, and the rest will be history. The limitations and frustrations of the past will lift, and the chance to accomplish your dreams, hopes and wishes will be yours. move into the fast lane. your numbers are 2, 9, 13, 25, 32, 45, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): examine what’s going on around you. pay attention to detail as well as to what your peers are up to. don’t argue over trivial matters. make the necessary changes and keep moving forward. don’t be disillusioned by what others do or say. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t take chances, live in the past or procrastinate. you have to stay tuned in to the people and things that are important to you now if you want to stay on top of your personal situation. don’t let stubbornness get in your way. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t trust anyone with your personal or financial affairs. you will be disappointed by the motives behind someone’s generosity. get involved in a cause you believe in and explore new friendships. don’t jeopardize your position over a personal matter. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): participate in an event that will help you understand different cultures. exploring will help take your mind off of personal situations that need time to settle. heed your insight to determine how to use your time effectively. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): watch over your investments closely. look for solutions that will help you deal with a precarious situation. make changes to your current lifestyle that will help you reduce your overhead. consider a residential move or updating your skills to raise your income. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): be extremely careful when handling relationship issues. any show of instability will end up costing you. put your heart on the line and express how you feel and what you want to see happen. don’t just talk; take action. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): can you keep a secret? it will be vital for you not to leak information. a change in your status, your reputation or a partnership will depend on how you handle discussions with people who can influence your future. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): consider what everyone around you is doing. making an impulsive move will be out of character, but an effective way to deal with competition. Form an alliance with someone insightful and practical. don’t let your personal life interfere with your work. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t be fooled by what others say. go to the source and get your facts straight. Knowledge will make the difference when facing a decision. a change at home can bring benefits as long as you don’t go overboard. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the road less traveled and you will take everyone by surprise. speak up and take control. once you show your strengths, you will find it easy to get the backing and support you need to get ahead professionally and financially. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let confusion set in due to conversations with generous but uninformed individuals. make modifications based on what works for you, not because you want to please everyone around you. a change will bring good fortune. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): offer help, and you will discover valuable information that’s instrumental to your advancement. contracts and alliances can be formed and put into play. don’t let an emotional matter get in the way of your professional or financial progress. 


Birthday Baby: you are intense, creative and imaginative. you are curious but practical. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Golson has right shoulder sprain 
Kelly on knee sprains of Day, Cage; and on 2-point conversion decision: ‘That’s on me.’ 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
notre dame senior quarter­back everett golson has an “ac sprain” in his right shoulder, irish head coach brian Kelly said in his sunday afternoon teleconference. 
golson didn’t miss any plays in notre dame’s 43-40 over­time loss to northwestern on saturday, but Kelly said he could see that the quarterback was in some discomfort. 
“There were certainly a couple of throws when [golson] first did it where he put the ball in the ground,” Kelly said sunday. “you could see that it affected him then. he said he was fine after that, but obviously we missed some throws, especially in overtime.” 
Kelly added that junior de­fensive lineman sheldon day and freshman defensive line­man daniel cage both have knee sprains and underwent mris sunday. The degrees of the sprains are still unknown, Kelly said. 

notre dame graduate student safety austin collinsworth, who suffered an mcl strain in august and a dislocated shoulder in october, had “no issues physical­ly at all” after the northwestern game. collinsworth had three tackles and returned a fumble 32 yards for a touchdown against the wildcats on saturday. 
Kelly address two-point conversion attempt 
after fielding several questions saturday about notre dame’s two-point conversion attempt with a 40-29 lead and 10:34 to go in the game, Kelly took full blame for the decision sunday. 
“oh you know, i feel terrible about the loss because obviously we’re all part of it,” he said. “if we go and kick the extra point, who knows how the game ends, right, so that’s on me.” 
despite Kelly’s assertion 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson tries to turn the corner Saturday against Northwestern. Irish coach Brian Kelly said Monday that Golson suffered a sprain to his right shoulder in the 43-40 Irish loss. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY | midwesT regionals 
Irish women earn berth to NCAAs 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after finishing sixth in the ncaa great lakes regional meet in madison, wisconsin, on Friday, the irish women’s squad earned an at-large bid to participate in the ncaa cham­pionship meet next weekend. 
notre dame was one of the six teams that qualified for the national championships from the great lakes region. irish coach matt sparks said he is confident in the women’s abil­ity to excel at next week’s meet. 
“The success of the women’s team is a product of the maturi­ty and confidence of the collec­tive group,” sparks said. “our team captains, [senior] emily Frydrych and [junior] molly seidel, demonstrate those traits. The rest of the team has done a good job of following their lead.” 
seidel and fellow junior danielle aragon both won all­acc and all-region honors after placing in the top 25 in both the conference championship and the great lakes regional cham­pionship. seidel, who placed fourth at the regional champi­onship, would have automati­cally qualified as an individual for the ncaa championship if the irish had not been given an at-large berth. 

seidel led the irish on Friday as she has in every race this season, completing the 6-ki­lometer race in 19:59. aragon clocked in close behind at 20:45 (25th), while Frydrych came in at 20:59 (37th). senior Karen lesiewicz finished in 21:11 (49th) and senior Katie moran completed the race in 21:48 (80th) to cap off notre dame’s scoring runners. 
sophomore Taylor driscoll and junior sydni meunier rounded out the irish varsity seven at 21:57 (93rd) and 22:07 (101st), respectively. 
on the men’s side, notre dame also finished in sixth place, but the irish were not awarded a spot in the ncaa championships. instead, junior michael clevenger clinched an individual spot in the meet and earned all-region honors after finishing the 10-kilometer race in sixth place, clocking a time of 30:22. 
“mike clevenger has a lot of experience competing on a na­tional level in high school and last year at the ncaa meet,” 
see regionals PAGE 14 

MEN’S INTERHALL | Keenan 6, seigFried 0; morrissey 8, sTanFord 0 
Knights, manor meet for title 
By MAREK MAZUREK and HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writers 
No. 2 Keenan 6, No. 6 Seigfried 0 
no. 2 Keenan defeated no. 6 siegfried, 6-0, in a semifinal matchup sunday afternoon at notre dame stadium. 
with the victory, Keenan (5-0-1) moves on to play top-seeded morrissey in the men’s 
interhall  championship  game  
at  notre  dame  stadium next  
weekend.  


For siegfried (3-3), its season is over but junior captain grady schmidt said he still considers the campaign valuable. 
“[The season] was successful,” schmidt said. “we all had fun and got to play at the stadium. it didn’t end how we wanted it to, but we still accomplished a lot.” 
Keenan junior captain Jon wiese said he was extremely hap­py with how his team played. 
“i think we played tough,” wiese said. “we didn’t get as many points as we wanted on of­fense, but our defense stood up to the test time after time. we had two big stops in the red zone and ended up rolling it out.” 
The game was largely a defen­sive struggle that saw minimal ball movement until midway through the second quarter, when Keenan junior quarterback aaron digenova threw a 45-yard touch­down pass to sophomore receiver and cornerback michael Koller. after a missed 2-point conversion, the score stood at 6-0 in favor of Keenan. This play proved to be 
see m inTerhall PAGE 13 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL | pangborn 34, pasQuerilla easT 20; welsh Family 34, ryan 21 
phoxes, whirlwinds advance 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM and CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writers 
No. 3 Pangborn 34, No. 2 Pasquerilla East 20 
no. 3 pangborn upset no. 2 pasquerilla east, 34-20, in the semifinals of the women’s interh­all playoffs sunday to advance to the championship game in notre dame stadium next sunday. 
despite giving up a season-high 20 points, the phoxes (7-1) found a way to win behind the strength of their offense, outscoring the pre­viously unbeaten pyros (7-1), who led the league in scoring entering the game.  The phoxes were led by the performance of senior quar­terback caitlin gargan, who fin­ished with five touchdowns, three passing and two rushing. 

pasquerilla east jumped out to an early 8-0 lead in the first quar­ter following a rushing touch­down from senior quarterback macy mulhall.  gargan and the phoxes responded with a passing touchdown and conversion at the start of the second quarter to tie the game, 8-8. 
The pyros then mounted a drive downfield, finished by mulhall scoring a rushing touch­down, giving pasquerilla east a 14-8 lead.  The phoxes responded again when gargan ran into the end zone in the final moments of the second quarter, but they failed to convert the two-point conver­sion and the game remained tied heading into halftime, 14-14. 
The pyros came out strong af­ter the break, as mulhall led them down the field with a series of runs before finding sophomore wide receiver and captain noelle gooding for a passing touchdown to take a 20-14 lead before the third quarter came to an end. 
at the start of the fourth 
see w inTerhall PAGE 13 





