The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 27 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students join Indiana gay marriage debate 
SCOTUS met Monday to discuss whether it will hear case involving same-sex marriage 
dame students on both sides — the court approved a stay student union (gsu) con-legalization of same-sex mar-
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

news editor of the aisle say the campus on same-sex marriages nine cerned with lgbTQ issues. riage, said he was pleased to 
response to the appeal has days later, at the request of she said graduate students read the opinion penned by 
The supreme court con-been limited and languid. indiana’s attorney general. met the appellate court’s the appellate court’s Judge vened privately monday “i think it’s a hard thing for The stay will remain in ef-initial ruling with deflat-richard posner, a well-to determine whether it people to talk about, which i fect until the supreme court ed enthusiasm, and many known conservative ap­will hear a case appeal-understand, but i think we as either hears the case and is-had been “tensely waiting” pointed by president ronald ing the sept. 4 decision by a community need to, despite sues a new ruling or refuses the supreme court’s final reagan. mangin said posner the 7th u.s. circuit court of your religious background or to hear the case, leaving the decision. found holes in the state’s ar­appeals that indiana’s ban your beliefs on the issues, appellate court’s ruling in “There was not much of a gument and used sarcasm to on same-sex marriage is we need to talk about them place. indiana has asked the celebration for the recent rul-expose these flaws. unconstitutional. more in an open space so it’s supreme court to take on ing. There was initially some “[posner] talked about how 
The Justices are consid-not just a thing we talk about the issue and decide whether buzz about it on social media in indiana, first cousins over ering seven cases from five only behind closed doors,” same-sex marriage should be and everyone was very ex-the age of 65 are legally al­different states, including freshman Jake maginn, a allowed in all 50 states, ac-cited and happy but the stay lowed to marry because the indiana, and can choose to member of prismnd, said. cording to associated press in indiana came so quickly idea is that they can’t have hear all, none or some of For those supporting the ap-reports. that there wasn’t nearly the biological children,” maginn the appeals. They could an-pellate court’s initial ruling, emily kirkegaard is a coor-same excited celebration,” said. “The fact that the nounce their decision as the excitement of the sept. dinator for glassnd, the sub-kirkegaard said. early as this week, but notre 4 decision was short-lived committee of the graduate maginn, who favors see gay marriage PAGE 5 


smc hosts ‘shoebox lunch’ 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
participants in monday’s “shoebox lunch” were blindfolded and led on a cul­tural immersion experience by visiting artist Fereshteh Toosi. The multi-sensory performance was hosted by the saint mary’s college moreau art galleries and incorporated taste, smell, touch and sound to connect attendees with recorded sto­ries about food told by black men and women. 
each attendee received a brown paper bag containing 
see lunch PAGE 5 




Professor lectures on Dante 
By DANNY O’BOYLE 
news writer 
dr. robin kirkpatrick, poet, professor emeritus of italian and english literature at the university of cambridge and scholar of dante and the renaissance, delivered the university’s annual religion and literature lecture, titled “The pace of praise: might Theology walk Together withliterature?” 
dr. kirkpatrick, whose 2006 translation of dante’s epic poem “The divine comedy” has been described as “one of the most important contributions to dante scholarship of recent times,” spoke about the relationship between re­ligion and literature with a particu­lar focus on “The divine comedy” and how literary works like it are connected to the art of praise. 
“one impulse, common to liter­ary study and theology, is a desire to cultivate and promote the language of intelligent praise” kirkpatrick said, “but it may also be said that the point of theology in one of its aspects is to prepare our language for its use in performance, prayer and literature, and focusing our thoughts on … praise.” 

kirkpatrick said chaucer’s “Troilus and criseyde” and “purgatorio” the second part of “The divine comedy” are works of literature that can be a approached as a form of theological discovery. 
“The late middle ages saw the invention, or re-invention, of litera­ture as an independent field of hu­man endeavor,” he said. “The texts in question call into play …  the stress between pain and praise that a psalm might display, but equally, 
see danTe PAGE 4 

Philosophy professors unite for project 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer  
philosophy  professors  
michael  rea  and  samuel  
newlands  of  notre  dame  

and laurie ann paul of the university of north carolina at chapel hill were named co-directors of “The experience project” this summer, lead­ing an initiative designed to encourage interdisciplinary exploration of the nature of experience. 
newlands, an associate pro­fessor of philosophy, said the three-year-long, $4.8 million project funded by the John Templeton Foundation is an in­terdisciplinary effort to explore different types of religious and transformative experiences and how they overlap. 
“i think it’s really kind of a cutting edge, exciting project 
— partly because it tries to pull these two groups together that don’t always talk. namely, so­cial scientists [and] what you might think of as sort of the more conceptual disciplines,” newlands said. “There’s been this exciting move to kind of bring the two in dialogue to­gether, and i think this project is an instance of that.” 
according to the project’s website, the project will fund 
“stimulating  innovative  re­ 
search  on  transformative  
experience”  in  philosophy,  

psychology and sociology. rea said the project will also fund researchers in theology and re­ligious studies who aim to ex-

plore specifically the power of religious experience. 
“we are fundamentally in­terested in doing philosophi­cal research informed by the social sciences,” rea said.  “it’s the philosophical, theological questions that are driving the agenda rather than the psycho­logical or sociological ones.” 
see philosophy PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 FooTball PAGE 16 hockey PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Today’s Staff 

News Sports 

rebecca o’neil mary green margaret hynds greg hadley peter durbin Zach klonsinski 

Graphics Scene 

keri o’mara daniel barabasi 

Photo Viewpoint 

karla moreno Tabitha ricketts 


Corrections 

in the sept. 29 issue of The observer, the article “university receives record amount of research funding” incorrectly stated that notre dame received $119 million in research awards. That amount was received in 2010. The university received $113 million in the 2014 fiscal year. The observer regrets this error. 
Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s the oddest place you’ve studied on campus? 



Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Hana Jenks 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 

“on the steps of haggar hall.” 

Michael Infantine 
junior 
keough hall 
“in front of the Tv, watching a show during a football game.” 
Kathleen Flavin 
freshman welsh Family hall 

“in the basement of our hall. it was frightening.” 

Nicolle Ho 
freshman welsh Family hall 
“riley hall in a ceramics studio. i’m not a ceramics student.” 
Lucinda Kraho 
junior 
Farley hall 

“The hand of god tree by the grotto.” 

Peter Brown 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“section lounge (also where i’ve slept sometimes).” 
Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
Men’s Golf  Vespers  Lilly Scholarship  Cross Country  Notre Dame Football  
Warren Golf Course  Geddes Hall  Information Session  Notre Dame Golf  Notre Dame Stadium  
All Day  5:15 p.m. - 5:45 p.m.  Brownson Hall  Course  3:30 p.m. - 7  p.m.  
Fighting Irish Gridiron  Faith and reflection.  4 p.m. - 5 p.m.  2 p.m. - 6 p.m.  Top 15 matchup versus  
Classic.  Email fellows@nd.edu  Annual Notre Dame  Stanford.  
with questions.  Invitational  
Jesuit Volunteer  ISSLP Information  ND Theatre NOW  Pep Rally  Saturday Vigil Mass  
Corps Northwest Visit  Session  DeBartolo Performing  Compton Family Ice  Basilica of the Sacred  
Geddes Hall  Geddes Hall  Arts Center  Arena  Heart  
11:30 a.m. - 1 p.m.  7 p.m. - 8 p.m.  7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.  6 p.m. - 7 p.m.  &;30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.  
Learn about  Learn about  Open to the public.  Pep rally for ND before  Music by the Women’s  
postgraduate service.  international service.  it faces Stanford.  Liturgical Choir.  



Workshop stresses self-care for social workers 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
saint mary’s department of social work and department of special events sponsored a workshop titled “The ethics of self-care: social workers, heal by self” yesterday af­ternoon in rice commons of the student center. 
director of media relations gwen o’brien said the event focused on social workers’ assessment of their own self-care and the development of their own self-care plan. 
“students explored what self-care is, how to deter­mine their own self-care needs and how to develop a self-care plan,” she said. “They also learned why self-care is important in social work practice and why self-care is important in regard to the ethics of social work.” 
The speaker for the event was charlie stoops, phd, lcsw, dean and associate professor in the graduate dean, stoops collaborated to create various new programs including five-year ba/msw tracks for undergraduate so­ciology and psychology ma­jors, o’brien said. 
school  of  social  work  at  
dominican  university  in  
river  Forest,  illinois.  as  

stoops is considered an innovator in the classroom, utilizing community part­ners such as the chicago coalition for the homeless, heartland alliance, sarah’s inn and the illinois state’s attorneys office to pro­vide students with hands-on experience in real world program development and political advocacy, o’brien said. 
o’brien said stoops ex­plored the ethical respon­sibility of social workers to care for themselves while providing care for oth­ers. participants learned how self-care is integral to maintaining an ethical so­cial work practice and how taking care of self is interwo­ven throughout the national association of social workers code of ethics, she said. 

o’brien said the work­shop’s participants exam­ined three aspects of social workers’ selves that require care — physical, emotional and spiritual — and devel­oped personal self-care plans to address each dimension. 
Frances kominkiewicz, director of the college’s department of social work and gerontology, said stu­dents were encouraged to explore social workers’ ethi­cal responsibilities to their clients, colleagues, practice, the social work profession and society. 
“social workers are bound by the social workers’ code of ethics that requires that social workers act ethi­cally within their practice with clients and communi­ties,” kominkiewicz said. “These ethics guide social workers in their all areas of social work practice, includ­ing clinical practice, com­munity practice and policy development.” 
kominkiewicz said social workers receive excellent training and practicum ex­perience in field settings and many become clinical social workers. 
“They are educated to work as professionals in all ar­eas, including all medical settings, such as hospitals, clinics, veterans’ hospitals and mental health centers, as well as schools and ge­rontological settings,” she said. “social workers serve as forensic social workers, interviewing children who have been physically and sexually abused, and also serve in corporations and or­ganizations as occupational social workers, assessing and counseling employees in various areas, including marriage and family coun­seling as well as substance abuse counseling.” 
senior social work ma­jor meredith mersits said stoops’ spotlight on self-care and its pertinence to social workers’ code of ethics made her realize the importance of taking time for herself. 
“This was extremely help­ful because i am a social work student in a field place­ment this year,” mersits said. “if i’m not performing well, my clients won’t either.” 
senior social work major krista mathews said she ap­preciated that stoops en­gaged his audience by asking 
questions about  their  own  
situations.  
“as  a  social  worker  i  

thought the workshop on self-care was so important and should be applied to all professions,” mathews said. “it is true that the better a social worker takes care of him or herself, the better he or she can help their clients.” 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 

visiting author lectures on ‘my Father’s wars’ 
rylko-bauer, coined the term 
By PAUL STEVENSON 

news writer “intimate ethnography” to 
describe “my Father’s wars.” 

professor of anthropology at waterston said she believes John Jay college of criminal this term suits the “two insep-Justice, city university of new arable roles” she took on as she york, alisse waterston ad-approached this project. dressed a crowd at the geddes waterston discussed the re-hall auditorium on monday search process that went into night, discussing her new the book as a daughter and an book, “my Father’s wars.” anthropologist. 
”my Father’s wars” chroni-“like my father’s life, his cles the life of waterston’s fa-perception of it and his narra­ther, who was born in poland, tive, my motivations are lay-survived The great war and ered, complicated, involving immigrated to cuba, new who i am as a daughter and as york city and finally san Juan, an anthropologist,” waterston puerto rico. said. “who was this man with 
waterston said her book was whom i had such difficulty? i multi-layered and personal [came] to this project not just with a strong foundation in so-as a daughter, but also as an cial history. anthropologist seeking to un­
“my Father’s wars” is a jour-derstand violence in its various ney through family memories forms and how it is implicated that are interwoven with some in individual lives.” of the key historical events of waterston said she was guid­the 20th century, waterston ed in her work by questions said. it is a daughter’s account and statements posed by other of a Jewish father whose life authors, such as eva hoffman, was shaped, framed and torn who asked, “why remember? apart by the upheavals on his and why not just remember, age. but remember strenuously?” houses.” waterston said. “The changed his name to miguel were always being lived under 
waterston said because her she said she was also inspired repetition has meaning. it un-waserstein. he later changed the sign of extermination.” father’s story is so heavily by howard Zinn, who said derlines the shock he experi-his name two more times, to “my Father’s wars” is a verti­rooted in the major historical “The most crucial issue with enced at a tender age and the michael waterston when he cal slice of life in the 20th inter-events of the 20th century and regard to writing is: “why am fear that would always haunt moved to new york and ulti-connections across the masks the resulting massive recon-i doing this?” him. Telling the story over and mately to don miguel in puerto and illusions of culture, race, struction, “my Father’s wars” “as an anthropologist, i am over again highlights the de-rico. nation, society, citizenship and is hardly a narrow narrative also concerned about how to structive trauma that is caused “at the intersections of my civilization, waterston said. memoir of menachem mendel bring scholarly knowledge into by war.” father’s complicated jour-To end the lecture, waterston wasersztejn. the public conversation on the The book follows the life ney, he created, adopted and quoted american poet henry 
“‘my Father’s wars’ is a hy-critical issues of our times,” of wasersztejn who fled his adapted to multiple identities wadsworth longfellow, who brid work, making it difficult waterston said. hometown of Jedwabne, across time and place, identi-wrote “if we could read the se­to place in a single genre,” waterston said that her fa-poland, before wwii and the ties shaped by larger struc-cret history of our enemies, we waterston said. “[it] is a work ther would often repeat stories Jedwabne program, a massa-tural and political forces,” should find in each man’s sor­i see as firmly centered in an-from the great war, which she cre of 340 polish Jews in 1941, waterston said. “[‘my Father’s row and suffer enough to dis­thropology even as it is in-thinks is a sign of the trauma waterston said. wars’] follows my father’s re-arm all hostility.” tensely interdisciplinary.” caused by the war. wasersztejn immigrated flexive attachment to the expe­
waterston, along with her “war shaped his first percep-to manguito, in the cuban rience of Jewish suffering, the Contact Paul Stevenson at friend and colleague barbara tions, dead bodies and ruined province matanzas, where he way he viewed his life as if it psteven4@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd research helps improve elections 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
The government of somaliland asked notre dame computer science pro­fessor kevin bowyer with graduate students amanda sgroi and estefan ortiz to use their iris recognition biomet­ric research to improve the legitimacy of their elections. 
somaliland is a self-de­clared independent state directly north of somalia rec­ognized by the international community and u.s. as an au­tonomous region of somalia. according to a college of engineering press release, it is transforming into a rare, multiparty democracy in the horn of africa and is working to establish honest, respected elections. 
“someone in somaliland sent me an e-mail asking me to help with improving their voting register,” bowyer said. “They said they wanted to use iris-recognition technology and asked us for help.” 
“The ultimate goal is that you can only vote one time,” sgroi said. “if you’re trying to vote a second time, then the iris recognition system is going to block you before you can even cast your ballot.” 
bowyer said they kept in constant e-mail contact with the somaliland government and were able to produce re­sults that they could use to help achieve the somaliland government nation status within a short period of time. in the press release, he said the data acquisition for the field study took place over a five-day period in regis­tration centers in hargeisa, the somaliland capital, and baki, a town 60 miles away from hargeisa. The data was transferred electronically to the notre dame team, who sent the results back after conducting iris recognition analysis. 
“They wanted to take some current technology, go to a couple of towns take some data and seed it with some duplicates,” bowyer said. “They wanted to give us the data basically, if we could tell them which registration belonged to the same person and which actually belong to different people.” 
bowyer said the challenge revealed issues with the flexibility of their current technology despite the al­ready extensive research into iris recognition. 

“The key things we iden­tified were the challenging images,” sgroi said. “we had some people with had  some medical issues with their eyes and some eyes that were blurry so they were poorly acquired, so having some quality checking is going to be necessary for their final system.” 
“since 2004, we’ve been doing iris recognition [re­search] here — 10 years,” bowyer said. “we’ve looked at thousands of images of several thousand people, i’m guessing. They sent us the images of around 500 people ... and there were at least two things i’ve never seen before ... that broke all the segment­ers we had. 
“it drove home that if you’re developing code for the u.s., the u.k. and big cities like in china and then take it to say, africa, you’re going to run into these eye conditions you’ve never seen before and the software is not going to work — and the software doesn’t know it’s not going to work either. so that’s a new topic of research we could work on.” 
bowyer said access to this data could update the u.s.’s dated biometric scanning technology currently in use. bowyer said the experience also provides domestic in­sight on the ethics of collect­ing data from private citizen. 
“The country of india will have one to two billion peo­ple with a national id to link with their economic identity that’s working from finger­print and iris, and i think the united states will be behind,” bowyer said. “we talk about having secure borders and stuff, yet we’re not willing to do stuff about secure id.” 
“i think the climate right now, we’re really sensitive about security with the nsa stuff going on,” sgroi said. “i think that maybe, not in the united states, this simi­lar voter id thing would be popular and more successful, but it will not happen here. There would be a discussion on whether we want it, but it will take a lot to convince the public to run with it.” 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 
Dante 
conTinued From page 1 
for scrupulous attention to language.” 
kirkpatrick said the combination of dante’s use of detailed theologi­cal augmentation and distinctly poetic language characterized the way praise is approached in litera­ture, particularly the slow tempo at which it is delivered. 
“as capable as dante is of the highest flights of imagination, grotesquery as well as ecstasy, the foundation of his art is an unremit­ting clarity of articulation,” he said. “as incarnate beings we speak at our best not in high-flown rhetoric, but along the pulse of silence.” 
Following the logic of dante’s references to faith revealing itself in infidelity, authors who may be seen as “searching, violent or even blasphemous” can make a serious contribution to theological studies, and similarly, the use of surprising language in the psalms can make a contribution to praise as a form of literature, kirkpatrick said. 
“scripture is full of scandals, which may shock the poet out of cliche, or predictable sentiment,” kirkpatrick said. 
dr. kirkpatrick is a distinguished visiting professor in the depart­ments of religion and literature at notre dame this semester. 
Contact Danny O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Gay Marriage 
conTinued From page 1 
argument seems to put forth that homosexual couples aren’t as capable of raising children as first cousins to me is absurd.” 
“not only that, in indiana gay couples are allowed to adopt, so if the institution of marriage is to create an environment where children can effectively and fruitful­ly grow, then i don’t think it makes any sense to let a ho­mosexual couple adopt chil­dren but not be married,” maginn said. 
graduate student Tiernan kane said it was “incumbent” on the supreme court to hear indiana’s case. he disagreed with posner’s opinion, say­ing it misused precedent and demonstrated both “flippan­cy” and a lack of understand­ing of the state’s case. 
“on reading it, my first im­pression is i was sorry to see that [posner] seemed to have approached this in a similar way to the way he approached the notre dame ... case [against the department of health and human services] earlier this year,” kane said. “it doesn’t appear from the decision that he’s taken the time to understand the op­posing point of view.” 
kane founded and serves as a leader of students for child-oriented policy (scop), a group that last week gained club status from the student activities office (sao) and club coordination council (ccc). he said extreme points of view on both sides often stifle the discussion of marriage on campus, some­thing scop experienced when it first applied for club status in the spring. 
“particularly regarding posner, but also i think mar­riage [debates in general], you don’t hear a lot about it, and i think that’s in part be­cause of the fear of the reac­tion that greeted scop when it tried to raise this point of view,” kane said. “There was an immediate accusation made by several hundred students, not the majority of students, but several hun­dred to say this is a posi­tion that would be wrongly discriminatory.” 
“People should 
talk about it 
even if people 
disagree with 
the ruling. There 
should be some 
open discussion, 
especially in a very 
well-renowned 
University.” 
Greg Cousins 
graduate student 
Junior scop member alexandra desanctis said the court cases and gen­eral dialogue about mar­riage reflect “a fundamental misunderstanding of what the debate is.” she said she and other scop members be­lieve marriage as an institu­tion must be “permanent,” “exclusive” and “life-giving.” 

“i think if you understand marriage as having these three characteristics, you see that it naturally points to being between a man and a woman, and i think you can see that regardless of your religion, just through com­mon sense and through rea­son,” desanctis said. “... The state cares about its future citizens and i think defining marriage as between a man and a woman is best for chil­dren and therefore best for the state.” 
graduate student greg cousins, a member of glassnd,  said the notre dame community should en­courage discussion over dif­ferent ideologies of marriage in spite of potential clashes between traditional and non­traditional views. 
“people should talk about it even if people disagree with the ruling,” he said. “There should be some open dis­cussion, especially in a very well-renowned university. This should be a place of friendly discourse even if there are differing opinions, and i don’t think there has been enough of that.” 
Tim bradley, a junior mem­ber of scop, said students supporting the traditional idea of marriage often face criticism for refusing to change their views despite pressure from opposing perspectives. 
“I’m not saying it’s going to be within the next decade or my lifetime, but I wouldn’t even be surprised if the Catholic Church evolved their thoughts on this issue just as they evolved their thoughts on evolution or on heliocentricism.” 
Chris Weber 
senior 
“For some people who think that marriage is a union of one man and one woman, it’s easy for them to be afraid to speak their mind because there’s a risk of being labeled a bigot or a homophobe or be­ing told you’re on the wrong side of history, and those are hard things for someone to hear,” bradley said. 
students’ hesitancy to speak out in fear of criticism can make the discussion of marriage appear lopsided, bradley said. 
“on the surface one would think that most students are in favor of redefining mar­riage because that’s the im­pression given in the media but i don’t think that that’s true,” he said. “i think a lot of people are silent on the issue.” 
senior chris weber, a prismnd member, said he hopes many who argue for traditional marriage on reli­gious grounds will start to re­consider their beliefs, as the church has done in the past. 
“i think there are some in the church community who believe with time this will probably evolve, our idea of marriage will evolve,” weber said. “i’m not saying it’s go­ing to be within the next de­cade or my lifetime, but wouldn’t even be surprised if the catholic church evolved their thoughts on this is­sue just as they evolved their thoughts on evolution or on heliocentrism.” 
cousins said notre dame has a unique opportunity as a catholic institution to foster greater dialogue and encour­age open discussion. 
“The university and the university administration shouldn’t be afraid of encour­aging conversation about it because silence is not a very good defense of their posi­tion,” he said. “it shouldn’t be something that’s kept hush-hush. 
“i think it would be very progressive of them to en­courage this sort of discus­sion officially and hopefully we will see some of that.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
Philosophy 
conTinued From page 1 
a university press release explained that the project will award funding to up to 30 re­search teams and offer resi­dential fellowships at notre dame’s center for philosophy of religion and unc. it will also 

invite scholars to participate in collaborative workshops. 
rea said the majority of re­search on the notre dame end will focus on religious experi­ences in three forms. 
“There are the sort of ‘knock­your-socks-off’ religious expe­riences like, you know, visions of Jesus,” rea said. “Then there are sort of what you might call moderate-level religious experiences. 
“and then there are what you might call low-grade religious experiences that are, i’d say, pretty common among believ­ers. ... you’re really stressed out, you pray to god for peace and then you feel peace and you’re like, ‘wow, god answered that prayer.’ it’s totally low-grade. all kinds of people have experiences like this. They’re easily subject to interpretation.” 

paul said she will concentrate primarily on transformative ex­periences and how they affect a person’s beliefs and under­standing of the world. 
“There’s a way in which if you experience a kind of thing that you’ve never experienced before that you’ll be epistemi­cally transformed,” paul said. “namely, you learn something new about yourself or about the way the world is, something that you couldn’t have learned until you had that experience.” 
other researchers — includ­ing professors Fiery cushman of harvard university and stephen vaisey of duke university — are researching the psychological and sociological nature of trans-formative experiences, rea said. he said the different research­ers will come together at some point in the future to share their findings. 
“it’s really exciting to see notre dame partnering with other re­search universities in this kind of thing,” newlands said. “The project itself is run with a kind of broad team of people from different research institutions, different backgrounds [and] different sets of interests com­ing together on a common topic. That’s really rare.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 
Lunch 
conTinued From page 1 

an assortment of props, such as dried michigan cherries and a shaker of barbecue spices, associated with each true story shared. Toosi said the paper bags symbolized the historic significance of the stories since the tra­dition of “sack lunches” emerged as a result of res­taurant segregation during the Jim crow era. 
The 40-minute program was originally designed for the visually impaired, Toosi said. The idea of designing such a program arose af­ter working with a chicago community to design a gar­den, she said. 
“There were a lot of older people in the neighborhood with different health issues, and we wanted to make the garden accessible in a lot of different ways,” Toosi said. “people who are blind have different needs for accessi­bility than those who have physical disabilities. people who have loss of a certain ability, they’re not less able than us. ... it is interesting to understand what their expe­rience is.” 
Toosi said conversations with people in the com­munity caused her to use food to represent cultural heritage. 
“we were having conversa­tions with people ... and the idea of a food garden came up, having vegetables that would reflect the culture of 
the  neighborhood,”  Toosi  
said.  “everyone  has  their  
own food heritage.”  

“It was almost as if I was no longer in Le Mans but rather in Alabama [or] Chicago. Blind to my surroundings, I was temporarily transported to another time and place — another life, really .” 
Mikhala Kaseweter 
sophomore 
saint mary’s philosophy professor megan Zwart said she enjoyed the first-person stories — in particular a contributor’s story about the negative health associations with “southern soul food” and how true traditional soul food actually includes a lot of vegetables and fruits. Zwart said she appreciated the multi-sensory aspect of the performance. 
“i thought by eliminat­ing visual experience and emphasizing sensory expe­riences of smell, taste and sound, the event was able to highlight our complex associations between food, memory and history,” Zwart said. “whether one grew up eating the kinds of soul food [Toosi] spotlighted or not, everyone has strong asso­ciations between food and memories, which can be triggered by a smell or taste or sound.” 
sophomore mikhala kaseweter said Toosi’s piece was her first experience with a sensory art exhibit. kaseweter said she enjoyed the connections made be­tween history, real life ex­periences and the culinary arts. 
“it was almost as if i was no longer in le mans but rather in alabama [or] chicago,” kaseweter said. “blind to my surroundings, i was tempo­rarily transported to anoth­er time and place — another life, really.” 
more information about “shoebox lunch” and Toosi’s program can be found at garlicandgreens.info 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

best days of the year 

Lesley Stevenson 
news editor 

midterms got you down? roommate got you sick? interviews got you stressing? well cheer up! Today is the 35th best day of the year — and it’s only going up from here. 
sept. 30 may not look like much, but it’s the calendar equivalent of the ugly duck­ling. it’s the last day of the month, which means one thing, and one awesome thing only: tomorrow is the start of october. 
it’s true. oct. 1 through 31 are in a 31­way tie for the best day of the year. next is your birthday, followed by christmas and Thanksgiving or Thanksgiving and christmas, depending on whether you’re a capitalist or a freeloader. if your birthday is in october, so much the better! Today is the 34th best day of the year. 
people say april 25 is the perfect date — not too hot or too cold; all you need is a light jacket — but the same is true for the month of october. and october is better because you don’t look silly wearing a jacket; after all, winter’s creeping up on you. if you wear a jacket in april, you just look like a wimp. 
have you ever seen a sky bluer than those of a glorious october afternoon? no, you haven’t. That’s because red and blue lie across from each other on the color wheel, so the contrast of red leaves makes october blue particularly brilliant. 
october is the apotheosis of the pump­kin — not just the pumpkin spice latte, mind you, but pumpkin bread, pumpkin ravioli, pumpkin soup if you’re adventur­ous. but not pumpkin pie — that’s just knockoff november trying to look cool. 
october is also the only month you can appropriately describe with the word “crisp.” everyone loves the word crisp, probably because it’s most often employed on food (e.g., bacon, apples, apple crisp). no one talks about crisp august days. crisp october days, on the other hand, are a very different story. 
if october were one of Jesus’s 12 dis­ciples, it would be John, the most famous and influential after peter but less flashy (i’m looking at you, July!). John was known to have a fiery temper, appropriate for the october color palette, and was in christ’s inner circle. 
and if october were one of the 12 olympian gods, it would be demeter, god­dess of agriculture, nature and the seasons. pumpkins, leaves, corn and odd-looking squashes are good for more than just Thanksgiving cornucopias. They’re a way of life in the fall, and october is the king of fall. 
so chin up, notre dame! campus is about to burst into light and color and the sky is opening up for one last hurrah before the permacloud sets in. grab those cardi­gans, break out your jeans and don’t forget to set up your spookiest cobwebs — we’re heading in to the 30 best days of the year. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Never cross a picket line 

Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

it’s not that uncommon. it might be outside a factory or an office or a store. you might be a customer or another employee. you will have to know what to do — so never cross a picket line. 
it is the strongest action workers can take in an econ­omy that is otherwise stacked against them. by going on strike, employees shut down the jobsite by refusing to work. even if it doesn’t seem like you have a stake in their fight, you probably do. 
The labor movement is not what it used to be. union membership in the u.s. is down to 11.2 percent, from a high of 35 percent in the 1950s. many people wonder why they should care. unions may have once been necessary, opponents claim, but they’re not important now. They’re corrupt and greedy, run by “union bosses” who are ruin­ing the economy. The underlying assumptions of these accusations are telling. 
There is no hope in claiming that unions never did any­thing good for working people. Throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, union members fought and sometimes died for livable wages, decent working conditions, child labor laws, overtime pay, workers’ compensation, social security and the civil rights movement. The only hope of bosses seeking to break the might of the labor movement has been to claim that unions are now unnecessary. 
solidarity, however, is not something that goes out of style. now, as always before, labor unions bring up wages not only for union workers but for all workers in their in­dustries. They set standards for working conditions and act as a mechanism to enforce fair treatment for workers. anything a boss gives workers can be taken away just as easily. organizing gives workers a seat at the table to ne­gotiate and make their demands heard. 
The union, at its best, is an injection of economic de­mocracy. it is run by its rank-and-file members with elected union leaders beholden to recall and the will of the membership. different unions have achieved varying levels of success. no human organization is perfect, and whenever imperfections occur, bosses and owners are quick to jump on them in an attempt to show how cor­rupt and anti-democratic these unions actually are. in reality, the owners are just projecting. 
“The union bosses are greedy.” when the owners mak­ing this claim are operating vast financial machines 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

designed to extract every bit of value from the labor of millions of people, the accusation falls a bit flat. owners fight to maximize profits, unions fight to maximize wag­es. what does it tell you that the worst slur they can hurl at union leaders is to call them “bosses”? 
“The union is anti-democratic.” at their worst, unions are imperfect democracies that bicker amongst them­selves. at their best, they are solidarity incarnate. is there anything less democratic than the economic dictatorship of the boss over the workplace? Those who labor to pro­duce all things have little control over the conditions or the fruits of their labor. The union is there to help them push for a bit more. 
if one accepts that the unions are good for the working-class, there is one last hurdle — am i a worker? From the lowest paid employees being told that they are “as­sociates” or “contractors” to the highest paid employees being told that they are “professionals,” much effort has been put into obscuring one simple fact. everyone who labors for a wage has the same economic interests — a greater share of the fruits of their own labor and more employee control over working conditions. For this vast working-class, any union anywhere is in their interest, as unions drive up wages and working conditions through­out the whole economy. 
a strike reveals something fundamental about the world — that the working-class makes the wheels turn. we have lesson after lesson showing us that workers can run industry in the absence of owners: the syndicalist revolution in spain in the 1930s, mass factory take-overs in argentina, the mondragon corporation run co­operatively by its 74,000 employees. on the other hand, those whose only claim to wealth is an abstract concept of property ownership enforced by state power need the workers. without a host, the parasite withers. 
so if you make your living by capital ownership and in­vestment, disregard what i say. but if by the force of your brain and muscle you sell your labor for a wage, know where your interests lie. They may be waiters or steel­workers or physicians, but when union members are on strike, know that they are fighting for you too. when you see them, remember — never cross a picket line. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all com­ments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
give ‘merica a chance 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

my friend told me she wanted to date a lum­berjack. she wanted a country-loving, plaid-clad minnesotan; extra points for notre dame grads with banjos. 
anyway, i became friends with this girl be­cause i knew we’d never fight over boys. i didn’t like all-americans who chewed grass and played bluegrass. i didn’t even like america. 
see, before i spent the summer abroad, i hated on america. i wasn’t outright mean to america (remember: i am a girl.) instead, i talked behind america’s back, calling her fat, uncultured and hypocritical. 
when america invited me shopping with labor day sales, i would condescendingly suggest she try on a bigger pair of jeans. she had just eaten at mcdonalds, after all. 
when america tried to pronounce French, russian or chinese, i sniggered. she couldn’t even get a british accent right. 
when she went all #earthdaybirthday, i was pretty skeptical. sure, she celebrated earth day by biking to school, but she celebrated every oth­er day by blasting ac in her range rover. 
Then i spent six weeks in France and realized america was pretty awesome. as a hostess, she cared for her residents and visitors. she had toi­lets of a reasonable size and didn’t charge people to use them. she had amazing contraptions called water fountains for hot and thirsty tour­ists. her public transportation staff didn’t go on strike every other week. 
i started wondering why i wasn’t a fan of america. i tried to remember the most ‘merica thing i had done in my life, which was going to a red sox game in my youth. actually, it was two years ago, but i’d like to pretend it was longer ago, since i embarrassed myself by cheering for elderberry instead of ellsbury. it’s more accept­able to make those mistakes as an eight-year-old in pigtails. 
anyway, even though i attended this very ‘merica event, i failed to be a true american. i didn’t get choked up while singing the national anthem. i sang it loudly and obnoxiously because i wanted to improvise a harmony part. i decided i wouldn’t try out for american idol. 
i had a better chance of getting on Tv if i looked particularly patriotic, so i put my hand over my heart when everyone else did. i was dripping in fake devotion. i didn’t feel warm and fuzzy inside while thinking about those ram­parts “we” watched. did i watch them? i don’t remember doing so. 
i don’t even remember watching the state of the union. i do remember being upset that The bachelorette was cancelled. 
in sum, i realized i was a pretty bad citizen. plato would not have approved of my priorities. 
i felt bad about judging america so quickly, and i didn’t want plato to disapprove of me, even if he was dead. i decided i should give america an­other chance. 
i started thinking about all america had to of­fer. she let me say and write whatever i wanted, for better or for worse. she tried to make sure everyone had an education, a house and enough to eat. she didn’t always succeed, but it at least she cared. 
she was a touch schizophrenic, for she had two main voices in her head that always bickered. her two sides rarely compromised, so sometimes she would lie paralyzed, unable to make a deci­sion and act. once for a month or so, she simply shut down. she was criticized a lot in the press for that. 
i wish america would say what she really meant instead of circumventing controversial topics. i understand she doesn’t want to offend anyone, but when she talks she sounds as if she’s reciting empty words someone else told her to say. 
america has some nice features, but she often covers them up with expensive treatments. i love her natural look, but there are only a few inches of her body she hasn’t waxed, exfoliated or coat­ed in powder. i prefer fresh air to her perfume and i wish she would lay off the nose jobs; it seems she’s always under construction. however, she claims the “improvements” are necessary and will be better in the long run. 
america is just a person, though, and i can’t expect her to be perfect. she couldn’t compete against those other people like France and the netherlands whom i had never encountered. They seemed wonderful from afar, because i couldn’t see their flaws. once i met them, though, i realized they had problems, too. 
i have returned to america more open to friendship than i was before. now, i understand why my friend is into american lumberjacks rather than moody european smokers. we won’t fight over anyone as long as we remember: ladies before lumberjacks. 
even if we fight, we will still agree on one thing: Those amber waves of grain make for some great Quaker oats. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering, because who doesn’t want to design kayaks? She is a PE Pyro. Do not give her a picture to burn. Send her comments, questions about her sanity and applications to date her lumberjack-loving friend at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The constant free flow of communication among us — enabling the free interchange of ideas — forms the very bloodstream of our nation. it keeps the mind and body of our democracy eternally vital, eternally young.” 
american statesman and political leader 32nd president of the united states 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

Thom yorke is kind of old. it’s not so much a matter of years as it is records, concerts, interviews and general fan-worship; the man has helped craft more than his fair share of brilliant lps and singles with and without his legendary band radiohead. yorke’s versatility as a song­writer and singer has allowed him to create and traverse massive emotional rollercoasters within his records. alternatively snarling, gentle, fearful and seductive, yorke’s vocals have allowed his group and solo acts to re­main enthralling as vehicles for both social commentary and heart-rending catharsis. 
after so many years of impassioned creation, the art­ist seems to be loosening his grip on calculated great­ness. The relatively restrained nature of radiohead’s most recent record “The king of limbs” and yorke’s side project “atoms For peace” seem rather separate from the heavy grunge and post-rock of his earlier work.  while “ok computer”and “kid a” are nothing short of modern opuses, “The king of limbs”and “amok” fall closer to pol­ished personal compositions. 
it’s hardly surprising, then, that yorke’s newest re­cord comes across as a rather casual affair. essentially a mix of shuttering beats, Thom’s floating vocal melodies and warm atmospheric synths, “Tomorrow’s modern boxes” doesn’t bring anything unfamiliar or surprising to the table. with the exception of “The mother lode,” the eight tracks that make up the record fall closer to loop 
Alexandra Lowery 
scene writer 

a few weeks ago i read a quote that was truly life changing — “girls don’t like boys. girls like cake and modern day adaptations of classic literature in the form of vlogs.” 
because, yes, boys are cute, but i have yet to find one that causes me to scream internally at my computer screen like my favorite web series do. also, cake. 
For the last calendar year, i’ve left my netflix and hulu accounts to collect proverbial internet dust as i dedicat­ed my superior “fangirl” skills on the current craze that is transforming famous novels and plays into youTube “vlogseries.” 
on april 9, 2012, the landscape of multimedia enter­tainment changed forever when “The lizzie bennet diaries,” a modern day adaptation of Jane austen’s “pride and prejudice,” dropped its first episode onto the vlogosphere. 
creators hank green (brother to John green, author of “The Fault in our stars”) and bernie su honed in on the surprisingly large group of teens to young adults that shared a love for both classic literature and social media. The visionaries gave this clique what they never knew they were missing: lizzie bennet with a youTube channel. 
conglomerations than actual songs. a host of wandering vocal melodies and pleasant knob-twiddling keeps the record from feeling irritatingly repetitive. also, the warm production on “boxes” finds yorke falling closer to his contemporaries than ever before. ditching ultra-clean, sculpted sound crafted on releases like “in rainbows” and “amok,” yorke is finally able to strike territory closer to the idm influences he constantly cites in interviews. 
while “Tomorrow’s modern boxes” boasts an increas­ingly ‘modern’ sound, it’s still hugely reliant on yorke’s distinctive voice. his unique vocal melodies and style are the only factors that separate “boxes” from a set of b-sides or drafts from high-caliber artists like oneohtrix point never and burial. lacking enthralling shifts in direction, sound and dynamics, the instrumentals on the record rarely reach beyond the category of the elec­tronic ‘beat.’ yorke isn’t creating anything complex or ambitious at this point; the small changes that occur over the course of “boxes” tracks may be somewhat un­predictable but are never drastic or altogether attention-grabbing. it’s not simply a question of immediacy either. There is no hidden message, no slowly-revealed dynamic that makes “boxes” anything more than it is at face value. it’s Thom yorke singing over a dJ set crafted from original loops and effects. 
To his credit, Thom’s strengths as a vocalist and song­writers sometimes crack through the unexciting surface. The previously mentioned track “The mother lode” boasts the record’s most engaging groove as well as its most dynamic song structure. The track operates on a 
in an interview with “The stylish,” ashley clements, who played title role lizzie bennet, commented on the seemingly overnight success of such an experimental entertainment format, saying “it harnesses this other power and has this interactive-ness built into it.” 
not only do we get 21st century lizzie bennet vlog­ging in her room, but we can follow her on Twitter and Tumblr and interact with her, her sisters and the swoon-worthy darcy, thus creating an online presence for char­acters that were previously only alive in a 200-year-old story. 
The age of fictional transmedia vlogseries has since commenced with dozens of adaptations subsequently popping up all over youTube, honoring not just austen, but shakespeare and shelley alike. 
“nothing much To do,” the cleverly titled new Zealand web series based on shakespeare’s “much ado about nothing,” brings even more innovation to the already inventive entertainment platform with its use of multiple youTube channels to portray an array of char­acter points of view. 
probably the most believable series among others in its genre, “nothing much To do” excels in adapting shakespeare’s famed soliloquys into short vlog episodes while constantly modernizing the outdated, albeit hi­larious, source material. 
“Frankenstein m.d.,” created by much of the same team that pioneered “The lizzie bennet diaries,” simultaneously calming and danceable rhythmic back­bone formed by gorgeous percussive piano, drum and vocal samples. it also noticeably shifts through several chord progressions which allow yorke to realize several of the record’s most memorable vocal melodies. “Truth ray” and “nose grows some” similarly shine due to their melodic compatibility with yorke’s vocals. 
if nothing else, “Tomorrow’s modern boxes”is ines­capably a Thom yorke record, one that allows his physi­cal and artistic voice to shine through. however, it’s still clear that yorke is still finding his footing as a songwriter and producer in a genre which seems to undergo revo­lutionary changes every year. “boxes” finds yorke strug­gling to become a force within the genre he’s chosen to adopt. Thankfully, he’s already proven himself more than equipped to make that struggle worthwhile. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“ Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes” 
Thom Yorke 
Label: XL Recordings Tracks: “The Mother Lode” If you like: Oneohtrix Point Never, Burial 

crosses even more boundaries, familiarizing the com­plex characters and situations of mary shelley’s master­piece “Frankenstein” into a modern setting. 
The obsessive dr. victor Frankenstein has become victoria, a md-phd student who is trying to navigate among the male-dominated sTem field of study she is so passionate about. The groundbreaking genre contin­ues to grow with this adaptation, the creative team part­nering with pbs digital studios to bring an educational aspect to the web series through victoria’s scientific, and somewhat dangerous, experiments. 
vlogseries allow for a space where projects and groups that would otherwise go unnoticed or even unmade can be brought to fruition. with a camera, a few people, adaptable basis material and a room, pretty much any­one has the ability to create another “lizzie bennet” sensation. 
but if producing a vlogseries isn’t in the cards for you, watching some should be. whether you love classic literature and want to obsess over a new way to experi­ence it, or you hate it and discover that watching lizzie bennet tell you about her life is far more interesting than reading about it for that english seminar, vlogseries are definitely a movement worth tuning in on. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at  alowery1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

even though scene keeps loading you up with the “weekly watch” and polishing new gems like “gotham,” don’t forget to catch up with currently running favorites. here are a few selects by scene staff for shows returning in the fall, although we can’t take any responsibility for side-effects of binge-watching. 
“American Horror Story” 
By MADDIE DALY 

as the leaves are changing and the weather cools down (or magically stays the same if you’re in south bend like us), fall sets in which can only mean one thing: halloween. similarly, it’s the month of the premier of the fourth season of one of my favorite shows, “american horror story.” 
This show is intriguing in that each season has its own cast of characters (with several overlaps) living in dif­ferent eras in various clichéd horror settings, such as a haunted house and an insane asylum. 
The seasons don’t end with cliff-hangers, leaving viewers waiting anxiously for the next season, but rather they wrap up each story, leaving the audience analyzing what they just saw and craving more of the creepy and twisted plot lines.  Fans everywhere were excited, and slightly terrified, to find out that the next season would take place in a 50s style “freak show.” 
“ahs” season 4 premieres oct. 8 on FX. 
“Brooklyn Nine-Nine” 
By MATT McMAHON 

last year, “brooklyn nine-nine” premiered to criti­cal acclaim, winning a golden globe for best comedy series and beating out usual favorites “modern Family” 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

Theatrically-inclined notre dame students have ample opportunity to show off their performance skills in various shows and events throughout the year. The department of Film, Television and Theatre’s nd Theatre now! program provides student playwrights the same opportunity to showcase their creative written work. 
This year, the nd Theatre now! program showcases two one-act plays by notre dame seniors. both plays contribute to the ongoing campus discussion around sexuality by exploring the effects of coming out. 
The show features “out of orbit” by senior lucas garcia and “beneath my skin” by senior Zachary wendelin. The two plays will show each night of performance. 
“out of orbit,” directed by anthony murphy, centers around a college senior, Joseph (eric wags), who brings his boyfriend, anthony (anthony murphy), home for the weekend. a press release on the play said this propels and “The big bang Theory.” The series balanced the tricky sitcom setting of a police precinct with a stellar, diverse ensemble cast, never taking itself too seriously, while maintaining the earnest heart of a michael schur (“The office,” “parks and recreation”) created project. perfectly utilizing the naturally silly andy samberg, who won a golden globe of his own for his lead role on the show, “brooklyn nine-nine” features some of the most unbridled fun from a sitcom currently airing on televi­sion. season 2 of “brooklyn nine-nine” began on Fox this sunday, and airs weekly at 8:30 p.m. 
“Bob’s Burgers” 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 

after watching every episode available on netflix at least two times each, i’m thrilled for the start of the fifth season of “bob’s burgers” this fall. set to premiere on oct. 5, the Fox animated sitcom will reunite everyone’s favorite family. The show has proved it can be consis­tently smart, absurd and absolutely hilarious all at once, and if the cast’s preview at comic-con this year was any suggestion, season 5 will be up to par. The upcoming season is rumored to include Tina falling in love with a ghost, bob’s dad and a musical episode — which, if past “bob’s burgers” musical productions are any indication, is going to be incredible. The only thing i’m worried about for season 5 is which character will be my favorite, since it’s just too hard to choose. 
“Homeland” 
By CAELIN MILTKO 

i’m most excited about “homeland” returning. i watched the entire last season over christmas break 
“his parents into new and unexpected territory.” 
“beneath my skin,” directed by Joey doyle, examines the 25-year long struggle a man has with his sexuality. Thomas (paul kuczynski) struggles with his attraction to his best friend, marshall, while at a catholic univer­sity. after he divorces his wife, Thomas is forced to re-confront this struggle when he returns home. 
The shows will take place in the regis philbin studio Theatre. according to the FTT website, “The philbin ‘black box’ theatre was designed to provide opportuni­ties for students to work on cutting-edge, avant-garde performance pieces and any kind of dramatic perfor­mance requiring minimal stage support.” 
nd Theatre now! aims to challenge student play­wrights, directors and actors to work creatively while us­ing what they have learned in their FTT classes. as such, these plays are always uniquely notre dame and offer a student’s perspective on life outside the bubble. 
“it’s always very exciting to see students develop new work,” kevin dreyer, notre dame’s director of theatre, said. “we’re deeply committed to providing a safe space last year with my mom, and anytime i reconsider what happened in the finale, my mind is kind of blown away. i can’t wait to see what they do to work around how they ended it (i can’t really say anything more specific with­out spoiling anything for those you who don’t watch the show). suffice to say, the end of last season was dramatic and i can’t wait to see how carrie works to pick up the pieces in the new season. season 4 will pick back up on showtime oct. 5 at 9 p.m. 
“The Legend of Korra” 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
Technology meets nature. ripped straight off some modern business’s latest advertisement, the statement perfectly describes the upcoming struggles in book Four of “The legend of korra,” titled “balance.” korra was left broken by her fight against the red lotus, and released clips showed her still recovering early on in the fourth installment. a fast-paced teaser showed techni­cal advances such as fully developed railway systems in republic city and winged suits for air benders, but also a return of the robot suits and taser gloves utilized by the equalists in book one. not only will korra have to struggle to overcome her personal health issues, but soon she will have to face the uprising led by a group of advanced metal benders. watch the avatar overcome her final struggle oct. 3 on nickelodeon. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu, Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu, Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu, Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu and Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
for them to explore ideas and develop their artistic voices.” 
The FTT press release highlighted how “this year, FTT student playwrights add their voices to the ongoing campus conversation about dignity and inclusion with two new one-act plays about the struggles, consequenc­es and rewards of coming out of the closet.” 
The shows mark the beginning of the FTT season. The next show opening will be in november with “six characters in search of an author” by luigi pirandello, which explores the interaction between drama and reality. 
There will be six performances of nd Theatre now! The first is oct. 2 at 7:30 p.m. There will also be 7:30 p.m. performances on oct. 3, oct. 7 and oct. 10. There will be two sunday performances, on oct. 5 and 12, at 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets are $7 for students, $12 for faculty/staff/senior (65+) and $15 for general admission. Tickets can be pur­chased online or at the dpac ticket office. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Looking for a West Coast Series 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 
at 162-game-season-long last, the calendar flips to october and the fresh air of the postseason breathes new life into baseball. 
if you’re like me, you’ve re­mained vaguely aware of base­ball’s existence, but you haven’t been able to convince yourself that it really matters until now. 
sure, i almost enjoyed the semi-drama of teams jockeying for playoff seeding and seeing the pirates, orioles and royals — es­pecially, the royals — make the playoffs was very nearly exciting. but now, now there is finally a sense of immediacy to it all. win and move on, lose and it’s over. 
Ten teams are in, and in about a month, it’ll just be one. each team has a shot, but everybody knows that. what nobody knows is who will be the one left at the end. 
That unknown is half the fun. The other half is pretending to know that unknown. it’s time for some playoff picks. i look forward to coming back at the end of the month and laughing at these. 
Pirates Over Giants 
This pick was probably my toughest one. on one hand, the giants seem to be on a nice run of winning championships every other year. i can see the giants crushing pittsburgh’s collective soul and making yet another postseason run. on the other hand, the pirates come into the playoffs on an 18-6 run and are 51-30 at home, tied for first in the league. neither of these teams has a dominant rotation, but this is just one game, and i think the pirates ride the hometown mo­mentum to the win. 
Dodgers over Cardinals 
Two of the best pitchers in the game. Two historic franchises. The cardinals are as consistent as they come and the dodgers are just as rich. i’ll admit, i re­ally want the dodgers to win. The cardinals just refuse to go away and keep coming back in seemingly more bland and yet successful ways. but i also genu­inely think the dodgers should get this one. clayton kershaw is just a little better than adam wainwright and the dodgers rotation as a whole is much better than the cardinals. 
Nationals over Pirates 
The nationals rotation is just too much here. stephen strasburg still throws nasty stuff. Jordan Zimmerman is coming off a no-hitter. doug Fister and gio gonzalez are better than anyone else’s number three and four starters. pittsburgh may be able to steal one at home, but the bucs don’t have enough firepower to get by the nats. 
Dodgers over Nationals 
i am so excited that we could see kershaw vs. strasburg and Zack greinke vs. Zimmerman. it should be a low-scoring series and it could easily go seven based on pitch­ing alone. plus, how great would it be to see yasiel puig and bryce harper share a field for seven games? pretty great. The dodgers will go to d.c. and take game seven from the nats. 
Athletics over Royals 
The a’s have everything to lose. The royals have nothing to lose. The a’s spent the summer putting the money in “moneyball” and nearly watched it all go to waste. The royals are just happy to be here. if they start fast against Jon lester they may have a chance, but i think the investment in lester pays off for the athletics and the royals’ taste of the playoffs is brief. 
Tigers over Orioles 
The orioles fought through injuries and a less-than-stellar rotation to an unexpectedly easy al east crown. The Tigers made another big trade and rode an incredible rotation to a tougher­than-expected al central crown. in the playoffs, it’s tough to beat pitching like the Tigers have. max scherzer, david price and Justin verlander will get the Tigers by the o’s. 
Athletics Over Angels 
The angels took seven of the last eight games from the a’s in the regular season, but i just don’t think Jared weaver will be enough for the angels. when michael shoemaker is your second best starter, its tough to win a series. mike Trout and albert pujols are great, but lester and sonny gray will shut them down. 
Athletics Over Tigers 
These two squared off at the trade deadline and they’ll square off in seven games here. it will be tight, but the Tigers have won these teams’ last two series and the a’s finally get them here. billy beane finally gets his team to the world series. 
Dodgers over Athletics 
pitching wins. The dodgers have the best pitching. it seems that simple here. The dodgers have the game’s best pitcher and a spectacular cast around him on the mound and at the plate. The a’s will keep the games close, but they will come up short. clayton kershaw wins game 1 and clinch­es the title with a win in game 5. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NASCAR 

Stewart speaks out, says he will not retire from racing 
Associated Press 

kannapolis, n.c. Tony stewart said monday he never considered retiring from rac­ing following the death of kevin ward Jr. 
The three-time nascar champion talked with report­ers monday at his first news conference since a grand jury decided last week not to charge him in ward’s death. The 20-year-old driver was struck and killed by stewart’s car during a sprint car race in upstate new york on aug. 9. 
“This is what i’ve done all my life. This is what i’ve done for 36 years, and i wouldn’t change anything about it,” he said. “i love what i do. i love driving race cars, but i think it might change right now as far as how much of it and what i do, but there was never a thought in my head about stopping. That would take the life out of me.” 
stewart took 29 questions over 36 minutes at stewart­haas racing, but did not dis­cuss what he remembers about the incident that killed ward. he has been advised by legal counsel not to discuss it be­cause he still could face a civil lawsuit from ward’s family. 
he admitted he’s not been properly engaged with the four-car race team he co-owns. he missed three races fol­lowing ward’s death as he se­cluded himself at his indiana home, but has been back since the aug. 31 race at atlanta. 
The 43-year-old stewart didn’t earn a berth in the chase for the sprint cup championship, but teammates kevin harvick and kurt busch both made the 16-driver field. busch was eliminated sunday at dover. 
stewart, who barely watched the three races he missed, said he has not been the leader he’d like to be for his team. 
“i’ve let my team down from that standpoint. i’ve been a little bit of a cheerleader, but that’s about all i’ve been able to contribute here the last sev­en weeks,” he said. “it’s been hard for me to function day­to-day. There hasn’t been any­thing normal about my life the last seven weeks, so it’s been very hard to try to do anything to be productive to help those guys.” 
stewart has also been absent from the sprint car teams he owns via Tony stewart racing, and from the three race tracks he owns. he has watched his drivers compete online and watched several nights of rac­ing at eldora speedway on his computer, but has not been a part of any of his businesses. 
he was appreciative of the support he’s received from sponsors, particularly mobil 1, bass pro shops and rush Truck centers, but acknowl­edged it’s been difficult on the companies. stewart also missed the final 15 races of the 2013 season with a broken leg suffered in a sprint car crash last august. 
“it’s obviously a tough cir­cumstance for anybody to be a part of it, for a corporation to be part of it as well, but they’ve been very supportive through this whole process,” he said. “i can’t speak to what the fu­ture will be for them. They’ve been supportive to this point and that’s something i’ve been very grateful for.” 
stewart has been receiving professional help to cope with ward’s death. asked monday if he could go back and change anything about the last seven weeks, stewart said he would not have gone to canandaigua motorsports park for what turned into a tragic sprint car race. 
“i’d have stayed at watkins glen that night,” he said. “you know, i do this stuff and i go run those cars to have a good time and that’s all i wanted to do that night. i wanted to go have fun. it wasn’t a big paying race for sprint car standards. i just wanted to go run my sprint car for a night. i do it to have fun, and it didn’t end up being fun that night.” 
stewart told The associated press last week that he had lost his desire to race sprint cars and he repeated that monday. 
“when i got hurt, it was as soon as i got healed, and as soon as things got settled in with the cup car i was set that i was wanting to get in one,” he said, “but right now, i wouldn’t even be able to give you a small idea of if and when i’ll ever get back in a car.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

indiana looks for answers 
Associated Press 

bloomingTon, ind. — as quickly as a road win over a ranked missouri team gave the indiana faithful hope, a blow­out loss at home to unranked maryland left the realization that the hoosiers still lack the consis­tency needed to compete every week in the big Ten. 
now, coach kevin wilson and his team find themselves in a fa­miliar situation, 2-2 through four games for the third consecutive year. with a tough conference schedule on the horizon, every loss takes indiana one-step fur­ther away from making their first bowl appearance in wilson’s tenure. 
“That’s what separates the re­ally strong players and the really strong teams from the guys who aren’t — consistency,” wilson said monday. “we said back in preseason we want competition and consistency, and i’ve seen some solid things in practice, but you have to transfer it to the game.” 
along with being inconsistent on the scoreboard, going win-loss, win-loss, to start the season for the second year in a row, indiana has been unpredictable on both sides of the ball. 
defensively, wilson and his staff have stressed the need for their team to be aggressive. but a week after controlling the line of scrimmage against missouri, indiana was dominated and gave up 484 yards of total offense to maryland. 
on offense, indiana’s passing attack accounted for just 126 yards on 37 attempts. Quarterback nate sudfeld completed just 38 percent of his passes, including an inter­ception and no touchdowns. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
And love is not the easy thing / The 
FOR RENT 

only baggage / That you can bring / 
STANFORD -FOOTBALL And love is not the easy thing / The RENTAL: Close to campus/ only baggage you can bring / Is all Eddy Street - prime location. that you can’t leave behind / And if the Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net darkness is to keep us apart / And if the daylight feels like it’s a long way off / And if your glass heart should crack / And for a second you turn back / Oh no, be strong / Walk on / Walk on / What you got, they can’t steal it / No they can’t even feel it 


SMC GOLF 

Belles card best round of season, move into second 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
after their second miaa jam­boree at alma on saturday, the belles stand in second place in conference standings, 14 strokes behind hope. 
saint mary’s finished with a team score of 324, which was their best score of the season, but it was not enough to beat out hope, who was ahead by six strokes. belles coach kim moore attributed the belles’ early success to their play in non-conference tournaments at the beginning of the season. 
“we are a very young team, and playing in our previous events gave a lot of our young players the experience and confidence they need to understand the difference between high school and college golf,” moore said. “every time we get an opportunity to play, the more experience we get.” 
leading the way for saint mary’s was sophomore courtney carlson, who shot a 78 on the day at pine river country club in alma, michigan, tying for sec­ond individually. sophomore ali mahoney followed as the second-best performance for the belles, turning in a score of 79 for a fourth-place tie. 

moore also said freshman kaitlyn cartone stood out, finish­ing with a score of 82 and seventh place individually. moore has praised cartone from the start of the season for her progress throughout the year. 
“kaitlyn cartone has been a great contributor these last few rounds,” moore said. “i knew from the very beginning she had all the skills to be helpful to this team. i contribute her great play to her wonderful attitude and willing­ness to practice hard day in and day out. she is always eager to learn and get better. her work ethic is something i want all of my current players and future players to emulate. i am really looking for­ward to seeing all of the hardware coming her way.” 
senior Janice heffernan and freshman kelsey conkright were the last two eligible saint mary’s golfers, ending the day with scores of 85 and 96, respectively. Junior kate Zielinski competed as an individual on the day, finishing with a score of 92 and tying for 33rd place. 
The belles travel to hope today to compete in their third miaa jamboree of the season. The last time it played in a competition hosted by hope, saint mary’s fin­ished in second place at the 2012 miaa end of season weekend Jamboree. 
“going into the next jamboree at The ravines, which is a very dif­ficult course, i want my team to take one hole at a time and be pa­tient,” moore said. “The ravines is a course where par and/or bogey can be a good score. our team goal is to continue playing smart and to not make the big mistakes. if we do that, then i’m extremely confident that the last half of the conference jamborees will be a great battle.” 
The belles look to take sole pos­session of first place in the miaa standings, teeing off today at 1 
p.m. at The ravines golf course in saugatuck, michigan. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER | oliveT 2, smc 1 
smc falls to olivet 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
after suffering a loss in over­time to albion on wednesday, saint mary’s could not recover against olivet, losing in a 2-1 contest against the comets on saturday afternoon. 
after giving up a goal to the comets five minutes into the first half, the belles (3-7, 1-5 miaa) quickly rallied and tied the game up 1-1, with junior midfielder maggie mclaughlin scoring a goal off of a set piece just three minutes later. 
Junior midfielder kathryn lueking, senior defender abby garcia and mclaughlin all add­ed shots on goal near the end of the half, but olivet junior goal­keeper deanna Zolnoski denied each of the shots for the comets. 
opening up the second half, olivet put three shots on goal in the opening fourteen minutes of action, but saint mary’s senior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum saved all of them. 
The game remained tied un­til late in the second half, when olivet put a shot off the crossbar, collected the rebound and forced rosenbaum to deflect the ball out-of-bounds. on the following corner kick, the comets broke through to take the 2-1 lead. 
olivet had a 13-9 advantage in shots with an 8-6 edge in shots on goal. rosenbaum made six saves in goal for the belles. 
“we gave up two goals on crosses. we’ll just have to be better clearing those out and not giving up good looks at our goal from crosses,” belles coach michael Joyce said. “we’ve fo­cused on our play off crosses, both offensively and defensively, in practice, so hopefully we’ll be up for it in our next matchup. 
“our biggest challenge for wednesday is putting in the ef­fort and intensity to win. we’ve lost a couple of close games, and it can be hard picking yourself up and fighting again when you haven’t seen results, but these losses also serve as motivation for us to come out strong and win.” 
The belles hope to break their losing streak when they travel to adrian on Tuesday to take on the bulldogs in a conference match-up at 7 p.m. 7 p.m. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
Fredericka also played for his bracket’s singles title sunday but lost to western michigan sopho­more matt hamilton, 6-4, 2-6, 6-2. covalschi and junior alex lawson won both of their matches in the consolation bracket. senior billy pecor went 1-2 on the weekend, los­ing his lone match sunday. 
“The overall team play at vredevelt was lower than we would have like it to be,” barnard said. “nevertheless, we took each round as an opportunity to con­tinue building confidence in our patterns. obviously you would like everyone to begin the tourna­ment playing their best tennis and continue performing at a high level throughout. we didn’t come out playing our best but responded in the succeeding rounds by focusing on individual areas in our game that needed improvement.” 
Four irish players also saw action at the crimson Tide Four-in-the-Fall in Tuscaloosa. Juniors eric schnurrenberger and nicolas montoya led notre dame and advanced to the quar­terfinals, where they both lost. schnurrenberger finished seventh at the tournament while montoya took in sixth. irish freshmen drew dawson and brendon kempin fin­ished 1-2 and 1-3 on the weekend, respectively. 
competing on his own, irish ju­nior kenneth sabacinski traveled to Tulsa on saturday to compete in the iTa all-american championships pre-Qualifier. in his first matchup, sabacinski defeated indiana ju­nior chris essick in three sets, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. in his second match of the day, sabacinski was not able to ad­vance past penn state sophomore alex Fennell. in another three-set match, sabacinski lost, 5-7, 6-4, 4-6. 
notre dame’s next challenge takes place when it competes in the midwest regional championships in ann arbor, michigan, on oct. 16. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles place fifth at MIAA Jamboree 

By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s took home a fifth-place finish at the miaa Jamboree on saturday, the first of two events when all of the confer­ence’s members will get together this season. 
The belles were led by freshman natalie hawkes and sophomore brittany beeler who finished 18th and 20th, respectively, and both completed the six-kilometer race in under 25 minutes — 24:43 and 24:57, respectively. The two were followed across the line by sophomore kaitlyn alessi, fresh­man reilly pieri and junior allie danhof, who were all among the top-30 finishers at the meet. belles coach Jackie bauters said she was pleased with her pack of runners this weekend. 
“our core pack was closer to­gether and further up and closer to our pair [hawkes and beeler] that got free this week, which was good to see,” bauters said. 
saint mary’s was just four points behind alma for fourth-place at the meet. alma was led by sophomore kaitlyn arnold, who finished fifth, and senior misty godley, who crossed the line in 12th, but did not place its fifth scoring runner inside the top 40. with such a small gap between the teams, bauters said she believes the belles can chase down alma on nov. 1 at the miaa conference meet for fourth place. 
“i think we could’ve had those four points [to make up the gap on alma] on saturday, and i think the work is there,” bauters said. “obviously i hope that we’re much better on nov. 1, but i think the work was there to beat alma this past weekend and unfortunately, it didn’t happen. That was disappointing for all of us.” 
in order to make up that gap, bauters targeted her team’s race strategy as a spot for improvement. 
“it’s all about working out the kinks on the race strategy,” bauters said. “we have to make sure the middle portion of our race doesn’t get the best of us and need to focus on racing the com­petition a little bit more because i think we can.” 
The belles were led across the line by youth — six of the seven runners that factored into the team result saturday are either freshmen or sophomores — and bauters said she thinks her team should improve at the six-kilome­ter distance as the year goes on. 
“we’re very young and have a lot of talent,” bauters said. “This was the first six kilometer for any of my first-years in their life, so while it’s not totally different than a five kilometer, it’s something different to experience. i think by the end of the season they’ll feel a little more confident in racing the distance.” 
while saint mary’s will look to build as the year goes on, it will have the opportunity to grow fur­ther down the road as well. 
“we’ve got a great group to work off of the next couple years,” bauters said. “it’s exciting to have a first-year [in hawkes] feeling confident enough to take the race and everything else.” 
The belles are off this week­end and run next in lisle, illinois, at the benedictine eagle invitational on oct. 10. 
Contact Alex Carson at              acarson1@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL | pasQuerilla easT 21, howard 19 
PE comeback capped by late Gooding TD grab 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

under a blazing afternoon sun, the pyros felt the heat un­til the closing seconds of their match with the ducks. 
pasquerilla east (3-0) capped off a miraculous two-minute drill with a touchdown in its 21-19 come-from-behind victory over howard (1-2). 
pyro captains macy mulhall, senior quarterback, and noelle gooding, sophomore receiver, connected for passing touch­downs on three separate oc­casions in the game, including the 15-yard score with just five seconds left on the clock that gave them the lead and the win. 
“we definitely learned a les­son on how to play when we’re not on top of our game, so we got our momentum back,” gooding said. 
a change in mentality was a major factor in the pyros’ rally at the end of the game, mulhall said. 
“Toward the end, the key to our success today is that we decided to have fun out there,” mulhall said. “we got a little too serious, then we just decid­ed to take a deep breath, smile a little, and it really helped us a lot out there.” 
The ducks came close to defeating the undefeated pyros, climbing out of an early 14-point deficit to take the lead in the fourth quarter. however, the talent and on the pasquerilla east sideline al­lowed the pyros to come out on top. 
“our defense really shined throughout the game,” claire kozlowski, senior captain and defensive back for howard, said. “we never gave up. To start the second half, [junior] stephanie peterson had a great interception, and then right after that we scored a touch­down, [we] just really got some momentum going. you know, that really kept us in it.” 
other highlights from the ducks included some huge plays by junior wide receiv­er maria ianni, including a 40-yard reception late in the fourth quarter that gave her team its first lead of the game. 
“we have a really young team this year,” kozlowski said. “a lot of freshmen [and] sophomores are stepping up, so i think that’s really great. we’re doing good, we haven’t hit our peak yet. we’re going to keep working. i think you’re going to see more of us, and see some good things as the season goes on.” 
The pyros, meanwhile, ex­pect to see even more suc­cess as the season wears on, according to mulhall. when asked what she expects from her team for the rest of the season, mulhall simply said, “win.” 
howard will look to rebound from the heartbreaking loss when they square off against breen-phillips on monday at 10 p.m., at riehle Fields. pasquerilla east will savor the win during their off-week before an important matchup against ryan next sunday at 4 p.m., at labar practice complex. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

MEN’S INTERHALL | sorin 8, carroll 0 
sorin edges carroll in defensive season opener 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 

sorin opened its season with a 8-0 win against carroll in a defensive slugfest sunday afternoon. 
The otters (1-0) scored on a 20-yard touchdown pass from junior quarterback John pearl to freshman receiver charles edwards during the second quarter and converted the two-point conversion for the game’s only score. pearl completed four passes on seven attempts for 80 yards and one touchdown while sophomore running back abd­eljaami madina rushed for 18 yards on eight rushing attempts. 
“our defense was phenom­enal,” pearl said. “They were out there for the first 13 minutes of the second half and just shut carroll down.” 
The vermin (1-1) had the ball inside the sorin 10-yard line with under two minutes left to play when the sorin defense forced a fumble and recovered to seal the win. 
“it was a hard-fought game against a great carroll team,” pearl said. “They really showed up to play, but we got a few balls that bounced our way and it worked out for the best for us.” 
carroll freshman quarter­back Tyler Troxell completed five passes on 10 attempts for 46 yards and sophomore running back bailey ross ran for 94 yards on 17 attempts. 
“defensively, i think we had a good game,” carroll sophomore captain and receiver Zachary dodd said. “we let up one big play.” 
carroll had many scoring opportunities squandered by penalties. 
“we need to improve our men­tal part of the game,” dodd said. “we’ve got to come back next week, practice hard, eliminate mental mistakes and go out and beat Zahm.” 
sorin is in action again next sunday when it takes on st. edward’s, while carroll will look to rebound against Zahm. both games kick of at 3:30 p.m. at the riehle Fields. 
Contact Michael Ivey at       mivey@hcc-nd.edu 


Football together throughout the season.” up offensively,” kelly said. kelly also discussed the im-sophomore will Fuller leads 
conTinued From page 16 

provements made by notre the irish receivers with five enjoy winning, it doesn’t mean dame’s receivers. touchdowns and 344 yards as much,” kelly said. “Then we sophomore receiver Torii this season. sophomore corey get to the heart of it is that you hunter Jr., playing in place of robinson, carlisle, junior chris can’t win consistently by turning injured senior receiver amir brown and junior c.J. prosise the football over. you can’t win carlisle, saw his first game ac-comprise the rest of the receiv­consistently if you don’t com-tion for the irish. he had a touch-ing corps, a unit kelly said has pete for the ball in the air. and we down reception and 13 receiving made great strides this season, know that.” yards. particularly the younger players. 
although the game did not go “he’s a guy that we think we “we’re starting to develop smoothly, kelly noted several can run the ball with at the re-some real pieces within that positive developments, includ-ceiver position,” kelly said of wide receiver corps that we ing the reshuffled offensive line, hunter. “he’s a physical kid. we can develop because these are which settled down after allow-just think he’s got an all-around all new guys for us,” kelly said. ing a sack. skill set. … he’s going to take “They’re going to be around for 
“by and large, a good first start some reps off other guys and a while. These are guys that are from that group, did some good keep them fresh, so we’re excited underclassmen. so we’re start-things,” kelly said. “but it’s going about him.” ing to develop some consistency to be a process for us. look, we carlisle should return this with that group.” [made changes] because we felt week. kelly said the increased like it was an area that allowed us number of receiving options will Heisman talk to grow, and so i think that what help round out the irish offense. kelly spoke about how golson we saw in the first game together “it’ll really bolster that receiv-has handled hints of heisman was that it validated the fact that ing corps and keep them fresh buzz. this group will be able to grow and allow us to really amp things “The real challenge is looking 
at what you do on a day-to-day basis and how he can really hone in on [his] craft,” kelly said. “… if you do that and you’re grounded truly in that, then all that other stuff is fine. but if you’re affected by all the talk, then that’s where you have an issue. so far i haven’t seen that with everett. he looks at things critically and wants to get better every day.” 

The team’s depth will not Soccer only be tested this week, but 
conTinued From page 16 
Looking ahead 

for most of the irish’s remain-sophomore running back 
ing schedule. notre dame Tarean Folston took a hard hit 
non-conference schedule. of will play a weekday night against the orange (2-2) but 
their nine games so far, four game every week for the rest returned the game. he’ll be 
have been against teams in-of the regular season, facing ready to go against stanford on 
side the top 15, including a non-conference opponents saturday, kelly said. 
2-1 overtime upset of no. 11 michigan, northwestern, “he got hit in the sternum and 
georgetown on the road. indiana and michigan state had a bruised sternum but was 
“This is a real good team,” after this week’s tilt against cleared to go back in the game,” 
clark said. “They narrowly vcu. kelly said of Folston. “we don’t 
lost to [north carolina]. i’ve “i think we realize we’ll have anybody that showed up 
watched the tape of that game. need to use our squad a little on the injury report that would 
They played very well. and more fully than we have done be affected for stanford.” 
they again narrowly lost 1-0 with a game every weekend,” at virginia. … They’ve played clark said. “you don’t need a 
Contact Samantha Zuba at 

an unbelievable schedule.” lot of subs, but i think you’ve 
szuba@nd.edu 

in addition to the definitely have got to look at georgetown, north carolina some different options in the and virginia games, vcu re-weeks ahead.” cently finished play in the despite this, clark said the 
Hockey 

new mexico invitational, team cannot afford to look 
conTinued From page 16 

where they lost to the fourth-past vcu or let their guard said. “we can certainly anticipate 
ranked lobos, 2-0, with the down Tuesday night. which guys might be able to step 
second goal coming in the “we’ve got to come out and in and be able to play more sig­
75th minute. play. you’ve got to handle a nificant minutes, maybe special 
“They’ll be a handful,” very talented team,” clark teams minutes. They’re gonna 
clark said. “[They’re] very said. “This is our home field have to for the most part because 
athletic, talented. This will and although the home field there is so many of them. all the 
not be an easy game. but i doesn’t win you games, this is freshmen are capable. some are 
think that’s the test. none where we’ve got to feel com-projected to be more projects, but 
of our mid-week games are fortable, where we can really we have high expectations for two 
[easy] … i would rather try play. and it’d be good to get or three of the forwards and two 
and play vcu, indiana and a little run going. we haven’t or three of the defensemen to step 
northwestern. and i think really put a lot of consecutive in and contribute right away in 
our boys look forward to wins together.” key situations.” 
these games.” clark also said the key to similar to the large incoming 
while he prefers to keep the the game would be focusing class four years ago, 10 fresh-
same players in his lineup, on the basics. men began classes and work-
the shorter period of time be-“i think the most important outs over the summer in order 
tween the two games and a thing is, i always say this, to prepare for the upcoming sea-chemistry that we rely upon to be wing sam herr and senior right 
Friday acc matchup against ‘can we play well?’” clark son as members of the program. successful. but on the other side wing peter schneider will take on 
boston college may force the said. “if we play well, we’ve Jackson said the experience four of that, that group was energetic. the roles of alternate captains. 
coaching staff to go deeper got a fair chance of getting a years ago informed him of what That was actually one of our more The irish kick off their season 
into their bench, clark said. ‘w.’ … we’ve got to be ready he may expect from this group. fun years, as coaches. There was in an exhibition game against 
“obviously, we’ve got to try for the game.” “reflecting back on that time, so much enthusiasm and energy waterloo on sunday at 5:05 p.m. 
and extend our squad a little The irish host the rams obviously it is a different group of from the young guys because and begin their regular against 
bit. That’s something we’ve on Tuesday night at alumni kids, so you’re never sure if it’s go-they invigorated us as coaches rensselaer in the ice breaker 
got to do,” clark said. “but stadium, with the opening ing to be similar or not,” Jackson and the upperclassmen.” Tournament, starting oct. 10. 
you can only extend a squad kick set for 7:30 p.m. said, “but it took a little bit longer The large freshman class will 
with the players that get op-from an adjustment standpoint be captained by junior center Contact Issac Lorton at           
portunities, step up and take Contact Zach Klonsinski at early on in the year to get that stephen Fogarty, while junior left ilorton@nd.edu 
them.” zklonsin@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: communication, education and transportation are highlighted. Trips that encourage learning or adventure will spark your imagination, but being realistic about the choices you make will be the determining factor when it comes to getting the results you want. don’t let uncertainty cloud your vision or slow you down. putting the pieces of your life puzzle together should not be too complicated. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 23, 29, 36, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): communication will lead to solutions, earning more money or developing a closer bond to someone you have a future with. Travel plans can be made, but be reasonable regarding your destination. a safe, secure location is essential. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a fast-talker will try to get between you and your cash. refrain from taking on any more responsibilities until you take care of the ones you already have. picking up knowledge or taking short and informative trips is advised. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): emotional matters will surface. stick to the truth even if it causes a scene. express your opinions so you can move on without delay or regret. greater opportunities await you. love is highlighted. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Troubles at home are best avoided if possible. wait for a better time to find workable solutions. put your energy into expanding your horizons, making new contacts and sharing your thoughts with like-minded people. Trust your intuition. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get out and experience life. idle time will work against you. Take care of your chores and responsibilities to avoid complaints before you go on vacation. back away from joint financial ventures. you will not be given accurate figures and are likely to encounter loss. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t let your emotions lead you down a precarious path. Focus on trust, honesty and hard work. a practical approach will help you avoid a costly error. impulse is the enemy, so slow down. refuse to give in to emotional blackmail. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take part in community or family events. share your thoughts and expand your interests. a creative idea you have can lead to good fortune. pleasure trips are highlighted along with romance and updating your appearance and image. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a guarded approach to what you are doing will help you avoid interference. Follow your gut feeling when dealing with personal matters. emotional deception is apparent, making it essential to trust in you and you alone. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes that will improve your standard of living. apply for a better position or make a residential move that will help you build your assets. Take a passionate approach to relationships. let go of the past and initiate positive change. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emotional disillusionment will lead you down the wrong path. you cannot save everyone and must refrain from giving too much in an attempt to make an impression. an unexpected change in your relationship with a friend, colleague or relative will be costly. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can get what you want if you approach your goals with integrity and innovation and are able to offer something that is impossible to refuse. use your intelligence, and you will come up with the perfect plan to get ahead. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): pay close attention to what’s going on around you. a creative idea you have will pay off financially. be careful when dealing with sensitive issues. someone is likely to start an argument if you take sides or voice your opinion. 

Birthday Baby: you are inventive, unique and resourceful. you are quick, sensitive and generous. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL  HOCKEY  
Kelly discusses imperfect  new faces to play  
win over Syracuse  key roles for nd  

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame beat syracuse on saturday, 31-15, but the win was hardly the most polished perfor­mance from the irish this season. 
irish head coach brian kelly acknowledged this at his sunday teleconference, telling reporters that his players weren’t entirely satisfied with the win. 
“if they were in [the locker room after the game] giddy and happy, i’d be a little bit concerned,” kelly said. “i want them to enjoy the win, but i also want them to know that there’s better football [that] needs to be played, and they knew that.” 
senior quarterback everett golson threw 25 straight com­plete passes, setting the notre dame record for most consecutive completions and falling one pass short of tying the Fbs record. but golson threw two interceptions as the irish (4-0) racked up five total turnovers. 
“we start always with that premise because if you can’t 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
after graduating 11 seniors last season, notre dame brought in 10 new faces to notre dame and compton Family ice arena. at monday’s media day, irish coach Jeff Jackson said the influx of young players will not affect notre dame’s recent and consis­tent success. 
“our culture has been strong enough over the last several years, that the freshmen come in and the culture becomes part of them,” Jackson said. “The re­turning guys are involved with the [freshmen] over the sum­mer, and they did a good job with them. we have a good group of seniors and a real strong junior class. … They want to continue having success. They don’t want to take a nose dive this year be­cause we are young.” 
notre dame had its first trial in the hockey east conference last season, finishing in eighth place at 9-9-2. despite the .500 
in-conference record, the irish 
KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

managed to make it to the ncaa 
Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson flips a pass out to senior 

tournament, where they were 
running back Cam McDaniel during Notre Dame’s 31-15 win. 
knocked out in the first round by st. cloud state, 4-3, in sudden-death overtime to end their sea­son at 23-15-2. notre dame will head into its second season with a little more knowledge about how things run in hockey east this time around, Jackson said. 
“we really need to prepare for the hockey east schedule,” Jackson said. “i’m not sure we were as prepared as we needed to be last year for what we are gon­na face in hockey east. i think we will have a little bit better idea of what we’re gonna have to face this year. although we’re gonna go to five totally new buildings, so it will be as challenging [as last year] on the road, without question. but we will have a bet­ter understanding of how certain teams play.” 
with the hole left by the senior class migration, many positions are still up in the air, and fresh­men will have to inevitably fill them, Jackson said. 
“its hard to say which [fresh­men] will be ready to step up into those roles right away,” Jackson 
see hockey PAGE 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

barnard wins singles title at invite 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
senior dougie barnard led the way for notre dame over the week­end at the vredevelt invitational in kalamazoo, michigan, winning the Flight d singles title, while oth­er notre dame players competed in Tuscaloosa, alabama, and Tulsa, oklahoma. 
barnard, senior michael Fredericka and sophomore eddy covalschi teamed up to earn two doubles wins at the vredevelt invitational on Friday. covalschi and Fredericka started the day with an 8-6 victory over Xavier’s doubles group. barnard and Fredericka next fell short against cleveland state’s pairing, 8-4. in the third-place match, barnard and Fredericka paired up to win the contest against western michigan’s tandem. 
barnard dominated the next two days in the singles tournament. he won his first matchup 6-2, 6-1 over valparaiso sophomore kyle dunn before moving on to rally against michigan state freshman Jasper koenen 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. barnard finished his run to the singles title by defeating Xavier freshman gabriel chaves araujo on sunday. 
“winning the singles Flight d title this weekend was another step in the process of getting better,” barnard said. “it was an affirma­tion to me that we have one of the best coaching staffs in the country. This past week, i spent time with the coaches working on a few par­ticular areas of my game, and it paid off this weekend.” 
Though barnard took the vredevelt singles title, he said he plans to continue to improve on the finer details of his game in or­der to elevate his play in the up­coming tournaments. 
“ibelieve competition is the most trusted witness of our strengths and weaknesses,” barnard said. “This weekend taught me that i want to improve my first serve targets, add depth and spin to my backhand and use more loading on my forehand side. i hope to build off of my success this weekend by unpacking the feeling of restless­ness i have for improvement.” 
see Tennis PAGE 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish square off with VCU in midweek matchup 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish freshman forward Jeffrey Farina moves upfield against North Carolina. ND won the match 2-0 on Sept. 26 at Alumni Stadium. 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
Fresh off a home victory over no. 8 north carolina, no. 3 notre dame wastes no time in returning to the pitch as it welcomes vcu for a mid-week showcase at alumni stadium. 
The irish (4-1-2, 2-0-1 acc) opened their home acc sched­ule with the win after two road matches the weekends prior, shutting out the Tar heels (5­3-0, 1-2-0 acc) by a score of 2-0 with goals by freshman forward Jeffrey Farina, his first career collegiate goal, and graduate student forward leon brown. 
“it was a big win,” irish coach bobby clark said. “it was a tough win. That was a really tough game.” 
now the irish prepare to face the rams (3-5-1) on three days of rest. although their record does not show it, the rams have played a quality non-con­ference schedule. of their 
see soccer PAGE 14 





