ThE INdEPENdENT NEWSPAPEr SErVINg NOTrE dAmE ANd SAINT mAry’S 



Notre Dame expands Asian studies courses 
Liu Institute for Asia and Asian Studies to offer summer program in India, on-campus seminar 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News Writer 
The creation of a 2014 sum­mer studies program in India and the on-campus Asian Studies Seminar on China this semester will provide Notre dame students with the opportunity to further inves­tigate their interest in Asia. 
According to Inez Suhardjo, director of undergraduate studies at the Liu Institute for Asia and Asian Studies, the summer India studies program comes in the wake of Fr. Jenkins’ recent travels to Asia and the announce­ment of the university’s partnerships with various Asian universities. 

“We wanted to keep up with the momentum of India being important on campus,” she said. 
The summer India studies program will allow students to spend two weeks at the St. Xavier’s College in mumbai while earning three Asian Studies credits, Suhardjo said. 
“It’s a specially designed program with nine differ­ent modules, anything from popular culture, to tradition­al Indian art, to history,” she 

see ASIA PAGE 5 STEPH WULZ  | The Observer 



DSLC workshops address intersectionality, diversity 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writer 

The ninth annual diverse Students’ Leadership Conference (dSLC), “rethinking Leadership and diversity,” took place on the Saint mary’s campus Tuesday and Wednesday. The 16 work­shops spread out over two days made it the largest event of the year hosted by the Student diversity Board (SdB) and the largest student-led conference 
see dSLC PAGE 6 


Saint mary’s professor earns service recognition 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
News Writer 

Saint mary’s College an­nounced that the Indiana Campus Compact award­ed assistant professor of communication studies Terri russ the 2014 Brian douglas hiltunen Faculty Award for Scholarship of Engagement. 
russ, one of four recipi­ents of the award, encour­ages experiential learning by creating opportunities for students in her Public Communications class to interact with adults and children of the South Bend Center for the homeless. 
She said the classroom is important for learn­ing things like theory, but going outside the classroom is also very beneficial. 
“We need to find ways to expand theory and put it into practice, so by break­ing down the classroom walls and taking the class­room out to the public, we get to do that, and I be­lieve it has more real world 
see SErVICE PAGE 5 

Kroc Institute honors peace studies students 
By WEI LIN 
News Writer 

The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies recently announced se­niors Alex Coccia and Ilse Zenteno as recipients of the 2014 yarrow Award for their accomplishments in academics and in the field of peace studies. 
Ernesto Verdeja, Chair of the yarrow Award Committee and director of undergraduate studies at the Kroc Institute, said winners are selected by the committee, which is com­prised of faculty members who have worked closely with the senior peace stud­ies majors. 
“We consistently get some of the most excep­tional students of the university in the peace studies program,” he said. “So it is often very diffi­cult to select a [recipient] because of the quality of the accomplishments they have.” 
recipients of the award are selected based on their academic accom­plishments and ability to combine and apply their scholarly knowledge with an awareness of how the world works outside of the 

classroom. 
“One thing that is impor­tant is to highlight the sig­nificant successes that the students have who have done work in the com­munity or have accom­plished work outside of the community and around the world,” Verdeja said. “These two students, in particular, are remarkable examples of what we strive for in the Kroc Institute, 
see yArrOW PAGE 5 


NEWS PAGE 4 VIEWPOINT PAGE 8 SCENE PAGE 10 BASEBALL PAGE 20 SOFTBALL PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 
News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 
Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTmASTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 


30 degrees and snowing or 60 degrees and raining? 

Matthew Hickey 
senior 
off campus 
“60 rain; spring is hopefully coming.” 

Daisy Costello 
freshman 
Pasquerilla West hall 
“60 rain; I’m tired of the snow and I like the rain.” 


Kate Zenker 
senior 
Lewis hall 
“30 snow; the cold never bothered me anyway.” 


Patrick Schmitz 
senior morrissey manor 
“30 snow because rain makes everything smell.” 
Hayley Evans 
senior 
ryan hall 

“60 rain; make it rain!” 
Kaileen Healy 
junior Welsh Family hall 
“30 snow because I hate the rain.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Carolyn hutyra Katie heit Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca O’Neil Alex Wilcox Emily mcConville Evan Anderson 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Steph Wulz Kevin Noonan 

Photo Viewpoint 

Softball Soup and Substance Holy Half Marathon Shamrock Challenge “Porn: Both Sides of 
Emmet Farnan Erin Thomassen 
Melissa Cook Stadium Geddes Hall Campus-wide Rockne Memorial the Screen” 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. 9 p.m. - 12 p.m. 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Hesburgh Library The Irish take on Examining African Packet pickup Friday, Fitness contest to 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 


Corrections 

the Northwestern education. Sponsored 7 a.m. - 7 p.m. in Sorin benefit the Special Panel discussion on 
The Observer regards itself as Wildcats. by Building Tomorrow. Room, SUB office. Olympics. effects of pornography. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
The Pervert’s Guide Relay for Life Women’s Basketball Men’s Tennis Women’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
to Ideology Compton Family Ice Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion Purcell Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Arena 2:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 6 p.m. NCAA regional The Irish take on the Notre Dame hosts 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. $10 registration, ends semifinals vs. North Carolina Tar NCAA Regional Finals. 
we can correct our error. 

Nanovic Film Series. Saturday. Oklahoma State. Heels. 



SENATE 


Senate amends constitution with inclusion clause 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News Writer 
The 2013-14 class of sena­tors met for their last student Senate meeting Wednesday night, during which they discussed the nondiscrimi­nation clause within the stu­dent Constitution for nearly an hour and 15 minutes  and passed two new resolutions. 
The debate concerning the nondiscrimination clause involved two major oppos­ing views. One group, spear­headed largely by Judicial Council president and se­nior michael masi, pushed for a broad statement that would refrain from naming specific groups protected from discrimination. 
In masi’s proposed alter­native, the clause would acknowledge “the beauty and uniqueness of all god’s children, and therefore pro­hibits any discrimination within the Student union.” 
Other senators supported altering the originally pro­posed amendment with a revision put forward by se­niors Alex Coccia, student body president, and Juan rangel, chief of staff. 
Coccia and rangel’s pro­posed amendment stated, “This Constitution recog­nizes the god-granted dig­nity of all persons and their 


PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 

right to respect, justice and a welcoming environment, regardless of race, color, ethnicity, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, ability or disability, religion, socioeconomic status, docu­mentation status and na­tionality. This Constitution forbids any acts of harmful and unjust discrimination within the Student union.” 
Senior class president Carolina Wilson said many 
“This Constitution recognizes the God-granted dignity of all persons and their right to respect, justice and a welcoming environment, regardless of race, color, ethnicity, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, ability or disability, religion, socioeconomic status, documentation and nationality.” 
Amendment to the Constitution 
of the Univerisity of Notre Dame 
Student Government 
of her classmates reached out to her specifically asking her to vote in favor of a reso­lution containing specific groups that would be pro­tected from discrimination. Wilson read from an email sent to her by a peer, which asked her to vote in favor of the revised amendment “to promote inclusivity on cam­pus and to ensure members of the LgBTQ community are given a clear message that they are respected and valued.” 
rangel said he and Coccia included documentation status in their version of the nondiscrimination amendment in direct re­sponse to interactions with undocumented students. 
“One of the reasons it was important for me to include documentation status in our nondiscrimination clause is because I’ve had a lot of conversations with undocu­mented students who have applied to Notre dame, and quite a few have been ac­cepted as part of our in­coming class,” rangel said. “But they have a fear that we are not an undocumented-friendly school. 
“I feel that if we don’t in­clude them in our nondis­crimination clause, it will only hint that they are not a part of our student body yet, and it think to them it will be very meaningful. 
After a contentious de­bate, the resolution propos­ing amendment written by Coccia and rangel passed. 
Sophomore senators Phil Krebs of Zahm house, Kyle mcCaffery of O’Neill hall and rohan Andresen of Siegfried hall presented a resolution “supporting enhanced com­munication among resi­dence halls, residents and university administration.” 
Their proposed resolu­tion addressed recent con­flicts between students and the Office of housing, par­ticularly surrounding the transition of Zahm house’s five-man common rooms to common space. 
The Senate passed the resolution, which mcCaffery stressed does not seek a reversal of the Office of housing’s decision regard­ing the Zahm common rooms. 
Instead, the resolution requests that the Office of housing “consult more closely those residential communities in which the administration is consid­ering making changes in order to promote a greater understanding between the students and the adminis­tration.” It further requests that the “administration consider how to commu­nicate changes in a more timely manner so that af­fected students can prepare appropriately.” 
“We all know how founda­tional the living experience is at Notre dame, and we feel that with this experience in Zahm, there is a lack of un­derstanding how deeply the students are affected by these changes,” mcCaffery said. 
The Senate also passed a resolution presented by Fisher hall senator and sophomore michael Lindt calling on the Office of 
“One of the reasons it was important for me to include documentation status in our non­discrimination clause is because I’ve had a lot of conversations with undocumented students who have applied to Notre Dame, and quite a few have been accepted as part of our incoming class. But they have a fear that we are not an undocumented-friendly school.” 
Juan Rangel 
chief of staff 
Student Affairs and the Office of the Provost for in­creased focus on and atten­tion to the Faculty Fellows program. The program is an initiative within the Office of Student Affairs that seeks to have the university fac­ulty become more involved with student life, particu­larly through the residence halls, to facilitate conversa­tions and interactions. 
The senators voted on several different student and faculty awards and ap­proved the assistant student treasurers as well as Irish gardens manager. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 






Scholar connects atheism to cultural shifts 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News Writer 
Noted British literary theo­rist Terry Eagleton explored the relationship between the postmodern movement, re­ligion, atheism and funda­mentalism in his lecture “The death of god and the War on Terror” on Wednesday at the Eck Visitors Center auditori­um. The English department sponsored the event.
 “religion has played, tra­ditionally, such a vital role in legitimating political regimes that our rulers could hardly look upon the disappearance of god with any degree of equanimity,” Eagleton said. “religion is an exceedingly hard act to follow. Indeed it has been proved to be by far the most universal symbolic system humanity has ever known.” 
According to Eagleton, the “death of god” and the shift towards atheism was due largely to evolving ideas of market and capitalist mental­ity, as well as the influence of postmodernism in Western culture. Eagleton said capi­talism and utilitarian market systems, as ideas that do not necessarily involve metaphys­ical or moral concepts, create a tension with morally-based systems such as democracy. 
“It was the inherently ratio­nalist, utilitarian, pragmatic, mental logic of the market­place which has rendered such high-sounding and edifying metaphysical notions as im­plausible,” Eagleton said. 
Eagleton said notions of cul­tural relativism and the im­portance humans put on the anthropological aspect of cul­ture influence our beliefs. 
“Culture is as precious as it is because it was seen to offer in a hopelessly divided soci­ety a ground of fundamental reconciliation,” he said. “Only religion has been able, I think, 
“Religion has played, traditionally, such a vital role in legitimating political regimes that our rulers could hardly look upon the disappearance of God with any degree of equanimity.” 
Terry Eagleton 
literary theorist 
on a widespread scale, to link up these two aspects of culture.” 
According to Eagleton, religion connects the two definitions of culture, an an­thropological version and a high art concept, that are key to the human experience. Eagleton said the shift away from god as a central focus of culture has created a new rela­tionship between government and culture and changed the role that relationship plays in understanding humanity. 
“There is a kind of complicity between cultural customs that becomes deeply involved in political questions,” Eagleton said. “What that means is that culture has become part of the problem, rather than part of the solution”. 
Eagleton said religious fun­damentalism arose as a re­sponse to the rapid social movement away from religion as Western civilization devel­oped. he cited events such as the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks and other instances of religious fundamentalism as responses civilization,” Eagleton said. feel ‘washed up’ by the brave to western capitalism. “Fundamentalism has its new world of capitalism.” 


“religious fundamen-source not so much in hatred talism is a momentous, as in anxiety. It’s the patho-Contact Gabriela Malespin at historic shift in western logical mind set of those who gmalespi@nd.edu 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 



Off campus, Coccia worked Concerns (CSC) through County Bridges Out of receiving this award was a 

Yarrow 

with the read to a Child pro-their International Summer Poverty. great honor,” she said. “It 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 

gram from his freshman to Service Learning Program “I sometimes get discour-made me realize that we as a short-term missionary 
can never give up and must excellence in terms of schol­
in Bolivia. during the sum-
always fight for the greater 
“You don’t have 
arship and a commitment to mer following her sopho­good of our society.” 
to travel to a 
trying to change the world.” more year, she participated After graduation, Zenteno 
in the CSC’s Summer Service 
developing 
Coccia has worked on and plans to work at St. Joseph 
continues to develop a num-Learning Program and lived 
County Bridges Out of 
country in Africa, 

junior year. 
After graduation, Coccia will work in Washington in either a government agency or a non-profit organization through funding from the Truman Scholarship. 
during her time at Notre dame, Zenteno interned with the Center for Social 
ber of projects, including 
sexual assault prevention 
efforts, recommendations 
for services for students 
with high financial need and mental health resources. 
Coccia is also the founder of the “4 to 5 movement,” a student initiative aimed at recruiting allies of the LgBTQ community to speak up in support of the commu­nity. he also helped the gay-straight alliance student organization PrismNd gain recognition for their work. 
with women on probation Poverty until mid-July, when 
she will return to her home-
Latin America 
and parole while serving as 
a mentor during their tran­
or Asia to begin 
town of St. Louis. She hopes 
doing service. It 
sition back into society. to pursue an academic ca-
Zenteno is also very in­volved with the local com­munity. She volunteers regularly at the South Bend Catholic Worker, has in­terned with the Public defender’s Office at the Juvenile Justice Center in South Bend and accepted an AmeriCorps position as Outreach and Social media Coordinator at St. Joseph 
begins here at home in our own cities, in our own backyards.” 
Ilse Zenteno 
senior 
aged or overwhelmed with all of the social problems we continuously face, but reer in peace studies and in­ternational development. 
“you don’t have to travel to a developing country in Africa, Latin America or Asia to begin doing service,” she said. “It begins here at home in our own cities, in our own backyards.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 


Asia 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
said. “It’s going to be a kind of survey introduction to India for any students interested, anyone who wants to get a sense of India, on the ground in India.” 
Suhardjo said student in­terest also contributed to the creation of the India summer studies program. 
“I had met with students at the end of last year, who had either been to India or were from India, and they were saying that Notre dame just doesn’t have enough [classes] about India,” she said. “This is a way to speak to those con­cerns and those wishes, for something to do with India programmatically.” 
Suhardjo said the summer program is just the first of sev­eral programs the university plans to develop with the in­tent of building stronger ties with India. 
“There are also some programs in the works for exchange programs, and we’re hoping after this pi­lot run of our summer India studies program that we can build this from here and make it bigger and better, to have it apply to university require­ments,” she said. 
Students from all majors are encouraged to apply to the program, Suhardjo said. 
“India is going to be such an important player on the world stage that it’s important for everyone to really think about India on a deeper level, and get to know it and understand its position in the world,” she said. “It’s open to people who are looking to build Asia as a concept in their degrees, so it’s definitely something we’re hoping to get everyone involved and interested in.” 
As for the Asian Studies Seminar, Suhardjo said this one-credit course is built around a series of guest lec­turers and will take place this semester from march 27 to April 4. 
“It’s a way for us to 

PAId AdVErTISEmENT 

encourage students to con­nect with really important, prominent scholars that are coming to campus,” she said. 
The guest lectures are open to the public, but Suhardjo 
“Both China and India are important, and these programs are a way for us to make sure the Notre Dame community is linked in to what is going on in Asia and seeing how the world is connected.” 
Inez Suhardjo 
undergraduate studies director 
Liu Institute for Asia 
said visiting scholars will ad­ditionally lead small class sessions for students in the Asian Studies Seminar. 
“This semester we have a couple of very prominent scholars coming from China, and they will be discussing China today, in a historical and religious context,” she said. “One is speaking about the cultural diversity of ru­ral areas, and another will be speaking about philosophical daoism and Confucianism in China today.” 
Suhardjo said these pro­grams aim to promote a deeper awareness of global interaction among students. 
“Both China and India are important, and these pro­grams are a way for us to make sure the Notre dame commu­nity is linked in to what is go­ing on in Asia and seeing how the world is interconnected,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


Service 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
value,” russ said. 
Senior Allison Priede, a member of the public com­munications course, said russ has made an impact both in the community and within the classroom. 
“This class has made a huge impact on the com­munity by uniting two dif­ferent groups that benefit from one another,” Priede said. “The students benefit by using our knowledge of communication outside the classroom and learn­ing from a diverse group of people. 
“It makes us reach out­side our comfort zone and challenge ourselves.” 
Senior Fernanda Amado is president of the orga­nization Lend an Ear, an outgrowth of the public communications class that takes students to the Center for the homeless. Amado said the course opens students’ eyes to the greater community. 
“Those who are home­less are people who have fallen on some hard times,” Amado said. “The answer isn’t to shun them, but to lend a helping hand. 
“I believe that Terri’s course succeeds in dis­proving the negative ste­reotype of the homeless and helps break down the ‘walls’ of preconceived notions.” 
Priede said russ has in­spired and helped her be­come the best person she can be. 
“One thing Professor russ taught me was some­thing not everyone finds in a classroom,” she said. “She taught me how to push myself and never let myself get left behind. 
“Professor russ showed me that the most important things I’ll learn in college don’t always come from a textbook.” 
michael Kramer, associ­ate professor of communi­cation studies, said russ is 
“Those who are homeless are people who have fallen on some hard times. The answer isn’t to shun them, but to lend a helping hand. I believe that Terri’s course succeeds in disproving the negative stereotype of the homeless and helps break down the ‘walls’ of preconceived notions.” 
Fernanda Amado 
president 
Lend an Ear 
an inspiration to her stu­dents and other faculty. 
“Anyone who can point to something out in the world and say that I’ve had an im­pact on that, or I’ve helped people by using commu­nication theory and ideas, should inspire all of us who are in the field of commu­nications,” he said. 
Since russ’s arriv­al, Kramer said she has worked hard to try and en­gage with the community, and that is what the award is about, “engaging with the community and bring­ing ideas to help people in real situations.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 



ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

comes more easily to Alam 


DSLC 
now than it did in the past, he 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 

said. “If I am an American muslim at Saint mary’s. teenage girl, I may want to go 
“After months of planning, to the Britney Spears con-our hard work is finally on cert in Indianapolis, or in display, and our hope is that Chicago, on Friday night, and [students] find everything to I will wear my headscarf be-be insightful, challenging but cause I am adherent to my most of all enjoyable,” senior faith and there is no con-Lucy macfarlane, dSLC chair flict between the two in my and SdB vice president, said mind,” Alam said. “Whereas at the beginning of the con-in generations past, or even ference. “We hope [students] immigrant parents some-are inspired to make change times, American culture is where [they] see change is often viewed as a threat to necessary . even if that’s their own identity so there’s within [themselves].” a stronger inclination to latch 
The two keynote speak-onto it.” ers, activist Faisal Alam Alam said modern-minded and u.S. Congressman from muslim immigrants and chil­minneapolis Kevin Powell, dren of muslim immigrants were chosen to help students aspire to enact progress rath-like,” Alam said. “On top of disabilities. Adrienne Lyles-him.” realize their own potential as er than reform in the Islamic that, if you add different lay-Chockley, the head of the macfarlane said the dSLC leaders and rethink their pre-faith. ers of marginalization, what justice education program at event exceeded her board’s at­vious understanding of what “Progressive muslims want works within certain commu-Saint mary’s, spoke about the tendance goals for both key-diversity means, macfarlane a revival, a progressive form nities and what will not work intersection of race, gender, notes and all the workshops. said. of Islam that is rooted in so-within other communities.” poverty and imprisonment, “It was the best it has been 
“I think the keynotes ac-cial justice and equality,” he Saint mary’s students, while both students and in recent years, with over tually had a lot in common,” said. faculty and staff discussed professors explored the true 200 people registered,” she she said. “[The speakers’] This move towards equal-various other layers of so-meaning of masculinity and said. “The best takeaway I breadth and variety of life ity is evident in the increased cial complexity throughout tried to debunk immigration can have from this confer-experiences demonstrated to amount not only of tolerance the dSLC. marc Belanger, stereotypes. ence is that every person who them the necessity of self-ac-but also of active incorpora-associate professor of po-“my favorite part of the came to me only had feelings tualization. When you know tion, Alam said. litical science, spoke about week was grabbing lunch of empowerment and knowl­yourself and accept all facets “Just in the past five years immigration and global-with Kevin Powell, the clos-edge was gained. of your identity you are more there are communities that ization. graci martsching, ing keynote, at Whole Foods,” “I wanted the conference capable of accepting and in-are growing and places of assistant director of macfarlane said. “he’s vegan participants to look within cluding others in positive worship that are not only in-Student Involvement and and we just spent time in themselves and discover change. clusive to the LgBT people multicultural Services, pro-the hot-food line soaking in their own potential as leaders 
“Leadership is not catego-but are also not gender segre-moted inclusive leadership in our conversation and the ex-and advocates for inclusive rized into one thing . like a gated, particularly in times of her lecture. pectation of delicious vegan change. I think we accom­man in a dark suit . but rather prayer when generally wom-Other professors dis-pizza. his emphatically en-plished that this year.” the creation of a safe space en and men are separated,” cussed diversity within the couraging demeanor and hu­that allows others to voice he said. workforce and economy, mility is profound, and I am Contact Rebecca O’Neil at their opinions and experi-Women in the mosque are specifically with regard to lucky to have spent time with roneil01@saintmarys.edu ences. diversity encompasses usually found praying behind 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 

us all and must be a positive men or on a balcony, Alam force for good.” said. he said this segregation 
Alam and Powell, the open-is nonexistent in these new ing and closing lecturers, re-progressive communities. spectively, emulated this by “men and women are pray-sharing the stories that led ing side by side,” Alam said. them to the forefront of inter-“Women are allowed to lead sectional activism. prayer, which is a notion 
“When people ask me many people view to be out-where I’m from, I have to ask, side the fold of Islam.” ‘Well how far do you want As this movement gains to go back?’ The partition momentum in smaller com-in Pakistan, to my birth in munities, activism is occur­germany…” Alam said. ring in the public sphere as 
Alam founded Al-Fatiha, an well, Alam said. he said Keith organization that supports Ellison is the first muslim muslims struggling to rec-representative elected to oncile their faith, sexual ori-Congress and one of two entation or gender identity. muslims in the united States The queer-identified muslim house of representatives who activist of Pakistani descent recently announced their referred to himself as an support of LgBT community. “accidental activist,” as his “There is diversity in the experience grew out of incon-muslim world,” Alam said. sistent religious and societal “There is a reality and a side expectations. of Islam that people haven’t 
“Today, there are second seen before. American and even third generation Islam is a unique blend of muslims born in the united the muslim faith and the States,” Alam said. “I am a American identity as well.” one-point-five generation The keynote speakers also immigrant. What that meant spoke about the degrees to for me was that I was strad-which minorities belonging to dling two different cultures: multiple distinct demograph­my Pakistani culture and ics face marginalization. muslim faith, as well as my “When we talk about di-American identity.” versity and leadership, there 
Living in the context of the is not only so much history convergence of diametrical-that needs to be looked at as ly-opposed norms from the how those notions of diver-American public and from sity were first defined in the the traditions practiced in united States, but also what the privacy of a muslim home different leadership looks 





Satellite images reveal malaysian jetliner clues 
officials believe the missing on Australia’s western coast, 
Associated Press 

passenger jet may have crashed. but the Australian maritime KuALA LumPur, malaysia Almost two-thirds of the 239 Safety Authority cautioned that 
— more satellite images people who died on the flight weather was expected to dete­have given searchers the lat-were from China, and the first riorate later Thursday. heavy est clues in the hunt for the search plane in the air was a rains, strong winds, low clouds downed malaysian jetliner, as Chinese Ilyushin IL-76 aircraft. and reduced visibility were planes flew out of Australia on In total, 11 planes and five forecast for the search area, al-Thursday trying to spot 122 ships are set to scour a search though that may clear later. objects seen floating in the area 2,500 kilometers (1,550 malaysia Airlines also ran a turbulent Indian Ocean where miles) southwest of Perth full-page condolence advertise­
ment with a black background 

PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
in a major newspaper. 
“Our sincerest condolences go out to the loved ones of the 239 passengers, friends and colleagues. Words alone cannot express our enormous sorrow and pain,” read the advertise­ment in the New Straits Times. 
Nineteen days into the mys­tery of Flight 370 that vanished early march 8 en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, the discovery of the objects that ranged in size from 1 meter (3 feet) to 23 meters (75 feet) of­fered “the most credible lead that we have,” a top malaysian official said Wednesday. 
A search Wednesday for the objects — seen by a French satellite — was unsuccessful, echoing the frustration of ear­lier sweeps that failed to zero in on three objects seen by satel­lites in recent days. 
With the search in motion, malaysian officials again sought to assuage the angry relatives of the flight’s 153 Chinese pas­sengers. But defense minister hishammuddin hussein also 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 


expressed exasperation, point­edly saying Chinese families “must also understand that we in malaysia also lost our loved ones,” as did “so many other nations.” 
The latest satellite imag­es, captured Sunday and re­layed by French-based Airbus defense and Space, are the first to suggest a debris field from the plane, rather than just iso­lated objects. The items were spotted in roughly the same area as other objects previously seen by Australian and Chinese satellites. 
At a news conference in Kuala Lumpur, hishammuddin said some of them “appeared to be bright, possibly indicating solid materials.” 
But experts cautioned that the area’s frequent high seas and bad weather and its dis­tance from land complicated an already-trying search. 
“This is a really rough piece of ocean, which is going to be a terrific issue,” said Kerry Sieh, director of the Earth Observatory of Singapore. “I worry that people carrying out the rescue mission are going to get into trouble.” 
Officials from the Australian maritime Safety Authority said Thursday’s search was split into two areas totaling 78,000 square kilometers (30,000 square miles). 
Planes and ships from the u.S., China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand are involved in the hunt, hoping to find even a single piece of the jet that could offer tangible evidence of a crash and pro­vide clues to the location of the wreckage. 
malaysia said monday that an analysis of the final known satellite signals from the plane showed that it had gone down in the sea, with no survivors. 
That data greatly reduced the search zone to an area estimat­ed at 1.6 million square kilo­meters (622,000 square miles), about the size of Alaska. 
“We’re throwing every­thing we have at this search,” Australian Prime minister Tony Abbott told Nine Network television. 
“This is about the most inac­cessible spot imaginable. It’s thousands of kilometers from anywhere,” he later told Seven Network television. 
malaysia has been criticized over its handling of one of the most perplexing myster­ies in aviation history. much of the most strident criticism has come from relatives of the Chinese passengers, some of whom expressed outrage that malaysia essentially declared their loved ones dead without recovering a single piece of wreckage. 
At a hotel banquet room in Beijing on Wednesday, a delega­tion of malaysian government and airline officials explained what they knew to the relatives. 
They were met with skepticism and even ridicule by some of the 100 people in the audience, who questioned how investi­gators could have concluded the direction and speed of the plane. One man later said he wanted to pummel everyone in the malaysian delegation. 
“We still have hope, but it is tiny, tiny,” said ma Xuemei, whose niece was on the flight. “All the information has been confusing and unreliable.” 
China dispatched a special envoy to Kuala Lumpur, Vice Foreign minister Zhang yesui, who met Prime minister Najib razak. 
China’s support for families is likely why authorities — nor­mally wary of any spontaneous demonstrations that could un­dermine social stability — per­mitted a rare protest Tuesday outside the malaysian Embassy in Beijing. relatives chanted slogans, threw water bottles and briefly tussled with police who kept them from a swarm of journalists. 
meanwhile, a u.S.-based law firm filed court documents that often precede a lawsuit on behalf of a relative of an Indonesian-born passenger. The filing in Chicago asked a judge to order malaysia Airlines and Chicago-based Boeing Co. to turn over documents related to the possibility that “negli­gence” caused the Boeing 777 to crash, including any docu­mentation about the chances of “fatal depressurization” in the cockpit. 
Though officials believe they know roughly where the plane is, they don’t know why it dis­appeared shortly after take­off. Investigators have ruled out nothing — including me­chanical or electrical failure, hijacking, sabotage, terrorism or issues related to the mental health of the pilots or someone else on board. 
And finding the wreckage and the plane’s flight data and cockpit voice recorders is a ma­jor challenge. It took two years to find the black box from Air France Flight 447, which went down in the Atlantic Ocean on a flight from rio de Janeiro to Paris in 2009, and searchers knew within days where that crash site was. 
The batteries on the record­ers’ “pingers” are designed to last 30 days. After that, the pings begin to fade in the same way that a flashlight with fail­ing batteries begins to dim, said Chuck Schofield of dukane Seacom Inc., a company that has provided malaysia Airlines with pingers in the past. Schofield said the fading pings might last five days before the battery dies. 
Once a general area is pin­pointed for the wreckage, ex­perts say salvagers will have to deal with depths randing from 3,000 to 4,5000 meters (10,000 to 15,000 feet). 



ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Live in the moment 



Samantha Zuba 
Assitant managing Editor 

Notre dame is not an easy place to live. 
When students decide to come to school here, we make a decision not to take the easy road. Classes will be tough, and the pressure will be high, but that is part of what is great about this place. 
It’s just not always easy. 

When the pressure and stress reach their toughest levels, sometimes we might forget why we came here in the first place, and that only makes things worse. 
As we try to discern what major we should choose, as we desperately search for summer internships or full-time po­sitions for after graduation, it’s impor­tant to hold on to the reasons we choose to be here rather than anywhere else. 
And this isn’t just to say how special Notre dame is. Wherever we find our­selves in life, we need to learn to appre­ciate that place because the pressure never fades. It will still be there when we graduate, and what we really need to learn now is how to live lives that cut through the stress. 
Notre dame is a great place to start that lesson. here, in a wonderful com­munity, we have the opportunity to learn to stay positive and healthy dur­ing stressful times. With support and understanding from fellow students in similar situations, we can learn how to feel good about ourselves and what we have to offer even when faced with challenges. 
Attaining goals might seem like everything at a school so heavily con­centrated with high-achieving stu­dents, but no matter what we strive to do and how badly we want to earn a certain grant, job or grade, we are so much more than any one thing we accomplish. 
Is a great internship for a summer important? yes. So are good grades and accomplishments in extra-curricular activities. But do any of these things tell the world exactly who we are? No. We are defined by how we live our lives each and every day, interact with our friends and treat strangers. We are de­fined by our attitude when faced with struggles, not just our success or failure in response to those difficulties. 
In the midst of stress and the desire to achieve, these important consid­erations often fall to the wayside. But never forget there is a life to live in be­tween achievements. Little moments matter just as much as where we will work or travel after or during our time at Notre dame. 
In those little moments, living here — living anywhere — is easy. 



urban understanding 
Katrina Linden 
Kat’s meow 

I vowed never to participate in any program vaguely related to urban Plunge, mainly because I disagree with the idea of instilling compassion by “plunging” students into “urban” life. 
I disagree with the idea of throwing somebody into a community of the “other,” visiting a soup kitchen or two, then returning to the comforts of Notre dame with a heightened appreciation that they don’t have to live below liv­ing wages in the inner-city they would never dare to drive through on their own accord. Though not everybody has this type of experience, many do. 
Admittedly, I was hesitant to take part in a Center for Social Concerns service trip after adamantly being against urban Plunge. I was cautious to participate in the migrant Experience Seminar in Immokalee, Fla., this Spring Break, a migrant community less than an hour away from the affluent Naples. 
They say these things are life-chang­ing. I once scoffed at the idea that one service trip down South could so quick­ly change a person’s life. But having ex­perienced it firsthand, it doesn’t seem so absurd anymore. I would have never expected this trip would be one that changed my life, perspective and atti­tude on my Notre dame community. 
The goal of our trip was to live and be in solidarity with the migrant workers with whom we would work throughout the week. We wanted to understand the migrant experience, not just pity and frown at the injustices we observed. I was skeptical of the idea that we would be able to see the situation in a way different from an isolated outsider’s perspective. 
This was a collective fear. We did not want to come in feeling like sav­iors of the poor, bringing our precious time and efforts to volunteer at a soup kitchen for two hours. And I believe we completely avoided that. 
The greatest experiences we had during our time in Florida were the ones in which we actually interacted with community members. This was when we were in the greatest solidarity. haitian men taught us Creole before the sun came up, five-foot Latino men danced “bachatas” with us during pro­tests in the city, we spoke Spanish and understood. Though sometimes lost in translation along the way, we tried. And that’s the important thing: trying to understand, laughing, talking and sharing donut holes in dirt-paved park­ing lots before sunrise. 
Even greater was the fact that big things are happening in Immokalee. We came in expecting dire circum­stances of the great human injustices we read so extensively about in prepa­ration. Instead we found improvement, cooperation and so much goodwill penetrating this community, not only from inhabitants, but from surround­ing cities as well. People cared, and that’s the most important part. 
however, I still have an issue per­forming service in college. I don’t want to appear as though I am better than others because I am helping them. For many of those receiving aid, it is dif­ficult not to question the intentions of the wealthier individuals helping at a homeless shelter or food banks. 
I have heard students here state they did community service because it made them feel like a better Catholic, making their “chances of getting into heaven better.” 
my greatest fear was spending the week with students who pitied the mi­grant workers, frowning and silently observing the other, uncomfortable and displaced in a place they had never seen or known even existed — a reac­tion, I’ll reiterate, voiced by some who have participated in service projects in the past. 
Instead I spent the week with 10 amazing people, consisting of busi­ness majors, arts and letters majors and even a science major. Instead of being set in our own opinions and ide­als around the issue, we discussed, debated and changed our views on just about everything at some point during the trip. 
We came in wanting to learn, not only from the migrant community, but from each other as well. And we did. Some of us learned the greater econom­ic implications of higher wages and the change we were trying to obtain, while others were able to bring back a greater ethical view on the business side of it all. 
Even greater, I have never laughed or smiled more in my entire life (or at least within the last semester,) which says a lot considering I am almost always do­ing both. Sometimes during late night discussions in our cramped house shared with 30 other college students, I found myself stopping and feeling for my cheeks, numb from laughter. I am grateful for this handful of Notre dame students who broadened my perspec­tive on the community I sometimes find myself clashing with. 
I don’t think any of us expected to enjoy our trip as much as we did. When friends ask what was so great about my trip, I struggle to find the words to describe it. But during our final meet­ing of the year, one boy summarized it perfectly: “We went down there to experience solidarity with these peo­ple, but we also found solidarity with ourselves.” 
All hearts clear. 
Katrina Linden is a sophomore English major with a studio art minor living in Lewis Hall. She can be reached by email at klinden1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Frozen enough 
dearest Elsa, 

Stop. Enough already. We get it. you really like winter. Cool. But the rest of us? We’re sick and tired of it. Why must you continue this eternal winter? Is it because everyone and their mother has made a cover of “Let it go” to the point that you cannot, in fact, let it go? has Anna been running around the castle singing “do you Want to Build a Snowman?” so much that you decided to give her enough snow so she will never ever ever want to build another snowman again? have you decided after all your dealings with humanity, “reindeers are Better than People,” so there must permanently be a layer of snow to keep them happy? 
While I realize “Love is an Open door,” and nothing says love like cud­dling next to a warm fireplace sipping hot cocoa, believe it or not love may ex­ist outside of winter, i.e. “In Summer.” 
Are you so displeased with your kingdom that you have deemed it a “Fixer upper” and are currently pun­ishing us for allowing it to fall into such a state in your absence? Whatever your reasons for tormenting us with this never-ending winter, I beg of you, stop. Please. I can usually tolerate win­ter during the winter months, but now that it is late march, “For the First Time in Forever” I have a glimpse of hope, and nothing hurts the soul more than a hope crushed. 
If there is anything I can do to remedy whatever went wrong, please do not hesitate to contact me at 313 Carroll hall. At this point I would do just about anything to see just one solitary violet through the snow. If some people are, in fact, “worth melting for,” then you must give us a chance to melt. Or at the very least thaw out. Just because “the cold never bothered you, anyway,” doesn’t mean it doesn’t bother us. 
Sincerely, 
Peter hall junior Carroll hall march 26 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

Truth beyond gender 
Hailey Vrdolyak 
guest Columnist 

With contemporary culture constantly fixated on the concept of equality, it can be all too easy to strive for this principle at the expense of some deeper truths. Equality is, for the most part, a positive ideal in society, but taken to its extreme it can deny the fundamental truth that people are, by nature, different. These differences, like the difference between men and women, are beautiful because they complement each other and allow society to flourish. The fact that women are not allowed to enter the priesthood does not indicate Church doctrine de­nies equality. 
It is necessary to remember that priests are supposed to be successors of the apostles and representative of the person of Jesus himself. It is an undeni­able fact that Jesus and all of his apostles were male. Therefore, it follows that those carrying on the work of the apos­tles should also be male. 
A common response to this argument is that Jesus could not choose women to be his apostles due to the historical con­text of his time.  however, Jesus was in no way bound to the times; in fact, he of­ten blatantly opposed the customs of his day.  For example, on several instances he disregarded the fact that the Sabbath was a day of rest in order to cure people. 
Jesus had friends who were women and treated them with equal dignity despite the fact that he did not choose them to be his apostles. 
As the Son of god, Jesus is omnipotent and omniscient. If Jesus had wanted to make women his apostles, he would have done so regardless of the societal norms of the time, because he has the power to do anything.  Because Jesus is omniscient, we must assume, in his infinite wisdom, he had some greater reason for making only men his apos­tles, even if we cannot understand that reason today. 
It has been Church doctrine for centu­ries that not even the Pope has the au­thority to change the Sacraments. It does not matter what we deem the most fun­damental aspects of a Sacrament — no one has the power to alter them. This is not a matter of personal preference, but of the truth of age-old Church doctrine. 
Some argue that the Church changed its teaching on the Assumption and should therefore be able to modify the Sacrament of holy Orders. First, the Church never changed its teaching on the Assumption; it simply proclaimed the truth that mary was taken body and soul into heaven. The Church never denied the fact of the Assumption — it simply was not made explicit Church doctrine. Second, the teaching of the Assumption is not a Sacrament and therefore not analogous to holy Orders. 
The Church teaching on the priest­hood has its roots in the fundamental difference between men and women. Jesus created a role for women — a role not lesser than that of men, but simply different. Women have always played an important role in the Church — it was the women who found the empty tomb of the risen Christ, and many women have become important saints. Jesus granted women the role of spreading the Truth, just not through teaching at mass but rather through action and prayer. Women can become sisters and be a tremendous force for good in the name of Jesus through either service or living the cloistered, prayerful life. 
god has granted women special privi­leges he has not granted to men, most notably the ability to bring new life into the world. This role is extremely influ­ential in the Church because women are charged with the primary task of nurturing children in the light of Church doctrine. As St. Paul explains in 1 Corinthians 12:5-29, we are all members of the Body of Christ, the Church, but as parts of this Body, we each have different roles. 
men are not dominating women sim­ply because they hold leadership roles in the hierarchical Church. Through these roles, men are called to proclaim the truth of god. In this way, men attest to the pre-existing truth of the risen Christ. As Catholics, we believe the Church is guided by the holy Spirit and the bishops and cardinals are merely proclaiming the Truth. They them­selves are not deciding the course of the Church and therefore not dominating women in any way. 
Common arguments for allowing women to enter the priesthood cite per­sonal “feeling” as important in deciding a vocation. Some women may feel they want to enter the priesthood, but are not permitted to do so because of Church doctrine. however, this idea of vocation is flawed. As Catholics, we believe we are called by god to a vocation that will bring us to our ultimate flourishing. In this view, vocation is not about personal feeling, but more about an obligation to serve god in the way he is calling us. 
No one, man or woman, is entitled to the priesthood. rather, it is a gift and calling bestowed on some by god. If you really listen to what god is calling you to do, it is easy to realize vocation is not a matter of feeling, but rather of truth. We are each called to be witnesses to the truth through our vocations, and the best way to obtain this truth is by follow­ing the teachings of the Church. 
Hailey Vrdolyak is a sophomore in the College of Arts & Letters. She can be contacted at hvrdolya@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Protect 
moral 
objections 
Sean Long’s column, “Protect reli­gious freedom,” (march 25) is factually incorrect when it says “the Supreme Court must only decide whether the contraception mandate is constitution­al.” The court must also decide whether the mandate violates the religious Freedom restoration Act, which Congress passed by nearly unanimous votes in 1993. hobby Lobby is far more likely to win its case under that act than on constitutional grounds. 
meanwhile, I find it astonishing Long would argue, “the case is not about contraceptives” because “use occurs in both scenarios.” There is a world of difference, morally, between someone committing an act another person considers immoral and the govern­ment compelling the other person to pay for the act. If the government compels hobby Lobby to pay for types of contraception it finds objectionable, then whether or not the contraception would otherwise be used, the govern­ment is making hobby Lobby complicit in something the company considers immoral. 

ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
Scene Writer 

The first time I picked up “divergent,” I put it right back down. The postwar dys­topian society and female heroine made me feel like I was cheating on the “hunger games.” however, I took it down from its place on my bookshelf when a movie went into the works, and I am glad I did. 
The movie is receiving some harsh re­views, averaging a 40 percent on rotten Tomatoes, but I went into the premiere having read no reviews (but also shame­lessly dressed as a dauntless member with the rest of the Pasquerilla East book club, so I may be a bit biased) and came out pleasantly surprised. 
more surprising for me than the reviews is the statistic that only 50 percent of those in the audiences have read Veronica roth’s novel. This statistic is in stark con­trast to the statistics of past young Adult movies, namely “The hunger games” and “Twilight” series, which have had aver­ages closer to 75 percent. 
however, this speaks to the movie as a spectacle attracting more than fangirl teens dressed in “divergent” garb and sporting fake tattoos — I may still have the faint outline of an Abnegation tattoo on my wrist, no shame. 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene Editor 

In a semester packed with dynamic performances, humor Artists (hA) will take the stage again tonight at Carey Auditorium at 8 p.m. with a 30-min­ute, entirely improvised musical. Called “humor Artists Present: Suspended disbelief,” the performance will consist of the group acting out a spur-of-the-mo­ment musical based solely off of sugges­tions from the crowd. 
The group, Notre dame’s only comedy group on campus, is known for their clas­sic improv games while taking the stage at Legends and their Notre dame-centered comedy videos, including the amusing, recently-posted clip called “NdSPA: Save Our Students,” parodying those heart-wrenching ASPCA commercials we love 
There are four reasons to see divergent. First, the plot is arresting — as in, it will suck you in, but also the plot is literally about arresting those who threaten the peace, namely divergents. 
The postwar society, set in what is vaguely still recognizable as Chicago, is split into five factions. Each faction pro­motes one quality — Abnegation, self­lessness; Erudite, intelligence; dauntless, bravery; Amity, peacefulness; Candor, honesty. It is thought that everyone is born to fulfill one of these qualities, and at 16 years old the members of society get to choose which faction best suits them. The antagonist, Erudite leader Jeanine matthews, states “the future belongs to those who know where they belong.” 
however, there is a “flaw” in the sys­tem: divergents. A divergent harbors more than one defining characteristic, which poses a threat to society. The government is hunting the divergents, which includes our protagonist Tris, and voila, the story ensues. 
The soundtrack to divergent diverged from what I have come to expect from yA blockbusters. There was less Bombay Bicycle Club/Coldplay and more Ellie goulding — like a lot more, like “I count­ed at least four Ellie goulding songs” more. But ever since her song was on that 
to hate. 

An improvised musical, on the other hand, is a less common performance for the comedy collective. Still, this isn’t their first time to the improv musical rodeo: humor Artists have produced longform shows like this both on campus and in competitions, an impressive feat. With the help of piano man sophomore Pat hansen, the group manages to put on shows in which everything from the mu­sic to the scenes is generated on the spot. 
“It’s pretty simple,” hA Vice President Conor haney said. “We get a prompt from the audience and do a mu­sical based on said prompt, singing (or rapping) to the improvised stylings of our pianist Pat ‘-in-the-hat’ hansen. his fin­gers are magical.” 
The troupe of performers, who go by Suspended disbelief (you bet they wear “girls” commercial, I’ve been a fan. The electronic-heavy music reflects the teen angst in the movie. Furthermore, there’s some A$AP rocky and I have no “Freakin’ Problems” with that. 
The protagonist, Tris, is played by ac­tress Shailene Woodley. Woodley has left her “Secrets of an American Teenager” days behind, thankfully. She scored a breakout role in “The descendants” alongside george Clooney and was re­cently in “The Spectacular Now” — both a must-read and a must-see. She will also be starring as hazel in the big screen adaptation of John green’s best-selling novel, “The Fault In Our Stars.” She is quickly becoming a prominent “it girl” in hollywood, however she is not the typical Birkin-toting celeb. 
Woodley has gone barefoot on the red carpet, worn Vibram Fivefingers (those “shoes” that separate your toes in case you want to play piano with your feet or pick up pencils off the ground with your toes) to parties and makes her own tooth­paste. I’m not sure I am in full support of any of these actions, but at least she’s be­ing different. 
Fittingly, the fourth reason to see “divergent” is ... Four. Four is Tris’s in­structor and love interest in the series. he is played by actor Theo James who is tan, 
suspenders), is made up of a handful of members from the larger humor Artists group. 
“Not all of hA participates. Nine of us perform in the non-musical longform improv sets, and four of us and Pat in the musical ones,” haney said of the troupe. “Of the group, it is only sophomore Steven goickecheskza’s second show with us. he’s got the voice of an angel, the dance moves of a devil and the moistness of a half-angel, half-devil’s food cake.” 
While the longform format isn’t new for them, a move to the bigger stage at Carey Auditorium is. Increased demand moved the group  to the hesburgh Library auditorium. 
“usually we do these kinds of shows at the Washington hall Black Box Theater with little publicity, but we needed to in­crease seating capacity because so many chiseled and British. Enough said. If none of the above reasons were enough to drag you into the cold to go see the movie, do it to watch the epitome of a man on a gi­ant screen for two and a half hours. Also, Peter is played by miles Teller (he starred alongside Woodley in “The Spectacular Now” — cute as well) and Caleb is played by Ansel Elgort (who will star alongside Woodley in “The Fault In Our Stars” this summer — also attractive). 
AKA there is so much eye-candy in divergent you can skip the Twizzlers, but don’t skip the movie. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
“Divergent” 
Director: Neil Burger Starring: Shailene Woodley, Theo James If you like: “The Hunger Games” 

people want to watch/adore us,” haney said. 
When asked if there was anything else to know about Suspended disbelief, haney replied in true humor Artist fashion. 
“I’d like you to know that hA is accept­ing of all audience members,” haney said. “Especially the Finnish, whether you’re from Finland or have actually fins. Except for orcas. I watched ‘Blackfish’ on Netflix. you’re not killing any of my friends, orcas.” 
With only a few more shows left this year and growing adoration, “humor Artists Present: Suspended disbelief” won’t be one to miss this evening. Tickets are free. No orcas, please. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: “The Pervert’s Guide to Ideology” Where: DPAC When: 7 p.m. How Much: $4 
Slovene philosopher and psy­choanalyst Slavoj Zizek leads this head-twisting film, in which he goes deep into some of hollywood’s most famous movies and inspects what ideologies hide beneath the surface. “Jaws,” “Taxi driver,” “Titanic” and “The dark Knight” all come under Zizek’s microscope in this acclaimed 2012 British documentary. 
FRIDAY 


What: Mike Jones Where: Legends When: 10 p.m. How Much: Free 

Who? mIKE JONES. Presented by SuB. 
SATURDAY 

What: “The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug” Where: DeBartolo 101 When: 8:30 and 10 p.m. How Much: $3 
Will there be someone there to pronounce the name of the movie for you intermittently through­out the presentation, so you can get your fill of hearing grown men and women say “Smaaaaaaaaaao­ooooowwwwwwwwwggggggg? ” unknown. Presented by SuB. 
SUNDAY 

What: Nothing Where: Campus When: The whole day How Much: Free 
There’s literally, lit-trally, LIT-TrALLy nothing going on Sunday. do your homework or something. 


By JOHN DARR 
Scene Writer 

you know those stories you tell at par­ties? you know, the ones that you spend all night trying to tell, butting into ran­dom conversations and just saying “hey? hey guess what?” until everyone stops and looks at you, kind of annoyed, kind of confused, but you’re too excited to regis­ter that and blurt out: 
“Last Saturday I was at this grocery store, and as the lady was checking me out, she said, that’ll be three-oh-three and I said, that’s my favorite band! And she said, ‘you too?’ and I said, ‘ANOThEr grEAT BANd!’ and, hahahaha! Oh man, hahaha, that was just, just so, hahahahah!” 
And everyone just looks at you for a second. And then they just all turn their backs on you and you sadly wonder where you went wrong. 
It was a great moment. I mean, she was this older woman who looked like she’d never listen to 3Oh!3, and you’re never witty but dANg you were fast with those 
quips. maybe the next customers in line  legendary vocals on nearly every track.  riff compensate for the lack of a relatively  
were just happy for no good reason, but  The man wrenches emotion out of every  strong vocal hook on “doves.”  
boy did they laugh along! That moment  word of every track. On “Spirit” his voice  So that’s it. Singles is a great pop album  
was special and happy and magical in  scratches in imploring earnestness. On  fronted by a frontman whose charisma  
the context of the everyday shopping mall  “Light house” it whispers in loss. On “Sun  and vocal diversity are unrivalled. It’s  
surroundings. It’s the sort of moment that  in the morning” it calls out strong like a  consistently catchy, inspiring and epic.  
you just want to share with everyone you  light in the storm. unlike so many indie  There’s nothing more to say. Now you just  
meet.  records today, one doesn’t need to inves­ have to listen.  
“Singles” is essentially a collection of  tigate or understand the lyrics to get the  
those uber-special moments. On paper,  full emotional impact of the music. It’s  Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu  
it looks like nothing — another indie-pop  simply ingrained within the music itself,  
album with 80s-influence and a unique- courtesy of herring’s ambitious and brave  
sounding singer? Pretty stripped-down,  vocal style.  
straightforward production? Sleepy lost- Of course, the record succeeds because  “Singles”  
love song lyrics like, “I want you to know, I  the songs themselves are also fantastic.  Future Islands  
was thinking about you” and “I was wait­ “Spirit” leads off with a groovy, slightly  
ing on you” and “Sun in the morning/  dark synth line. momentum and energy  Label: 4AD  
moon always beaming?” honestly, how  tumble and snowball throughout the  
do you tell someone that such an album  song until it turns into a full-on raver.  Tracks: “Spirit,” “Seasons (Waiting on  
will bring them tidings of great joy, or  Opening track “Seasons (Waiting On  You,” “Light House”  
maybe even change their life?  you)” carries a beautiful verse melody  If you like: Wild Nothing. Destroyer,  
As it turns out, Future Islands is such a  which explodes into a powerfully gor- Frankie Rose  
success because they are led by a honest­ geous, and unforgettable, guitar-driven  
to-goodness superhero. Lead singer and  chorus.  
 
songwriter Samuel T. herring carries the  ridiculously funky bass lines, a soar- 
entire album into a realm of its own with  ing bell track and a smooth-as-silk guitar  

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Keep the ‘foot’ in football 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
Sports Writer 
Ah, the intrigue of the upright. As I reviewed the recent NFL rule changes, I couldn’t help but notice the undue amount of love the uprights were getting. Three 
lenew rules revolve around the field-goal posts, one of which I emphatically agree with, one of which I think is ridiculous and 
icone of which I think is simply intriguing. 
Allow me to begin with the first change. The NFL now plans to ex­tend the goalposts an additional five feet above the crossbar, mak­ing it easier for officials to deter­mine if a field goal is good or not. 
This is one of the most logi­cal and practical changes the NFL has ever implemented. An ungodly number of professional football games are decided by solely a field goal. It only makes sense to make field goal assess­ment as effective as possible. This is one of those rule changes that cannot physically affect the game in a negative manner, requires little effort and change, but ef­fectively improves the game and prevents potential future issues. I love this change. The biggest shame? It took the NFL this long to fix this issue. 
The second change: the NFL will no longer allow dunking of the football through the uprights as a touchdown celebration. If a player does celebrate a touch­down in this manner, he will be flagged for excessive celebration. 
Though the logic of this rule makes sense, I can’t agree with the change. Last season, after a particularly emphatic dunk, the goalposts had to be adjusted and leveled out. Jimmy graham had left them crooked. Fair enough. It’s a little impractical to have to stop the flow of the football game 
e leto fix the level of a goalpost. I recognize that this makes sense. yet, they are building a theory off of one anecdote. This happened once, and the dunk celebration happens hundreds of time a season. 
more importantly, the NFL is continuing to propagate their perception as the “No Fun League.” Part of what makes sports so entertaining is their raw emotion. The Tiger Woods fist-pump. The Kevin garnett head butt. The yasiel Puig slide into home plate. Even the richard Sherman postgame interview. yes, it’s a professional sports league, but it’s the genuine lack of polished “professionalism” on the field that makes sports so captivating. 
rules to limit taunting, racist slurs and foul language on the field are good. reign negative emotion in and try to remove hate from the field; I like these changes. But, NFL, please stop siphoning off the visible passion from the game of football. It’s what makes football so special; to the players, it’s so much more than a game. 
Finally, the NFL is considering moving extra points back to the 20-yard line. I had heard rum­blings of this for a few weeks now and now it’s solidified: this rule has been modified and applied for the first two preseason games on a trial basis. 
here, the objective is to in­crease the excitement and competition in an NFL game. Teams make extra points at an absurdly high rate and to some, consequentially, the extra point attempt comes off as a wasted down. Ideally, this change would increase the excitement of scor­ing and increase the value of kickers. 
I’ve gone back and forth on this change. I can’t help but deny that it would be cool to increase the challenges a team faces in putting points on the board. Also, this change raises the kicker’s value and makes their skills even more important. 
here is why I’m hesitant to jump on the bandwagon. It could simultaneously act to phase kick­ers out of the game. moving the extra point back will incentivize going for two, devaluing a kicker to the football team. Even more abstractly, rumors have floated around about making the player who scores the touchdown kick the field goal. Again, this threat­
ld iens the place kickers hold in the NFL. 
I think the job of a kicker is the most impressive of any position. you ask a player to go out and kick an oddly-shaped ball upwards of 40 to 50 yards. Fair enough, but you also expect them to hit the field goal almost every time. This is where the bar is set. Perfection is demanded, adding more pres­sure to a position that carries the responsibility of deciding a fair share of football games in the waning seconds. 
Kickers have to love the pres­sure, and the best ones truly embrace it. That’s why kickers love having the opportunity to attempt a long field goal and why many like the rule change. Still, at the back of their mind has to be the fear that this is a sign of things to come, a league that wants more focus on the other players and less on the kickers. 
Let’s not get away from the game’s roots. Let’s not get away from the kicking game. Let’s not get away from only position that makes sense with a game named FOOTball. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ar
NBA 

Suns fend off Wizards 
Associated Press 

WAShINgTON — After let­ting a 25-point lead dwindle to three, Suns guards goran dragic and Eric Bledsoe got back to business Wednesday night, combining to finish with 48 points, 13 assists and 13 re­bounds, helping Phoenix beat the Washington Wizards 99-93 for its fifth consecutive victory. 
The Suns moved into a tie with the dallas mavericks for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference. Both clubs are 43-29 with 10 games remaining. 
The Suns have won seven of their last eight, coinciding with Bledsoe’s return to the starting lineup after missing 2½ months because of knee surgery. he had 23 points, seven assists and six rebounds, and dragic wound up with 25 points, six assists and seven rebounds. 
John Wall led Washington with 29 points and six assists. 
The Wizards, sixth in the Eastern Conference, lost for the fourth time in five games. 
Phoenix led by as much as 75-50 in the third quarter, but Washington kept chipping away at that, getting as close as 83-79 on Wall’s three-point play with a little more than 8 minutes remaining. But an 8-0 run by Phoenix that closed with dragic’s 3-pointer, then reverse layup gave the Suns some breathing room. 
Washington again cut into the lead, though, and when Wall made consecutive driving la­yups, it was 93-90 with 1½ min­utes left. Sure enough, dragic and Bledsoe again responded. Bledsoe hit a 3 off dragic’s as­sist, and then dragic fed gerald green, who was fouled and made two free throws. 
And that was pretty much that. 
With a little under 3 minutes left in the first half, Wizards shooting guard Beal walked toward Washington’s locker room, resting his left hand on his right side after colliding with a Suns player. 
The second-year guard, the No. 3 overall pick in the 2012 draft, is averaging 17.2 points and 3.3 assists this season, second on the team to Wall in both categories. Beal had eight points, four assists and three rebounds when he left. 
The Suns led the Wizards 54-44 at halftime, led by 14 points from dragic, and 12 from green. Phoenix made 55 percent of its shot attempts in the first half — and somehow managed to improve that in the early part of the third quarter. 
The Suns went 7 for 9 dur­ing a 17-4 run that began the second half, moving out to a 23-point lead — at 71-48, with a little more than 5 minutes elapsed — when Bledsoe made a 3-pointer, followed by a fast-break layup. 
Wittman called timeout and there were some boos in the arena. 
Phoenix went up by as many as 25 points, before Wall’s pair of 3s capped a 17-2 run for Washington to make things more competitive. Still, the Suns were ahead 79-69 enter­ing the fourth quarter. 
NBA 

’Cats top Nets in overtime 
Associated Press  
ChArLOTTE,  N.C.  —  
Al  Jefferson  scored  35  
points,  Kemba  Walker  had  
a  double-double  and  the  

Charlotte Bobcats defeated the Brooklyn Nets 116-111 in overtime Wednesday night for their 10th victory in the last 12 home games. 
Walker had 20 points and 12 assists and Chris douglas-roberts added 16 points, including two big jump shots in overtime. 
It was Jefferson’s 12th 30-point game this season for the Bobcats, who beat the Nets for only the second time in the last 11 meetings. 
The win pulled the Bobcats within three games of the Nets, the fifth seed in the Eastern Conference. Charlotte (35-37) has the conference’s seventh-best record, 1½ games behind sixth-place Washington. 
deron Williams finished with 29 points for Brooklyn, after scoring 18 in the first quarter. Joe Johnson had 18. 
Josh mcroberts put the Bobcats ahead for good in overtime when he cut to the basket, caught a pass from Jefferson and pulled off a reverse dunk in traffic. 
Williams tied the game at 103-103 with 59 seconds to go in regulation on a driv­ing layup, finding a crease down the middle of the lane and splitting two defenders. 

Walker knocked down a 17-foot fadeaway jumper to put Charlotte back on top, but Williams quickly an­swered with a 20-footer to tie the game again with 26.8 seconds left. 
Williams purposely fouled Walker with 7.8 seconds left. The Bobcats called timeout to set up an inbounds play, but the ball slipped out of Walker’s hands as time ex­pired and he never got a shot off, sending the game to overtime. 
After mcroberts’ slam dunk gave the Bobcats a 109-108 lead, douglas­roberts and Johnson traded 3-pointers before Walker hit a 19-footer over Williams to push the lead to three. 
Shaun Livingston missed a driving layup with 35 sec­onds left and the Bobcats got the ball. 
mcroberts was blocked on the ensuing posses­sion, but douglas-roberts tracked down the loose ball and made a 20-footer from the left wing to push the lead to lead to five and seal the victory. 
Williams set a career-high with 57 points in this same building against the Bobcats on march 4, 2012. 
And early on he looked like he about to rewrite his personal record book. 
despite missing the morning shootaround with an illness, he made seven of his first eight shots, includ­ing four 3-pointers to finish with 18 points in the first quarter. 
The Bobcats, who have surrendered 62 points to Carmelo Anthony and 61 points to LeBron James this season, seemed intent not to allow that to happen again. They shaded their coverage to Williams in the second quarter and he was limited to only two more points be­fore halftime. 
In the meantime, Jefferson was starting to heat up, scoring 22 points in the first half on 9-of-14 shooting, using a variety of low-post moves and jump hooks. 
On one play Jefferson faked right, rolled to the baseline on his left and threw a shot over Jason Collins that somehow cleared the side of the back­board and went. he made the ensuing free throw to complete the 3-point play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



SMC TENNIS 

Indiana-Wesleyan game postponed 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles’ visit to Indiana Wesleyan originally scheduled for today has been postponed due to weather, with a potential makeup date to be determined later. 
Saint mary’s (5-3, 1-0 mIAA) will be back in action as it visits Trine on Saturday for its second conference contest of the sea­son. The Belles are coming off of a 9-0 sweep of Olivet this past weekend in their opening confer­ence match. Senior co-captain mary Catherine Faller and junior Kayle Sexton won their match at No. 1 doubles and swept singles without dropping a game in the victory over the Comets (0-2, 0-2). Indiana Wesleyan (17-1) is cur­rently ranked No. 17 in the latest NAIA Coaches’ Poll. 

Belles head coach dale Campbell said his team was fo­cusing this week on being more aggressive during matches before taking on Trine (5-5, 1-0). 
“Attacking the net in doubles is important as is playing a bit more offensively in singles,” Campbell said. “you have to be consistent regardless of the pace of play.” 
The Belles are back in action when they visit Angola, Ind., on Saturday for a match with Trine. 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 

MLB 

Spring games wind down 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSdALE, Ariz. — Arizona’s Brandon mcCarthy and Chicago’s Jeff Samardzija wrapped up their spring train­ing with solid outings in the diamondbacks’ 14-4 victory over the Cubs on Wednesday. 
mcCarthy, the starter in monday’s home opener against San Francisco, allowed three runs on six hits in six innings. Smardzija, the Cubs’ open-ing-day starter monday at Pittsburgh, went three innings, giving up a run on four hits. 
The diamondbacks amassed 20 hits, including six home runs. mark Trumbo and Chris Owings were among the Arizona players who homered. 
The diamondbacks played for the first time since returning Sunday from Australia, where they opened the regular season with a pair of losses to the Los Angeles dodgers. 
manager Kirk gibson wasn’t in the Arizona dugout after un­dergoing surgery to repair a torn meniscus in his left knee. Bench coach Alan Trammell took gibson’s spot. 
gibson hobbled in on crutch­es for his pre-game news conference and said he ex­pected to be back in the dug­out for the diamondbacks’ split-squad game against Cleveland on Thursday. It will be the final game for Arizona at its Scottsdale spring training facility. 
Although it didn’t count, the blowout felt good for the diamondbacks after two disap­pointing outings in Australia. 
“This is what the doctor or­dered right here, I mean it re­ally was,” Trammell said. “The 
NBA 
fact is that we are a good hitting ball club and we need to sustain rallies and do these things, and that was very encouraging.” 
The Cubs play their final game of spring training at their new mesa digs Thursday against the crosstown rival White Sox. 
The diamondbacks and Cubs play exhibition games Friday and Saturday at Chase Field in Phoenix. 
STARTING TIME 
Cubs: Samadzija struck out two with no walks. he finished the spring with a 5.14 ErA but said he was ready for the season to begin. 
“The last two times out have been really positive,” he said. “you kind of look at all fronts 
— arm strength, body strength, mechanics, location of pitches. And I’m checking off all the box­es, so I felt good and I’m ready to get going.” 
diamondbacks: mcCarthy’s spring was the best of any Arizona starter. he finished 2-0 with a 2.70 ErA. On Wednesday, he struck out six with one walk. 
“Whether it’s a minor league or big league game, I felt like I threw most of the pitches where I wanted to,” he said of his spring efforts. “I threw with conviction. The stuff was all there. I was able to accom­plish what I wanted to while I was here. Those were all good things. how those translate into the regular season we’ll find out, but I feel like I’m in a real good place.” 
TRAINER’S ROOM 
Cubs: OF Justin ruggiano was a late scratch and was given a second day to rest his sore left ankle. ruggiano, acquired in an offseason trade from miami, is hitting .297 with two home runs this spring. 
diamondbacks: OF Cody ross, recovering from a severe hip injury and subsequent sur­gery, remains ahead of schedule in his recovery. 
gibson said ross looks good at the plate and the only thing he is waiting to see is how ross maneuvers in the outfield in game situations. ross could be back the second week of the season. 
rhP Bronson Arroyo is com­ing back from a sore back. Arroyo is scheduled to start Saturday’s exhibition game and could be in the rotation for ei­ther the fourth game of next week’s giants series or April 4 in the series opener at Colorado. 
SHORTSTOP BATTLE 
There’s been no announce­ment as to who will win the diamondbacks’ starting short­stop job, but Owings provided another glimpse of his hitting ability with his two-run homer after replacing didi gregorius in the sixth. Owings, the PCL play­er of the year last season, is hit­ting .298 this spring. gregorius, a superior defender but weaker at the plate, is batting .195. 
HOME RUN ALLEY 
Cubs left-hander Chris russin had a rough day, allowing nine runs on 10 hits, including four homers, in 2 2-3 innings. 
he gave up a two-run shot to Trumbo in the fourth, then gave up three home runs in Arizona’s six-run sixth. 
russin was one of three play­ers acquired from Texas in the July, 2013, trade that sent matt garza to the rangers. 


PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
Pacers snag late victory 
Associated Press 
INdIANAPOLIS — Paul george scored 23 points and roy hibbert had 21, leading the Indiana Pacers back from a seven-point fourth-quarter deficit for an 84-83 victory over the miami heat on Wednesday night. 
The NBA’s best home team ended a two-game losing streak, took a 2-1 lead in the season series against the two-time defending champions and rebuilt a three-game ad­vantage in the race for the Eastern Conference’s top seed. Indiana (52-20) also clinched its second straight Central division crown, something it hadn’t done since 1998-99 and 1999-2000. 
LeBron James scored 38 points, but miami managed just one basket over the final 3:54. 
Chris Bosh had a jumper at the buzzer to win it but it hit nothing but air. 
george had two monster dunks — one over LeBron James — to get the Pacers back in the game. 
It was a good, old-fashioned grudge match right down to the final shot — Bosh’s air ball from slightly to the right of the top of the key. 
There were flagrant fouls and bodies flying. Lance Stephenson was ejected mid­way through the fourth quar­ter after picking up his second technical foul. And nobody had a rougher night, physically, than James. 
he tripped in the first quar­ter and wound up dribbling the ball while sitting down. he got knocked to the ground and slid into the basket support late in the third quarter. 
he did a push up following another hard fall early in the fourth, and then got whacked across the face before shooting free throws. Before the game ended, James was called for a flagrant foul for an elbow on a layup, an elbow that land­ed squarely in the face of the 7-foot-2, 285- hibbert. 
The shot left hibbert on the ground and stumbled when he tried to get up. 
Plus, James had to con­tend with all those picks from Indiana’s All-Star center, too. And he wound up with six turn­overs, including the one that led to an Evan Turner layup that gave Indiana the lead for good with 90 seconds to go. 
The Pacers just refused to go down at home. 
After trailing by as much as 68-61 in the final minute of the third quarter and by sev­en again early in the fourth, Indiana charged back — twice. 


ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

SMC SOFTBALL 

doubleheader versus manchester postponed 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles’ doubleheader against manchester sched­uled for Wednesday was post­poned and will be rescheduled to an undetermined date. The Belles will hit the field Sunday in one of their final non-con­ference games against North Park. 
This will give the Belles (8­4, 0-0 mIAA) time to prepare against North Park (6-4, 0-0 CCIW). The Vikings are on a two-game winning streak, most recently coming off a 7-2 victory over rutgers-Newark on march 15. The Vikings are led by junior infielder Cyerra rodriguez, freshman outfielder Kristin reichert, sophomore infielder Nicole Kruckman and junior out-

PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
fielder Paige massa. These players lead the Vikings in batting averages and rBI. 
The Belles will have to con­tain rodriguez on Sunday, as she led the Vikings last year with 34 rBI, batted a .361 av­erage and led the team with 11 doubles. 
Last year, when the Belles faced off against North Park, they dropped both games in the double header losing 1-0 in their first contest and 6-3 in their second bout. however, this year Saint mary’s goes into its matchup with the Vikings on a six-game win streak in which the Belles out­scored their opponents 38 to 
9. The string of wins comes after Saint mary’s was shut out in three of their first six games. 
Behind the bats of senior Callie Selner, sophomore Jillian Busfield and freshman Caitlyn migawa, the Belles re­corded a solid .350 team bat­ting average over the course of the six-game winning streak. In addition to their batting, Selner and sophomore Sarah Burke have struck out 40 op­posing batters and allowed only six earned runs. 
Looking into how their re­cent success has played out during their games, the Belles won every game they played when scoring three or more runs. On the other side of the spectrum, in games where the Belles have trailed, the team was only able to muster up two wins, both coming from their recent double header against dominican. 
Looking to face North Park’s two-game winning streak, Saint mary’s will take on the Vikings Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Saint mary’s College softball field. 







ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | Nd 7, mArQuETTE 0 
Irish blank marquette in midweek match 
coach Jay Louderback said. 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
“All the ACC matches are on the weekend, or Friday/ 

Playing a rare midweek Sunday, but we’ve always afternoon contest did not played marquette and slow down the Irish on wanted to keep them on the Wednesday as they blanked schedule.” the golden Eagles 7-0. The slight oddity did not 
“We don’t have many week affect the No. 24 Irish (9-8), matches anymore,” Irish as they were able to get the PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
Sports Writer 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 


match off to a good start, winning the doubles point behind the team of senior Britney Sanders and junior Quinn gleason and the se­nior duo of Jennifer Kellner and Julie Sabacinski. Sanders and gleason took down the golden Eagles duo of sophomore Laia hernandez Soler and ju­nior Ali dawson, 8-3, while Kellner and Sabacinski felled the marquette pair of junior Ana Pimienta and sophomore Aina hernandez Soler, 8-4. 
“It was tough com­ing out and playing on a Wednesday,” Kellner said of her match with partner Sabacinski. “We started out pretty close, but after we got the momentum things went our way. We got used to their game style and started to read their patterns. Julie picked up on it really well and was able to execute.” 
Louderback afterwards stressed both of those matches could have been much closer than the score 
indicated.  
“One  doubles  was  8-3,  
but  we  had  so  many  tight  
games,”  Louderback  said.  

“We won three or four games where we were down [ad­vantage points] and so even though the doubles looked like we won easily, we didn’t. But we got the point.” 

With doubles concluded, it was smooth sailing for the Irish, with none of their six singles players dropping a set. Sophomore Julie Vrabel was the first off the court for Notre dame, shutting out Aina hernandez in the first set en route to a 6-0, 6-2 victory. The rest of the Irish followed suit, never letting the golden Eagles fight their way back into the match. Freshman mary Closs de­feated her opponent 6-4, 6-2, with gleason clinching the match right after Closs’s victory with a 6-2, 6-2 win of her own. 
“One of the biggest things for us was we controlled all of the singles matches and didn’t let them in the match,” Louderback said. “This definitely could have been a really tight match if we let them back in and we didn’t. … I thought we even played better second sets than we did first sets.” 
Sanders and freshman monica robinson finished off their matches, 6-2, 6-2, and 6-1, 6-2, respectively, within seconds of eacho­ther, while Kellner finished off the sweep with a 6-4, 6-0 
win.  
“It’s  a  good  confidence  
boost  for  everyone,  espe­ 
cially  since  all  the  girls  

in the ACC are so tough,” Kellner said. 
Louderback noted after the match that it was a good week to have the Wednesday match, as the Irish do not play again until Sunday, when they host No. 46 Wake Forest at 9 a.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 





SMC LACROSSE 

Belles strive for first program win 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
After a slow start to their inaugural season as a varsity program, Saint mary’s looks to build on its experiences so far and challenge a com­parable Illinois Tech team Sunday. 
The Belles (0-6, 0-0 mIAA) and the hawks (0-6) have each had their share of struggles to start the season. Saint mary’s lost its most re­cent game against Concordia 20-3 on Saturday and has not yet been able to overcome 
“As a new team, a 
large adjustment 
for our players 
has been learning 
to work with new 
teammates.” 
Amy Long 
SMC Lacrosse Head Coach 
the hurdles that come with inexperience. 
“As a new team, a large adjustment for our players has been learning to work with new teammates,” Belles coach Amy Long said. “We have 13 players who have never played together, and there is definitely a learning curve associated with that.” 
Illinois Tech, also in its first season as a varsity la­crosse program, has en­countered similar speed bumps. The hawks have al­lowed 106 goals in their first six games while scoring just 13, most recently losing 20-1 to Otterbein on Saturday. 
Long said she expects to see improvement from pre­vious games in the matchup, especially with home field advantage. 
“I expect our game on Sunday versus Illinois Tech to be a very competitive game,” she said. “It will be our first game at home, and I expect that to have a posi­tive impact on our players.” 
She said that the team has been addressing sev­eral glitches, especially the transition from defense to offense, and that they hope to improve in these areas on Saturday. 
“Our transition through the midfield ... continues to be a challenge for us,” Long said. “going into the game, we will continue to work on our transitions and slowing the ball down on offense.” 
Long also pointed to major improvements on both ends of the field that are prom­ising for the team moving forward. 
“Our team has a strong de­fense. The players on defense communicate and work well together,” she said. “Our pa­tience and confidence on offense has also improved greatly since our first game.” 
The Belles have allowed just 28 goals in the second period compared to 67 in the first, which Long attributes to the team’s resiliency over the course of the game. 
The team’s shot, ground ball and turnover statistics have also improved signifi­cantly since the first few games. 
Freshman midfielder Aubrey golembieski has been a standout for the Belles, notching 11 goals while securing 25 draw con­trols and 20 ground balls so far this season, all team-leading statistics. She had four of the team’s seven goals in the 12-7 loss to Aurora last Thursday. 
Loesch has added five goals on 13 shots, while freshman defenseman Katlynn dee has a team-high 10 caused turnovers. 
despite the shaky start to the season, Long said she re­mains confident in her team and the improvements they have made. 
“They have built close re­lationships already and con­tinue to learn more about their teammate’s motivators and how to communicate most effectively.” 
The Belles host the hawks for a 1 p.m. contest Sunday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD | TEXAS rELAyS; VICTOr LOPEZ INVITATIONAL 
Irish begin outdoor season 
By MATT GARCIA 
Sports Writer 

The Irish kick off their out­door season this week, with 18 athletes competing in the Texas relays in Austin, Tex., starting Wednesday and 27 racing at the Victor Lopez Invitational in houston on Friday and Saturday. 
Irish coach Joe Piane touched on his goals for the weekend. 
“We would like to see [grad­uate student Ted glasnow] place high at the Texas relays and place high in the coun­try,” Piane said. “I’d like to see our men’s and women’s miles do well. We are hoping to get a lot done down there.” 
Still in South Bend on Wednesday afternoon, Piane was following the results closely, again mentioning glasnow. 
“Ted has got 2250 points after the first three events, so hopefully that should get him to 3700 or better,” Piane explained. “That would be a very, very good first day.” 
glasnow participated in the men’s decathlon, in which he placed 16th in the 100-meter dash (11.2 sec­onds), 14th in the long jump 
(6.7 meters), third in the shot put (13.78 meters), 14th in the high jump (1.81 meters, and 10th in the 400-meter dash 

(51.22seconds). 
Thus far, the Texas relays have only completed the Women’s heptathlon and the men’s decathlon. glasnow was the only Irish runner to compete at the Texas relays Wednesday. The remain­der of the Irish competitors will begin preliminary races today. 
These being the first out­door meets of the year, Piane made it known that there was no change in mentality dur­ing the events. 
“Track is track,” Piane 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
said. “If you are running the 400-meter inside, you are still going to be running 400 meters outside. The people it does affect are the people without indoor events, like discus throwers. They have got a little bit of adjusting to do, but nothing too drastic.” 
The Texas relays continue today, and the Victor Lopez Invitation begins Friday as the Irish continue to strive for a solid start to the out­door season. 
Contact Matt Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu 




MEN’ SWIMMING 

Seven to compete at NCAA Championships 
Observer Staff Report 
Seven Notre dame swimmers and one diver will hit the pool at the NCAA Championships beginning Thursday at the Lee and Joe Jamail Texas Swimming Center in Austin, Texas. 
Senior Frank dyer and ju­niors Zach Stephens and John Williamson qualified for in­dividual swimming events, while senior Colin Babcock, ju­nior John hughes, sophomore matthew Buerger and freshman Tom Anderson travel to the meet as part of Irish relays. Freshman Joe Coumos advanced in the diving portion of the champion­ships after a strong performance at the Zone C diving meet on march 13-15. 
dyer, Stephens, Williamson and hughes are all returnees to the NCAA Championships, having swum in last year’s meet, while Babcock, Buerger, 
Anderson  and  Coumos  will  
make  their  championship  
debuts.  

On Thursday’s first day of ac­tion, Notre dame swimmers will compete in the 200-yard freestyle and 400-yard medley relays; Stephens will race in the 200-yard individual medley, and dyer and Williamson square off in the 500-yard freestyle. 
The 200-yard medley and 800­yard freestyle relays take place Friday when Williamson (100­yard butterfly), dyer (200-yard freestyle) and Stephens (100­yard breaststroke) also swim in separate individual events. 
In Saturday’s final sessions, the three individual qualifiers round out their weekend swims, with dyer in the 100-yard free­style, Stephens in the 200-yard breaststroke and Williamson in the 200-yard butterfly. The 400­yard freestyle relay closes out the meet and the season for the Irish. 
In diving, Coumos competes in the one meter Thursday, the three meter Friday and the plat­form Saturday. 
Several Notre dame swim­mers carry high seeds into the meet that could translate into points for the Irish. 
Stephens enters the meet ranked seventh in the 200-yard breaststroke and 11th in the 100­yard breaststroke, while his No. 17 seed in the 200-yard individ­ual medley lies just out of top-16 scoring range. 
dyer, who is the program’s first four-time NCAA qualifier, holds Notre dame’s overall highest seed at fourth in the 200-yard freestyle, and Williamson’s 200­yard butterfly qualifying time is good for a 14th-place seed. 
In last year’s meet in Indianapolis, Notre dame fin­ished in 36th place with seven points. Williamson (13th place, 200-yard butterfly), Stephens (16th, 200-yard breaststroke) and the 800-yard freestyle relay of dyer, hughes and former Irish swimmers Bill Bass and John mcginley (16th) collected hon­orable mention All-American accolades. 
This year’s meet will also be the final competition for Irish coach Tim Welsh, who will retire at the end of the season. Welsh has led Notre dame for the past 29 years and has seen 23 Irish swimmers and divers qualify for NCAA Championships dur­ing his career. 
Welsh and his eight 2014 qualifiers compete at the NCAA Championships at the Lee and Joe Jamail Texas Swimming Center in Austin, Texas, begin­ning Thursday and concluding Saturday. 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 




ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

Softball wall to put the finishing touch-gumpf called the Wildcats’ Springmann, senior linebacker Football senior defensive lineman Tony es on an eight-run frame that team similar to another she is 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 20 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 20 
Ben Councell and sophomore 

put the game all but out of very familiar with – her own. but the situation on defense is cornerback devin Butler — will 
Eagle first baseman Lindsay reach. “[Northwestern’s] pitch-slightly different. Notre dame be playing catch-up whenever 
rich to fly out to left. After another clean inning of ers do a great job of keeping is in the process of installing they do return, Vangorder said. 
The Irish roared back in work by Nasland, the Irish add-them in ball games. They have multiple looks defensively, and “It will be uphill,” he said. 
the bottom half of the inning. ed four insurance runs in the a very balanced lineup. They they’re doing the base teach-“Each player’s a little bit differ-
Notre dame batted around and bottom of the fourth to bring have speed, they have power, ing within different packages. ent, but they’re definitely going 
saw 13 plate appearances in all the score to 12-2 before Winter and they don’t make mistakes A new-look defense, one that to be behind. … There’s no get-
as they grabbed eight runs to trotted out to ice the game and defensively. I could be talk-Vangorder said will not be ex-ting around it. hopefully they 
take a commanding lead. rewrite the record books. ing about us,” gumpf said. clusively a 4-3, brings new ter-bring some different kinds of 
“In the first inning, we had Senior captain and shortstop “We have a great rivalry with minology, as well, which makes things to it as an individual as 
horrible at-bats; in the second Chloe Saganowich was 3-3 on Northwestern, and I think the it even more difficult, according a player that help them recover 
inning, we were getting there. the day with a double, three rBI girls are excited to get out there to the defensive coordinator. quickly and put them in a posi-
But [Eastern michigan] got and two runs scored as the Irish and have a great ballgame.” But Vangorder has done tion to help us.” 
those two runs against us, and I improved to 38-3-1 in home The contest with this before. Notre dame is 
think the girls said, ‘Oh boy, we nonconference games since Northwestern begins at 4 p. Vangorder’s 12th different McGlinchey being ‘thrown to 
better get going,’” gumpf said. melissa Cook Stadium opened m. Thursday at melissa Cook school or NFL team he’s coached the wolves’ 
“I like the way that we respond-in 2008. The Irish play another Stadium. The Irish then travel since joining the grand Valley In practice sessions open to 
ed. We earned those wins.” such game tomorrow as they to Syracuse, N. y., to play a State staff in 1989. Vangorder the media, sophomore mike 
Junior centerfielder Emilee take on No. 23 Northwestern three-game weekend series spent last season as the New mcglinchey has lined up at right 
Koerner led the inning off with (18-6), a team that has beaten with the Orange. york Jets linebacker coach after tackle with the first team. The 
a walk. Eight batters and five such quality competition as serving as Auburn’s defensive 6-foot-7.5, 300-pounder didn’t 
runs later, she hit a three-run current No. 6 South Alabama Contact Evan Anderson at coordinator in 2012. play as a freshman but has 
home run over the right-field and No. 19 Washington. eander11@nd.edu 
“The thing that stands out flashed his raw ability thus far, here is our youth. We’re so denbrock said. young,” Vangorder said. “We’re “When the light comes on really young in the front seven and he gets it, he’s gonna be an especially. It’s young players. So incredible football player from we’ve got to speed the process the standpoint that I think the up and bring them along.” physical gifts that he possesses 
Vangorder noted that he’s as far as his athletic ability, ob-still evaluating players, espe-viously his size is hard to miss,” cially as the coaches throw a lot denbrock said. “But with that, of schemes at players and move he’s got some football intelli­them around the defense. gence that can be cultivated and 
“It’s an evaluation period for can grow rather quickly and that us too, trying to find a comfort puts us in a position, obviously, zone in respects to a player and to get him on the field right away. his ability and where he’s go-“And we’ve kind of thrown ing to fit best as we build our him to the wolves here in the schemes,” he said. spring and let him kind of fight 
through it. And he’s done a really ‘Uphill’ climb to return from nice job so far.” injuries Notre dame will hold its sev­
defensive players out of con-enth spring practice Friday. tact for the spring while recover­ing from injuries — the likes of Contact Mike Monaco at PAId AdVErTISEmENT senior linebacker Jarrett grace, jmonaco@nd.edu 
Jack Flaherty, who pinch ran for 

Baseball Lidge. 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 20 
“It’s always nice to make it a little 

pressure-free,” Aoki said. “I don’t freshman catcher ryan Lidge (2-know if it’s ever pressure-free but it for-3) also had multi-hit days for was nice that we had those insur-Notre dame. ance runs.” 
The Irish jumped out to a 2-0 Crusaders sophomore right-lead in the first inning. After junior hander Ellis Foreman (1-1) took the designated hitter Conor Biggio was loss. hit by a pitch, junior center fielder After giving up two runs in the mac hudgins laid down a sacri-first, Foreman cruised through the fice bunt and junior first baseman next four innings. he allowed just Blaise Lezynski drove him in with one hit and threw just 31 pitches a rBI single to right field. in those four frames. Foreman 
Fiala poked a single to right field finished with 79 pitches and gave and freshman second baseman up four runs on nine hits in seven Cavan Biggio flew out to deep left innings. field to plate Lezynski. Notre dame “I thought the kid did a fairly nearly scored again in the first, but decent job of mixing the fastball, Valparaiso senior center fielder change up to the lefties,” Aoki said. Chris manning threw Fiala out at “he got us on some early weak con-the plate on a single up the middle tact after the first inning where we to end the frame. put up those two runs. In the last 
The Crusaders manufactured a three innings or so, I thought our run in the top of the second when at-bats got a little bit better against senior third baseman michael him.” morman singled, stole second and Irish junior right-hander Cristian eventually scored on a mcCarty Torres earned his second save by wild pitch. getting the final two outs. 
Notre dame added an insurance The Irish return to ACC play this run in the sixth when Fiala and weekend when they host Wake Cavan Biggio strung together back-Forest. Friday and Sunday’s games to-back two-out singles. Kutsulis will be at Four Winds Field while drove in Fiala with a rBI double to Saturday’s will be at the u.S. Steel put the Irish up 3-1. yard in gary, Ind. 
The Irish scored again in the seventh as hudgins’ sacrifice bunt Contact Matthew DeFranks at scored sophomore pinch runner mdefrank@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | WILL ShOrTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChrISTOPhEr BruCKEr 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hILLAry mANgIAFOrTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE mEPhAm grOuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: do your best to secure your future. Nurture your relationships and protect your position. Question alternatives offered, but don’t be too quick to disregard an opportunity for the wrong reason. go after your goals passionately and with the intent to excel, but be mindful of those you encounter along the way. Balance will be vital if you want to succeed. your numbers are 7, 10, 19, 22, 31, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Favors will be granted. mingle and you will meet people who can help you advance. Take on a physical challenge and you will feel good about the way you look and feel. Children and elders will offer insight and honesty. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Broaden your knowledge and your connections. Take part in a function that will add to your experience and bring you in touch with people who are beneficial. don’t let love or an emotional situation stand in your way. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get ready to make a move. Idle time will lead to confusion. re-evaluate and take action. Love is on the rise, and the opportunity to see into someone’s world or cultural background will help you make an important decision. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stand up for your beliefs. make decisions based on your needs. don’t allow anyone to interfere or force you in a direction not suited to your goals. Follow the path you feel most comfortable with and you will be successful. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look, see and follow through. your charismatic approach will win favors and bring you good fortune. do whatever it takes to improve your quality of living and your relationship with someone you love. A change will motivate and inspire you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get involved in projects and humanitarian causes you believe in. your insight and tenacity will put you in a key position that will boost your confidence and help you gain respect from influential people. Press on and let your talents shine. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Network and let your social skills influence the caliber of person you attract. Collaborating with someone who has as much to bring to the table as you will result in a fruitful future. Love and romance are in the stars. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Listen carefully and head in the direction that makes the most sense. you can’t please everyone, and in this case, suffering a loss to appease someone is foolish. Once you reach your destination, re-evaluate some of your relationships. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take action and follow through to honor a promise made. Someone may let you down, but that doesn’t mean you should lower your standards or do the same thing. Show off what you have to offer and you will make gains. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make sure you’re stepping forward. Focus on finishing what you start and living up to your word. you’ll be disappointed if you count on someone to come through for you. do what needs doing and don’t lose your resolve. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Show your enthusiasm and you will create a buzz. Showing interest in what others do will help you gain the support you need to follow through with your own plans. Love will bring about a change in the way you live. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): An offer that appears too good to be true will end up having its drawbacks if you don’t make personal adjustments first. Look at the pros and cons before you implement a change that may leave you in a vulnerable position. 

Birthday Baby: you are steadfast, earnest and progressive. you are sensitive and just. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNurEK 


make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
BASEBALL | Nd 4, VALPArAISO 1 
McCarty earns first win, ND tops Valparaiso 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Senior Sports Writer 
A week ago, Notre dame had no chance of beating Valparaiso 
— because the game had not yet been scheduled. 
The Irish (9-14, 1-8 ACC) beat the Crusaders (9-10, 1-2 horizon) 4-1 on Wednesday night at Four Winds Field in a replacement game for both teams. 
“It’s nice to win,” Irish coach mik Aoki said. “Those have been difficult for us to get. That was a much-needed win.” 
Both Notre dame’s Tuesday game against Illinois-Chicago and Valparaiso’s tilt with Ball State were postponed due to weather. 
Sophomore right-hander Nick mcCarty (1-5) earned his first win of the season by throwing six in­nings of three-hit, one-run ball. he struck out five and walked none. 
“I didn’t think Nick was su­per sharp but I think he battled through it and I thought that the big thing for him was that he was in the strike zone,” Aoki said. “he made them put the ball in play as opposed to giving up those free 90s which he has a little bit this year and it’s hurt him.” 
mcCarty has had three outings of at least six innings — includ­ing seven innings of one-run ball against NC State — but had not registered a victory. 
“[It] feels really good,” mcCarty said. “We’ve been working very hard for this and it just feels good to get that monkey off my back and get the first win.” 
The win came just four days after mcCarty had a rough outing against Virginia Tech. he went just one and a third innings and gave up five hits, seven runs, six earned in Saturday’s 8-3 loss. 
“Admittedly, on his part, he was not very good on Saturday so it was nice to see him do that,” Aoki said. 
Freshman third baseman Kyle Fiala led the Irish at the plate, go­ing 3-for-4 with a run scored. Sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsulis (2-for-4 with one rBI) and 
see BASEBALL PAGE 18 
ND SOFTBALL | Nd 12, EASTErN mIChIgAN 2 


FOOTBALL 

young players fill roster 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
regardless of how they define it, mike denbrock and Brian Vangorder see youth. The first-year Irish coordinators, tasked with leading the offense and de­fense, respectively, see a team that returns only three players (excluding special teams) who started all 13 games last season. 
Whereas much of the team can be typified by underclass­men, Vangorder even describes some upperclassmen as young, whether because of their lack of game experience or unfamil­iarity with the new scheme. 
For the first time since spring practice began, Vangorder and denbrock met with the media following Wednesday’s session, the sixth practice of the spring. 
“We are so young,” denbrock said. “I look at our offense and there’s so many young guys in so many spots that are going to have to grow up pretty fast. during the team meeting, I look over at the schedule, and I’m like, ‘To get from where we are now to where we’re going to have to be in the fall, we’re going to have to make tremen­dous progress.’ 
“The work ethic, the ability that these guys have is going to help us do that. But we’ve got some strides to make before we play that schedule.” 


Vangorder, too, noted the progress that needs to be made, but the situation on defense is 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 18 
Irish roll over Eagles 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
Sports Writer 
It took Notre dame only five innings to trounce the visiting Eastern michigan 12-2 in the team’s much-delayed home opener Wednesday as senior pitcher Laura Winter, a 2014 Senior CLASS Award candi­date, tossed one scoreless in­ning to become the winningest Irish pitcher of all time. 
Irish coach deanna gumpf called it a proud day as Winter (14-3) passed heather Booth with her 97th career victory. 
“[Winter] has been amaz­ing for us, and she has carried us,” gumpf said. “I’m just very proud of her, very happy for her. I can’t wait to see what happens the rest of the way.” 
After cold weather post­poned a series this past week­end against Pittsburgh and shuffled around this week’s schedule, the No. 24 Irish (20-7) were slow out of the gates against Eastern michigan (8­
17) as they attempted to shake off the effects of a nearly two-week layoff. 
Both offenses were dormant until the third inning, when the Eagles drew first blood. Junior second baseman Jenn Lucas and senior centerfield­er Lindsay Smith bunted her over to second base before a gap double before junior third baseman Abby davidson bashed a double to the gap to give the Eagles a 1-0 lead. 
Irish starting sophomore pitcher Allie rhodes set down the next hitter, but was chased after the Eagles added a second run on an error by Notre dame junior third baseman Katey haus. gumpf then handed the ball to freshman pitcher rachel Nasland, who got the 
see SOFTBALL PAGE 18 


ND Softball vs. Eastern Michigan  W 12-2  ND Softball vs. Northwestern  4 p.m.  Men’s Lacrosse at Syracuse  Sat., noon  
ND Women’s Tennis vs. Marquette  W 7-0  Track at Victor Lopez Invitational  All day  Men’s Hockey vs. St. Cloud St.  Sat., 9 p.m.  
Baseball vs. Valparaiso  W 4-1  ND Men’s Swimming  All day  ND Women’s Basketball vs. Oklahoma St.  Sat., 2:30 p.m  
ND Track and Field  All day  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Stanford  Sat., noon  




