The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 24 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Mendoza takes over SIBC from SAO 
In its 25th year, Student International Business Council changes membership policy, limits numbers 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
The student international business council (sibc), the university’s largest student organization, changed its membership requirements at the start of the school year to permit only students pursuing a major or minor in the mendoza college of business to join. 
dr. angela logan, sibc’s faculty advisor, said these changes occurred after sibc came under the purview of the mendoza college of business. previously, the student activities office (sao) had authority over sibc, which has about 500 members and is celebrating 




Students aid Haitian homeless 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
in response to the 2010 earthquake, members of the notre dame engineer­ing department formed “engineering2empower,” or e2e, a housing initiative with the goal of designing safe and affordable houses that haitian families can buy from haitian businesses. 
Following a investigatory mis­sion to haiti in march 2010, notre dame faculty members Tracy Kijewski-correa and alexandros Taflanidis, with graduate stu­dent dustin mix, created the group, which works with local families and builders to meet specific housing needs. 
“it was possible to just write a [reconnaissance] report and let that be the end of it,” mix, cur­rent in-country director of e2e, 
see haiTi PAGE 3 


SMC protest targets racial injustice 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
saint mary’s community members congregated for a peaceful protest wednesday to honor michael brown, the 18-year-old shot and killed by police officer darren wilson in Ferguson, missouri on aug. 
9. The demonstration, themed #dontshoot, aimed to raise awareness on the racial injus­tice that many believe are re­sponsible for brown’s death. Junior elizabeth renner said brown, a black man, was 
see don’T shooT PAGE 4 


sexual battery reported on campus 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame security police (ndsp) emailed stu­dents wednesday evening alerting them to a report of sexual battery that occurred early sunday morning. 
The alleged battery took place “at a campus-wide so­cial event,” and the report was made to a university administrator, the email stated. 
The email quoted “du lac: a guide to student life,” notre dame’s official policy book, and warned students of the risks of sexual assault as well as the standards for consent. 
“sexual assault or battery can happen to anyone,” the email stated. “anyone initiating any kind of sex­ual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given.” 

“… intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated — whether by alcohol, drugs or other­wise — is incapable of giving consent.” 
students should maintain caution and awareness of their surroundings to avoid risks, the email stated. 
“on college campuses, perpetrators are more like­ly to assault an acquain­tance than a stranger. being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual as­sault. nothing a survivor does or does not do is an ex­cuse for sexual assault.” 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your lucky charm? 

Ryan Bradley 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 
“my pet rock.” 
Michael O’Callahan 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 
“my favorite cereal.” 
Michael Pettit 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 

“my roommate, ryan bradley. i take him to all my tests.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Laura Rosas 
senior 
off-campus 
“The nd medal and my monkey charm on a necklace.” 
Kate Sullivan 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“my nd alex and ani bracelet.” 
Chris Weber 
senior 
st. edward’s hall 
“my saint medallions, st. christopher, st. andrews, and st. benedict.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds alex carson emilie Kefalas Josh dulany 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
samantha coughlin caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mindful Meditation ND Women’s Tennis ND Women’s Tennis Men’s Golf “Candide” Auditions 
Jodi lo rex shannon 

Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion Warren Golf Course Washington Hall Center All day All day Clubhouse 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Free and open to the Free and open to the All day Sign up at Crowley 
Corrections 

Open to all students. public. public. Gridiron Classic. Hall. 
in the september 23 issue of The observer, the article “super sibs club 
“Beneath the Labor Cafe Saturday Vigil Mass Film: Brave “The Pace of Praise” 
offers mentorship opportunities” 
Harvest Sky” Geddes Hall Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library 
incorrectly stated that soeren palumbo 
DeBartolo Performing 4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Heart Arts Center 4:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. 
started the club. ann lagomarcino, the 
Arts Center Forum on work and 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Annual Religion & 
director of marketing at the logan 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. labor issues. Music by the Women’s Cost is $4 for Literature lecture. 
center began the club circa 1991. The 
Free film. Liturgical Choir. students. 
observer regrets this error. 



University celebrates science sesquicentennial 
led to where we are today.” 
By KAYLA MULLEN 

news writer marissa gebhard, assistant 
director of marketing and com-

in 1865, 23 years after notre munications for the college of dame was founded, the study science, said the celebration of science was introduced to will commence during science the university. To celebrate 150 week, which will take place oct. years of notre dame science, the 6-10, with one event held by each college of science is hosting a science department during the yearlong series of events with the week. local community and national “chemistry and biochemistry sponsors, gregory crawford, dean are hosting an ‘acs [american of the college of science, said. chemical society] on campus’ 
“we think it’s important, espe-event, geared more toward grad­cially considering the vast expan-uate students for networking sion of our work and its value for on october seventh to eighth,” society, to let the rest of the world gebhard said. “The physics de­know about our wonderful inven-partment will also host a dvT tions and discoveries,” crawford [digital visualization theater] said. “we’re looking for more ideas show on oct. 8 as well, which from students, faculty and staff to would be a great study break.” help us celebrate and showcase gebhard said the week’s sched­this remarkable history that has ule includes lectures in applied 
paid adverTisemenT 
and computation mathemat­ics and overlaps with the “math for everyone” lecture series. science week will conclude in the debartolo performing arts center with a taping of the national radio show “science Friday,” gebhard said. 
“ira Flatow, the host of ‘science Friday,’ will be interviewing sci­ence faculty on stage about their research,” gebhard said. “it will be edited, and then it will be broadcast that Friday, the 18th.” 
gebhard said early lab equip­ment, molecule models and fos­sils from notre dame’s science history collection is on display in the raclin gallery of notre dame history as an ongoing exhibit. 
“it is very important that notre dame, as a leading catholic uni­versity, has a reputation for rigor­ous scientific research because we are respected when we bring our virtues and values into conver­sations on issues like bioethics,” crawford said. 
Haiti 
conTinued From page 1 
said. “or we could try and go the long road and actually do some­thing about what we saw.” 
Kijewski-correa, associate pro­fessor of engineering, said the group felt a stronger call to help the people of haiti rather than simply analyze and evaluate the problems facing their community. 
“many other groups did the recon and left,” Kijewski-correa said.  “we didn’t leave. we all be­came engineers to serve society in some way, and these were the populations that were really face­less and voiceless. 
“we weren’t going to just study 

the problem. we were going to try 
and solve it.” 
an estimated 1.3 million haitian people were left homeless 
paid adverTisemenT 
The historical milestones of the science department at notre dame coincide with break­throughs in scientific knowledge, crawford said. 
“Fr. John Zahm, for example, was an early voice who insisted that the theory of biological evo­lution was not in conflict with catholic teaching,” crawford said. “he was also an early champion of women’s involvement in science. 
“Fr. Julius nieuwland discov­ered the basis for synthetic rubber and worked with dupont to carry the idea into commercialization, an early example of the kind of in­novation and translation that is an important part of our work today. in 1904, Fr. nieuwland, who was also a botanist, established the ir­replaceable collection of 268,000 specimens in our herbarium in our museum of biodiversity.” 
crawford said the university’s involvement in research for the atomic bomb was due in large part to its investment in and 
after the earthquake, primar­ily because of the poor quality of haitian home construction, according to a university press release. 
“lasting solutions to infrastruc­ture problems in the developing world can only be established through true and bold innova­tions that can build capacity and empower the local population,” e2e’s website states. “Failure to do so … can ultimately perpetuate the dependence on foreign aid.” 
Taflanidis, associate professor of engineering, said foreign aid is a part of the solution for haiti but not a full remedy. 
“The aid is needed, but it doesn’t solve the problem,” Taflanidis said. “it just puts a patch over it. now, four years later, we’re see­ing haitians starting to build their homes in exactly the same ways they were building before.” 
commitment to new technologies. 
“research for the manhattan project during world war ii was conducted on campus because we had one of the most advanced accelerators in the country,” crawford said. 
science was an integral com­ponent of Father sorin’s vision for notre dame, crawford said. 
“science is obviously a nec­essary component of any well-rounded education, and Fr. sorin’s vision to become a force for good in the world called for such a curriculum,” crawford said. “of course, science has become even more important today as we look for answers to big human prob­lems in such fields as health, en­ergy, and the environment.” 
For the updated information on events planned for the 150th college of science, visit http://sci­ence.nd.edu/events/150 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 


at the end of last semester, notre dame graduate and under­graduate students constructed two prototypes of the haitian home designs on campus. These prototypes are showcased at the e2e expo open houses before home football games. 
“The design we are promoting is a concrete frame with panels,” Taflanidis said. “at notre dame, we tried to replicate the conditions in haiti by having our undergrads, untrained and unskilled laborers, make and install the panels.” 
according to e2e’s website, an estimated 600 thousand haitian homes still need to be recon­structed due to damage from the earthquake. 
“as much as i would love to build 600 thousand homes, i am equally honored to build 10 homes that are built in a way that will still be used 10 years from now and will have long term sustainable im­pacts,” Kijewski-correa said. 
mix said e2e worked with a haitian family to build the first demonstration home in the city of léogâne in 2014. e2e plans to con­struct five more demonstration homes with financially eligible haitian families throughout 2015. 
“This could be a 10- or 15-year process because we’re not just building houses,” mix said. “we’re helping to create a housing mar­ket in haiti with the ultimate goal of empowering and being able to step back and leave everything in the hands of the haitians.” 
Kijewski-correa said notre dame and its community could play a vital role in continuing e2e’s work in haiti. 
“we’re taking things one house at a time,” she said.  “all we hope for now is that alumni and stu­dents will hear the story and join us in this opportunity for change, in what i feel like is notre dame’s unique responsibility in the world.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu. 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

panel examines obstacles to leaving abusive partners 
By KEIRA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s professors and students discussed the complexity of domestic vio­lence in a lecture titled “why don’t women Just leave,” held in the student center on Tuesday. 
The discussion was sponsored by the Justice education department and led by dr. adrienne lyles­chockley, associate pro­fessor of communications marne austin, and saint mary’s senior meredith mersits alongside ywca advocate mary smith and ywca victim services attor­ney Kristine burggraf. The five women discussed the complications of leaving an abusive relationship. 
smith, a ywca advo­cate for victims of domestic abuse, said leaving an abu­sive situation is a process which can take months or years due to the emotional dependency formed during the relationship. 
“we develop what we call co-dependency, meaning we become the caregiver,” smith said. “we are living through that person. we don’t know — we don’t care about ourselves anymore. we breathe, we eat, we think, we love them.” 
smith said the disengage­ment process requires that victims overcome their fear of the unknown in order to escape. 
“we have the fear of not be­ing able to make it because you don’t believe in your po­tential,” she said. “because you have been somebody else’s, you have lost your­self. you don’t believe in the potential. you don’t believe in what you are capable of doing.” 
smith said ending an abu­sive relationship gives vic­tims freedom and endless opportunities 
“‘what if?’ there are many ‘what-if’s’ in life, but if you make the courage to do it, and you get the support you need to, you will be able to make it,” smith said. “it is a beautiful thing to learn who you are and what you want in life.” 
mersits, a survivor of an abusive relationship, said she remained in the rela­tionship because she was in denial and felt she needed to stay. 
“i continued to rational­ize my experience,” mersits said. 
mersits said she convinced herself that her situation did not compare to the stories of others who had endured re­lationship abuse. 
“i would continue to say, ‘oh that’s not our relation­ship. he loves me. if it was like that, i would definitely be getting out. i’m strong enough to do that.’ but no, i wasn’t until i was actually able to get out,” mersits said. “it is just not what you think. it’s way harder then say­ing, ‘i’m going to get up and leave.’ … i felt like i was con­fined to this relationship.” 
austin said she struggled to leave an abusive relation­ship because she could not see the abuse for what it was. 
“There is a particular term called ‘gas lighting,’ which is when you are in a situation, you think that you are cra­zy — you literally think you are going crazy — because things that an abusive part­ner says to you, that negates what you see as your reality,” austin said. 
burggraf, ywca victim services attorney, said there are many reasons why wom­en do not leave, including fa­milial ties, lack of financial support or simply not being ready. 
“our program is awe­some, but our domestic vio­lence program is 45 days,” burggraf said. “That’s not enough time to get [vic­tims] out of that situation and back on their feet so they can survive. a situation may be horrific, and some of them are, but they feel they have no other option. and then, sometimes we get where the women just aren’t ready to leave. They’re just not there.” 
mersits said as personal as relationship abuse is, more people need to get in­volved to provide support and resources for potential survivors. 
“i know this conversation is us telling our personal stories, but it’s not really about me,” mersits said. “it is not about marne; it is not about adrienne. it is about all the women out there and what you can do — what we all can do. 
The Justice education department plans to contin­ue the discussion of domes­tic violence with a day-long event in rice commons on nov. 20 titled “a symposium on domestic violence and intersectionality.” 
Contact Keira Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 
Don’t Shoot 
conTinued From page 1 

walking in the middle of the street when wilson, a white officer, ordered him to move to the sidewalk. renner said the exchange escalated and ended with wilson firing multiple — ultimately fatal 
— shots at brown, who was unarmed. 
“it was said that he physi­cally assaulted the officer, but witnesses say that he had his hands in the air, which is the universal sym­bol for ‘don’t shoot,’” junior Taylr davis said. 
a saint mary’s-hosted forum on the racial ten­sions surrounding brown’s death inspired renner and davis to team up with assistant director of student involvement and multicultural services bianca Tirado and fellow students to take a stand. 
“after attending a forum here at saint mary’s last month on the topic, i want­ed to enable the students, faculty and staff of our com­munity to be a part of raising awareness of the injustices that occurred in Ferguson, missouri,” renner said. 
protestors wore black t-shirts with “#donTshooT” printed across the front in bold white letters, renner said. The peaceful and silent demonstration ended with a group photo. 
“we are standing together as a community to take a picture with our hands up to show our desire for peace,” renner said. “This picture will be taken not only in re­membrance of brown, but also the many other victims that have died at the sake of injustice.” 
participants who did not purchase the shirt were asked to wear a black t-shirt “to not only allow our #donTshooT message to stand out during the pic­ture, but to also symbolize mourning for the victims that we are representing in our picture,” renner said. 
“we picked the color black because it signifies mourn­ing,” davis said. “we are mourning the loss of mike brown, Trayvon martin, eric garner and all the other in­dividuals that have lost their lives because of this horrible epidemic.” 
renner said she hoped the demonstration would draw more media attention to brown’s death and social injustice. 
“we want our message to stand out in the photo,” renner said. “if we all are expressing the message, it will show our unity as a community.” 
when renner proposed the idea of a protest, she re­ceived a remarkable amount of immediate support from not only students but also 
faculty and  staff,  renner  
said.  
“saint  mary’s  college  

paid adverTisemenT 
is strongly rooted in uni­ty among its community members,” renner said. “i wanted to be able to bring attention to a very impor­tant matter to a very impor­tant place to many students 
— this is our home. we are proud to host the event on saint mary’s campus be­cause we are members of a community that speaks out against injustice and stands up for the rights of others.” 
davis said hosting the demonstration on saint mary’s campus was sig­nificant because such re­
actions  to  current  and  
controversial  topics  are  
rare on campus.  

“Things such as this do not happen at saint mary’s,” davis said. “we have talks, and we may debate in class, but we wanted to show the entire community our con­cern. we wanted to make everyone know that this is a serious matter.” 
davis said she hopes this event will inspire aspir­ing student activists in the area. 
“what i personally hope comes of this demonstra­tion is understanding ... but also i hope this is the cata­lyst to other events such as this one,” davis said. “i hope we spark a flame which al­lows other girls to speak up against what they feel is wrong.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 




SIBC 
conTinued From page 1 
for growth of the organiza­tion, the mendoza college of business welcomed sibc under its steward­ship,” logan said. “as the organization celebrates its 25th anniversary, we are excited and poised to con­tinue sibc’s commitment of ‘peace through commerce’ across the globe.” 
senior alessandro disanto, one of sibc’s co-presidents, said the coun­cil’s move to mendoza forced it to limit its membership. 
“as of the end of august, we were officially moved from under sao to the mendoza college of business,” disanto said. “as an organization officially housed within the college of business, our member­ship is excluded specifically to those … who are either majors within the mendoza college of business or have minors or concentra­tions in a program that re­quires courses in mendoza as part of their mandatory curriculum.” 
disanto said the student leadership of the council was informed of the decision to move into mendoza on aug. 
24. he said no students were involved in the decision-making process. 
“we were informed of the decision after they were made, at the end of august as we arrived onto campus,” he said. “we were not privy to the discussions as they were being had over the summer between sao, development and mendoza. 
“it is our understanding that the justification is that now that sibc is housed un­der mendoza, when students go out and represent them­selves as sibc members to companies through these quality management per-projects, they are represent-spective, but it is our overall ing, implicitly, the mendoza philosophy that we feel that college of business, and a broad membership crite­the [mendoza college of rion is more in line with the business] dean [dr. roger mission of the university, as huang] would not want far as diversity of opinion any students representing and diversity of thought,” themselves as the mendoza disanto said. “we feel that college of business with-within a real-life business out having the education world, a group of individuals certified and provided by with a diverse background mendoza courses.” can produce better results 

“As an organization officially housed within the College of Business, our membership is excluded specifically to those ... who are either majors within the Mendoza College of Business or have minors or concentrations in a program that requires courses in Mendoza as part of their mandatory curriculum.” 
Alesandro DiSanto SIBC co-president 
disanto said though he and other members of the council respect the decision, he feels open membership offers sibc constituents a more integrated experience. 
“previous to this year, we were housed under sao, and one of the requirements of sao to be a club is that you must be open to the entire campus,” he said. “That’s something we prided our­selves on was that we al­lowed ourselves to be an opportunity for students across campus who might be of a specific technical discipline like engineering or a broad social discipline perspective [like] pls or any arts and letters discipline and allow them to enter into the business environment, to learn that language, and see if that’s something they might want to apply into their own lives. 
“we certainly under­stand the perspective of the dean from a liability and than those with a limited technical training.” 

disanto and fellow senior and sibc co-president alisha anderson estimate sibc’s current membership is 20 to 30 percent non-business students. disanto said the outcome of the new mem­bership requirement will be most visible in the consult­ing and global development divisions. 
“i think the largest impact on the council will be within the global development and consulting divisions,” he said. “our consulting divi­sion has historically drawn a large number of inter­disciplinary students, in­cluding engineers, who are both drawn to consulting companies because of their multifaceted, big picture approach to company prob­lems, as well as consulting companies, which are very much drawn to people with engineering backgrounds because of their technical training. 
“within the global devel­opment division, we antici­pate a very large impact. a large number of the students draw from more socially-conscious training programs within the college of arts and letters. … The [global development] projects nor­mally have large interna­tional service-based aspects, which make them a big draw to students not only studying business.” 
anderson said sibc estab­lished a “pretty generous” grandfather clause, which allows any non-business stu­dents who have been active in the club to remain mem­bers, to accommodate pre­vious members who do not meet the new requirements. Freshmen who have yet to declare a major must show intent to enter the mendoza college of business at the end of the year, she said. 
“all those who have partic­ipated in the past [and have been] active in the past, typ­ically meaning [they] paid dues, regardless of your col­
“Despite not having a major within Mendoza, I am very interested in a career in business, and I believed SIBC would be a great way to pursue that interest.” 
John White 
freshman 
lege or your association, you are allowed to participate. … Freshmen just have to be business intent this year.” 
Freshman John white, who intends to major in the program of liberal studies 

paid adverTisemenT 
(pls), said he “was definite­ly surprised about the new requirements.” 
“despite not having a ma­jor within mendoza, i am very interested in a career in business, and i believed sibc would be a great way to pursue that interest,” white said. 
white said he joined the notre dame wall street club, which helps students network and find careers in business, to continue that pursuit. 
amidst the changes, anderson said she looks for­ward to the opportunities mendoza can provide sibc and its members. 
“we are excited to return to mendoza,” she said. “we are a business club, and we had previously been housed in mendoza, so this is sort of returning home for us. 
“we see this as a great op­portunity to engage more with the extensive faculty and staff on hand. especially for our founder, this move is important to him, too. we are excited to return home and have this opportunity to improve upon our organiza­tion and programming.” 
monica laidig, sibc’s pro­gram manager, said despite some negative reactions to the membership require­ment change, the council will still strive to excel in its mission to spread “peace through commerce.” 
“For 25 years, sibc has been open to all students at the university of notre dame,” laidig said in a writ­ten statement. “The new membership requirements were administratively des­ignated when sibc was brought into the mendoza college of business at the be­ginning of the semester. 
“This has understandably created a strong reaction by sibc members and alumni as well as the student body. The student international business council’s vision of ‘peace through commerce’ will continue to encourage discussion regarding the re­strictions, while at the same time moving forward in a professional manner.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 




The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
an ode to tandems 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 

because i live in carroll hall, people tend to regard me as a bit of an oddity. because i live in carroll and do not own a bike, skateboard, longboard, penny-board, roller blades or scooter, people tend to regard me as insane. 
but i have never wanted any form of transportation besides my own two legs. when the winter hits, all a bike will do is get buried under snow or slide out from under you. any set of wheels you can get is just not worth it. well, any set but one. 
There are few sights in the world as beautiful as a tandem bicycle operated to perfection, gliding across south Quad to debartolo, passing other, pathetic, single-seat bikes like they’re stuck in mud. as a freshman, trying my best to speed-walk to o’shag in time for a 9:30 
a.m. class, i felt like some peasant from the middle ages seeing cars whip down the freeway. 
From then on, i knew that the only bike i would ever ride at notre dame would be a tandem one. There were minor quib­bles, of course, like, how would i pay for it? where would it go in the winter? what should i call it? who would ride with me? would it be weird to ride alone? 
but these worries felt meaningless when i imagined the effortless joy of roll­ing out of bed three minutes before class, hopping on the back of a two-seater and drinking coffee, while the guy in front did all the pedaling and we still made it to lecture on time. 
now, you might say i could accomplish almost the exact same thing on a regular bike, but i would argue that a tandem could go twice as fast as any pitiful one-seater. Thus, only a tandem is worth it. 
at least, that’s what i would have said for the better part of two years until last week when my roommate and i bit the bullet and actually did it. we found a deal on amazon, split the cost, ordered our bike and waited. when it finally came, i was pretty sure that all my dreams were about to come true. 
and then i, along with my brother, tried to ride my tandem bicycle. we did not fly. we did not cruise. we did not double the speed of a regular bike. we wobbled and swerved and almost crashed at least three times. when we came to a turn, instead of risking a catastrophic shift of the handlebars, we stopped and walked. 
it turns out that tandem bikes take a fair amount of practice and patience to master. somehow, in my two years of waiting, i had failed to realize this. a setback? certainly, but not a defeat. i am determined that someday a freshman will look across the quad, see a sleek two-seat bicycle whizz by and think, “hey, i want one of those.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at      ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Finding hope in a loveless place 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

Editor’s Note: The direct quotes in this column came di­rectly from the mind of Matt Miklavic. All similarities to words spoken or thought by the mind of readers is purely coincidental. 
reflecting on the state of the american colonies more than 230 years ago, Thomas paine wrote, “These are the times that try men’s souls.” more than two centuries later, notre dame finds itself face to face with a threat to free­dom that far eclipses unfair taxation and unwanted tea. i write today to discuss an injustice the likes of which has not been seen since pabst blue ribbon was sold off to the russians. i write today to discuss the tyranny of lewis hall, which recently voted for a ban on pda within its public space. 
admittedly, this has no impact on my personal life. i’m pretty sure i haven’t been to lewis since my Frosh-o; any romantic interests i have live nowhere near it. as a mem­ber of the notre dame community, however, i cannot help but look out for those friends and strangers alike that are affected. i cannot help but be my brother’s and sister’s keeper. in the words of martin luther King, “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” in the words of edmund burke, “all that is necessary for evil to triumph is for mediocre columnists to do nothing.” so here i am to raise a voice for the voiceless — which i guess in this case is pda-enthusiasts? god only knows how i became their spokesman. 
i first heard of this story nearly two weeks ago and im­mediately began investigating. The first step in my investi­gation, it seemed, would be to make sure such an event did in fact take place. as such, i set out to confirm whether the rumors were true. 
i learned the vote was apparently lopsided in favor of the ban, but i could hardly imagine the arguments in favor of such absurdity. instead, i imagined the conversations and arguments went more like this: 
“what is this, a high school dance?” a lewis resident would remark. 
“wait, you didn’t make out at school dances?” her vis­ibly surprised male friend would ask as he crossed “lewis crush” off his schedule. 
“is anyone in lewis’s hall council not single?” some­one would demand in an icy tone, before sauntering off for what could only be assumed to be some legal lakeside canoodling. 
arguing for the other side, one student would note, “pda is like overactive group texts. Just because you can doesn’t mean you should. next thing you know, you’ve got 113 texts, and your phone is frozen.” 
sounds like a personal problem. 
a young man on the way to his significant other’s room would mention he was glad he was first-aid certified. “have to imagine there’s going to be a big spike in, uhh, ‘cpr’ around here,” he said, leaving with a devious grin one gets only when surprising themselves with their own cleverness. 
another student would suggest lewis channel its inner Thoreau by breaking out some civil disobedience via a “sit in, make out” session, an idea enthusiastically endorsed by bystanders. 
“hip hop night: lewis edition!” someone would shout in support. 
a more incredulous student would wonder where the madness would end. “what’s next? are they going to take away our right to break parietals?” 
now, i’m not here to defend pda, per say. in successive months i’ve had to witness a 9 a.m. make-out session in a Tsa line and be on duty for a siegfried syr. There was pda aplenty. as such, i can appreciate the desire for couples to take their act to a private area, or for lewis residents to be able to get from the library to their beds without having to vault a pair of post-Feve lovebirds. 
That said, last time i checked, notre dame was within these here united states of america. a land of unparalleled opportunity. a land of freedom, warm apple pie, and @ ndmakeouts. so, at the end of the day, let’s take it easy on the censorship, and let those souls seeking to keep the “p” in “pda” be in lewis’s 24-hour space. besides, it could be worse. 
i could have to see it in siegfried. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior finance and political science major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. The admissions office regards him as their biggest regret since Dayne Crist. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The nonsensical immigration debate 
Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 

when rick santorum, a 2012 presidential candidate and potential 2016 presidential candidate, visited campus last week, i found his answers to ques­tions about immigration policy very troubling. For santorum, the push for increased legal immigration is “a horrible confluence” of the democratic party and big business. From his perspective, leaders of these groups are “looking at [immigration] as politi­cal power on the one side and profits on the other side, and the guys in the middle, the average working americans, get stiffed.” his analysis, however, misses some key considerations. 
santorum’s expectation of depressed wages for working-class americans might not be as definite as he believes. First, immigrants often complement american workers in the labor market, taking jobs that might not be filled otherwise. contrary to popu­lar belief, most undocumented immigrants are em­ployed, so clearly there is demand for labor that these workers are meeting. 
second, the increased demand for goods and ser­vices that immigration produces in the economy enables increased production, mediating some of the downward pressure that some expect on wages. moreover, this increased demand opens opportu­nities for working americans to ascend to higher-paying leadership positions in business in order to manage the surge in production. in addition, immigrants start new businesses twice as often as native-born americans, and this creates enormous economic potential. 
Furthermore, immigration is an unparalleled op­portunity for the united states to compete for human capital on the global market. currently, thousands of foreign students arrive at american universities each year and receive a world-class education. when these students graduate, however, there are few h-1b work visas (capped at 65,000 annually) for skilled workers in the aftermath of 9/11. it often costs sponsoring companies upwards of $50,000 in legal fees to navi­gate the bureaucracy and secure a visa for a foreign employee. These constraints allow other countries, like australia, new Zealand and canada to outcom­pete the u.s. in skilled immigrants per capita. 
Judging by santorum’s rhetoric, however, it is likely he has not considered these points seriously. debates over immigration reform are indicative of the acrimo­nious atmosphere in washington and the inability to listen demonstrated in recent years by politicians in our nation’s capital. 
liberals, ostensibly moved by commitment to social justice and compassion for the plight of un­documented immigrants, frequently advocate “comprehensive” policy shifts, often termed “am­nesty.” conservatives, on the other hand, emphasize platitudes about rule of law and declare an ironclad commitment to “securing the border.” with these boundaries in place, self-aggrandizing and feckless political leaders are able to hold their offices and be remarkably unproductive. 
The irony is that both sides are right, and both are wrong. each ideology contains a grain of truth at the expense of the other. 
To conservatives, i ask: what happened to the idea of “give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free?” engraved on the statue of liberty, this notion embodies the spirit of this nation from its founding. please do not neglect this salient detail in favor of indifference to the origin of your citizenship because your ancestors happened to arrive a few decades earlier. 
also, securing the border is a vague objective that leads to postponing essential reform of a broken system. our border will be “secure” only when a vi­able and demand-driven pipeline of immigration doesn’t exist. increased demand will continue to spur illegal immigration. moreover, violence stem­ming from drug cartels must be differentiated from immigration. according to the pew research center, undocumented immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than native-born americans. 
continuing to trap illegal immigrants in a socially disenfranchised position drains tax revenue from social programs that are headed for bankruptcy, discourages reporting criminal activity for fear of exposing immigration status and prevents cultural exchange that promotes understanding and peace. 
To liberals, i ask: how can you neglect the possible consequences if increased legal immigration does not correspond with a reduction of illegal immigra­tion? The destabilizing costs include opportunities for criminal activities such as terrorism, businesses continuing to cheat undocumented immigrants out of minimum wage, increased unemployment, de­pressed wages, overburden on social services and rising health care costs to cover emergency medical services used by undocumented immigrants for rou­tine medical care. 
The only solution to the demagoguery preventing meaningful debate is to present policy proposals that respect the concerns of those who disagree with us. we need a clear vision for an immigration system built firmly upon both pragmatic structure for secu­rity and a magnanimity that befits our tradition as the land of the Free. 
our identity as a nation is not rooted in a shared ethnicity or culture, but on a common set of values and ideals that will not be degraded, but bolstered by newcomers. as the son of an immigrant, santorum should realize that by putting politics aside and pur­suing the common good, immigration can help the 
u.s. become a bastion of opportunity and social jus­tice for all. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and po­litical science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The welfare of our youngest citizens 
among countless others, probably, one cultural contribution of the modern-day movie masterpiece “gettysburg” is a gentle ribbing of the southern ac­cent. when a union officer inquires into the cause of a confederate prisoner-of-war’s actions, the latter replies, “we’re fightin’ for our ‘rats.” unsurprisingly, this confuses the yankee, as it would us. and while it might confuse some to hear in a warm southern drawl, “children have ‘rats,’” it shouldn’t surprise anyone that children have rights. but what rights do children have? in particular, what rights do children have that pertain to drug policy? 
before turning to the particular, we can get a feel for children’s rights by starting with something very basic and material. like any person, children have a right not to be killed. you’d think this would go without saying. The fact of human mortality renders impossible an absolute right to be alive, but surely one never has (good) reason to make ending the life of a child the object (or point) of one’s action. more than this, the goodness of life would seem to ground a further right of a child to be protected from inci­dental death. This cannot be absolute like the first right, but it must be very strong, yes? policy — not just abortion policy, but public safety and health­care policy — responds to this cluster of rights to life. 
as drug (ab)use can have more than material ef­fects, let’s postpone our discussion one more para­graph, so that we might consider an example of a non-material right. does every child have a right, all else being equal, to be cared for by his or her biological mother and father? absent truly compel­ling circumstances that may intervene, it is hard to see why a child should not have a claim to the care of the two persons who are responsible for bring­ing him or her into existence. Furthermore, the child has a right, a just claim, not to be raised in an environment that obscures the possibility and reasonableness of comprehensive (marital) union. again, the human condition prevents these rights from being absolute, but they constitute very serious claims. marriage policy (as distinct from tax policy, anti-discrimination policy, or even adoption policy) responds to this cluster of rights regarding one’s origins and marital union. 
alright, so what children’s rights does drug policy answer? children have claims, material and non-material, at stake in the drug policy debate. among the material claims is a right to physical health. setting aside the so-called “hard drugs,” marijuana alone is harmful to children’s health. The potency of marijuana has increased many times over in recent decades, and studies, including one published in The Journal of neuroscience in april, continue to confirm that marijuana causes brain damage, es­pecially in the young. Turning to the non-material, children have a right to grow up in an environment in which basic aspects of human flourishing are not obscured — by addiction, addicts or drug advertis­ing agencies. 
colorado’s recent decision to loosen drug laws provides us a picture of what we don’t want. Former director of the white house office of national drug control policy John p. walters — who will speak on campus today — reported about denver, “one public school administrator told us that he is at­tending increasing numbers of private, disciplinary hearings for 12-year-olds who are daily marijuana users. denver is awash with marijuana that is ad­vertised as having a potency of three times or more the national average — which is already almost three times stronger today than it was in days of woodstock. potent, cheap Thc gummy bears with hallucinogenic effects are advertised in newspa­pers, featuring cartoon characters such as Fred Flintstone.” 
it seems safe to say that this environment will not promote children’s development and fulfillment. perhaps it’s time to redouble our efforts to provide drug-free environments for children. This might lead us to endorse prohibition policies that seem restrictive to adults (including college students), but then again, are drugs so irreplaceable? is recreation impossible without marijuana? is it so unreasonable for a law to require one to choose a different activ­ity? surely not. even a limited government need not be so limited as to ignore the welfare of its youngest citizens. in drug policy, as elsewhere, we can fight for children’s ‘rats — sorry, rights. let’s do so. 
Tiernan Kane 
graduate student Zahm house sep. 24 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

like waiting for santa on christmas eve, every sum­mer i awaited a gift from pixar while psyching myself up by watching teaser trailer after teaser trailer until my computer malfunctioned. 
The summer of 2012 was no exception. expectations, however, skyrocketed compared to previous years due to 
a) the enormous success of “Toy story 3” and b) the let­down of “cars 2.” 
in 2012, brenda chapman was the one doing the giv­ing as half of the directing team for pixar’s 2012 summer spectacle, “brave.” 
chapman is a personal heroine of mine, consider­ing our lives started in the same place. born and raised in beason, illinois (nowhere near chicago, go look at a map), she studied for two years at the same central illinois technical school that several of my friends back home attend. 
she went on to study at the california institute of the arts. she embarked on her own (wo)manifest destiny with dreams of working in animation with the elite from disney to dreamworks to pixar. 
in “brave,” chapman sends a message of responsibility and the courage one needs in order to face what cannot be changed and do what one does not want to do. 
The gift chapman and co-director mark andrews gave to audiences worldwide in the form of “brave” is of visual 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

on sept. 8, robert plant released a new album in col­laboration with The sensational shape shifters, his back­ing band of talented multi-instrumentalists. his 10th solo album, “lullaby and… The ceaseless roar,” proves that the led Zeppelin vocalist is difficult to keep up with as he explores a refreshing array of genres. 
The most anticipated track, “rainbow,” was released as a single back in June and features uplifting percussion and airy vocals. drawing on trance influences, this song is strikingly modern, especially for someone nearing 50 years in the music industry. it sounds more like some­thing from a young (but very promising) indie/alterna­tive band. 
it wouldn’t be fair to say that “rainbow” set the tone for this eclectic album. no one could have guessed from listening to the single that the album would contain an assortment of western and northern african instru­ments, harmoniously combining thumping tribal drum­beats with elegant strings. mellow rock ballads such as “somebody There” offset frantic clusters of diverse sound. plant even incorporates a new level of funk into his typical folk and bluegrass sounds, all in a graceful feat magnificence and artistry that only the minds of pixar could engineer through vivid lighting and beautiful ani­mation. experiencing its imagery just once will make you want to hop the next flight to scotland. at the very least, you will exit the world of “brave” having acquired some­thing of a scottish accent. 
an example of this cinematic beauty’s trailblazing computer animation is the flaming red mane of the fe­male protagonist parents had been waiting and begging for: merida — excuse me — princess merida, as market­ing executives would say. 
before my analysis of how merida compares to other strong, independent female characters in cinema ensues, i’ll sum up her story. “brave” begins with a prologue/ back-story. we meet King Fergus, Queen elinor and a tiny, rambunctious merida so cute you’ll be proud to be a ginger, wish you were a ginger or want to marry a ginger so you can make ginger babies with the hope they’ll be as adorable as this cartoon. 
as a birthday present, Fergus gives merida her first bow and arrow. in case you don’t remember, “brave” was re­leased on the heels of “The hunger games,” sparking a little pop-culture archery craze. merida is clearly a better shot than Katniss as we see when the film shifts to pres­ent day, showing her hitting a couple bullseyes hanging from trees like its nothing while riding her black steed, angus. 
during the opening scene, we are briefed on the story of a rampant “demon bear” named mor’du and how he is 
of cohesiveness. 
The smooth, dreamy vocals on “lullaby” carry more understated lyrics than those from plant’s Zeppelin days, but they are equally profound in a subtle way. The lyrics are strikingly less fantastical than plant’s earliest lyrics, when he sang about angels of avalon in “The battle of evermore” and angry gods in “immigrant song,” to name a few. instead, they speak directly and poignantly to real-life experiences. 
The new album also lacks plant’s distinctive howl for the most part, with the exception of “Turn it up,” in which his cry of “let me out!” takes us back to “led Zeppelin,” the band’s debut album featuring songs like “dazed and confused.” 
Though i can’t help but compare all of plant’s work to led Zeppelin, this new album makes it clear why he is avoiding a reunion tour. For an inventive musician like plant, resting on his laurels is equivalent to selling out. an led Zeppelin reunion tour (though i have to admit it would be awesome) wouldn’t leave room for the level of creativity of which plant is capable. 
The band is no longer complete, and though the re­maining members are musically up to the task, they could never fully recreate led Zeppelin. when i imag­ine a reunion, i can’t help but think of the rolling stones the cause for the king’s decades-old revenge mission (and missing left leg). mor’du, whose name translates to “big black” from a combination of the gaelic words “mór” and “dubh,” serves as a metaphorical mirror for merida’s po­tential fate. The symbolism of bears is prominent, giving the plot a flair of folklore and magic. 
not long ago, i read mary pol’s article in Time magazine, “why pixar’s ‘brave’ is a Failure of Female empowerment,” which makes the case that “brave” isn’t really as brave as the title suggests. she cites how chapman was replaced by andrews in the director’s chair with only 18 months until the premiere, thereby shattering any realization of “female empowerment.” 
i won’t critique pol’s analysis, but i will write this: “brave” is certainly a cinematic vision that could not have been accomplished without being overseen by a woman. chapman went on to be the first female direc­tor to win an academy award, albeit for best animated Feature, but a groundbreaking achievement for future dreamers nonetheless. 
at the film’s end, merida still has some maturing to do, but she learns from the wisdom of her mother how to use the talents she’s been given to become the best version of herself. The fact that chapman was confident enough in her own vision to give young girls merida, a headstrong young woman, gives me hope. we are all braver than we believe. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@nd.edu 
reunion in 2012 and arenas filled with middle-aged busi­nessmen who could afford the pricey tickets. That may have sufficed for rolling stone, but i can’t accept that as a worthy climate for a led Zeppelin show. 
The led Zeppelin days of the late 1960s and 1970s may always mark the peak of his career, but with his tendency toward entirely new projects, plant shows a desire to re­main a dynamic musician. in this new album that takes us all the way across the globe to africa and into the fu­ture of progressive rock, plant shows us that he continues to ramble on. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
“lullaby and... The Ceaseless Roar” 
Robert Plant 
Label: Nonesuch/Warner Bros. Records Tracks: “Pocketful of Golden,” “Rainbow” If you like: Beck 


SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

listen: this album is groundbreaking. milo sings an ode to feeling happy, hopeless and dissatisfied. he cap­tures just how you feel on sundays when you wake up af­ter noon and realize everything you did and everything you still have to do. but his contemplations are not com­plaining, nor are they an analysis or a proof. They are a description of and meditation on the often mundane and monumental moments in human life. 
his simplicity is what gives his words power. he com­municates through candid and trusting verses, personal events and thoughts to which you, i and your professor all can relate. Through his meditations, he actualizes the lives of all artists and memorializes the lives of all lis­teners. This is a rap album that validates you — but not because of what coast you’re from, your race, your social class or your religion. This is a rap album that validates you because you get to know the artist not from the pit of his show or from his hit radio single, but from bump­ing knees with him at the familiar coffee shop of uni­versally shared human experience. listen: this album is groundbreaking. 
on sept. 23, the chicago-born, maine-raised, wisconsin-hatched and current los angeles resident rory Ferreira, or milo, released his debut full-length album. The album is entitled “a Toothpaste suburb” and was released via hellfyre club. The album was preceded by three mixtapes, three eps (including the double ep “Things That happen at day”/”Things That happen at night,” which became the most downloaded work on bandcamp shortly after its release) and several singles. milo has been releasing solo material since 2011. 
milo works from the dichotomy that life is the way it is for you. his observations of his and your inadequacies and strengths, as well as his appreciation for the simple feelings that accompany the rhythm of life (i.e. “feeling good like snow days when the driveway’s plowed first”), are expertly mixed with his hyper-literate, philosophical musings on each individual’s identity in relation to party culture, personal growth and change, personal and so­cial relationships and life and death. 
each song is packed with words (he rarely has time for a repeat of any “hook”), and every word choice and relationship is packed with intent and meaning. he spits a mouthful, but he doesn’t waste a single word. adding to milo’s signature lyrical style is his uncanny ability to rap along with, directly across and syncopated against the extremely mature beats found all across the album. verses featuring a number of words per phrase that would have contortionists raise their eyebrows flow right into expertly wailed refrains about missing the dead and reflecting on personal shortcomings. 
curated by producers iglooghost, riley lake, greyhat and Tastenothing, the backing tracks have evolved in a major way, although in the same genre, from the gold panda and baths samples milo used early in his career. These are more than rhythms — an instrumental version of the album wouldn’t be a bad purchase. These beats are glowing with creative energy — they create the rooms, parks and used bookstores from which milo lives, thinks and writes. 
“a Toothpaste suburb,” from top to bottom, is worth your money — but that’s not the relevant form of curren­cy. it’s worth your thought; it’s worth your time. it’s your life. it’s everyone’s life. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
“A Toothpaste Suburb” 
Milo 
Label: Hellfyre Club 
Tracks: “Sanssouci Palace,” “Ought Implies Can and I Cannot,” “Argyle Sox (Hellfyre 5ever)” feat. Busdriver If you like: Busdriver, Noncado, Open Mike Eagle 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: “22 Jump Street” 
When: 8 p.m. 

Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall 
How Much: $3 

love the duo of channing Tatum and Jonah hill in the 2012 hit “21 Jump street”? don’t miss their return as officers schmidt and Jenko when they go under­cover at a local college. “22 Jump street” is this week’s sub movie and will also show on Friday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. and saturday at 
10:30p.m. 
FRIDAY 


What: SUB Presents: Audien When: 10 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free 
don’t miss edm talent audien when he performs at legends. nathaniel rathbun is best known for his track “wayfarer.” The 45-sec­ond track was the first song ever played on  group Therapy,” a week­ly  radio show hosted by trance dJs above & beyond. 
SATURDAY 

What: “The Immigrant” When: 3 p.m., 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $4 for students 
“The immigrant” explores the immigrant experience in the u.s. as seen through the eyes of a young polish woman. after her sister is taken away at ellis island, ewa cybulski is lured into prostitution in the hopes of bringing her sister back to the states. dpac will also have two showings on Friday. 
SUNDAY 

What: “What is Jazz?” Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra When: 2 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $10 for students 
see 15 of today’s best jazz musi­cians perform in commemora­tion of the 10th anniversary of the presenting series’ inaugural perfor­mance. wynston marsalis returns to lead the assemble. don’t miss your opportunity to see this event. 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Make a new sport resolution 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 
The hawthorn hawks play the sydney swans on the grandest of stages this week­end in what can only be de­scribed as football’s biggest game. 
That’s australian rules football, of course. a sport that i remain utterly con­vinced americans would love if ever properly intro­duced to it. but, unfortu­nately, the rights holders to the australian Football league don’t find broadcast­ing the sport a priority, so everyone will continue to give me this weird look when i tell them about how enter­taining the sport is. 
but, fundamentally, the point of this isn’t to convince every reader to stay up for the 12:30 a.m. “first bounce” early saturday morning be­tween australia’s two best teams — though if you have the desire to do so, know i will be right there with you. rather, this is a suggestion, a plea, whatever you want to call it, to broaden your horizons as a sports fan. i’m calling on you this year to try to “pick up” a new sport. it could be a sport com­pletely out of the american mainstream — say, the aforementioned aussie rules, canadian football or irish hurling — or one that hap­pens to be right on the edge of it like hockey (but don’t ask espn) or soccer. 
let’s take a look at soccer for a second. it happens to be a sport that america is finally starting to get a little better than halfway decent at. in back-to-back world cups, the united states has advanced to the round of 16. and although a second suc­cessive exit at that stage was not what most americans wanted, taking belgium to extra time was a huge step forward for the program. at home, people paid at­tention. nearly 25 million people tuned in to see the united states draw cristiano ronaldo and portugal in the group stage — and that doesn’t count the hordes of fans who watched at bars or community watch parties. 
what does all that say? if you happen to be a sports fan — and i’m working under the assumption that you are because you’re still reading — odds are you tuned in to the united states’ matches at the world cup. For the majority of american sports fans, soccer is the most ac­cessible sport outside of the “big three” — football, basketball and baseball. every weekend, there are at least five and sometimes six premier league matches on television split between the nbc sports network and “big” nbc (This also happens to be the number of nationally-televised nFl games, mind you). add to that the few mls matches on each weekend and the bundesliga’s deal with FoX to start its next campaign, and sports fans have a chance to take in plenty of america’s — and the world’s 
— best soccer. 
but why bother taking the time? premier league matches are played on week­end mornings, and aussie rules matches are broadcast in the middle of the night, after all. look around at the state of the american sports scene though. The biggest stories this year? They aren’t about the arizona cardinals’ surprise 3-0 start or the orioles winning their first division crown in 17 years; rather, they’re about the nFl’s problems with domes­tic violence. it’s something that makes the mls “fly by the seat of its pants” rule­book mentality a little more bearable. 
and the other nice thing about a new sport? To a cer­tain extent, you get to choose your team. i very much subscribe to the theory that holds you’re born into sports fandom — then again, i hap­pen to be a cleveland sports fan, and that’s the only ra­tional reason for cheering on cleveland teams. but when you pick up something new 
—
 especially if it’s some­thing foreign — you’ve got a bit of choice. granted, it doesn’t help me that i’m at­tracted to the same kinds of teams in my new endeavors 

—
 getting up to watch aston villa at 10 a.m. on saturday mornings can often be more frustrating than watching the browns — but i had a choice. 


sports are what we make of them. and in an american sports scene where a lot tends to stay constant — the nFl remains top dog yet again — it’s nice to escape to somewhere else and try something new. i promise there’s a sport waiting out there for you to fall in love with. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | Tigers 6, whiTe soX 1 
Verlander, Tigers roll over White Sox in win 
Associated Press 

deTroiT— Justinverlander pitched eight impressive in­nings, and the detroit Tigers inched closer to a postseason spot wednesday, rallying after benches cleared in the sixth inning to beat the chicago white sox 6-1. 
white sox ace chris sale was breezing along with a shutout when he hit victor martinez with a pitch in the sixth. The two exchanged words and the benches and bullpens emp­tied. The situation didn’t esca­late and martinez eventually scored to tie the game at 1. 
ian Kinsler gave detroit the lead with an rbi double in the seventh off Javy guerra (2-4). 
The al central-leading Tigers can now do no worse than a tie for a wild card. detroit clinches a post­season spot if seattle loses wednesday night. 
verlander (15-12) allowed a run and seven hits in eight in­nings. he struck out six with­out a walk. 
The Tigers lead Kansas city by 1 1-2 games atop their di­vision, with the royals set to play wednesday night. 
sale allowed a run and four hits in six innings. he struck out 10 and walked three, be­coming his franchise’s career leader with his 18th game of at least 10 strikeouts. ed walsh had 17. 
The white sox took the lead in the sixth on dayan viciedo’s rbi triple, and detroit’s of­fense looked dormant when miguel cabrera led off the bottom half with his third strikeout of the game. 
Then sale’s first pitch to martinez hit the detroit slug­ger around the back of his left shoulder. martinez walked slowly to first, and the two started jawing at each other. 
it appeared something in the area of center field had caught sale’s attention, because he pointed out there in agitated fashion as martinez went to first. 
after striking out martinez three innings earlier, sale had tipped his hat toward center field. 
The benches and bullpens emptied after martinez was hit, and once order was re­stored, J.d. martinez doubled and nick castellanos hit a sac­rifice fly. 
Kinsler’s double put the Tigers ahead 2-1 the following inning, and cabrera added a sacrifice fly. detroit scored three runs in the eighth on a well-executed squeeze play by andrew romine and rbi singles by rajai davis and Kinsler. 
cabrera struck out four times, only the third time in his career that’s happened. 

MLB | Twins 2, diamondbacKs 1 
hughes, Twins take down diamondbacks 
Associated Press 

minneapolis — phil hughes set a single-sea­son major league record for strikeout-to-walk ratio, pitching eight strong in­nings for the minnesota Twins in a 2-1 victory over the arizona diamondbacks on a wet wednesday afternoon. 
hughes (16-10) finished his first year with the Twins with the same number of wins and walks. with 186 strikeouts, his 11.63 ra­tio became the best of all time for pitchers with a qualifying amount of in­nings. hughes beat bret saberhagen, who had 143 strikeouts and 13 walks for 

FOR RENT 
Fall Break at The beach in Destin FL Call 214-632-2868 www.vrbo.com/71701 www. vrbo.com/582081 BEAT FSU! 
STANFORD -FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/ Eddy Street -prime location. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
It ain’t in a high rise looking 

the new york mets in 1994 for an 11.00 ratio. 
hughes struck out five without a walk and allowed only a sacrifice fly by david peralta in the sixth. 
The game was delayed 66 minutes by rain falling hard enough that it was dripping off the brim of hughes’ cap as he walked off the mound after the eighth. Jared burton closed for his third save. 
The delay may’ve cost hughes $500,000. he fin­ished with 209 2-3 innings, one out short of triggering that bonus. hughes, whose base salary is $8 million, already earned a pair of $250,000 bonuses for reach­ing 180 and 195 innings. 
diamondbacks starter vidal nuno escaped with only two runs allowed in five innings despite loading the bases in the first two frames. 
Kurt suzuki walked to force in a run in the first in­ning, and Trevor plouffe hit a sacrifice fly in the second. 
That pushed plouffe’s rbi total to 80, making him just the third player for the Twins in the last four seasons to reach that modest mark. in 2012, Josh willingham had 110 and Joe mauer had 85. 
plouffe left the game four innings later with a broken left forearm after trying to tag a.J. pollock on a steal of third base. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
for a good time shutting down the city lights/ It ain’t in the wa­ter floating like a bobber soaking up that hot sunshine/ As good as it gets, no that ain’t where it is/ It’s at 2 a.m. when she’s reachin’ over/ Faded t-shirt hanging off her shoulder/ Dressed up, her hair down, in a ball cap/ Yep yep, as long as I get that/ Sweet little something late night kiss/ On a plane or a train or way back in the sticks/ I swear, if she’s there, that’s where/ Yep yep, that’s where it’s at/ It ain’t in a suped-up shiny red new truck, if she ain’t to my right/ It ain’t in a dive bar, tall can of PBR, poppin’ tops rockin’ all night/ As good as it gets, no that ain’t where it is/ It’s at 2 a.m. when she’s reachin’ over/ Faded t-shirt hanging off her shoulder/ Dressed up, her hair down, in a ball cap/ Yep yep, as long as I get that/ Sweet little something late night kiss/On a plane or a train or way back in the sticks. 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles prepare for conference opponents 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
The belles will run one of their most important races of the season at the miaa Jamboree in Kalamazoo, michigan on saturday. 
The miaa Jamboree counts toward one-third of the final conference standings. last season, the belles placed fourth at the Jamboree, which contributed to their third-place conference fin­ish. The Jamboree will play a major role in determining whether the belles can match or improve on that rank this season. 
“i think it’s going to be a really exciting day,” belles coach Jackie bauters said of the Jamboree. “i expect to see great races from the team. They have looked re­ally strong in our workouts, and i feel they are ready to race.” 
The belles enter the race af­ter an 11th place finish at the calvin Knight invitational on sept. 13. sophomore brittany beeler led the way for the team at the invitational, finishing 40th overall, and saint mary’s will look for her to pave the way again this 

paid adverTisemenT 

weekend at the Jamboree. in addition to beeler, bauters said she hopes the other belles will be able to close in and get faster times to com­pete with the opponents in Kalamazoo, she said. 
“we are really looking to bring our four-through-seven runners closer together and closer to our two and three,” bauters said. “we will be very competitive with alma this weekend and are looking to get our pack in well before theirs. we are also hoping to split their one or two with our first runner.” 
bauters said the impor­tance of the meet will only make the saint mary’s run­ners more excited to compete. 
“it’s all about every place counting this week,” bauters said. “racing smart and ev­eryone contributing to the team’s success. The workouts are all geared for this time of the season, and we are just trying to make sure we are feeling fresh for saturday.” 
The starting gun will fire at the miaa Jamboree in Kalamazoo, michigan on saturday at 12:00 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

MLB | orioles 9, yanKees 5 
Jeter, yanks eliminated by o’s 
Associated Press 
new yorK — all that’s left for derek Jeter to do is say goodbye. 
right now, though, the cap­tain is still stewing over a lost season. 
new york was eliminat­ed from playoff conten­tion wednesday, wasting a three-run lead in a 9-5 loss to nelson cruz and the al east champion baltimore orioles. 
“it’s tough. it’s what you play for. it’s a rough feeling,” Jeter said. 
Jeter went 0 for 4 as the des­ignated hitter in his next-to­last game home game, ending a seven-game hitting streak and dropping his average to .253. 
The yankees (81-77) missed the playoffs in consecutive years for the first time since 1992 and ‘93. The only other time new york did not play in the postseason during in the retiring captain’s 20-season big league career was in 2008. 
“it’s disappointing. it’s frustrating,” yankees man­ager Joe girardi said. “This is not where you want to be at this time of year.” 
when Jeter is lauded by fans Thursday night — weather permitting. There’s rain in the forecast — for a career that included five of new york’s 27 world series titles, he will be playing his first game in the bronx that has no implications on his team’s playoff chances. (Jeter was out with an injury last year). 
“For the guys that are coming back and the team that plays it’s a feeling you shouldn’t like and you shouldn’t want to get used to,” Jeter said. 
baltimore remained 2 1/2 games behind the los 
angeles  angels,  who  beat  
oakland  5-4,  in  the  race  
for  the  al’s  best  record  

and home-field advantage throughout the postseason. manager buck showalter sees Thursday night festivities as good preparation. 
“not everywhere you play in the postseason is going to be a friendly environment,” he said, “so it is good to have that kind of emotion going on before you get there.” 
cruz had two of his four singles and slugger adam Jones a safety squeeze in a six-run fourth for baltimore. 
as they have throughout the final homestand, fans stood, cheered and chanted “de-rek Je-ter!” for each of the captain’s at-bats during a rare september mid-week af­ternoon game. even though Jeter was the designated hit­ter, the bleacher creatures included Jeter in the first-in­ning roll call. Jeter wasn’t in the dugout to acknowledge them with the customary wave. 
Jeter was given an extended ovation after he tapped out to first base in the eighth but he remained seated in the dug­out and did not come out for the curtain call. The game ended when brett gardner struck out looking with Jeter on deck. 
“The game wasn’t over. we were trying to come back,” Jeter said of the eighth. “you can’t help but notice. i catch myself looking around some­times and i’ve always tried not to do that but i’ve caught myself a couple of times.” 
bud norris (15-8) fell be­hind 3-0 despite getting sev­en of his first nine outs by strikeout. he allowed a lead-off homer in the second to stephen drew then fanned five straight, a string stopped in the third inning with chase headley’s long ball. 
norris allowed three runs and five hits in six innings and struck out nine. 
shane greene (5-4) loaded the bases in the third but got Jones to ground into an inning-ending forceout. The rookie had no such success in the fourth inning, when the orioles sent 11 men to the plate and scored three times with two outs. 
mark Teixeira had an rbi double and two-run homer for new york. 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
ncaa. but romagnolo said the irish are not intimidated. 
“against every opponent, a shutout is the goal for us, so that’s no different against virginia Tech,” romagnolo said. “They’ve got same great players on attack like a lot of other acc teams, so we’ll just have to be strong on defense.” 
romagnolo also said she doesn’t foresee the travel and limited practice time hurting notre dame’s performance. 
“it’s a short week, so we haven’t had that much time to practice, but when we have, the intensity level has been good,” romagnolo said. “sometimes when you train less, your team is actually more rested, and at the end of the day, you can pre­pare in other ways than being on the field.” 
although a win over the hokies would give the irish a lift heading into the remain­der of their acc schedule, romagnolo said the team’s expectations are the same as always. 
“i expect a great performance every game that we play,” romagnolo said. “i expect us to come out and bring a lot of energy and aggression when defending, and get those little details down like tracking our players defensively, standing out on one-v-ones, and staying in control of the ball.” 
romagnolo said her confi­dence stems from individual players’ recent successes as well as notre dame’s overall depth. 
“[sophomore midfielder] morgan andrews has been playing exceptionally well for us; [sophomore goalkeeper] Kaela little has been playing well in the goal, and [fresh­man midfielder] TK [Taylor Klawunder] got a big goal for us last game,” romagnolo said. “other than that, it’s just every player making a contribution. anyone can step up.” 
The irish will aim to stain the hokies’ spotless record Thursday at 7:00 p.m. at Thompson Field in blacksburg, virginia. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

Gilbertson 
conTinued From page 16 

go at them and to go with speed. i think that’s helped me a lot, just with my little bit of flair and attitude.” 
This playing style has allowed gilbertson plenty of looks this season — she is currently sec­ond on the no. 20 irish with 25 total shots, 11 of those on goal. gilbertson’s only goal of the sea­son came in notre dame’s sea­son-opening 3-1 win over illinois on aug. 22, but she said that the opportunities to score have been present. 
“we work well up top, and i’ll just work my hardest to make the best opportunities possible when i’m on the field,” gilbertson said. “… i’m always trying to look at the goal. i think that’s one thing i like to do a lot is just be able to look for shots and look to score from wherever i am on the field.” 
irish coach Theresa romagnolo said she consid­ers gilbertson one of her team’s most potent scoring threats. 
“anna’s got a lot of ability to go one-v-one; she’s got good pace, and she’s got fantastic shots,” romagnolo said. “so, she’s some­body who can be dangerous in a lot of different ways.” 
in her third year at notre dame, gilbertson is no stranger to the irish offense. she scored five goals in her freshman sea­son, tallied four goals last year and added two goals against in­ternational competition in exhi­bitions this past spring. 
but this year, gilbertson al­ready has earned six starts in nine games, one shy of the sev­en starts she earned all of last season. gilbertson said her in­creased play is largely due to her experience. 
“as an upperclassmen, i am more experienced now just be­cause i’ve been here for two years, and i know how things kind of work around here,” she said. “i’ve been working hard and just getting as many minutes as possible, and i’m very happy to start and do the best on the field for my team.” 
gilbertson’s family roots don’t just extend to international soc­cer; they provide the basis for her interest in her major — neuro­science and behavior, one of the newest majors on campus. 
gilbertson’s mother is a virolo­gist, and her father is a professor of plant pathology at the university of california-davis, which helped foster the california na­tive’s love of biology. 


“i always grew up hanging out in their lab at the university and being around with a lot of grad students and watching them do experiments,” gilbertson said. “i love biology, so i think that came from my parents basically.” 
with notre dame set to em­bark on a two-game road trip to no. 2 virginia Tech and wake Forest this weekend, gilbertson sounded optimistic about her team’s future. 
“i think our team is extremely talented and awesome and great and a Final Four team,” she said. “… i think we need to refocus and just leave everything behind us and realize that we’re going to beat virginia Tech, we’re going to beat [wake Forest].” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


SMC SOCCER | albion 1, smc 0 
Shorthanded SMC falls to Albion in overtime 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
coming off of a 2-1 loss against hope, saint mary’s suffered its second straight defeat with a 1-0 overtime loss on its home turf to albion on wednesday. 
albion (6-3-1, 2-3-1 miaa) kept control of the ball throughout the first 10 minutes of play, but saint mary’s (3­6, 1-4) was able to endure the pressure and take charge later in the half. 
belles junior midfielder Kathryn lueking and senior defender Kerry green both at­tempted shots on goal to close out the first half. 
The belles came back in the second half reenergized, but they couldn’t produce results on the scoreboard, and the game went into overtime. Toward the beginning of over­time, saint mary’s was whistled for a foul less than a yard out­side the 18-yard box. seizing the opportunity, the brits took a strong shot that found its way just inside the left post to give albion the goal and game win­ner in the 92nd minute of play. 

despite the loss, belles se­nior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum produced seven saves in goal. 
10 fouls, however, kept the belles from capitalizing on of­fense throughout the match. 
“our biggest challenge was creating good shooting oppor­tunities,” belles coach michael Joyce said. “a lot of crosses we sent in weren’t quite on the mark, we had some long range 


paid adverTisemenT 

shots that were too soft and we threw balls too long. we hon­estly just needed a little better quality around their box.” 
Though coming out strong in the second half, saint mary’s could not maintain its aggres­sion, Joyce said. 
“i really thought we had albion on the ropes for most of the second half, but we just couldn’t put a goal away,” Joyce said. 
with the absence of se­nior starters forward Kelly wilson and defenders mary Kate hussey and abby garcia against albion, the belles had to substitute more frequently than usual. 
“we had to rely on a number of players today with some of our starters being out,” Joyce said. “although we came up short, i thought a lot of players stepped up and contributed well — it was a good team ef­fort. we’ll just have to produce a winning final result next game.” 
The belles return to action saturday when they travel to olivet for another conference matchup. Kickoff is scheduled for noon. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF | miaa Jamboree 
Belles return to MIAA play 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after finishing fourth at the season’s first miaa Jamboree and 13th at the depauw small college classic, the belles aim to improve their team score in the second round of miaa conference play this weekend. 
hope and olivet proved top conference competi­tors at the Jamboree on wednesday, earning first and second place, respectively. at depauw, six of the 16 schools that participated were ranked in the ncaa division iii top­25 at the end of last season. with a strong representa­tion in both event fields, the belles struggled to keep up with the tougher competition, while simultaneously trying to master the course, belles coach Kimberly moore said. 
“The competition at the depauw small college classic was pretty difficult,” moore said. “however, i felt that our play could have been a little better. The course was a little narrow, so there was a lot of opportunity to get in trouble, and putting was a little diffi­cult. having said that, we have to do a little better in figuring out the speed of greens and adapting to our situations.” 
senior Janice heffernan led the way for the belles at the Jamboree and depauw. heffernan shot an 80 for third place at the Jamboree and posted scores of 82 and 87 at depauw for 29th. 
sophomore ali mahoney shot a two-day score of 181 and finished tied for 60th place at depauw, while soph­omore captain courtney carlson improved her day-two score by seven strokes to finish overall with 185 and a share of 67th place. mahoney and carlson both shot scores of 87 at the Jamboree. 
sophomore rachel Kim played consistently at depauw, shooting a 93 on the first day and 94 on the sec­ond day to tie for 70th place. she posted a 90 for a share of 23rd place at the Jamboree on wednesday. Junior Katie Zielinski shot a 95 on the first day and a 96 on the second for a 77th place finish at depauw. at the Jamboree, Zielinski shot a 93 and tied for 33rd. 
at depauw, Freshman Kaitlyn cartone made the most significant improve­ment between rounds for the belles, shooting a 97 in the first round and an 86 in the second. she posted an 84 for a share of seventh place at the Jamboree, the second highest finish for the belles. 
despite the high scores for the belles, moore said there were plenty of positives to take away from the tournament. 
“we had more birdies as a team than we’ve had at any tournament this year,” moore said. “That is a great improve­ment. also, Kaitlyn cartone finished the second round with her best collegiate finish so far. her score in the second round is a score that i know she can shoot on a regular ba­sis. i feel that shooting a score like that can really give her some confidence going into our miaa conference action.” 
as part of conference play, the belles face olivet this weekend. olivet beat saint mary’s at every miaa confer­ence competition last season. The belles already have com­peted against olivet in two of the three tournaments this season, including the depauw small college classic where the teams tied for 13th place. 
The belles hope to improve their scores against olivet this season. having a young roster lead the way has posi­
tives,  but also  creates  chal­ 
lenges, moore said.  
“The  advantages  of  hav­ 

ing a young team is that they are all really eager to practice and play,” moore said. “They are also excited to learn new techniques and drills to make them better. some of the dis­advantages come when we are playing during competi­tion. a lot of things learned on the golf course and dur­ing competition come with playing more tournaments and competition. The courses and length can be a little dif­ferent than what they may have been used to, so it takes getting used to hitting more woods or hybrids into greens than irons.” 
more said she already has talked to her golfers about the importance of mastering the small details of their games in order to advance their abili­ties on the course. 
“i am going to continue to emphasize the importance of our chipping and putting,” moore said. “it is always ex­tremely important, but i want them to really focus on using that part of the game to help them. i also want them to lim­it the big numbers, play smart and go out there and have fun. we have a great chance of being one of the best teams in the conference, and i’m looking forward to our miaa play.” 
The belles will travel to alma college this weekend to play in their second miaa competition. The team is set to tee off saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Walker 
conTinued From page 16 
key emphasis in his collegiate decision-making process was education. walker’s mother, who was an academic counselor for many years, instilled a home­work-first, sports-second men­tality in walker. considering his criteria, walker’s college choice came down to notre dame and stanford. 
The running back took a visit to notre dame during november 2003 — walker’s senior season at buford (georgia) high school. armed with merely a recently purchased sweatshirt, walker re­called stepping off the plane into “blistering cold” weather with “two or three” feet of snow lining the runway. 
“The wind and cold just disre­spected my jacket,” walker said laughingly. 
despite witnessing no. 5 Florida state’s 37-0 flattening of the irish, walker was drawn to the communal atmosphere be­tween the student section and the players after the loss. 
“in all honesty, for me, that’s what really made me say, ‘oK, this is a place that i’d be honored to attend,’” walker said. 
Three years and a legacy 
in his first season, walker set the irish freshman rushing re­cord with 786 yards. The follow­ing season, walker racked up 1,196 rushing yards to go along with 43 receptions for 351 yards. in 2006, walker scampered for 1,267 yards while adding 56 grabs for 391 more yards. 
Following his junior cam­paign, walker declared for the 2007 nFl draft. in his three col­legiate seasons, walker set and broke the record for most catches by an irish running back. he departed as the school’s fourth-leading rusher with 3,249 career yards. 
“i wanted to be known as one of the best players at my position to ever come through the school,” walker said. “… i really felt at that point i had accomplished what i had set out to do at notre dame, which made the decision to go pro that much easier for me.” 
in many ways, walker is the last true feature back at notre dame, the last great, all-purpose back. in the past 10 seasons, only one other running back (cierre wood in 2011) has reached 1,000 yards. in the past 10 seasons, no other running back has handled the vast majority of the work­load as walker did in 2005 and 2006, when he toted the rock 253 and 255 times, respectively. in the post-walker years, the notre dame backfield always has fea­tured a combination, involv­ing the likes of James aldridge, armando allen, robert hughes, wood, Jonas gray and Theo riddick. 
“it really takes an effort on your part to stay in the training room after everyone has gone,” walker said of his workhorse ability. 
The state of the running back Position 
notre dame’s recent running back rotations are represen­tative of shifts in the position across the football world at large. Timeshares have become staples in backfields across the country. 
“it’s two-fold in that you get a fresh guy in the committee, and then you also keep the defense off balance depending on what type of style that guy has,” walker said of current running back strategy. 
walker had to be the all-around back with the irish. now, there’s a lessening importance placed on the do-it-all, frontline running back. since 2000, only one non-quarterback — former alabama running back mark ingram in 2009 — has won the heisman Trophy. 
“it is kind of disheartening to see the importance of the posi­tion diminish,” walker said. “you have teams now in the nFl who feel like they can get a good run­ning back in the fifth, sixth or seventh round.” 
Life after Notre Dame 
walker himself, however, went undrafted after forego­ing his senior season at notre dame. walker decided to join the houston Texans, drawn to then-Texans running backs ahman green and ron dayne, whom walker grew up admiring. 
walker started two games as a rookie and spent four seasons in the nFl before retiring in 2010. 
soon thereafter, he joined a lo­cal espn radio station in denver as a talk-show host for a year­and-a-half. From there, walker served as a sideline reporter for the now-defunct mountainwest sports network before doing more sideline jobs, color com­mentary and studio work for FoX sports in los angeles. 
in the offseason, walker found himself with a lot of free time. 
“since i had the notre dame degree, i felt like i’d be remiss if i didn’t go in and use that to a full effect,” walker said. 
having established a pipeline of contacts in the entertainment and sports industries with ac­cess to capital, walker used his network to become a financial advisor at morgan stanley in the private wealth division. 
For more than a year with morgan stanley, walker has built up a group of clients that includes entertainers, actors, en­dowments and foundations. 
“it’s just been an amazing transition for me,” walker said. “The crowd i run around with now is one that it’s pretty difficult to get into some of these circles. i consider myself pretty lucky to have another opportunity like what i have at morgan stanley.” 
never one to be one-dimen­sional, walker also works now for espn as a color commentator. he recently called a louisville­murray state game and the memphis-middle Tennessee state matchup. 
“it keeps me busy literally sev­en days a week,” walker said. “i work monday through Friday as a banker, and on the weekends, i’m a broadcaster.” 
still the same do-it-all walker. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS Bush the elder 45 See 23-Across 1 Droplet on “S.N.L.” 46 Turn blue, 5 They’re seen on 32 Salmon variety maybe 
the neck 33 Spoil 47 Mini-terrors 10 Small step 34 Teacher’s note 49 Handle online on a failing
14 Turning point 56 Common test restaurant
15 Caravan 

35 “… and she fish
parking spot? 

bare ___”: Ruth 
57 Force out 
16 Club of song 

4:13 58 Old-timey oath 
17 It comes out of 
36 Rat-___ 
59 Calendar
a trunk 

37 Line at an heading: Abbr.18 Up airport 60 Like a mouse 19 Part of FEMA: 38 Mad Libs 61 Tear apartAbbr. specification 62 Flat sound 20 “There’s no 39 Be blue 
63 Fearful sort hope!” 40 “The First Time 64 Turning heads, 22 Objet ___ ___ Saw Your perhapsFace” (Roberta 
23 With 24- and DOWN
Flack #1 hit)

45-Across,   1 Island with a 
41 River of York 

game Hindu majorityrepresented by 42 Chemical 
2 Way out 
this completed suffixes 
3 Form of relief 
puzzle’s grid 
43 Common 
4 Society add-ons 
24 See 23-Across restaurant 

5 Rain man? 25 Imitator of fish 
6 Skateboard park feature
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 In ___ (actually) 8 Relationships 9 Employee data: 
Abbr. 10 Whizzed through 11 Classic Andy Warhol subject 12 Place to take binoculars 13 1984 U.S. Olympic gold
medalist in gymnastics 21 Dog command 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

Puzzle by Joe Krozel  
25 Playmakers? 26 Independent 27 “Fame” actress 28 Tear apart, old-style 29 In distress 30 Gulf moguls  32 Aids for camp chefs 44 Objectivist Rand 48 School period: Abbr. 49 They usually end at six 50 Roman 112  holders 52 New Haven alumni 53 Writer James 54 Languageknown to native speakers asGaelg 55 It’s a small whirl  
31 “You betcha!”  51 Eyeglass  after all  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 

DOME NUTS | aleXandra wellman 


9/13/12 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: get everything in order. don’t let uncertainty or confusion lead to procrastination. The less you have hanging over your head, the better you will do when faced with important decisions. Trust in your intuition, not in hearsay. it’s your responsibility to look out for your interests and to maintain a practical path that will protect you from outside influences. your numbers are 7, 9, 20, 24, 33, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): your ability to embrace change and turn whatever is going on to your advantage will lead to a new beginning. offers made may cause uncertainty at first, but once you weigh the pros and cons, you will know exactly how to react. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t count on others to do things for you. let your past performance speak for you. make changes based on experience, fair play and an opportunity to move in a direction that promises prosperity and satisfaction. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stand tall and refuse to let what others say or do bother you. anger never solves anything, but working toward your goals does. prepare to make the changes that will make you feel more at ease personally and professionally.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): make positive changes to your environment and do what you can to cut your overhead. not everyone will like or approve of the changes you implement, but you have to do whatever works for you and eases your stress. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Jumping from one thing to another will make those around you nervous. The ease at which you carry out your plans will help you gain respect. be wary of someone who might be secretly trying to take advantage of your stamina. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you will face opposition and are best to deal with it in a positive, patient and practical manner. getting angry will not solve anything and will probably lead to lies, deception and disillusionment. work on self-improvement, not trying to change others. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): egal, financial or medical matters should be dealt with personally. do not let anyone handle matters that can have an impact on your future. do what you can to protect your home and your family’s interests. get your facts straight. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a position and follow through with your belief and you will achieve great satisfaction from lending a helping hand. Keep a close watch on authoritative institutions, agencies or people to ensure you aren’t being cheated or manipulated. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):Follow through with your plans, but don’t feel the need to take on someone else’s chores or demands. emotional blackmail is apparent and must be kept in perspective to avoid being taken for granted. use your head and do what’s best for you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid being impulsive when engaging in chatter with friends, relatives or peers. you are best to focus on personal and financial self-improvements that will lead to a better lifestyle or environment. protect your assets, possessions and your reputation. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a financial change is heading your way. you can make career moves that will improve your status quo and lead to greater opportunities down the road. open up to business or personal partners and you will get the go-ahead. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep life simple and avoid engaging in disagreements or risky emotional, physical or financial situations. listen carefully to what others say and offer. There will be underlying motives that you are best to address before you make a decision. 


Birthday Baby: you are entertaining and charming. you are fastidious and appreciative. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
CAMAW  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
HOEUS  

ROERRT CSHRCO  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


A: A 



(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: WOOZY KNOWN SKETCH HICCUPYesterday’s 
Answer: He was in the market for a new banjo, so he needed to do this — PICK ONE 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES | darius walKer 
Notre Dame’s last feature back 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
when selecting where he would play collegiate football, one of the main criteria for darius walker was a national presence. when he got to notre dame, the former irish running back was focused on leaving a legacy. 
Two games into his fresh­man season in 2004, walker was well on his way to fulfilling both objectives. 
after a season-opening loss to byu in utah, the irish returned home to host michigan. walker scored two fourth-quarter touch­downs and rushed 31 times for 115 yards as the irish knocked off the no. 9 wolverines. 
a few hours after the game, walker trudged back toward his room in o’neill hall. he walked up to his section, 2b, and stopped. a line of “probably 30 to 40 people” waited in front of walker’s door. 
“i was like, ‘oh, my good­ness. what in the world is going on?’ i’m like 18 at the time, so i have no idea what’s happening,” walker said recently by phone. “it scared me off.” 
so walker took shelter in a friend’s room for a few hours be­fore trying again. walking back to his room, walker found a gi­ant, white sheet of paper on his door. The horde of people had written messages for the rookie running back. 
“we’re your biggest fans.” 
“you’re our savior.” 
women had left their phone numbers. 
“it was the most ridiculous thing i had ever seen, but it was also the most humbling thing that i had ever seen,” walker said. “what i had done had made that much of an impact on so many people. so it was sort of my induction, if you will, into the craziness that is notre dame football and what it really means to a lot of people.” 
Notre Dame or Stanford? 
in addition to his desires for a legacy and a nationally promi­nent program, walker’s other 
see walKer PAGE 14 


Observer File Photo 

Darius Walker carries the ball for the Irish during Notre Dame’s 35-21 win over Purdue on Sept. 30, 2006 at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish finished the 2006 season, Walker’s last, with a 10-3 record. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

gilbertson, irish set to visit no. 2 virginia Tech 
Hokies hold a 


Gilbertson’s style perfect record shaped by Costa 
through ten games Rican roots 
By RENEE GRIFFIN By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer managing editor 
on the heels of a heartbreak­

notre dame junior forward ing double-overtime loss to no. 
anna maria gilbertson admits 1 north carolina, no. 20 notre 
that her loose and flashy play-dame travels to blacksburg, 
ing style is partially a byprod­virginia to take on no. 2 virginia 
uct of her international soccer Tech on Thursday. 
experience. The game against virginia 
This experience, however, Tech (10-0-0, 1-0-0 acc) marks 
hasn’t been gained with the the second of 10 acc matchups 
united states women’s national for the irish this season, and 
Team, though she has trained beating the undefeated hokies 
with the team before. rather, would be a major victory for the 
it’s been cultivated through irish (5-3-1, 0-1-0), irish coach 
her work with the costa rica Theresa romagnolo said. 
women’s national Team. “i think a win would be 
gilbertson, whose mother, huge, especially coming off 
maria, hails from costa rica, this last weekend,” romagnolo 
said the style of soccer in the said. “we’re a little disap­
nation is different from that pointed about losing that 2-0 
of its larger north american lead against a team like north 
counterpart. carolina. it would mean a lot 
“when you’ve trained in costa to be able to go to virginia and 
rica, i don’t think it’s as … strict,” take on that no. 2 team and 
she said. “you can just kind of come out with a win.” 
go at people, and i think that’s virginia Tech’s high-powered 
helped me with my creativity. … offense has sparked a 10-game 
it’s really helped me grow my in-winning streak, the best in pro­
stincts, so when i’m on the field, gram history. its 3.80 goal-per­
if i want to go at someone, i have game average is top five in the EMMET FARNAN | The Observer good instincts to know how to 
Irish junior forward Anna Maria Gilbertson contests a header during a 2-0 win against Mexico’s U-20 see w soccer PAGE 12 National Team on Apr. 25 at Alumni Stadium. see gilberTson PAGE 12 





