The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 85 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Candidates address campus issues 
Student government elections continued with a debate Sunday night, students to vote Monday 
By CHELSEA WILLIAMS 
news writer 
after no clear majority prevailed in wednesday’s student government elec­tion, the two remaining tickets met sunday to de­bate student issues in the laFortune student center basement. 
presidential candidate olivia lamagna and vice presidential candidate rohan andresen will op­pose presidential can­didate lauren vidal and vice presidential candi­date matthew devine in monday’s run-off election. 
The debate began on the topic of sexual assault. andresen and lamagna said they plan to hold a mid-semester orienta­tion meeting for first-year students to promote awareness on the issue of sexual assault and discuss ways to identify and pre­vent it. 

 “we think freshmen are the most impressionable currently,” andresen said. “They haven’t yet been to dorm parties or really know what sexually as­sault looks like. These are things that we learn after college through experi­ence unfortunately, that we don’t want them to experience.” 
devine said he thought sexual assault is not as rel­evant of an issue for first-year students. 
“This probably has not occurred in high frequen­cy or relevancy in high school,” he said. “This is something that when living communally with a lot of people becomes a larger issue.” 
devine and vidal said the creation of s.n.a.p., or student nighttime auxiliary patrol, would be a more effective way of combating sexual assault. 
“s.n.a.p. would be using existing golf carts of ndsp, equipping staff of safe-walk to make sure they have proper training, and having three to four golf carts running throughout the night and picking up students,” vidal said. “it would work as a taxi ser­vice to ensure expedient turnover.” 
as for the tickets’ view on improving transpor­tation, andresen and 
see debaTe PAGE 5 




incoming editor-in-chief announces editors 
Observer Staff Report 
six new editors will join The observer’s editorial board in 2014-15 and one current edi­tor will retain her spot, incom­ing editor-in-chief ann marie Jakubowski announced Friday. 
sophomores lesley stevenson, mary green, wei lin and gabriela leskur and juniors allie Tollaksen and Keri o’mara will assume positions on the editorial board after spring break. Junior Kelly Konya will continue as saint mary’s editor, no longer interim. 
stevenson, a resident of breen-phillips hall and native of memphis, Tenn., will serve as news editor. majoring in film, television and theatre with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy, stevenson joined The observer in fall 2012 and has since covered this year’s nd Forum on women in leadership and the 2014 student govern­ment election. 
green hails from Tampa, Fla., and lives in pangborn hall. she majors in film, television and theatre and english, with a mi­nor in journalism, ethics and democracy. green will serve as sports editor after covering women’s basketball and men’s swimming and spending the past year as interhall editor. 
lin, a resident of Knott hall and native of new york, will serve as photo editor. he ma­jors in accounting, economics and chinese and joined The observer as a photographer in november 2012. he became a nightly photo editor in march 2013 and also writes for the news department intermittently. 
leskur will take over as viewpoint editor. a native of cleveland, and resident of Farley 
see reporT PAGE 4 



Week parades awkwardness 
By KATIE MCCARTY 
news writer 
notre dame’s gender 
relations center (grc) and 
notre dame humor artists 
are teaming up to spon­
sor notre dame awkward 
awareness week to pro­
mote acceptance of our 
awkward sides. 
“everything that the 
see awKward PAGE 3 


smc student dancers perform in annual ensemble 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
“live, love, dance” was the theme of this year’s annual dance ensemble workshop, which highlighted 13 student dancers Thursday, Friday and saturday evenings in o’laughlin auditorium. 
The program, presented by the saint mary’s department of communication studies, dance, and Theatre, included pieces choreographed by saint mary’s faculty members laurie lowry and michele Kriner and guest artists marlayna locklear and sarah edgar.  
lowry said the event has taken place at saint mary’s for more than 33 years. The dances highlight the many facets of the college’s dance program, bringing together ex­amples of both modern dance and classical ballet, she said. 
“we have a group of danc­ers who come to us and have studied ballet for a long time and they’re quite proficient, 
see dance PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 men’s basKeTball PAGE 16 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

News 
meg handelman Kell Konya emily mcconville 
Graphics 
maria massa 
Photo 
Zach llorens 
Sports 

Josh dulany vicky Jacobsen mary green 
Scene 

daniel barabasi 
Viewpoint 

dan sehlhorst 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite breakfast food? 

Billy Cheely 

Joseph Scollan 
sophomore 
junior 
Fisher hall 
st. edward’s hall 
“cocoa puffs.” 
“French toast.” 

Want your event included here? 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Chris Weber 
junior st. edward’s hall 
“biscuit sausage breakfast sandwich.” 
Ellen Stucky 
junior ryan hall 
“cold pizza.” 


Lisa Menendez 
junior lewis hall 
“lewis French toast.” 
Michelle Mueller 
junior pasquerilla west hall 
“pancakes and bacon, like The Notebook.” 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
Ethics Week lecture  Lecture: India’s  Gallery Talk  Workshop on Dante’s  Junior Parents  
Mendoza College of  Urban Slums  Snite Museum of Art  Inferno  Weekend begins  
Business  Hesburgh Center for  12:30 p.m. - 1:15 p.m.  Information  Campus-wide  
12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m.  International Studies  On the prints of  Technology Center  All day  
On the vocation of the  12:30 p.m. - 2 p.m.  Renaissance artist  11:30 a.m. - 1 p.m.  Includes gala,  
Christian leader.  With Adam Auerbach.  Albrecht Drer  Focus on Canto VIII  workshops, Mass  
Antibiotic resistance  Men’s Basketball  Women’s Lacrosse  Film: “A Touch of Sin”  SonnetFest  
131 DeBartolo Hall  Purcell Pavilion  Loftus Center  DeBartolo Performing  O’Shaughnessy Hall  
7:30 p.m. - 8:45 p.m.  7 p.m. - 9 p.m.  5 p.m. - 7 p.m.  Arts Center  11 a.m. - 3 p.m.  
Info session from  The Irish take on the  The Irish take on the  7 p.m.  Valentine’s Day with all  
Social Justice in  Clemson Tigers  Cincinnati Bearcats  Part of Asian­ 154 of Shakespeare’s  
American Medicine.  American Film Series  sonnets  

Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


Alumnus examines technology in business 
By ELYSE HIGHT 
news writer 
lloyd adams, chief operat­ing officer of sap americas’ regulated industries, spoke Friday at the mendoza college of business as part of the “Ten years hence speaker series: The Future of energy.” 
The series aims to “explore is­sues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over the next decade,” according to mendoza’s website description of the series. adams speech dis­cussed the technological advan­tage in examining the changing business world. 
“you really should stop and take pause, and wonder, where you’re going to go from here,” adams said to begin his lecture. 
although he focused on the increasing uses of technological advances in the business world, adams also emphasized the im­portance of individual fulfillment in your career. adams graduated from notre dame with a degree in marketing. 
he said to always stop and en­sure that you are happy in that moment and that you are giving everything back you can. 
adams began working for sap 16 years ago. he attributed his continuance with the company to his leading role in the harness­ing of big data to boost all spec­trums of business. 
”in the last five years, more data has been created than ever before … which presents huge opportunity if approached right,” he said. 


“cloud, big data, and networks are what companies are moving towards.” 
analyzing the direction of these companies, adams said we are “a world of real time engage­ment moving towards a segment of one.” 
adams said sap’s mission is to help organizations become best-run businesses and their passions are based on teamwork, integrity, accountability and 
paid adverTisemenT 

professionalism. 
“Technology and innovation are driving the four most es­sential dimensions of business: customers, employees, resources and networks,” adams said. “The ability to explore new possibilities has changed sap as a company.” 
due to the implementation of technology into the business world, companies are enabled to create previously unimaginable applications and to rethink new ways to run their businesses, adams said. 
“wherever you go, you’re going to have to embrace technology and try to harness your techno­logical ability,” adams said. 
he said we should not fear technology, but rather use it to improve our lives. 
Though his lecture focused on the increasing use of technology in business, adams made sure to leave his audience with more than just background on what sap does. 
“when looking three or five years hence, look to go some­where where you would be proud to work at and someplace where 
Awkward 
conTinued From page 1 
gender relations center does is supposed to help notre dame students have healthy relationships, with yourself, with others, and with god, “ said sophomore lucinda Krahl, a peer educator in the grc. 
Krahl said students could participate in the “my awkward life” vine-exclusive contest, in which students submit a six-second, non-offensive video to @ grcnd to be entered in a con­test to win gift cards to local eateries. 
also, students can tweet a picture of themselves do­ing something awkward ac­companied by the hashtag #letsmakeitawkwardnd. 
according to the gender relations website, a wall of awkwardness will be avail­able in both dining halls all week, on which students can share their awkward moments with their peers. students can also pick up free “awkward” t-shirts in the dining halls monday through Thursday during lunch. 
students are encouraged to wear their shirts on Friday, according the website. 
Krahl said the idea for the movement came from the you can change the game and bring it to the next level,” adams said. 
adams said he would recom­mend for students to really think about where it is you want to go with your life and career and not settle for the first job they are of­fered. ”be deliberate,” adams said. “be selfish. make sure where you’re going is some place you would want to get up on a stage and talk about.” 
Contact Elyse Hight at        ehigh@nd.edu 


pressure to be perfect that students experience at notre dame. 
“at notre dame, we are all under pressure by others and by ourselves to succeed,” Krahl said. “sometimes we demand perfectionism, but we’re all human, so we make mistakes. … we’re all awkward.” 
The week emphasizes em­bracing the awkwardness that we all share, Krahl said. 
“being awkward is part of being human, and therefore, part of being yourself,” Krahl said.  “instead of ignoring or covering up our awkward­ness, we hope this week can help people acknowledge their awkwardness and their humanity. if you are happy with being awkward, then it makes it easier to accept oth­ers as well.” 
The grc encourages stu­dents to join the Facebook event, “notre dame awkward awareness week,” to, pro­mote the even, and changg their profile picture to the banner on the Facebook page. 
“hopefully, awkward awareness week can give people some laughs and make them feel a little less pressured and a little more human,” Krahl said. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 



Dance 
conTinued From page 1 
and then we have dancers who don’t have ballet background but more modern,” lowry said. “Trying to blend those into one big piece and give everyone a chance to showcase what they can do. … i wanted the dancers to know what it felt like to be in a larger work that has a story to tell.” 
lowry choreographed the first act, “alice’s adventures,” while collaborating with her students. she based the piece on lewis carroll’s classic story “alice in wonderland.” 
“i usually walk into rehearsal and everything is thought out, but with “alice” i walked into the space and i said all i have is this script,” she said. “and i played the music, looked at the dancers, and we built it together.” 
The complete performance combined multi-layered efforts 
Staff 
conTinued From page 1 
hall, she majors in the program of liberal studies with an an­thropology minor. leskur cur­rently writes for The observer’s scene department, including a popular recurring column titled “gabriela’s double dog dare.” 
Tollaksen, from racine, wis., majors in psychology and mi­nors in poverty studies. The Farley hall resident will be scene editor after joining the staff last year and serving as associate scene editor this semester. 
o’mara, a resident of welsh Family hall, will serve as graphics editor. hailing from albany, n.y., she majors in graph­ic design and minors in peace studies. o’mara has done de­sign work for the arts and letters office of communication, scholastic magazine, Junior class council and the student peace conference. 
Konya will continue as saint mary’s editor. The le mans hall resident and Twinsburg, ohio, native majors in english writing and english literature and has experience as associate saint mary’s editor last semester and current interim editor. 


by costume designer melissa bialko, technical director michaela duffy, lighting de­signer catherine cislo and art­work by senior abby Kramer, lowry said. 
“I think new experiences, [such as] having a guest choreographer really broadens our experience overall.” 
Bethany Tabor 
senior 

The second act included “magnifique,” choreographed by lowry and “so pretty in the sky” and “on any monday…,” both choreographed by dance professor michele Kriner. guest artist marlayna locklear cho­reographed “at the end of the day,” a contemporary-modern style dance. guest artist sarah edgar choreographed “Tourbillon,” a historical piece with roots in eighteenth cen­tury baroque dance. 
“[edgar] used 18th century geometric floor patterns to use in the dance, but she hasn’t used necessarily baroque steps,” lowry said. “she also used 18th century goddess stat­ues … and then she also took 17th century acting gestures and really incorporated that into the dance. and the last sec­tion of the dance is a contempo­rary phrase that she created.” 
senior dancer bethany Tabor said the opportunity to work on the piece with edgar during an intensive weekend was a fan­tastic experience. 
“she brought a lot of new con­text to our company,” Tabor said. “i think new experiences, [such as] having a guest chore­ographer really broadens our experience overall.” 
First-year adrienne bruggeman said she par­ticularly enjoyed guest artist locklear’s “at the end of the day.” The hip-hop piece uti­lized eight girls and created amazing effects through op­posing motions and forma­tions, she said. 
bruggeman said she also en­joyed Kriner’s contemporary modern “on any monday…,” which allowed dancers to im­provise around a set framework. 
“i was blown away when the girls created an apparently seamless performance with­out meticulous direction,” bruggeman said. “For me, it was hard to draw the line be­tween what was planned ahead and what was the creation of the students.” 
lowry said dancers began preparing for the performanc­es in september. during the dances, she said she wanted her students to embrace the experi­ence that truly belongs to them. 
Tabor, who danced in a number of pieces including the role of alice, said she was happy with the success of the performances. 
“I was blown away when the girls created an apparently seamless performance without meticulous direction.” 
Adrienne Bruggeman 
freshman 
“dance is just such a part of who i am,” she said. “i’ve been doing it my whole life and i can’t really let it go, because it’s so intrinsic to my very being.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Study shows gender, age gap in Hollywood 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
although moviegoers flock to the newest movies starring young actresses, massive box office numbers do not neces­sarily translate to fortune for them. 
according to a study by pro­fessor of management Timothy Judge, women have signifi­cantly lower average earn­ings per film than their male counterparts early on in their careers. 
Judge examined earnings numbers from 265 hollywood film actors and actresses to compile the study’s findings. 
“we used various archival sources to locate information about the actors and actress­es,” Judge said. “similarly, we located information about movies made, earnings for each movie, as well as infor­mation on the movies form various online sources such as imdb.” 

Judge, along with his col­league irene de pater, used an equation that considered rankings in a given star’s film credits, his or her number of films and leading roles and academy award and golden globe award nominations and wins. 
according to a university press release, the study found that female movie stars gain their highest average earn­ings per film when they reach 34 years old. average salaries decrease sharply after this threshold. 
male actors, on the other hand, maximize their earning power when they are 51, and they do not experience a sig­nificant earnings drop-off af­ter that age. 
“we came to the conclusion that the work of older actresses may be less valued than the work of their male counter­parts,” Judge said in the press release. “in fact, we found there are far fewer roles avail­able for female movie stars over age 45.” 
The study pinpoints a corre­lation between per-film earn­ings and awards. in terms of recognition, it notes that the average age of female golden globe winners is 42 years old, while the average age for male winners is 52 years old. 
Judge said he has been inter­ested in the gender wage gap for some time. 
“i saw a movie called ‘searching for debra winger’ about how it is difficult for old­er actresses to land prime roles and thus i started to look into it,” Judge said. 
Judge said the studyereveals a negative side tt hollywood’s culture.“hollywood loves to extoll their progressive val­ues,” Judge said. “but when you look at their actual behav­ior such as promoting smoking or violence in movies, or in this case, gender equality, we find their behavior lacking.” T h e study also has implications outside hollywood’s realm, as the findings correlate to the nation’s gender-wage gap. Judge said “our study is a unique examination of the gender-wage gap in that it com­bines the impact of gender and age on earnings of an equally successful group of people in a highly specific field where workers are essentially free agents paid by their expect­ed market value,” Judge said. “Therefore, the study findings of a significant age-gender gap are important to all of us gath­ered around the water cooler.” 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

Irish professor discusses modernism 
By SARAH MCCARTHY 
news writer 
dr. liam lanigan, an irish research council postdoc­toral research fellow from university college cork, spoke Friday about irish nov­elist george moore and his relation to irish urban mod­ernism in the late 19th and early 20th century. 
lanigan’s lecture, spon­sored by the Keough­naughton institute for irish studies, focused on moore’s critique of irish society in his novels. 
lanigan said moore, in his naturalistic treatment of dublin, developed an irish mode of modernism. 
“moore’s deployment of the idea of suburbanization at the end of [his novel] “a drama in muslin” . . . attempts to di­agnose the problems facing society and facing the city,” lanigan said. “he seems imaginatively incapable of imposing a solution within the space of dublin. 
“There’s this sort of discon­tinuity between dublin as a contained space and he ends up having to project a set of solutions elsewhere.” 
lanigan said moore’s di­lemma was common among irish writers of his time, as were themes of irish nation­alism and social decline. in his novel “confessions of a young man,” moore exposes the Francophile within him­self and explores his own hos­tile feelings toward ireland, lanigan said. 
“it is indicative of his ten­dency to measure ireland against France and dublin against paris, always to ireland’s detriment,” lanigan said. “paris is a space in which you can get rid of all the in­herited traits of language and nationality in contrast with dublin.” 

moore was interested in the aestheticism of parisian culture, lanigan said. he saw paris as a place where naturalism and impression­ism could flourish, whereas dublin remained stagnant in the arts. 
“dublin is revealed as a failed space, betraying a very long process of social de­cline,” lanigan said. 
according to lanigan, moore’s aim was to improve irish society through mod­ernization. he invoked the peasantry in his work to call attention to the social and economic disparities within dublin. 
“he shows the picture of a society incapable of change,” lanigan said. “a static vision in which an alternative does not appear possible, and yet in which the end of the cur­rent system is inevitable.” 
moore’wws writings re­vealed a society marked by fundamental injustice, lanigan said, and showed how social stagnation was oc­curring not only in the heart of the slums but in the more affluent suburbs as well. 
lanigan said moore pro­vided “a street-level view of poor urban experience” by highlighting the proximity of poverty and wealth in dublin, while also applying to the city a sense of meaning and modernity. 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 

for students who can’t afford 
Debate 
to take a cab. 

conTinued From page 1 
at the end of the debate, 
lamangna said they would work towards improvement with the bus transportation system in order to increase interaction with south bend. 
“we want to make sure it is possible for students to get downtown. if you don’t have a car, it really is hard to take advantage of all there is to of­fer,” lamagna said. “we think it is much more valuable to go downtown than to have downtown to start to come to us.” 
vidal said she would like to standardize cab rates across the south bend area instead of changing bus schedules. 
lamagna said she wanted to make the buses more con­venient because all students can use them with their id cards and do not discriminate each ticket discussed an idea unique to their own platform. devine and vidal said they want local farmers to bring their goods and produce to south Quad.
 “This is something they have been trying to push forward for a while, bring­ing some of these things to campus to increase students’ knowledge of what goes on in south bend, and also get stu­dents curious to explore what else south bend has,” devine said. 
andresen and lamagna discussed their plan to open up classes to non-majors shortly after registering for classes. 
“it’s a step in the direction that the university wants us to take,” lamagna said. “To be able to have freshman take, for example, computer science classes, which is not a possibility right now. “The main thing we want to get across is that we just want to make sure everybody feels like they have a spot here at the university, no matter where they are coming from or what they want to do after.” 
vidal concluded the debate by saying her main goal is to make the university as effec­tive as possible when it comes to educating students.
 This is something that has fueled us from the beginnin.,” vidal said. “we absolutely love this university, and i am excited to see my friends and share experiences that only can be shared here at this university.” 
Contact Chelsea Williams at cwilli26@nd.edu 

drought-rattled california welcomes weekend storm 
Associated Press 
san Francisco — californians accustomed to complaining about the slight­est change in the weather welcomed a robust weekend storm that soaked the north­ern half of the drought-strick­en state saturday even as rain and snow brought the threat of avalanches, flooding and rock slides. 
in willits, one of 17 rural communities that california’s department of public health recently described as dan­gerously low on water, city councilman bruce burton said he was cheered seeing the water levels in a local reservoir and his backyard pond creep­ing up and small streams flow­ing again. The city in the heart of redwood country usually sees about 50 inches of rain a year and was expected to get about 4 inches by sunday. 
“it’s guarded optimism. we are a long ways from where we need to be, but we have to start with some sort of a rain­drop,” burton said. 
The storm that moved in Thursday, powered by a warm, moisture-packed sys­tem from the pacific ocean known as a pineapple express, dropped more than 11 inches of rain on marin county’s mt. Tamalpais and on the sonoma county town of guerneville by late saturday afternoon, national weather service forecaster bob benjamin said. meanwhile, san Francisco, san Jose and other urban ar­eas recorded 1 to 3 inches of rain. 
with areas north of san Francisco forecast to see an­other few inches by sunday, the downpour, while ample enough to flood roadways and prompt warnings that parched streams could be deluged to the point of over­flowing, by itself will not solve the state’s drought worries, national weather service hy­drologist mark strudley said. 
“The yearly rainfall around here, depending on where you were, was less than 10 percent of normal,” he said. 
The storm deposited a foot of snow for lake Tahoe ski re­sorts that have relied on man-made snow for much of the season, and elevations above 7,500 feet were expected to get another foot or two by sunday, said holly osborne, a national weather service meteorolo­gist in sacramento. 
when state surveyors last checked on Jan. 30, the snow-pack was at 12 percent of nor­mal for this time of winter. by saturday, it was at 17 percent of normal. 


america, the beautiful 
yet to come 
Kirby McKenna 
multimedia editor 

as a second-semester senior, there is definitely a heighted sense of time, both passed and remaining, as we get into the swing of the “last hurrah.” From the countdown app on my phone pro­claiming days until spring break to the countless Facebook album titles cre­atively avoiding the word “senior,” it is as though time is constantly “in the way” or at least a depressing reminder that all good things must come to an end. 
i cannot tell you how many times one of my residents has asked if i am sad about this imminent conclusion. For them, there is still plenty of time to hang with friends, make mistakes, and procrastinate on homework. as under­classmen, though reality exists, it is far enough into the future that they can afford to hit the snooze button at least once. being a senior means that we are one step closer to ‘real life’ which, for some, is just as horrifying as recogniz­ing someone during the bun run. 
easy as it is to join in on the lament­ing of when it will ever be socially ac­ceptable to [insert stereotypical college activity] again, one is only contributing to an increasingly prevalent problem. instead of reveling in the monumental­ity of the mundane, we are focused on the need to overhype and underappreci­ate. if we allow ourselves to think of this as the prime of our existence, it will be. Think of all your high school classmates who unfortunately peaked at ripe age of 
16. woof. why should that be any dif­ferent now? if you ask me, missing from the phrase, “this is the best four years of your life” is the ever-crucial word, “yet”. 
This summer, as i was preparing for my last year here, my internship mentor gave me a really good piece of advice. instead of getting caught up on “this is the last first 9:30 class in o’shag on a Tuesday,” just enjoy it. actually listen and take interest in what is going on around you so that instead of being de­pressed when it is gone, you are excited to use what you gained some day in the future. stop crying over the fact that you got an email notification about gradua­tion plans and start making plans with your friends to tailgate with their par­ents that weekend. Time is going to pass no matter what; no social media revela­tion is going to change that. 
instead of being depressed about it, get excited about everything this university has (hopefully) prepared you for. if you are not ready, who cares? do you really think that freshman down the hall is prepared for everything this school is going to throw at them the next few years? so next time you check how many days are left, stay calm. you knew this was going to happen and it most certainly is not then end. 
Contact Kirby McKenna at kmckenn5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Lukas O’Donnell 
morning in america 

in today’s modern world, occupied by the 24-hour news cycle and a plethora of television pundits, one cannot help but come to the sobering conclusion that the united states is on the decline. 
The economy is still unstable from the great recession. congress is in constant partisan gridlock. Jobs are leaving for cheaper alternatives overseas, and na­tions like china and india are seen as emerging powers. but while all of this is being told to the american people, some­thing interesting is happening behind the scenes: america is marching forward, like it always has. 
america is not a nation on the decline, but rather a nation slowly and inexorably improving itself and its allies. although the economy was drastically hurt by the great recession, the stock market is higher than it has ever been before, and growing fields like renewable energy and biotechnology are on the rise. even though it may be possible to ship manu­facturing jobs overseas, it will never be possible to get rid of the ingenuity of the american people. when pushed to our limits, we put a man on the moon and defeated soviet-era communism. and, by the way, we are currently home to 132 of the Fortune 500 companies. From our humble revolutionary roots, we know that we have something to prove to the world, and we do that every day. 
some point to our government, espe­cially congress in recent years, as a cause of the problems of america. From the out­side world, congress appears to be a slow moving behemoth of a political machine. The media portrays them as producing very little, and what little they do produce is watered down. in fact, this gridlock is a built in blessing from our Founding Fathers. 
if this can be seen through the work­ings of congress, however, a much differ­ent picture is painted. congress is slow because it is made up of two opposing sides with differing ideals. in order to get anything passed, both sides in each house must work together, in addition to receiving the presidential signature of approval. even if both sides agree that something should be done, they gener­ally do not agree how it should be done. Through this series of compromises, each is driven toward the middle of the political spectrum. if congress had the opportunity to rapidly push bills through, this process of moderating bills would be lost. The american system of democracy was the first successful democracy of the modern era, and our revolutionary ide­als still inspire freedom-loving peoples across the globe. 
Finally, many people say that the reign of america as the world’s sole superpower is coming to an end. china, many people claim, will soon be calling the shots on behalf of the world community, as they are rapidly growing and industrializing. but what these critics of america fail to see is that china is nowhere near ready to take on international powers. The united states gdp is $16.24 trillion, while china’s is only $8.23 trillion. while this may seem close, it is important to remember that china has nearly four times more citizens than the u.s., making the gdp per capita of the us $51,700 and of china $6,091. Furthermore, the rapid growth of china has come from its cheap industrialization of the country, a phase that the unites states went through over a century ago. now in a post-industrial economy, the united states has the ability to use and cultivate the brain power of its citizens, an ability so much more useful for long term growth and success. 
so although some people say that america is on the decline, we know this not to be the case. in the words of the great ronald reagan, “it’s morning in america again.” whether in this genera­tion or the last, the sentiment holds true. america is constantly going through a rebirth to better itself and adapting to the changing world, while still holding true to its ideas of ingenuity, freedom, and de­mocracy. we, the students of notre dame, will play an integral part in the future of america. america’s future is bright. 
Lukas O’Donnell is a freshman finance and political science major in Duncan Hall. He can be contacted at lodonnel@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“under democracy one party always devotes its chief energies to trying to prove that the other party is unfit to rule - and both commonly succeed, and are right.” 
H. L. Mencken American editor (1880-1956) 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A Valentine for every major 
Michael Miklavic 
The maine idea 

it’s the second week in February, notre dame, which means it’s time to move on from whatever terrible decisions you made last weekend and start planning for the ones you’ll make on valentine’s day. 
as with every February, it comes this year with a bundle of questions. For some it’s what to do for the big day; for others, it’s how to best begrudgingly ignore it as they return to Facebook and unfortu­nately placed christiansingles.com ads. students everywhere will venture forth with romantic gestures that range in qual­ity from noah’s 365 letters to a fluorescent-lit dinner at Taco bell. what follows is a preview of how Friday will play out for some across campus. at best, it could be the night of your dreams. at worst, it could get more awkward than me at the middle school dance, with just as many feet stepped on. may the odds be ever in your favor. 
history: “on a scale of 1 to america, how free are you Thursday?” “For you? mao’s china.” 
psychology: Thought hypnosis would be a fun valentine’s day event. restraining order says otherwise. 
education: says they don’t need another valentine, citing the 27 valentines they received from their third grade student-teaching class. 
english: declares their love akin to romeo and Juliet. clearly never read the final act. 
irish studies: decides to give up guinness after last year’s debacle. hello, Jameson! 
FTT: Tries to film a romcom to impress date. comes off more like mclovin than ryan gosling. 
spanish: proposes to date while posing as don Juan. college republicans file for his deportation. 
Finance: watches girl walk by at the bar, drunkenly announcing, “That’s a girl you could bring home to your wife.” Fiancée isn’t amused. realizes he should probably short his marriage. 
nursing: goes to football formal. given that her date was a member of the offense, it’s no surprise he doesn’t score. 
medieval studies: plans out date and gets permission from date’s father. neglects to get actual date’s approval. 
math: “statistics tell me we won’t last, but let’s take a chance anyway.” statistics were right. 
classics: Teams up with civil engi­neer roommate to erect a valentine’s monument outside date’s dorm. insists they call it the ‘Trojan horse.’ 
music: in an ode to “Frozen,” ser­enades date with “do you want to build a snowman?” date says no. 
accounting: despite their debit and credit prowess, failed to account for the fact that trying to juggle three dates in one night is bound to get caught by the audit staff. 
physics: announces his love to be as infallible as string Theory. didn’t make sense to us, either. 
marketing: wins over classmate with midterm marketing presentation on why they should go out. professor not amused, but completely worth it. witnesses will later describe it as “totes adorbs.” 
russian: stares longingly into poster of a shirtless vladimir putin while enjoying Kamchatka’s finest export. 
seminarians: bingo night with sisters of holy cross. i decided against using ‘semi­nal event’ for this one. you’re welcome. 
gender studies: Too busy rant­ing against the outrageous sexism of siegfried’s ‘day of man’ to bother with valentine’s day. 
naval science: embarks on a voyage with naval officers morgan and nelson before trying to reenact the ‘Top gun’ bar scene. less “maverick in the bar,” more “goose in the ejection seat.” 
Japanese: i actually don’t know any Japanese majors, so let’s just say they en­joy a romantic evening. 
chemistry: Tries to whip up a “love po­tion.” blows up Jordan. called to hearing with community standards and professor snape. 
philosophy: creates philosophically perplexing argument to explain it’s not his fault he thought her sister was her last Thursday at Feve. 
electrical engineer: writes love letter to perfect effect, impressing date who didn’t realize they could communicate through anything other than lab reports. 
Theology: spends night worrying about how to introduce protestant date to parents. 
political science: Tries to win over heart with a witty observer column. ends up watching the olympics in his boxers with his roommates while eating subway. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior political science and finance major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He once asked a girl out on a date. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The tale of old horowitz 
George Klawitter, CSC 
guest columnist 

old professor horowitz is a much loved and much revered tenured professor of sacred music at notre dame. he has taught here for 47 years, and his specialty is the sacred cantata. he has written dozens of sa­cred cantatas, many of which have had their world premier in the basilica on campus. some of them, however, have premiered at cathedrals in europe and one actually premiered to great acclaim at the vatican, where the pope was seen tapping his foot during the stabat mater section. 
old horowitz is a popular teacher, his seminars always filled, his workshops at­tracting the brightest and the best of the music majors. his students, however, occa­sionally try a little prank on horowitz. once a graduate student submitted his doc­toral cantata with a musical motif by The rolling stones worked in: “i don’t get no satisfaction.” old horowitz, of course, did not recognize the tune (he has never heard a thing by The stones), but he did sense some­thing awkward at that point in the composi­tion and required that it be excised before the cantata was performed at juries. 
old horowitz has recently been en­sconced in his new office in the brand new “academic” building erected to enhance the south end of the football stadium. some of his colleagues have noted that the new edifice has made notre dame the laughing­stock of academia around the world. They describe the building, and its two sister buildings, as “slapping lipstick on a pig.” but such twaddle does not bother old horowitz. he is quite delighted with the lovely view he has of the parking lot and the rooftop of legends. not for him is the sylvan setting of the school of music at the university of michigan or the megaplex music school at the university of indiana. he does not even dream of the lovely music building at oberlin of ohio with its wing of practice rooms each outfitted with a small pipe or­gan. no, he is quite happy in his new digs hugging the football stadium. 
cantata composition is a tricky thing. one has to wait for inspiration before and during the process, and one never knows when calliope is going to work her magic of inspiration. one takes it when it hits. Thus, you can imagine old horowitz’s problem when he wanted to get to his office one football saturday because he could sense the compositional itch, a new idea to end the final movement of a glorious cantata, which many of his colleagues (who have sneaked a peek) have declared the old guy’s masterpiece. 
he drove to campus but was, naturally, turned away because he did not have the requisite sticker for a football saturday. he tried unsuccessfully to convince the guard that he was actually heading to the tailgate lot and was anxious to get his brats sizzling and his taco chips arrayed color by color. but the guard was no dummy: he did a quick search of the back seat of horowitz’s 1957 plymouth and discovered not so much as a bottle of soda. so much for the ruse. 
Forced to turn back, old horowitz drove up 933 to roseland and parked in front of somebody’s home. he then hiked back to campus. it took him an hour and a half, but all this time he was buoyed by the won­derful melody that calliope was pacing through his brain — it was going to be the perfect finale to the cantata, the crowning touch of seven years of dedicated work. 
on campus, he wound his way through a horde of wassailing alumni to his building. Throngs were heading through the main doors, the great gates of Kiev doors, in order to get into the stadium for the day’s game. old horowitz joined them. he was not much for football. in fact, he had never seen a game in his life. he realized that it had something to do with a ball being thrown around on a field with consequent concus­sions and early dementia for young men, all for the amusement of rich republicans, but he had never pursued the suggestion to actually see a game because no one ever thought of making the suggestion to him. 
halfway through the great gates of Kiev, he turned sharply to the left to enter the foy­er where the elevator to the upper floors was located. he needed that elevator to get to his office. but again a guard stopped him be­cause he did not look like a rich republican heading up to a luxury skybox to nibble on filet mignon and sip champagne while watching the day’s game. old horowitz, in fact, had never been to those luxury skybox­es on the top of the building, not once. he had heard about them, of course, but he had no curiosity to explore their wonders. 
what to do? what to do? 
he walked calmly around the side of the building (dedicated to the intellectual fore­sight of some captain of industry named smythe) where he knew he could jimmy a lock on a secret door that a kindly janitor once pointed out to him. in a flash, with the help of a credit card, he had manipulated the lock and was in a dark corridor that led to a staircase. Floor after floor he climbed until he found himself on level six, his of­fice level. he pried open the fire escape and walked into the brightness of his familiar hallway. 
in his office, he was surrounded by his notes, boxes and boxes of notes that he had jotted over the last seven years as he labored on his masterpiece. somewhere in there, he knew there was a slip he had taken of a mozart performance he had heard in vienna, the perfect sequence to manipulate for the finale of his cantata! Twenty minutes later he had the note slip in hand. as he studied it, calliope started to work on his brain, integrating the motif into what could become a glorious passage. old horowitz pulled out the incomplete score and just as he was about to enter the beginning of the motif, a roar blasted from behind him, something about “block that kick! block that kick!” 
The effect was instantaneous, almost knocking the old guy off his chair. The noise filled the room, rattled the music pa­per of the cantata manuscript, and threw old horowitz into a catatonic fit. his eyes popped wide, his heart muscles stiffened, and his mouth gaped wide fighting for breath. 
it was over in an instant. They found old horowitz on monday morning when he didn’t show up for his 9 a.m. lecture on the picardy Third. There he was at his office desk, slumped over his precious manu­script, now to be forever unfinished, another victim to the hunger of the goddess sport. They buried him in cedar grove cemetery, within earshot of the stadium, where sev­eral saturdays each fall he is regaled with booming chants of “do this” or “do that,” all of which mean absolutely nothing to old horowitz. 
The cantata has never been finished. several colleagues tried, and several well-intentioned grad students tried, but all have despaired of capturing in music whatever wonderful finale old horowitz had planned for his masterpiece. 
George Klawitter lives in Columba Hall and can be contacted at  gk7042@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

comedian and writer max silvestri took the stage at legends on saturday for a student union board-presented stand up show. silvestri has been featured on vh1 and has written for publications including “gQ,” “grantland” and “av club.” additionally, he covered the popular cooking competition series “Top chef” for the food blog “eater”.The student union board stand-up show opened with a short set by student comedian and student stand-ups president shelley Kim. Kim tackled timely topics including the polar bear plunge and recent holidays, both chinese new year and valentine’s day. she also discussed being a female comedian and the fe­male president of her club. in perhaps her funniest bit of the night, Kim alluded to a portrait of “amelia earhart giving Janis Joplin a chest bump” laying atop her immov­able ottoman, beside her “lamp,” which is really just a pile of bras on fire. 
when silvestri began his set, he immediately tested his crowd, first with an astute grammatical joke prompted by the audience’s response of “well!” when he asked how everyone was doing and then some slightly more racy material. The responses to both pieces encouraged silvestri, opening the comedian to a relaxed and upbeat hour of comedy. 
silvestri showed off his snappy delivery early in his performance. his buoyant nature kept the audience en­gaged for the entirety of the show, with no lulls or down­time, and logically penetrated into his material. much of his set was based on sharing details of his childhood and personal life, while poking fun at them through a more removed lens.  Though some of his revelations could have been told in an embarrassing manner, instead silvestri joked lightheartedly at such life events as deliberately planning to eat a caramel in the shower and accidentally “Facebook-ing” a middle-school crush. 
not only did silvestri use his maturity to get a new, comical perspective on his experiences, but he also used this angle to view things outside of his own life. his unique view led to many impressive, longwinded hypo­theticals the comedian crafted based on the smallest of details. This was best represented when he went into a lengthy tangent describing the physique of a subway-go­er he once had a run in with, which he assured the crowd was not integral to his joke but that he continued de­scribing anyway. The riff started with silvestri guessing the man’s height and weight and ended with imagining how a made-up encounter between the man and his aunt would have gone at a family party. 
The comic’s playful, light tone of joke and storytelling rang similar to stand-up John mulaney’s comedic voice, but silvestri sets himself apart with his tendency to am­ble through his material. like mulaney, silvestri often over-explains commonly known concepts, turning the everyday into absurdity. he also gave the same absurdist treatment to very specific, lesser-known slices of popular culture. This is not too surprising of the comedian, given the hilarious, sometimes irreverent, insight he has been able to present in his writing, including the aforemen­tioned recaps of the bravo series “Top chef,” as well as other Food network shows. 
seeing personal experiences and choice fixations on pop culture through silvestri’s comedic scope offered the audience a lot of laughs, and a lighthearted and intimate look into the stand-up’s life. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

in June 1996, renowned american poet robert creeley wrote a letter to Kurt vonnegut, thanking him for send­ing a note to his 12-year-old daughter, hannah. vonnegut had come to breakfast at creeley’s home years earlier and met hannah, then 8. in 1996, she mentioned having met vonnegut to her friends and understandably they did not believe her. so her dad mentioned this incident in one of his letters to his friend vonnegut and he responded by sending a card to hannah, which she showed to her friends. creeley’s June 1996 letter thanking vonnegut for this card is printed in the newly released “selected letters of robert creeley.” creeley jokes to vonnegut “you are not a terrific writer for nothing!” pointing to the irony of a famous literary figure resolving the squabbles of pre­teenage girls. 
This volume of creeley’s letters put out this month by the university of california press documents many iro­nies and humorous anecdotes of the beloved poet, his personal life and his network of intellectual confidantes and pen pals. The book, at 512 pages, features just a hand­ful of creeley’s correspondence ranging from 1945 to 2005. Kaplan harris, co-editor of “The selected letters of robert creeley,” explained in a talk Friday at hesburgh library the 10-year project that was reading, and choos­ing which letters of creeley’s should be published. 
harris was one of three speakers at a special symposium held on Friday in the special collections celebrating both the hesburgh exhibit entitled “robert creeley’s library: The poet’s books as art museum and network of communications,” as well as the publication of his letters. The first speaker of the day was creeley’s widow, penelope creeley. she offered a more personal view of the poet rare­ly seen by scholars accustomed to viewing creeley as a poet first, not as a husband and friend. like the vonnegut anecdote, penelope creeley shared lots of little stories about creeley formerly unknown. she talked a bit about creeley’s fondness for libraries. she illustrated some of the famous friendships creeley had describing him as a shy, reflective man. she said creeley described how he might reservedly take in a social gathering from a table in the corner with the phrase “dancing sitting down.” 
despite being reserved, creeley managed to connect with many contemporary writers, artists and musicians. penelope told another anecdote on Friday testifying to creeley’s long friendship with alan ginsberg. when creeley’s niece died in a car accident in maine, ginsberg came to the small town where her funeral was being held. in order to contribute to the memorial fund, he read some of his erotic, socially uncomfortable poetry at the local library. 
stephen Fredman, a 20th and 21st century american poetry professor, received a $125,000 grant from the president’s circle Fund to buy the initial part of creeley’s library, which included his writer’s copies of his own books and 11 artist’s books, better described as one of a kind, sometimes larger than life pieces of art in the form of a book. later Fredman worked to acquire creeley’s entire personal library for the university, grant by grant. The library now contains creeley’s own books, the artist’s books, all of his own personal reading materials, miscel­laneous photos, audio tapes of him reading, sometimes accompanied by Jazz musicians, as well as his own type­writer which Fredman calls his “winged glory.” creeley’s library is particularly interesting because creeley used his books as filing cabinets in which he placed anything relevant to them whether they were reviews clipped from newspapers, invitations to events or letters from editors or fans. 
The acquisition of creeley’s library is a move that will place notre dame on the map in the field of 20th century american poetry scholarship. not only was creeley an in­ternationally well-known poet, but also was just one star in several constellation of intellectual celebrities of the 20th century. 
“creeley’s like a node for this communication with art­ists and writers around the world, ” Fredman said. 
The collection speaks to creeley’s friendships with people such as william carlos williams, r.b. Kitaj, alan ginsberg, amiri baraka, charles olsen, denise levertov and charles benrstein, among others. 
items from creeley’s personal library will be on display in the front room of the special collections until July 25. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Cecelia Heffron 
scene writer 

The start of a new semester always presents a dichot­omy between novelty and familiarity. new classes with professors promise an excitingly different semester. at the same time, the return to campus feels like a return home, an easy slide into familiar routines and activities. one such source of constancy is the dining hall — we always count on Food services to provide comforting staples such as tacos pizza, and frozen yogurt. however, after a semester of two dining hall meals a day, the al­ways-delicious mainstays sometimes begin to lose their 
Hot Cuban Sandwich 
allure. 

The dining hall, nevertheless, does not have to be­come a bleak expanse of monotony. with a little effort, even the dreariest of winter days can be spiced up with a little culinary innovation. on days when you have only enough creative power to “make” a bowl of cereal for dinner, look at the trays of your peers in the dining hall. some people come up with the most creative (and, i will admit, the strangest) meals. while i would not recom­mend emulating the student who mounds his plate with mashed, baked, and French-fried potatoes, i encourage you to be inspired by the student who makes an incred­ible wrap or salad relying on ingredients from almost every food station. 
This week, i present you with two tasks. First, try out the following recipes for a hot cuban sandwich and strawberry sweethearts — two recipes guaranteed to make your fast-approaching valentine’s day dining hall date a very special occasion. second, i challenge you to devise one new dining hall delicacy, be it a breakfast, lunch, dinner or dessert item, and email me your recipe. The most creative meal idea will be published for all other food aficionados to draw inspiration from next week. 
Contact Cecilia Heffron at cheffro1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Strawberry Sweethearts 
ingredients: 2 slices of rye bread, 2 slices of deli ham, 1 teaspoon of brown or yellow mustard, pickle slices, 2 slices of swiss cheese, 1 teaspoon of butter, 1 pickle wedge. directions: 
1. spread the bread slices with mustard, and sandwich ham, cheese and pickles be­tween them. 
2. spread butter on the outside of both pieces of bread. 
ingredients: 2 chocolate chip or sugar cookies, strawberry ice cream (may be substi­tuted with cherry or any other festive flavor), mini chocolate chips. 
1. 
place one scoop of ice cream on one of the cookies. 

2. 
place other cookie on top of ice cream. 

3.
 Firmly press the cookies together. 

4. 
roll the exposed edges of the ice cream in chocolate chips. 


3. heat in the panini press until the bread becomes golden brown and the cheese melts. 
4. cut into triangles and serve with the pickle wedge and chips. 

Erin Thomassen 
scene writer 

in kindergarten, i learned how to be a communist. 
i was told “sharing is caring” and “secrets, secrets are no fun, unless you share with everyone,” but i soon learned, though, that sharing came at a cost. my pre­school pals were not so eager to finger paint with me once i shared their secrets. when i tried to share my sneezes, ms. robins told me to keep my germs to myself. 
needless to say, i became a bit ambivalent about the idea of sharing. as i got older, the issue only became more complicated. my priest preached about the virtues of sharing with the poor, while my professor lectured on the dangers of a sharing economy. “Thanks for sharing” could be sincere or sarcastic. sharing a kiss could be a dream or a nightmare. 
when i arrived at notre dame, i was fed up with the problems that sharing created. i was desperate to make friends, so i avoided any situation that would test my knowledge of whether or not i should share. on the first night of Frosh-o, i was quite pleased with myself. i had already successfully avoided the possibility of sharing a cookie by feigning a gluten allergy. when the 10 freshmen in my section squeezed into my ra’s room for our initial “getting to Know you” meeting, i confidently plopped down on the beanbag chair next to my ra. imagine my distress when she suggested that we go around the circle and share something about ourselves. 
“hmmm… which way should we start?” she wondered. 
To the left, to the left, i’ll give you everything i own if you turn to the left. i invoked beyoncé as my athena, pleading that she uses her powers to make my ra start the sharing toward the other side of the circle. 
unfortunately, my ra was in more of a Fatboy slim mindset, and turned “right here, right now.” everyone looked expectantly in my direction. 
i swallowed loudly. i cursed Fatboy slim silently. i an­swered weakly. we moved on to the next girl. 
i was too shocked to listen to anyone else’s response. i shared something without causing a scene. no one cared about what i shared, because they were too busy thinking of their own responses. i apologized to mr. slim, thanking him for his sage intervention. in letting me go first, he let me slip by unnoticed. 
since then, i have gotten over my fear of sharing. Thanks notre dame! ms. robins would be proud. i share a room with two girls every night. i share my notes with my friends. i’m pretty sure they’re my friends. i even share things without realizing it. i checked my credit card state­ments to find out that i have been sharing my identity for years. i checked my boyfriend’s Facebook page to find out that i’ve been sharing him with multiple young ladies. 
so don’t be silly. don’t be selfish. don’t shy away from sharing. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sochi creates a host of problems 

Greg Hadley 
sports writer 
if you’re like me, you’re ex­hausted with the endless snow and wind that keeps blasting south bend. you’re looking for something – anything – to ward off the cabin fever that has set in. and if you’re like me, you have turned on the Tv to watch the winter olympics, where the snow and ice is far, far away. 
regarded by many to be the far less entertaining counter­part to the summer games, the winter edition of the olympiad is one of my favorite sports events. unfortunately, this year’s games have mostly drawn attention for sochi’s abysmal preparation. it has be­come a game for journalists to send out tweets about how bad the hotels, food and streets are. who can find the best exam­ple of russia’s incompetence? my vote goes to dan wetzel, of yahoo! sports, who offered to trade three light bulbs for a working doorknob in utter seriousness. 
more seriously, the games have been plagued with trouble for months. From russia’s heav­ily criticized “gay propaganda” law to the very real threat of ter­rorist attacks to sochi’s attempt to put down stray dogs in the city, people have continually questioned sochi’s right and ability to host the games. 
russian president vladimir putin pushed hard for the games in an attempt to cele­brate russian might and power. already, sochi has paid a steep price for that ‘honor’. with a price tag of at least $51 billion, these games are the most ex­pensive of all time, despite the fact that the summer games usually have twice as many athletes. 
most people look at these is­sues and blame russia, but surprisingly little has been said about the international olympic committee’s decision to give the games to russia in the first place. what did the ioc expect when it gave the games to putin? 
To be fair, the ioc voted for sochi in 2007 and could not anticipate putin’s gay propa­ganda law. similarly, no matter where the games are, there will always be terrorist threats. but these excuses pale in compari­son to the lack of foresight and complete obliviousness that the ioc displayed. 

First of all, the ioc prides it­self as being an organization that is above politics. at least, it does its best to project that image. For example, a goalie for the u.s. women’s hockey team was required to remove a quote from the constitution from her helmet. but the selection of sochi was and is in complete op­position to this image. sochi’s qualifications included a com­plete lack of infrastructure, a subtropical climate and a cor­rupt government led by a man that has faced a broad range of corruption accusations. 
The games should not be about politics, but the ioc’s de­cision flew in the face of logic. in trying to make the olympics about equality, the committee gave them to a country and a leader that saw them almost exclusively in terms of power. much like china in 2008, putin has a long history of civil rights abuses, election fraud, restric­tions on free speech and bru­tal crackdowns on dissenters. does the ioc really want to as­sociate themselves with such a government? 
The ioc also says it stands for fairness, but these games have been one of the most corrupt in history. a swiss ioc official, gian-Franco Kasper, estimated that about a third of the $51 bil­lion spent on the games have gone towards bribes and kick­backs. putin’s government has a long history of jailing those who uncover corruption, but Kasper said his estimate was based on common knowledge in russia. how did the ioc not see this coming? 
The ioc has made contro­versial choices in the past. The games were held in berlin in 1936, at the beginning of hitler’s reign, and the soviet union in 1980 and beijing in 2008. The decision to award sochi’s bid is just more of the same. 
There is no doubt that the athletic performances we will see in the coming weeks will be fantastic, thrilling and excit­ing. but years from now, will we really look back and think that sochi was the best place for them to happen? 
 Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of The author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING | nd 162, cleveland sTaTe 124 
ND beats Vikings in final dual meet of season 
By  ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
in their last tune-up be­fore heading to greensboro for their first acc champi­onships, notre dame won the first 11 events in a domi­nating dual meet win over cleveland state. 
while the team’s 162-124 victory was impressive, ju­nior emma reaney pointed out this meet was more about sending off men’s coach Tim welsh in his last home meet. 
“we were pretty much ex­pecting it, so it wasn’t a huge deal,” reaney said. “The meet was more about honoring men’s head coach Tim welsh and his last home meet than it was about winning, but it is always nice to be domi­nant from the beginning.” 
welsh has coached swim­ming for the irish for the last 29 years, the first 10 for the women before taking over as men’s head coach. The meet featured various tribute vid­eos for welsh, and he was presented with a new bike at the end of the meet as a gift from his team. 
even though welsh did not coach the women’s team, reaney enjoyed the tribute and praised the longtime coach. 
“[The ceremony] was very emotional,” reaney said. “Tim knows everyone’s names on our team and is always so sweet and caring towards everyone. we are go­ing to miss him a lot.” 
as for the meet itself, the irish won 10 individual events, one relay and had eight runner-up finishes. reaney, junior erin Foley, and freshman catherine mulquin each took home two individual events and seniors Kelly ryan, christen mcdonough, lauren stauder and freshman Katie miller all won individual events. 

FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588-5520 
FOR RENT 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to campus. Walk 

many of the swimmers broke out of their comfort zone and swam in events they normally would not. while this may not prepare the team for the conference championship in two weeks, reaney described racing in off events as “fun” and a nice change of pace. 
“since a lot of us were swimming off events, it didn’t give us a whole lot of information, but it’s nice to get up and race so close to conference so we don’t lose our competitive edge,” reaney said. 
notre dame’s strongest event was the 200-yard medley relay, as the irish swept the top three spots. reaney said she believes this will be one of the team’s strengths at the conference championships. 
“we can mix up those re­lays so many ways, which i guess is a good problem to have,” reaney said. “i think accs should be really excit­ing once we figure out the perfect combination. That’s a fun and quick relay and we definitely showed our ability in it this weekend.” 
with the team’s inaugural acc championships quickly approaching, reaney said she is excited to see her team perform so well. 
“i’m very happy,” reaney said. “now that we are start­ing to rest, we are really see­ing all the work that we’ve been putting in pay off and i couldn’t be more excited to see what this team does at conference.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
to everything. email nd-house@sb­cglobal.net for additional info and photos. 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
“She Aint’ You” by New Hollow: It’s been awhile since I saw your face. Maybe that’s helped me move on, but I met a girl not a day too late and of her I’m awfully fond. And I hope my rem­edies don’t show as I try to try to let you go. ‘Cause it’s awkward; oh so hard to see the similarities. She’s got your hair. 
She’s got your eyes. She’s got your ex­act same horoscope sign. She may be pretty. She’s something new. But that means nothing, She ain’t you. I find it hard not to look your way, but I get in what I can. And I find this song just a bit cliché but I pray that you’ll understand that there’s nothing, nothing on her mind and she’s far too, (far too), far too kind. If you miss me, kiss me one more time. At least for old time’s sake! She’s got your hair. She’s got your eyes. She’s got you nineties sweatshirt style. She may be pretty. She’s something new, but that means nothing...She’s got your hair. She’s got your eyes. She’s got your exact same horoscopes sign. 



SOFTBALL 

ND takes three of four 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
notre dame won three of its four matchups this weekend at the plainsman invitational, high­lighted by a solo no-hitter for sopho­more starting pitcher allie rhodes against morehead state and an eight-inning comeback victory over host auburn on sunday afternoon. 
The irish (3-1) notched their first win of the season over Tennessee Tech, 9-1, before falling to north dakota state 4-1 in saturday’s dou­bleheader. The first game marked the return of junior catcher cassidy whidden. last may, she suffered a tear of her anterior cruciate liga­ment while stealing second base against virginia Tech in the 2013 ncaa lexington regional. after a successful surgery and nine months of rehabilitation, it took just one at-bat and two pitches for whidden to smash her first home run of the 2014 season, a three-run shot that would provide more than enough cushion rhodes, who gave up just two hits and no runs in her season debut. 
“i am just so grateful to be back out on the field with my team­mates,” said whidden, a third-team all-big east performer a year ago. 
The irish were unable to string together much offense in the sec­ond game, where they faced north dakota state sophomore pitcher Krista menke (2-1), who yielded just six hits and a single run on an infield single by sophomore right fielder megan sorlie. 
but the irish rebounded on sunday afternoon. in the first game of the afternoon against morehead state, sophomore southpaw allie rhodes tossed the 33rd solo no-hit­ter in the history of the program in a five-inning 9-0 victory. supported by two home runs and four rbi from junior centerfielder and espnw preseason all-american emilee Koerner, rhodes yielded just two baserunners and did not walk a single batter in a wire-to­wire victory for her second victory in as many days. 
afterwards, rhodes (2-0) said that the no-hitter was the product of plenty of work in the offseason. 
“starting off this season strong was really important to me,” rhodes said. “a goal of mine this season is to be consistent, and this weekend was a great start towards accomplishing that goal.” 
in the second game of the after­noon, notre dame handed the host auburn its only loss of the weekend, 3-2. The Tigers scored runs in the second and third innings on a pair of solo home runs by sophomore designated player austyn west and second baseman emily carosone, but the irish and senior right-hand­ed pitcher laura winter quickly stopped the bleeding. winter (1-1) gave up just four hits against eight strikeouts and went the distance for notre dame, throwing 126 pitches on the day. 

on the offensive side, Koerner began to chip away at the auburn lead. a fourth-inning solo home run, her third of the day, cut the defi­cit to one, and she scored freshman shortstop Kimmy sullivan on a double through the gap in the sixth to force extra innings after winter set down the side in the seventh. 
but the tie would be broken in the eighth. after a sacrifice bunt by captain and senior shortstop chloe saganowich, sophomore pinch-runner carly piccinich scored on a wild pitch by auburn sophomore pitcher lexi davis. 
after the tournament, Koerner said the team was elated to get the win. 
“The comeback win [against auburn] was extremely important,” Koerner said. “it gives us a lot of confidence heading into next week­end’s games … our team is ready for a great season and we are excited to come into the acc strong.” 
The irish are back on the road again next weekend, when they will travel to Florida for the Jacksonville university Tournament for a game against louisville and a pair against missouri. 
Contact Evan Anderson at      eander1@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 19, michigan 7 
irish fire away in exhibition win 

By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
The irish kicked off their sea­son with a decisive 19-7 victory over the michigan wolverines in an exhibition match saturday. 
Freshman midfielder cortney Fortunato scored the first goal of the game and of her notre dame career less than five minutes into the match. Fortunato, sophomore mid­fielder stephanie Toy and ju­nior midfielder caitlin gargan led the team in scoring with three goals apiece. 
Fortunato said she was ex­cited to play other teams and shoot against other goalies after three intense weeks of practice. 
“[The first goal] was just a great play all the way down and it was very rewarding,” Fortunato said. “it’s a really nice way to start the season, coming out strong against a new program.” 
The irish offense had con­sistent possession through­out the game, jumping out to an early three-goal lead. The wolverines responded to the sustained pressure in their de­fensive zone with quick coun­terattacks. Their first goal came from freshman attacker Tess Korten 10 minutes into the first half. 
Freshmen constitute an overwhelming majority of michigan’s roster: 26 of the 27 players are freshmen. all seven of the wolverines’ goals came from these 26. This is the wolverines’ first season as a division i team, and irish coach christine halfpenny said she predicts michigan will become an important rivalry as the team grows and establishes itself. 
“They were a relentless and awesome opponent and i’m glad we could welcome them to division i,” halfpenny said. “everyone can look forward to future notre dame-michigan matchups that actually count for the score column.” 
notre dame, however, re­ceived goals from players with a wide range of experience. sophomore brie custis scored an important goal early in the second half when a passing play culminated in an assist from gargan to custis, who rifled it passed michigan’s goalie. This goal set the pace for the half, as it was followed by two more irish goals less than a minute apart. 
The irish score sheet also fea­tured tallies from junior attack­er shauna pugliese, sophomore attackers michele phillips, Kiera mcmullan and rachel sexton, sophomore defenseman and midfielder hannah hartman and freshman attackers grace muller and heidi annaheim. 
although the irish dominat­ed possession, the wolverines’ offense never let up in inten­sity or effort. The second half featured five michigan goals as the wolverines capital­ized on penalty opportunities and long runs downfield. The wolverines kept up the pres­sure through the last minute of the game as freshman attacker Kelly schlansker notched a goal for michigan in the last ten sec­onds of the game. 
irish freshman goalkeeper liz o’sullivan took over for ju­nior allie murray at halftime. halfpenny said that the goalies’ performance reflected their off­season work ethic. 
“i’m really proud of our goal keepers, both of them,” halfpenny said. “i really thought that allie murray did an unbelievable job, going one­on-none and keeping that ball from going into the back of the net.” 
The irish face the cincinnati bearcats in their season opener at 5 p.m. wednesday at loftus sports center. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

TRACK AND FIELD | meyo inviTaTional 
Rae sets school record with 3:57 mile 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame took advantage of their familiarity with the loftus center track to submit record-breaking performances at this year’s meyo invitational, including a new school record in the meet’s signature event, the meyo mile. 
irish graduate student Jeremy rae was one of three runners to finish the mile race in less than four minutes, with his time of 3:57.25 edging out loyola university chicago’s junior sam penzenstadler (3:58.21) and fellow irish graduate student nick happe (3:59.58). eastern michigan’s senior grzegorz Kalinowski (4:00.91) and notre dame graduate student J.p. malette  (4:00.92) rounded out the top five in the event. 
rae’s 3:57.25 topped notre dame’s school mile record of 3:57.83, which was set by luke watson during 2002’s meyo invitational. irish coach Joe piane said that rae’s perfor­mance has established him as one of the top runners in the acc and the country. 
“i’m very impressed, he ran extremely well,” piane said. “he ran great, there’s no doubt about it. he put himself in po­sition as one of the best milers in the country. Jeremy [rae] is number one in the acc [in the mile].” 
rae had already claimed vic­tory in two past meyo mile races, winning his sophomore and junior seasons before miss­ing the event with an injury his senior year. according to piane, rae’s record and the top-five finishes by happe and malette are the result of their relentless work ethics. 
“[rae] is a great leader and he works extremely hard,” piane said. “both he and malette and nick happe, all in the mile, are very, very hard workers. Frankly, you wouldn’t get to be as good as they are if you did anything but work extremely hard. They put in the distance, they did everything that it takes to be good.” 
in the women’s meyo mile, the top four runners, including irish senior middle distance runner Kelly curran, broke the meet’s record of 4:37.97, which was set in 2005 by michigan’s lindsay gallo. The new record holder is former michigan run­ner amanda eccleston (4.33.24), who was closely followed by former notre dame athlete rebecca Tracy (4:35.36) and rebecca addison (4:35.95), both of whom were unattached run­ners. curran led all collegiate runners with a time of 4:37.10, with michigan’s junior brook handler (4:37.68) less than a second behind. 
in the 1,000-meter race Friday, irish sophomore danielle aragon finished first with a time of 2:48.70, less than a second short of Tracy’s record of 2:48.18 set last sea­son. between rae and curran’s record-breaking performances and aragon’s near miss, piane said he sees progress towards the completion of the team’s preseason goals. 

“we’re getting better every week,” piane said. “everyone’s trying to get ready for the acc meet, and then of course for the ncaas. and Kelly [curran]’s run certainly helps her get to the ncaa’s and i think it puts her at number one in the acc. it cer­tainly helps us. The two goals we have for every indoor and outdoor season is to do well at our conference meet … and get to the ncaas, and i think we’re doing that.” 
The irish were able to take home victories in both 400-me­ter dashes. Junior sprinter chris giesting just shy of the meet re­cord by running a 46.38, while senior michelle brown set a new women’s record for the meyo invitational with a time of 53.15. in the 400-meter re­lays, however, the irish had less success, as the women’s relay fell victim to injury, while the men barely lost to ohio state 
(3:08.34) by .05 seconds. rather than be discouraged by the loss, however, piane said he expects the runners to use the race as motivation. 
“we ran against a very good team in ohio state, and they nipped us, that’s all,” piane said. “we can run faster than that. you have to run against good people, and realize you can run with them and beat them. you can’t run against the little sisters of the poor every week. That’s why we’re running against some great competition.” 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




MEN’S SWIMMING | nd 204.5, cleveland sTaTe 94.5 
welsh finishes home career with win 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
notre dame bested cleveland state, 204.5-94.5, saturday in its final dual meet of the season while celebrating head coach Tim welsh’s last meet at rolfs aquatic center. 
The team found a way to hon­or welsh with a special perfor­mance of the national anthem that opened the meet. 
“The tuba on the diving plat­form, i’ve always wanted that,” welsh said. “i’ve talked about that for years … and then a tuba shows up on the diving platform!” 
once the meet kicked off, the irish (7-5-1) scored early and often against the vikings (10­6). notre dame took first place in all but three events, and it swept the top three spots in the 100-yard butterfly and 100- and 500-yard freestyles. 
senior Frank dyer delivered the day’s record-breaking swim in the 1,000-yard freestyle, in which he finished first and set a new school mark (9:11.93) in his final home meet. 
dyer, seniors colin babcock and Josh choi, juniors Zach stephens, cameron miller and patrick olson, sopho­mores bogac ayhan, michael hudspith and andrew Jensen and freshmen Joe coumos and reed Fujan were individual winners for the irish. 
“when you get towards the end of the season, every meet is a celebration,” welsh said. “Today was a celebration all day long. … it was fun, and it was competitive. The swimming 

paid adverTisemenT 

part, inside the meet, was a great way to have our final dual meet and head on toward [acc and ncaa] championships.” 
however, the celebrations of welsh’s 29-year career at notre dame stole the show through­out the meet. each event kicked off with a short video of thanks and congratulations from his former swimmers and coach­es, including Tim Kegelman, a 2007 graduate and the pro­gram’s first swimmer to com­pete at ncaa championships, and haley scott demaria, a 1995 graduate and current monogram club president. 
“i loved seeing the guys,” welsh said. “it exhausted me emotionally over and over again. i’ve just been over­whelmed by the whole day. … i never even imagined anything like that.” 
irish director of athletics Jack swarbrick led off a cer­emony during a break in the meet’s action that featured a video chronicling welsh’s ac­complishments while at the helm of both notre dame swim teams, along with more words of thanks from babcock and matt Tallman, the current asso­ciate head coach who will take over for welsh next season. 
“There is no better fit between a coach and a university than Tim welsh and the university of notre dame,” swarbrick said. 
welsh closed out his dual-meet-coaching career against cleveland state, the team against which he coached his first dual meet in 1985 and one with which welsh said notre dame has had a great relation­ship over the years. 
with his final win against the vikings in the books, welsh said his squad will now focus its attention on preparing for acc championships, which run Feb. 26 to mar. 1. 
“we’ll be focused directly on championships,” welsh said. “we’ll try to be technically pro­ficient, faster every day. The bulk of the work will slow, so we’ll try to maintain fitness, but the extremely large volumes will slow down, and the focus on getting everything right ev­ery time will increase.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
everybody’s best game night in and night out. [we’re] just sticking to the game plan and taking it one game at a time.” 
The orange hung with the irish in the second half, with notre dame’s 40 points af­ter the break barely outscor­ing syracuse’s 36. however, notre dame’s first-half lead was too much for the visitors to overcome. 
“They’re so balanced. it’s so hard to prepare for a team that has that kind of balance and can score from all spots on the floor,” syracuse coach Quentin hillsman said. “i thought that our team did a very good job of trying to ex­ecute what we discussed in our game plan, but obviously notre dame had an answer for everything we did.” 
The irish had an answer for the orange zone defense, racking up 38 points in the paint and 30 from 3-point range along with pulling down 20 offensive rebounds that converted to 32 second-chance points. 
“we were just finding the gaps,” mcbride said. “i think we were playing really well to­gether, making the extra pass, and we were hitting shots, so that gave us a lot of energy and intensity. we got the crowd going, which got us going, so we just went from there.” 
mcgraw picked up her 737th career victory, moving her into a tie for 11th place in division i women’s basketball coaching wins with late north carolina state head coach Kay yow, who succumbed to breast cancer in 2009. 
sunday’s pink Zone game benefited the national Kay yow Foundation, as well as the local Foundation of st. Joseph regional medical center. 
“she was an incredible woman — just did so many great things for the game and a great ambassador for wom­en’s basketball,” mcgraw said of yow. “she left a mark for all of us to try to follow, and she did everything with such grace and dignity, and we’re happy to be involved in this because of her.” 
The win was also notre dame’s 23rd consecutive win at purcell pavilion and drew in a sold-out crowd for the matchup. 
“when you get 9,000 people for a women’s basketball game on a sunday at 3 o’clock, some­thing’s going right,” hillsman said. “This is an unbelievable atmosphere for college wom­en’s basketball, and i hope it continues like that because it’s good for our game.” 
The irish next hit the road to face boston college on Thursday at the conte Forum in chestnut hill, mass. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
irish senior goaltender steven summerhays on a wraparound less than nine minutes it. 
but it did not take long for the irish to answer as Tynan went top-shelf to beat ouellette on the power play at the 13:44 mark. it was notre dame’s only power play goal of the weekend in nine tries. 
“[going 1-for-6 on the power play] was probably my biggest disappointment of the night,” Jackson said. “i didn’t think we were sharp on the power play.” 
maine took the lead on a two-man advantage when sopho­more defenseman ben hutton beat summerhays midway through the second period. but the irish penalty kill buckled down and killed the remainder of irish senior center Jeff costello’s five-minute major penalty for cross-checking. 
“with [senior defenseman Kevin lind and costello] in the box, other guys stepped up and did a really good job,” Jackson said. 
during Friday night’s co --ntest, the black bears took the lead in the game’s first minute when junior forward connor leen scored on the game’s first shot. 
“we turned the puck over and the guy they used as a lock guy was open,” Jackson said. 
The irish then threw shot af­ter shot at ouellette — who had 36 saves Friday and 39 saves saturday — but were unable to get the tying goal as maine went 2-0 up when its senior captain and defenseman brice o’connor scored his first of the season with 
6:33 left in regulation. 
notre dame kept pushing ouellette though and its hard work paid off when costello was finally able to get one past the maine goaltender with 1:23 to play. costello thought he had tied it less than a minute later but after a lengthy review, officials waved the goal off. 
“after watching it, [the official’s explanation] was a bad explana­tion,” Jackson said. “[The puck] was in the net before the goalie was pushed in. you can clearly see it between his legs, it was definitely over the goal line before he was pushed in. it’s a bad call, plain and simple.” 
The irish are back in action next weekend when they travel to providence for a two-game se­ries Feb. 14 and Feb. 15 before re­turning home to take on boston university twice the following weekend. 
Contact Alex Carson at             acarson1@nd.edu 
Swarbrick 
conTinued From page 16 
swarbrick said he would not characterize the necessary work as minor. 
“all of the non-court space there, a lot of it is going to have to get touched, locker rooms, team rooms, strength and conditioning area, offic­es,” swarbrick said. “The work will not be insignificant but not like building something from the ground up.” 
swarbrick said he played a role in developing the ini­tial concept, one that he called unique to colleges and universities. 
“it reflects the singular fact that the university has grown up around the stadium,” swarbrick said. “it used to be off campus and now it’s not. The question you have to an­swer is, given how valuable that real estate has become because of the development around it, how do you make it work?” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
giveaways. 
“To see us kick that thing around like that, you go back to the drawing board here this af­ternoon,” irish coach mike brey said. “what do we need to do of­fensively to simplify so we can take better care of the basketball? if there’s one thing to point to, that’s been the dagger for us.” 
after leading by four at half­time, the Tar heels opened up an 11-point lead after consecutive fast-break dunks by sophomore forward J.p. Tokoto and junior forward James michael mcadoo gave them a 37-26 edge less than four minutes into the second half. 
north carolina, who has now won five straight, did not have any fast-break points in the first half but scored six transition points before the 16:00 mark of the second half. 
“when you turn the ball over at your own 3-point line, you’re putting a lot of pressure on your transition d,” brey said. “They’re really good in transition, they got a lot of easy ones.” 
The Tar heels made the easy ones worth watching, too. of north carolina’s first seven made field goals of the second half, four were dunks. 
“it’s embarrassing,” irish graduate student center garrick sherman said. “They shouldn’t be getting easy buckets like that. 
“if they’re going to shoot layups and dunks, we’re going to get beat by every team, not just north carolina.” 

north carolina beat notre dame up inside, outscoring the irish 44-26 in the paint. 
mcadoo led the Tar heels with 18 points and eight rebounds. he was one of four north carolina players in double-figures. 
“They have a lot of big bodies,” brey said. “They always have. That program always has. you gotta take the edge off the paint stuff a little bit to have a chance. 
“when you have the number of bodies on that front line, they pound on you. like a running football team, it kind of takes its toll as they rotate those guys through there.” 
notre dame also allowed 15 offensive rebounds that led to 14 second-chance points. 
sherman led the irish with 17 points, while atkins added 12 and sophomore forward Zach auguste and freshman forward 
v.J. beachem each chipped in 10. 

notre dame jumped out to an early 13-4 lead after knocking down five of its first seven shots. north carolina, meanwhile, hit just two of its first 10. 
“we had a great start to the game,” atkins said. “They were playing at our pace. a big part of that was we weren’t turning the ball over. we were being very good and efficient with the ball.” 
The irish, who shoot 35.9 per­cent on 3-pointers, made their first four 3-pointers but missed 15 of their next 17 attempts from downtown. 
after Tokoto made a layup just six seconds into the game, the Tar heels did not score for the next 5:08 when Tokoto slammed home a thunderous dunk. 
“i think we came out a little bit more awake than they were,” sherman said. “we kind of start­ed out fast and we were able to get back in transition. we kept everything in front of us.” 
after back-to-back 3-point­ers by junior forward pat connaughton and freshman guard steve vasturia, notre dame led 19-10 with 8:36 left in the first half. but the Tar heels closed the half on a 17-4 run to take a four-point lead into the break. 
“The end of the half, they really played great, and that was tough to swallow because we had been playing pretty darn well,” brey said. 
north carolina shot just 36 percent in the first half but out­scored the irish 20-4 in the paint. The Tar heels shot 54 percent in the second half. 
notre dame managed to trim the deficit to single digits late in the second half when beachem’s put back capped an 8-0 irish run that cut the north carolina lead to eight with 4:26 remaining. 
The Tar heels ripped off eight of the next 10 points to quell the irish rally. 
notre dame will take on clemson on Tuesday night, while north carolina hosts duke on wednesday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 33 Dispose (of) 62 Locale 1 Sudden 34 Mythical bird of 63 Touch base 
prey after a pop fly, impulse say35 Citizen of 
5 Applauds 

64 Prod 10 Imperfection capital 65 “It’s ___ state 14 Multinational 37 Nobody doesn’t Canada’s 
of affairs” coin like her, in a 66 Deletion slogan undoers
15 Just now 

41 Dairy farm 67 Caesar’s words 
16 Misplace sound to Brutus 17 Result of 42 Long-distance 
tanning letters 
DOWN 

19 Wailing cry 43 Use a Kindle, 1 Fly catcher 
say

20 Nifty 2 “Ben-___”
44 Hit 1980s 

21 “There ___ an exercise video 3 What a tyrant old woman …” 
rules with 49 “___ Maria” 4 Impressionist 22 “Just messin’ 50 Standoffish Claudewith you!” 

51 German city 5 Tech news site 23 The fourth where Einstein 6 “Au Revoir ___letter of was born Enfants” “cancel,” but 52 Elizabeth of 7 Singsongy not the first cosmetics comment in a 
25 Pipe-playing 54 Sulfuric ___ sticky situation god 55 Santa ___ 8 Flexible 26 ___ nous 9 Thesaurus
winds 56 “I don’t think offerings: Abbr. 
27 Kimono sash so!” 
10 “Vehicle of the 28 Generous spirit, 

57 “Venerable” future” since
metaphorically English the 1950s 31 “Oui, oui,” historian 11 Consult across the 58 Baldie’s 12 Spinning dizzily 
Pyrenees nickname 
13 United with a 

blowtorch ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Galifianakis of “The Hangover” 
MAKEPEACE 

ADEN I 
23 Meh 
ALEXANDRA 

TRYON 
24 Black-bordered 
HAPPYDAYS 

E J ECT 
news item 
25 Ache
ANT IS PER I SHE 

26 Get an ___
L IAR PATBENATAR 

effort 
OSTE LLOYD LAN I 

29 ___ Good
LODZ 

DELCO 
Feelings 

WOODYWOODPECKER 

30 Make a big
I SSUE ORAL 
speech 
NOME AFLAT APBS 

32 “My parents 
are going to kill me!” 
CLOSEQUOTE NEET 

HES 
WI NG 

ADLA I EMI LE 
36 Great Dane sound

G I RLGROUP 
L I NER USHERETTE 

37 Green part of a
LOGOS STOWAWAYS 

flower 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

2/11/13 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by JIM PEREDO 
38 Speed demon 46 “Heck if I 55 Does stage know” work
39 Christmas light site 47 Wide-brimmed 56 Sound boxes at 40 Garden of ___ 
summer a concert 42 Not yet headgear 
apprehended 59 Not at home 48 Do surgery on
44 Black sheep’s with a beam 60 Wrestling cry surface 
45 Worriers’ 53 Klingon problems, it’s forehead 61 End of a school said feature e-mail address 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: your insight, enthusiasm and unusual ideas will help you reach your goals. home improvements will help you find comfort and joy in your personal life. The changes you make should be geared toward helping you, not serving others. This is your year to participate and engage in whatever brings you the greatest satisfaction and the highest returns. your numbers are 2, 12, 16, 20, 27, 34, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): use your skills, expertise and knowledge to help a cause or someone in need. your insight will be valuable when dealing with friends. don’t go overboard when it comes to spending. a domestic situation will result in an unexpected change. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make improvements to your appearance or your qualifications. what you have to offer as an overall package will influence someone you have spent time with in the past when considering you for a personal or professional position. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t jump too quickly when asked to do something. you will not be given a true picture of what’s being asked of you. Take a step back and ask pertinent questions before making a commitment. making an emotional response will work against you. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be afraid to follow through with an unusual idea or plan you have. your intuition will lead you in the right direction when it comes to social or creative endeavors. an interesting partnership will help you accomplish your goals. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The frustrations and limitations you face must be dealt with and put aside. good fortune can be yours if you put more effort into stabilizing your home environment. don’t make an impulsive move if it will affect your income. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): rely on yourself to avoid disappointment. participate in social events, but don’t overspend on personal items or entertainment. a romantic encounter will help to improve your personal life. express your feelings and make personal plans that will ensure your happiness. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel or attending a conference or event that brings you in touch with people who share your concerns will lead to positive change and new possibilities. avoid anyone who is unstable or creating emotional upset. surround yourself with positive people. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Taking care of someone’s personal papers or responsibilities may not be welcome, but in the end, it will benefit you. a creative approach to money investments and what you want to accomplish will lead to a viable solution to a situation you face. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): your beliefs will be questioned. be careful how you answer. The impact you have on a situation you face will lead to sudden changes that will affect a relationship you have with someone. prepare to make domestic alterations that better suit your needs. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t get angry or make decisions based on hearsay. Focus on what you can do, not what others think or do. love is on the rise, and building a stable relationship will also increase your ability to grow your assets. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): explore your options and take part in something unusual. interacting with people from different cultural backgrounds will lead to discoveries that will help you improve your life. home improvements will add to your comfort and emotional well-being. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): put your plans in motion. don’t let an emotional mishap stop you from achieving your personal goals. lend a helping hand and you will get something in return that will contribute to your future success. love is in the stars. 


Birthday Baby: you are questioning, intelligent and versatile. you are charming and popular. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | norTh carolina 73, nd 62 
UNC fast break puts Irish on their heels 

victory saturday afternoon at in less than four minutes, and see m bball PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 101, syracuse 64 
nd matches best start ever 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 

The underdog nearly pulled off the upset when the notre dame men’s basketball team played no. 1 syracuse on Feb. 3. 
when the schools’ women’s teams met sunday, that was not the case. no. 2 notre dame’s season-high 61 first-half points paved the way for a lopsided 101-64 victory over the orange at purcell pavilion. 
The irish (23-0, 10-0 acc), who led the entire game, made 25 field goals in the first half and shot 61 percent from the floor before the break while outrebounding syracuse (17-7, 6-5), 28-14. 
“i thought it was one of the best halves we’ve had, and we’ve had some good ones,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “we shot the ball ex­tremely well, and we handled the press well. 
“i was most pleased defen­sively. [syracuse sophomore guard] brittney sykes didn’t have any rebounds — that was one of the keys to our defensive game plan. [syracuse sopho­more guard] brianna butler didn’t make a 3, so overall, i was really, really pleased with the effort at both ends.” 
sophomore guard Jewell loyd led notre dame with 23 points on 9-of-11 shooting. senior guard Kayla mcbride added 18 points and a team-high five assists while sopho­more guard michaela mabrey tied mcbride in scoring, scor­ing all 18 of her points from outside the arc. 
with the victory, notre dame tied its best start in school his­tory at 23-0, but mcbride said her team is still not content. 
“i think we still have a chip on our shoulder,” she said. “i think we play in the best con­ference in the country, and we know it’s going to be a tough game, that we’re going to get 
see w bball PAGE 14 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
north carolina revved up the pace and left notre dame in the dust during a 73-62 Tar heel purcell pavilion. 
The Tar heels (16-7, 6-4 acc) used a turnover-fueled 10-3 run to start the second half to pull away from the irish (12-12, 3-8). notre dame had four turnovers north carolina turned the mis­cues into eight points. 

“They picked up their ball pressure a lot,” irish senior guard eric atkins said. “They made it hard for us to make sim­ple passes to the wing and really pressed up on everyone. it was just tough to move out there the way they were pressuring the ball.” 
notre dame turned the ball over 17 times, leading to 23 north carolina points. 
“well, there’s no question that turnovers are a big part of our game because we like to run the ball,” Tar heels coach roy williams said. “in the open court, we make some good de­cisions, and i think that led to some good basketball and some good shots around the basket.” 
notre dame is now 0-5 in acc when turning the ball over more than 10 times. This was the third time in the last four games the irish had 12 or more 
swarbrick discusses project 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
Editor’s note: To find out what Jack Swarbrick said about FieldTurf and video boards, check our website at ndsmcobserver.com 
when notre dame an­nounced the campus crossroads project last week, notre dame stadium was at the center of the plans. 
The project, which will cost an estimated $400 million, will add three new buildings to the outside of the stadium with both academic and student-life functions. 
“The core notion was to build these buildings onto the stadium and to make sure they served a host of university func­tions,” notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick said. “we always anticipated aca­demic functions, digital media, student services. all of that has come to fruition.” 
The new construction will add 3,000 to 4,000 new club-level seats to notre dame stadium and will improve notre dame’s home-field advantage, swarbrick said. 
“i think it’s going to enhance the game-day experience,” swarbrick said. “i think there will be a sound dynamic to this with the buildings holding in sound on either side, which i think is going to be really helpful. 

“it allows us to have some premium seating that we don’t have now that will produce some revenue that will be help­ful. operationally, we’ll get much needed space for game day operations, security, media. we just don’t have the quantity and quality of space we need to operate a football game now.” 
with a new student recre­ation center planned in the west building, rolfs student recreation center will become a practice facility for both the men’s and women’s hoops teams. 
swarbrick said rolfs would need some renovation before it is transformed into the practice facility. 
“There will be a fair amount of work that needs to be done to create a men’s and women’s dynamic in the building, to cre­ate the office and team space you need,” swarbrick said. “you don’t have to move any exterior walls, and the building sets up really well.” 
see swarbricK PAGE 14 
HOCKEY | maine 2, nd 1; nd 3, maine 2 
Notre Dame splits series with Black Bears 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
senior right wing bryan rust scored twice in the final 70 sec­onds to lead no. 18 notre dame to a come-from-behind 3-2 victory over maine on saturday night, earning a series split after drop­ping a controversial 2-1 game Friday. 
The irish (16-12-1, 5-9-1 hockey east) fell behind for the fourth straight game saturday and left it to the bitter end to pick up a win that stopped a three-game losing streak. 
notre dame trailed the black bears (13-10-3, 7-5-2 hockey east) by a goal with 1:18 to play, but then irish senior center T.J. Tynan won a faceoff in the offensive zone to gain possession before senior de­fenseman shayne Taker found rust. rust put a wrist shot past maine senior goaltender martin ouellette’s glove side to tie the game at 2-2 with 1:08 to play. 
“They’re cardiac kids,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “we’ll take it, though. maybe tonight was [a turning point].” 
Just 25 seconds later, rust sla­lomed through the maine defense and scored the game-winning goal with 43.6 seconds to play after assists from senior defense-man stephen Johns and Taker. 
“i just filled underneath their forechecker [on the game win­ner],” rust said. “There was so much space there and it was lucky enough to be a good one.” 

early on, notre dame gave up the opening goal when maine freshman center cam brown beat 
see hocKey PAGE 14 




