The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 20 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Blackhawks return to Notre Dame 
For the second straight year Chicago will open its training camp at Compton Family Ice Arena 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The five-time stanley cup champion chicago blackhawks arrived on campus Thursday for their second straight training camp trip to compton family ice arena, with public practices on saturday and sunday. 
Tom nevala, general man­ager of the compton family ice arena, said the training camp was first set up last year through discussions with blackhawk’s manager stan bowan, a 1995 notre dame alumnus. 
“with the facilities we have available to them, the campus environment, they thought it would be a great way to start the season,” nevala said. 
The team completed physical testing at the united center in chicago Thursday morning be­fore traveling to the university, where nevala said they will re­side at the morris inn for the du­ration of their visit. 
while at notre dame, nevala said the team will participate in both private and public events. 
“They are doing some things, but they are private functions on campus,” he said. “They are do­ing some things in the commu­nity as well. i think they’ll go to the robinson learning center, i want to say on friday afternoon.” 
Team practice on friday will be closed to the public, but fac­ulty, staff and students from 
see compTon PAGE 5 

Observer File Photo 
Former Chicago Blackhawks forward Jimmy Hayes crashes the net during last year’s training camp at the Compton Family Ice Arena. The Blackhawks returned to campus this weekend to open their preseason. 


scc throws gatsby dance 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
friday night, the sophomore class council (scc) will allow stu­dents to step out of 2014 and into the world of f. scott fitzgerald, at the second annual great gatsby dance. 
The dance, co-sponsored by senior class council, Junior class council and the swing club, is open to all students. organizers said the dance will embrace some of the themes made famous by fictional ‘roaring twenties’ host Jay gatsby, including live music, swing dancing, and decor. 
The gatsby dance is the only dance this fall that will be held on bond hall Quad, organizers said. scc social committee chair chris gauch said the dance will also fea­ture several unique attractions. 
“we’ve got an ice sculpture, a chocolate fountain, a live swing band and a dance floor. i think it’s going to be a great time,” gauch said. “we also have swing club coming in. it’ll be nice to have students learn how to dance from them, and to see some demonstrations of what was popu­lar during the 1920’s.” 
swing club president, saint mary’s senior alyssa lanting, said in an email that the club will be available for instruction through­out the night. in preparation for the dance, the club also hosted a swing instructional session Thursday night in stepan center. 
“for the event, we only plan to teach east coast swing,” lanting said. “Throughout the night, one may be able to see our more 
see dance PAGE 5 



CEO rallies for ethical leaders 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
chairman and ceo of the clorox company don Knauss addressed a crowd via web feed at the Jordan auditorium at the mendoza college of business on Thursday eve­ning in a lecture entitled “leadership Traits,” which focused on his extensive business experience and the underlying principles of suc­cessful leadership. 
“leadership is a hackneyed word, but it truly means rally­ing people for a better future,” Knauss said. 
Knauss said there is a di­chotomy between thought leadership and people leader­ship, but both are crucial to success. he emphasized cre­ating loyalty within organiza­tions because employees are the most important constitu­ency of a company. Knauss said his own efforts at clorox, such as personal lunches with low-level employees, reward­ing long term employees and making all employees eligible for bonuses, represented the achievement of his leadership goals. 
Knauss also said these lead­ership efforts produced tangi­ble results. in 2006, 15 percent of clorox’s brands won blind consumer tests 60 percent of the time, a benchmark of indi­vidual brand success. Today, 60 percent of its brands meet this goal and 80 percent are ei­ther ranked first or second in 
see leadership PAGE 4 


Artists bring Harlem to SMC 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Award-winning actress Jasmine Guy sings during her performance of ‘Raisin’ Cane: A Harlem Renaissance Odyssey’ Thursday night. 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
The sound of the harlem renaissance swept through o’laughlin auditorium at saint mary’s Thursday evening, as the college welcomed award-winning actress, singer and dancer Jasmine guy and the avery sharpe Trio for their per­formance of “raisin’ cane: a harlem renaissance odyssey,” director of media relations gwen o’brien said. 
inspired by the works of the 
see performance PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
“What is your favorite part about your dorm?” 

Amanda Lepel 
freshman holy cross hall 
“living close to all my friends and study partners.” 



Jack Cobain 
sophomore 
Zahm house 

“we have the best dorm president.” 

Ashley DeJonge 
freshman holy cross hall 

“getting to be around my friends all the time.” 



Maddy Luteran 
junior 
howard hall 

“The community.” 

Brooklyn Kessler 
freshman holy cross hall 

“everyone is just like family to me.” 



Ryan Brickner 
freshman 
Zahm house 

“The sense of family and camaraderie in the dorm.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jack rooney mike ginocchio Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers greg hadley madison Jaros henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
mary mcgraw miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Cross Country Blackhawks Training Mass at the Basilica “Presenting Your “Crafting a Strong 
wei lin mary Kate luft 
Notre Dame Golf Camp Basilica of the Sacred Research” Grant Proposal” Course Compton Family Ice Heart Brownson Hall Brownson Hall 
3:30 p.m. - 6 p.m. Arena 11:45 a.m. - 12:45 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
Corrections 

National Catholic 10:15 a.m. - 12:40 p.m. Music by the Notre Undergraduate Learn about effective 
The observer regards itself as Championships Tickets are $10. Dame Folk Choir. workshop. grant writing a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Graduate Student Women’s Soccer Film: “Boyhood” ISSLP Information “Nosferatu: A 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Mass Alumni Stadium DeBartolo Performing Session Symphony of Horror” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Basilica of the Sacred 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Heart Notre Dame takes on 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. North Carolina. Cost is $4 for International Service 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Social will follow. students. Learning information. Free for students. 


Panel adresses Notre Dame dating culture 
By MELISSA RIORDAN 
news writer 
Thursday’s panel, “ring by spring, hooking up & opting out: redefining notre dating,” set out to better understand the various aspects and stereotypes of “notre dating,” and all relationships at the college level. 
“ring by spring remains this part of notre dame culture that combats the overwhelming desire to overcome the hookup culture because there is a long history of this ring by spring culture,” profes­sor of sociology Jessica collet said. “many of the students i’ve taught over the years are legacy students and many of [their] parents went to notre dame and met at notre dame so it makes sense that this ring by spring idea stays here.” 
in addition to professor collet, the panel featured professor of so­ciology christian smith and two students, junior nora williamson and sophomore faisal shariff, who are both involved in the gender relations program. 
The panel focused on how the three aspects of the panel’s title relate to the notre dame com­munity, what influences these ex­tremes, and what makes a happy, healthy relationship. 
“i’m really in it to form friend­ships, and then i’ll go on from there,” shariff said. “i think that’s what is important to me, and i think that’s what should be im­portant to a lot of people. The fo­cus should be on forming lasting relationships.” 
The group also discussed how the university’s catholic identity impacts the way students view and approach college relationships. 
“i feel like it does play a part, that we go to a catholic university,” williamson said. “i go to mass ev­ery sunday, and it’s always full, so there are a lot of people who are ac­tive in their faith. so that does play a role in people’s decisions.” 
when the discussion moved to parietals’ role in relationships, cavanaugh hall rector lauren donahue said the the true intent of the rules is to promote community. 
“parietals exist for the com­munity of residents to feel com­fortable and safe,” she said. “our focus is always on the well-being and security of our residents. it is like when your family members come over for Thanksgiving; there comes a point in the evening when it’s time for everyone to go home and for everyone to end their day, and that’s how parietals also work.” 
smith moved the conversation away from “intentionally ambigu­ous” casual relationships that are so common to college students and left the group with parting words of advice, stressing the importance of meaningful rela­tionships — both romantic and friendly. 
“romantic relationships have lots of intentionality, whereas friends just happen,” she said. “if i suddenly became 18 again but still had what i know and my maturity, i would invest a lot more effort into non-romantic significant, seri­ous relationships with the kind of people, who, for the rest of my life, at reunions, i would love to spend time with.” 
Contact Melissa Riordan at mriordan@nd.edu 

smc series fosters relationship between faith, reason 
of faith, reason, and the profes-human person.” by or bounded by the ends they series on Thursday, oct. 30, with 
By ALAINA ANDERSON and 

sion that god is love,” elizabeth hirschfeld said both econo-serve,” she said. “The real thing her lecture “Tracing common 
RONI DARLING 

news writers groppe, center for spirituality mists and people who criticize we need to love are the goods we ground in biology and Theology: director, said. “The endowed lec-economists end up over-valuing are trying to distribute back and caritas and the drama of 
Thursday night, saint mary’s ture series is one way in which or over-loving material goods. forth, because when we think we Kinship.” center for spirituality launched the center for spirituality fosters “we should love god, but what love our neighbor more by giving she is currently a professor “unitas, veritas, caritas: conversation about the relation-does economics have to do with them stuff, we’re thinking about of Theology at the university of catholicism and the liberal ship of faith and reason, a discus-loving god?” hirschfeld said. a conception of love that involves notre dame, with a concurrent arts and sciences” fall lecture sion that is foundational to the “god created this world and it is a having, not being.” appointment in the college of series. The series will probe the intellectual culture of a catholic world that is ought to be loved, it’s dr. marie hillard, director of science. relationship between faith and college. unintelligible to love a god and bioethics and public policy at The lectures all begin at 7:30 reason across several academic professor mary hirschfeld of then scorn his creation.” The national catholic bioethics p.m. and will take place in vander disciplines, including economics, villanova university opened hirschfeld said material goods center, will deliver the second lec-vennet Theatre in the saint nursing and biology. the series Thursday night with are a part of human life, and ture in the series on Tuesday, oct. mary’s student center. 
“The series will provide stu-her lecture “what difference having goods can still be virtu-7. she will speak on “catholicism, dents with an opportunity to en-does caritas (love) make? ous if they are used for a higher caritas, and the vocation of the Contact Alaina Andrson at gage in conversation with women a conversation between purpose. health care professional.” aander02@saintmarys.edu, of extraordinary intellectual ac-economics and catholic social “our desire for material goods professor celia deane-contact Roni Darling at complishment about the relation Thought on the nature of the should be absolutely measured drummond will conclude the vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 
domer run increases local cancer awareness 
start saturday at 9 a.m. at legends. said. “we try to do it before it gets there was no football game that 1997, they started it for charity.” 
By SELENA PONIO 

news writer amy marquez, an intern for spe-really cold … and we work around weekend, and it has raised over The proceeds for this year’s race cial events and family program-the football schedule.” $65,000 in its history, according to will benefit a local group called since 1983, the domer run has ming at rolfs sports recreation a notre dame graduate student the recsports website. gyna girls, whose mission is to allowed participants to take in cam-center , said the run has been in first conceived of the idea for the “it started out as something fun raise awareness and provide sup-pus sights while running to raise the works for months. domer run 31 years ago. its origi-to do and it just got bigger and big-port for women who have been 
money for cancer awareness and “we usually start planning nal purpose was to provide stu-ger,” marquez said. “1993 is when affected by gynecological cancer. 
education, and this year’s run will around June and July,” marquez dents with something to do when they added the breakfast and in every year, the domer run 

highlights one person associated paid adverTisemenT 
with the charity the run sponsors. This year, the honoree is beckie morris, an ovarian cancer patient of 15 years. 
doctors caught her cancer late and diagnosed it as stage iii ovarian cancer. Today, morris maintains a goal of raising cancer awareness in hopes that it will decrease the num­bers of late diagnoses. 
This is the first year that partici­pants will have time chips in their race bibs, and every participant will receive an under armour shirt. These updates caused a slight spike in registration fees, but marquez said the number of participants is expected to be about the same as previous years. 
“i think overall people are willing to give whatever they can and in re­turn we just try to provide a better race for them,” marquez said. 
online registration for the domer run ends today at noon and last-minute registration before the race will be from 8 a.m. to 8:45 a.m. saturday morning. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



VisionWalk raises funds for ocular disease research 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
The notre dame biology club will hold the fifth annual nd visionwalk sunday to raise mon­ey for the foundation fighting blindness (ffb) in its efforts to find a cure for retinal degenera­tion and other ocular diseases. 
Jonathan Jou and sara hockney, both senior biol­ogy majors, are this year’s walk co-chairs. Jou said university president emeritus father Theodore hesburgh served as the inspiration for the first nd visionwalk in 2010. 
“five years ago, there was a stu­dent named maria sellers, who went to visit father hesburgh during his office hours and found out he suffers from retinal degen­eration,” Jou said. “she started [nd] visionwalk [after] speaking to dr. david hyde, who does reti­nal regeneration research.” 
retinal degeneration occurs when cells in the back of the eye start to die, and gradually cause loss of all central vision, hockney said. 
The event is a five-kilometer walk beginning at the irish green, where participants can purchase t-shirts and sunglasses and participate in a silent auction prior to the walk, hockney said. 
“our big seller [in the silent auction] every year is a notre dame football helmet,” Jou said. 
all proceeds from the event go to the ffb, which supports visionwalks all over the country, hockney said. 
The ffb’s mission is to “drive the research that will provide preventions, treatments and cures for people affected by … the entire spectrum of retinal degenerative diseases,” accord­ing to its website. 
last year, approximately 200 people, many of whom were resi­dents of the surrounding south bend community, participated in the event, hockney said. The co-chairs said they set a course that winds through campus to offer a view of campus for visit­ing participants. 
“a lot of people are coming who are not on campus very much [and] who want to go through classic notre dame ar­eas,” hockney said. 
The past four walks have been successful, and last year’s event raised about $10,000, Jou said. This year, the co-chairmen said they hope to raise at least $13,000. 
Jou and hockney have been involved in the event for the past few years and assuming the roles of co-chairmen was very impor­tant to them. 
“research [in retinal degenera­tion] is making progress, but [this event] is about raising awareness and getting people involved in a cause you care about,” hockney, whose grandmother suffers from retinal degeneration, said. 
“i thought [nd visionwalk] was a way to get involved with doing things now that are going to make a difference,” she said. 
similarly, Jou said the nd visionwalk allows him to make a bigger, immediate contribution to the medical research field. 
“it was a way to give back to research field,” he said. “science is trending toward philanthropic funding. i think that events like these are becoming more and more important and will carry more weight in the future.” 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at alyon@nd.edu 
Leadership 
conTinued from page 1 

their respective catego­ries. Knauss said he was es­pecially proud of the results within his company. 
“everyone got a seat at the table” Knauss said. 
Knauss expanded on his leadership paradigm, and said, “the most invaluable leadership traits are integ­rity, curiosity, optimism, compassion and humility.” 
he said leaders from marie curie to margaret Thatcher to cesar chavez embodied these aforementioned traits. integrity, Knauss said, is aligned with honesty, trust and strength of character. 
Knauss said curiosity cre­ates a safe environment for debate and true optimism combined with the ability to face reality will make faith successful. 
describing compas­sion’s importance, Knauss said, “life is not fair, but you must use your power to make it fair.” Knauss said humility creates a feeling of approachability in any organization. 
following Knauss’s pre­sentation, Knauss answered questions about how his military experience affected his leadership and how he implemented his people-focused vision on a daily basis. Knauss said students in the audience must re­main true to their values because “everything you do communicates.” 
The lecture was part of the berges lecture series sponsored by the center for ethics and religious values in business and institute for ethical business worldwide. The series showcases busi­ness executives speaking about ethics. 
Contact JP Gschwin at jgschwin@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




noemi ventilla said the band will 
Dance 
play an instrumental role in setting 
conTinued from page 1 
the tone for the night. 

“it’s a 19-piece swing band, and experienced dancers doing other they only play music that was actu­dances, such as triple step east ally popular at the time, so it will be coast, lindy, charleston, and even very authentic,” ventilla said. blues. also, we plan to play the ventilla inherited the gatsby shim sham, which is a line dance dance from last year’s sophomore that is easy to jump into, and we class council, which hosted the encourage others to try.” inaugural event. ndsp estimated 
as a co-sponsor, the swing club last year’s dance drew more than also assumed responsibility for 2,000 students. finding the band for the dance, The Junior class president Zach michiana Jazz assemblage. waterson served on scc last year, 
sophomore class president and helped this year’s scc plan the 
paid adverTisemenT 
event. 
“The Junior class council [served] as advisers and mentors to the sophomores as they planned an event of this scale,” waterson said. “The sophomore class council wanted to take a primary role in the planning of the event, and we were happy to provide auxiliary support to them. we drew on our experience from last year to help the sophomores outline a time­line of deliverables to accomplish and helped connect them with the numerous parties involved in the planning of the dance. we also helped fund and market the event to the class of 2016.” 
“last year it turned out to be a great success, so the university administration really pushed us to make it a signature event,” ventilla said. “There really is nothing else like it; it’s the only dance open across the classes — the entire uni­versity gets to go if they want to.” 
gauch said this year’s scc hoped to put it’s own twist on the evening. 
“They did a great job with it last year, so we took the main ideas from what they did and changed some minor things,” gauch said. “instead of chocolate-covered strawberries, we’re having a chocolate fountain that will be running the entire evening, we’ll also be having a larger dance floor because last year it did get a little crowded.” 
“we’ve got two chandeliers for our tents, sparkling cider in cham­pagne glasses, and rice krispie treats for dipping in chocolate. we’re [also] bringing back the ice sculpture from last year; it re­ally is an extremely unique event,” gauch said. 
scc social committee mem­ber celanire flagg recommend­ed students come early if they wanted to ensure they can have a chocolate-dipped snack. 
“come early and on time, be­cause the dance opens at 10 and hopefully we won’t run out but if we do, it’s really a first-come-first­serve basis,” flagg said. 
current forecasts don’t predict troublesome weather, but scc se­cured south dining hall as its rain location. 
“we’re prepared, but it looks like it’s going to be a beautiful night. and the event will be a nice change from the typical night out on cam­pus,” gauch said. 
ventilla said the dance is so spe­cial because it allows students to dress for a different era . 
“boys, if you have a bow-tie, bring it out; girls, put on your danc­ing shoes, headbands, and fake pearls. it’s going to be ‘the bee’s knees,’” she said. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


Compton 
conTinued from page 1 
notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross are welcome to join the team for an exclusive practice at the compton family ice arena from 10:00 a.m. to 12:50 p.m. The training camp itself will take place on saturday and sunday from 10:15 a.m. to 12:40 p.m. 
“hopefully it’s a chance for everyone [to benefit],” he said. “That’s why we have the friday event specifically for notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross students, faculty and staff. it’s a great chance to get out and see these guys live in a much smaller venue than the united center.” 
nevala said hosting the team is a special experience that “cer­tainly comes at a great price.” according  to the notre dame website, the now sold-out general admission tickets for the week­end scrimmages were available for purchase for $10. 
“i think, more importantly, the 60 guys who come here as part of the blackhawks enjoy being around the atmosphere that you enjoy every day,” he said. “maybe a third of an nhl team played hockey in college, most of them [now] have the opportunity to experience the college environ­ment and enjoy kind of being like you guys.” 
nevala said the team seems to enjoy the training program set up at notre dame. 
“before they’ve even started camp this year, they’re already looking forward to returning again next year,” he said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 


Performance 
conTinued from page 1 
musicians, composers, poets and actors of the harlem renaissance, the production is part of this year’s shaheen/duggan performing arts series, o’brien said. 
The play’s title refers to Jean Toomer’s 1923 book, “cane,” which is considered by many to be one of the greatest works of the harlem renaissance, according to a report in the south bend Tribune. 
guy recited poetry from harlem renaissance-era poets including gwendolyn bennett and langston hughes. guy also performed lit­erary excerpts from some of the period’s most influential writ­ers, including w. e. b. dubois and booker T. washington, while danc­ing and singing to the musical backdrop of sharpe’s trio. 
director of special events, richard baxter said the commu­nity is incredibly fortunate to wel­come the traveling production to campus. 
“This production is a rare oppor­tunity for our students and com­munity to experience the harlem renaissance through the pres­ence of these talented performers,” baxter said. 
“raisin’ cane” celebrates and honors the legendary voices of the harlem renaissance through text, song, music, movement and im­agery, o’brien said in the event’s press release. 
Though right on the heels of the college’s successful christian culture lecture series speaker reza aslan, “raisin’ cane” pres­ents an opportunity for students to learn about the history of modern day music through theatre and not the classroom, baxter said. 
“it’s a little early in the season, so it was a little harsh from that standpoint,” he said. “i thought it would be worthwhile. it’s a labor of love for all the artists working on this piece. it’s such a rich topic, that i thought, ‘yeah, let’s bring it in september.’ people aren’t too tired. They don’t have semester fatigue. They might be excited about this type of activity.  That’s what led me to do it.” 
The production’s backdrop is the harlem renaissance at its peak with a modern artistic explosion of music, dance and self-expression, baxter said. 
“you get a history lesson where the music and the dance add to the fabric of what you’re seeing,” he said. “you don’t just get a dry lecture or you don’t just experi­ence the book, but you get this real engaging and invigorating perfor­mance from jazz musicians. it’s the best way to experience that kind of history.” 
baxter said he was excited to hear guy took on the project with the jazz trio, and he couldn’t wait to make it come alive at saint mary’s. 
“iam very familiar with the alvin ailey american dance Theatre, which is what she was in before she really developed her broader career,” he said. “That dance com­pany is one of the best dance com­panies in the world. i was familiar with her work in television, and kind of followed it.” 
students interested in experi­encing the origins of current music genres such as pop, hip hop or rap were encouraged to participate in this one-of-a-kind event, baxter said. 
“This was a time where jazz was just beginning to come alive,” he said. “i mean this is the music that inspired ella fitzgerald [and] billie holiday, and from that came motown, and from that rock, and from that what we have today. if students want an experience in what the background of the music they are listening to now is, [this production] is full of life. it’s almost a religious experience.” 
an intercultural and historical event for the entire community, “raisin’ cane” especially applies to the mission of saint mary’s, baxter said. 
“if you look at the fact that we are educating women to make a difference on the world, those per­formers made an impact and a dif­ference through their courage and through their artistry and through their talent and ability in the world of entertainment,” he said. 
To better understand today’s music and culture, baxter said stu­dents should educate and enjoy themselves with this display of rich music and dance. 
“This is such an opportunity,” he said. “make it count. believe it or not, this is going to be better than a football game. That’s a promise.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 


Take a hint from nasa 

Mike Ginocchio 
sports writer 

it can be easy, in the wake of every­thing in the news these days, to get aw­fully depressed. domestic violence and child abuse in the nfl. another ground war looms in the middle east. Threats of terror attacks from isis and other form­less yet nefarious entities. on the surface, it seems like a rough time in the world. 
but in the wake of all of this troubling and disheartening news, one little bright story slipped through the cracks: we might be going into space again. 
in 2011, 30 years after its inception, nasa’s manned-flight shuttle program was retired. The move frustrated and saddened many, as it seemed to mark the end of an era. The days of neil armstrong, buzz aldrin and sally ride were seemingly over. but earlier this week, for the first time in three years, there were talks of putting americans back in space. nasa recently announced that it had awarded contracts to boeing and spaceX to certify, test and fly their new space capsules. There is already talk of commercial space flight, which is something for which spaceX ceo elon musk has advocated. 
admittedly, with the news of the part­nership only just being announced, it would be silly to start predicting or au­tomatically assuming that by the end of the month we’ll have american-funded space flights to venus. These things take time. it is going to be a while before any­thing advances beyond the “theoretical” stage. 
but to only focus on the “bottom line” is to miss the point entirely. nasa and space travel isn’t just about getting an end result — a tidy number at the end of a quarterly report. it’s about that old feeling of exhilaration in discovery, much like the sea-faring explorers who discovered the new world or even when neil armstrong took one small step for man yet one giant leap for mankind on the moon. Too often, we hear the pow­ers that be or the establishment wring­ing their hands and exclaiming that we should set our sights on the feasible, on the attainable. don’t be foolish. don’t study that, it’s a waste of your time. There’s no money in that field, why are you even bothering? 
nasa and space travel says that it’s okay to be imaginative. it’s okay to envi­sion the possibilities. it’s alright to em­brace and take on the great unknown, because that’s how we’ve managed to progress as a species over the centuries. who knows what the future of manned flight will bring? it’s hard to say, but now we know that it’s fine to dream. 
and considering how things are today, maybe it isn’t such a bad thing to start dreaming about the impossible again. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

when we consider the role of the notre dame security police, the first thing that should come to mind is its importance in keeping the notre dame community as a whole safe. 
ndsp certainly has the power to do so — according to a statement from university, it is a fully operational police force under indiana state law with the power to make arrests and the responsibility to conduct crimi­nal investigations. 
however, as the south bend Tribune pointed out this week, because ndsp operates within the structure of a private university, it is not required to release its po­lice records. This is its practice, even though police de­partments enforcing state law are required by the state legislature to release records to the public. 
The student body, as well as the general public, has the right to access the ndsp crime log through the clery act, a federal law that requires colleges to disclose information about crime that occurs on and around their campus. yet, records of other non-crim­inal reports are not made public, and the full police report for crimes investigated are not released either, according to ndsp policy. 
university spokesman dennis brown cited decisions by several indiana public access counselors that found private indiana university police departments are not public agencies and so are not subject to the access to public records act. he said ndsp’s maintaining the privacy of its reports is “in full compliance with state law,” and we do not contest that. however, we as university students and the editorial board of a uni­versity newspaper want to emphasize that making po­lice reports available upon request is beneficial to our community, increases trust and allows us to properly engage in a conversation about safety on campus. 
Though the clery act and limited alerts from the university keep us as a student body informed about criminal activity, we still are left in the dark about how police responded to other incidents. for example, on sept. 6, a man fell from a stairwell in main building and was seriously injured during Trumpets under the dome on a game day. several witnesses were extremely upset by the sight, and they called and emailed The observer seeking any information we had about what happened and what condition the man was in, out of concern for him and seeking closure for themselves. 
due to notre dame’s policies, we were unable to access the incident report or confirm details that the witnesses had shared with us. opacity from the university kept those concerned witnesses — and the rest of campus — in the dark and allowed rumors to proliferate. This is just one example of how the university’s lack of transparency affects our student body. 
The policy often can make any incident — tragic, shocking or even relatively ordinary — feel like it is be­ing covered up. legally, ndsp does not have to share the information we seek, but morally, we believe more transparency and easier access to information about incidents that matter to us and may have affected us would make our campus stronger. 
we in no way want to upbraid the notre dame security police or take away from the hard work the of­ficers do to keep our campus safe. The work of ndsp is incredibly important and valued on our campus. what we do hope is that we will be able to engage more with the university and its police force through greater transparency and better communication. 
notre dame often holds its students to standards higher than the letter of the law, and this is one in­stance where we would like to see ndsp set a higher bar for itself out of concern for the community it serves. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Religion’s ethical failure 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

last month’s 11-count felony conviction of 1976 notre dame alumnus and former virginia gover­nor, bob mcdonnell, is an indictment against his religious-based education’s failure to inculcate busi­ness ethics. specifically, mcdonnell — virginia’s republican political poster boy for strong conserva­tive religious convictions and clean, family values 
— earned his law degree from regent university, an interdenominational christian university founded by the southern baptist televangelist marion gordon “pat” robertson. by any minimum stan­dard, mcdonnell should have been a perfect model of political conduct forged through the double-whammy of fundamental values these institutions claim to instill. rather, he unsuccessfully blamed his wife for much of his problem and now awaits a judge’s sentencing that potentially can earn him an incarceration for at least a decade. 
regent and notre dame are educational commu­nities steeped in christian traditions with uniquely charitable interpretations of personal conduct. as any good public affairs brand expert would expect, their names and mottos succinctly proclaim their missions. The notre dame motto, “vita dulcedo spes,” refers to the blessed virgin mary, translating as “life, sweetness, hope.” The university’s name in latin — universitas dominae nostrae a lacu — translates from french as “our lady,” further dis­tinguished as the lady of the lake when “du lac” is added to the official name: The university of notre dame du lac. 
regent university lays claim to a just as straight­forward clear message. generally, a regent is a per­son who replaces and represents a monarch while exercising power during the absence or incapacity of that sovereign. The school motto boasts, “christian leadership to change the world.” its catalog sets a high standard for its graduates by explaining that “a regent is one who represents christ, our sovereign, in whatever sphere of life he or she may be called to serve him.” 
scholars currently argue the finer legal points of mcdonnell’s case. yet the jury found that all public events a governor attends should be considered offi­cial events, at least when a favor or a potential favor comes into the discussion. The jury further found that the former governor failed to report his family company income (or in mcdonnell’s case, list huge losses from his real estate company mobo) on ethi­cal reporting forms. mcdonnell explained that he did not interpret a family company as a job. perhaps a blind trust should settle the issue going forward. 
observers — both close to the mcdonnell family and complete strangers alike — are dumbfounded by the scope and large dollar amount given by businessman Jonnie williams to mcdonnell and his family. it is difficult to explain how or why mcdonnell “thought” the rolex watch he received from williams was counterfeit simply because it was given to him in a differently labeled box. one glance at the damaging evidence — a photo of mcdonnell grinning from behind the wheel of a ferrari con­vertible — outweighs any thousand words of ex­planation. critics would like to know how to find a “friend” who will pay $15,000 for their daughter’s wedding without expecting something in return. friends are saddened by mcdonnell’s professed ignorance of his wife’s shopping trips that lavished her with many quite noticeable additions to her wardrobe. 
The harvard business school teaches that rein­venting a demand is key for a company’s contin­ued success. for example, once an asian specialty restaurant saturates the american market, it can then begin selling its specialty cutting knives. but at some point when expanding a product line is no longer viable, cost reductions or increases in mar­ket share become corporate lifelines. oftentimes, though, company executives simply cut corners, thus reducing quality in the hope of increasing prof­its. at times, executives resort to unscrupulous cor­porate business decisions like Jonnie williams did in his attempt to curry favor from mcdonnell. 
what more can be taught, especially at religious institutions, about business and personal ethics to save society from a future bob mcdonnell or Jonnie williams? it may be advisable for public policy, po­litical science and business schools nestled within religious institutions to mandate more ethics cours­es on how to avoid the seven deadly sins: lust, envy, greed, pride, wrath, sloth and gluttony. conceivably, if executives and policymakers were more adverse to the seven deadly sins, fraud cases would precipi­tously diminish. 
why is it that costco, with more realistic living wages, healthcare benefits implemented long before president obama’s initiative and a more worker-friendly management-labor relationship, can com­pete with walmart, which is the antithesis within the wholesale retail market? once burger King an­nounced its corporate move to canada to avoid u.s. taxes, a more generous — some might characterize as more patriotic and ethical ceo — could have announced a higher minimum wage for american workers left behind as a way to show empathy and commitment. unfortunately, many times it is not until one’s personal coffers overflow by the billions that an aversion arises to greed, lust, envy, pride, wrath, sloth and gluttony. in mcdonnell’s case, he simply blamed his wife. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administra­tion. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The minefield of american racism 
when former pennsylvania senator rick santorum visited notre dame this week on tour for his new book, “blue collar conservatives,” he enthusiasti­cally advocated a controversial solution to poverty in america, noting that america’s political leaders should express their support for marriage and family. santorum cited a cdc report that shows the poverty rate for married families in america is five percent, but 40 percent for single-mother families.  while this may not prove causation, other studies have affirmed santorum’s conviction that family breakup perpetu­ates the cycle of poverty in america. 
in his book, santorum argues that family breakup has been especially devastating in african-american communities. Today, 67 percent of black children do not live with their fathers, according to a pew research center estimate. he dismisses racism as a cause of tragic poverty in minority community, in his book, arguing, “we need more from [president obama] on this subject. promoting responsible fa­therhood, particularly in the black community, could be his greatest legacy, if he cared enough to do it.” 
when asked wednesday evening if there are sys­tematic or institutional inequalities in america and if the government has a role in righting those inequalities, the former senator responded with the following: 
“is there inequality? certainly it depends on how you measure that. when you look at the economic situation for black america versus white america and you say, well, they’re unequal, so therefore there’s inequality. i think you could probably say that. if you look at incarceration rates, there’s inequality. There’s lots of things you can look at for inequality. but the question is: what’s the root of that? is there some inequality at the root that leads to that inequality as a result? That’s a lot harder to dig through, because it’s multi-factorial ... this is where it gets real diffi­cult because it’s easy to point to something and say, well, it’s just that people are prejudiced and that’s the problem. and it’s very hard, as we’ve seen a lot of political figures, entertainment figures, even the black ones — spike lee or bill cosby — when they try to address this issue they just get hammered by the establishment and so if bill cosby and spike lee are going to get hammered, i’m not going to walk into that minefield. They have more credibility than i do on this issue.” 
everyone agrees that racial inequality in america is a difficult topic to discuss. but it’s most difficult for americans who suffer from systemic racial inequal­ity every day. according to an estimate from the bureau of Justice statistics, almost one of every three african-american males will serve time in prison over their lifetimes. 
“and how do you think the dad ended up like that? almost 85 percent of young men in prison grew up without a father in their home,” santorum writes in his book . 
when thinking about the “root of inequality,” let’s look at those fathers’ fathers, and their fathers’ fa­thers, etc. after reconstruction, southern business owners figured out that they could legally enslave former slaves if they were convicted of a crime. Thus, they established the notorious Jim crow laws that unjustly incarcerated the african-american popula­tion. in the north, white crime lord syndicates and state governments took over the illegal lotteries, working with local police forces to eliminate their african-american competitors by imprisoning them. The civil rights act of 1964 and the voting rights act of 1965 abolished Jim crow, but disproportionately high incarceration rates remained. in the 1980s, the “war on drugs” disproportionately targeted crack cocaine, which has the same effects as cocaine, but is more prevalent in lower income and african­american communities. Today’s mandatory mini­mums for people convicted of certain crimes still reflect the racism of the 1980s. i recommend michelle alexander’s “The new Jim crow” for further read­ing about the history of racism and incarceration in america. 
This is the history of the united states of america. This history may be a minefield, but we must un­derstand the origins of our institutions if we hope to eradicate poverty and racism. racism may be a “multi-factorial” problem, but racism contributes to poverty, so that makes poverty a “multi-factorial” problem as well. santorum, who served in congress for 16 years and ran for president in 2012, refuses to “walk into that minefield.” This is how institutional racism persists. you may not hate other races, but we all support systemic racism if we are afraid to talk about racial injustice and we elect leaders who are quick to blame but don’t work to understand the “roots that lead to inequality.” 
Maria Caponigro 
sophomore breen-phillips hall sept. 18 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

Just off the south eddy street exit on mishawaka avenue sits bamber’s superette food market. The italian deli­cacies shop lies amidst the usual concrete scenery of a normal south bend road, with an unassuming façade plainly detailing some of the day’s specials in the windows. however, once you step inside the seem­ingly every-day building, the variety in selections that bamber’s superette stocks immediately overwhelms the senses. 
bamber’s history, though having opened in 1950, actually dates to 1915, when third-generation owner gene bamber’s grandfather founded a shop across the street from its current location. although it had to close the store during the great depression, the bamber family continued its foray in the food market business when gene’s parents established the store in 1950 at its current location, though not at its expanded size yet. Through the expan­sion of the surrounding community due to the growth of the area’s colleges and the wealth of diverse individuals attracted by many of the town’s burgeoning offerings, bamber’s evolved from a more standard convenience shop to the specialty market it is now. 
largely coinciding with gene bamber’s inheritance as owner of the superette in 1974, the store started taking consideration 
MATT McMAHON | The Observer 
from its diverse clientele on what interna­tional fare to bring in. bamber specifically remembers a possibly ironic moment of clarity during a huge snowstorm in 1976. when his milk deliverer could not reach his store due to unpaved roads, bamber saw that “the gas station across the street was selling gallons of milk at some un­godly amount of money,” and realized that consumers could get most essential items at 7-11 or a similar convenience store.  coupled with his customers’ rec­ommendations, bamber moved away from a convenience store model and tran­sitioned to carrying specialized products, ones that could only be found at his store. 
now, bamber’s appreciation for the food his store carries shines through the food itself. working through the freezer section, he points out the pasta that was all prepared by chefs, the pizzas import­ed from italy and the brand of sausag­es, continental sausage, he discovered through an episode of “bizarre foods with andrew Zimmern.” and as much as he revels the foods he does stock, bamber is just as excited about the products he anticipates tracking down in the future. an elusive hungarian noodle has been slightly out of his reach, but he expects his hunt to near its end; by november, the store will acquire a pesto-infused biscotti, which alone speaks to the exclusivity of bamber’s brands and products. an ice cream vendor from california named dr. 

bob’s handcrafted ice cream, bamber recollects, has been dealing with the store for over 10 years, after bamber met the vendor at a trade show. 
The one thing clearly as important to bamber as food is people. he briefly paused our conversation in order to greet and help a customer, who also happened to be his cardiologist, move his bags to his car. bamber showed care with every shop­per that stopped in, either mentioning his relationship with him or her or simply helping him or her locate an item. The ideas of family and food are distinctly in­terconnected to bamber. a question about braciole will lead to a great story about youth sunday suppers with his grandpar­ents, and a look into his family’s previous generations beckons recalling other reci­pes. This sense of inclusion so present in bamber in turn pervades the market. 
when walking through the doors to bamber’s superette, the open layout pours all its splendors directly towards its customers, both thanking them for stop­ping by and enticing them to jump right in. as you enter, to your near-left an open display with various pre-prepared sides and baked pasta dishes, ready to heat and serve, awaits. To your right, specialty bot­tles of hard-to-find sodas line the wall in a sweet, colorful mosaic. brands and flavors range from classics like boylan’s black cherry and grape soda to personal favor­ites, ginger beers and spindrift sparkling half-and-half. as for a section of freezer space, bamber’s carries an adventurous, unmatched array of game meats, includ­ing pheasant, Kobe burgers, venison and sausage of any kind imaginable. bamber’s prides itself on its quantity and quality of high-end produce options, also stocking italian and international cheeses, wine, beer, spices, fresh bread, dry pasta and desserts. To list all their products would be exhaustive, and would ruin the delight in discovering the specialty gems. 
bamber truly has a passion for running bamber’s superette food market, as well as the variety of foods his store carries, and it comes out in his attention to detail and care. all the shelves are meticulously organized — each product given its own space for celebration — cleanly display­ing the myriad of options. anyone half as excited by food as bamber undoubtedly is will get a serious rush and great appre­ciation from perusing bamber’s aisles. indeed, visitors may easily find them­selves spending a good chunk of time working their way through the wondrous selection the market has to offer the south bend and notre dame areas. stop in not only for the quality selections, but also for the fascinating, rich history behind the market and the genuine, dedicated man at the center of it. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                    mmcmaho@nd.edu 
The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

by John darr scene writer 

Each week, I’ll be granting a five-star review to an underrated or overlooked piece of art, music, film or anything else you can imagine. This week, we investi­gate one of the greatest inventions of all time, chosen by Saint Mary’s sophomore Maddy Danz, one of our very own cul­tural experts. 
The human nature is dark and deep. a primal violence wrestles against love of stability and security. why else would we watch action movies and play com­bat games, with guns and death and threat of harm, to relax? why else would we destroy our friends’ basketball tro­phies, should our friends offer them up, in order to turn our anger into calm? our animal spirits thirst for destruction in a world where our hunter and survi­vor instincts lie dormant. we, like miley cyrus, cannot be tamed. 
so how do we make the balance in 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

fashion was taken seriously in the east egg of gatsby’s world: an opulent art deco world where women were brought to tears over shirt quality. The 1920s were the first time women took a fearless approach to fashion, sporting feathers, fringe, fur and flapper-esque pixie cuts. The looks were overtly femi­nine — embellishments and pearls ga­lore — while featuring subtle hints of boundary-pushing androgyneity with looser-fitting styles and cropped locks. men expressed their style with suave suits and crisp collars. 
it was an era where no one would be caught dead in black leggings or basket­ball shorts at a social event, and rightly so, as there were so many new styles to experiment with. it is an era we will at­tempt to recreate tonight on bond Quad. 
if you’re freaking out right now, it’s be­cause: 1. you’re so excited and 2. you’re asking what to wear on a friday night when crop tops and high waisted shorts or a bro-tank and cargo shorts aren’t modern society? do we need to turn to criminal behavior or hunt with our bare hands in order to satisfy our elemental urges? in the olden days, perhaps it was so. but since then, technology has led us to the pinnacle of primal equilibrium. behold, my fellow university students, the piñata: one of the very greatest in­ventions of all time. 
when one first comes in contact with a piñata, one discovers his or her great­est inner desire: to smack that like akon did back in ’06. it’s a deceptively sturdy cardboard beast, taunting the kinder­gartener and nursing home inhabitant alike with its stare-contest-winning painted eyes. it hangs both gracefully and morbidly, revealing its present wholeness and future destruction. it is the perfect challenge: as easily de­stroyed as the michigan football squad and just as satisfying. 
The journey to the piñata’s destruc­tion is fast and furious; the experience is sure to convince any user that a sequel 
acceptable? (disclaimer: cargo shorts and bro-tanks are never acceptable). Take a deep breath, old sport. we’re here to help. 
ladies, base your outfit around the right dress. The twenties were a time when we saw all different dress styles emerging — drop waist and fringe-tiered masterpieces flourished. if you are thinking to yourself, “unlike you, i am not a crazy thrifting clothes-hoarder who has four dresses to match that de­scription hanging up in her closet right now,” again, calm down. on such short notice, it makes more sense to focus on accessories to up your twenties glam game, just don’t show up in a bodycon dress or mullet number because the world had yet to succumb to these atroc­ities in 1920. 
To start from the top, go for an old­hollywood marcel-wave look or bob. To perfect the finger wave, sweep your hair to one side with bobby pins and curl it. if you want to construct a faux-bob, consult pinterest. be sure to add a spar­kly headband across your forehead — be careful to make it daisy-esque instead of or six is necessary. in this case, how­ever, the journey is not greater than the destination. The explosion of the piñata grants the breaker a god-like feeling of control; the explosion, representing the apocalypse, paired with the fall of con­tents, representing weather, fulfills the dreams of any bat-slinging smacker. 

finally, the piñata presents its de­stroyer with a reward and a gift: its content. The limit on what can go in a piñata is equal to the limit of 1/x as x ap­proaches zero from the right. Though the standard item for piñata use is can­dy, popular options for it range from ex­pensive glass vases to coke cans. “will it piñata?” has become an overnight suc­cess on youTube for a very good reason, and not just because it’s hosted by emma watson and Joseph gordon-levitt. 
as an extremely effective vessel for the release of primal energy and a very temporary storage container, the piñata solves the vast majority of the world’s problems at the cheap cost of free with 
coachella try-hard — or any other form of hair bling. if you have a fascinator, congratulations — you’re fabulous and obviously need to sport that. 
The next step is “ice ice baby.” you can parade pearls, display diamonds or go for both. go for long, layered strands of pearls to avoid looking like you’re on your way to sorority recruitment or an alabama football game. also, stick to diamond accents — earrings, a head­piece or a necklace — to avoid looking like flavor flav. 
on the topic of flavor flav, i respect the man for trying to bring back watches worn on chains instead of on one’s wrist or a phone screen. one way to class up your 1920s menswear is to carry a pock­et watch. Trust me. do it. if i ever asked some guy the time and he whipped out a pocket watch, i would fall in love right then and there. 
even Trinidad James supports the pocket watch revival movement, “gold all in my chain … gold all in my watch.” well, obviously your watch and chain are made of the same substance, Trinidad; they are both connected and hang some jail time. no matter if bought as a gift, as a journey or as a destination, the piñata could theoretically save you 25 percent or more on car insurance. no room in the fridge? don’t worry! The piñata does not need to be refrigerated. in addition, homes with piñatas are sig­nificantly more likely to have piñatas in them than homes without piñatas. ultimately, you can have your piñata and have it too. 
after a close and careful analysis, i can easily give piñatas a five star rating. it’s a combination of wrapping paper and punching bag that can only be used one time, and it doesn’t require refrig­eration. as our cultural expert, maddy danz, once said, “who wouldn’t want to use a baseball bat to smack something and get candy out of it?” so what are you waiting for? go buy, break and throw away your piñata today! 
5/5 shamrocks. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
gracefully from your black sweatsuit pocket. 
however, not all pocket chains are the same. do remember that although somewhat similar at first glance, chain wallets will not have the same effect as a pocket watch. do not think you can trick anyone into thinking you’re classy with a wallet chain, they will see through your grungy 1990s façade when you pull out your phone to check the time. 
pocket watch in tow, you are now classy enough to attempt anything, even dressing in 1920s style. The twenties were an era where men dressed in a pin­stripe suit to go “out on a drive.” wingtip shoes and two-tone suits dominated the metropolitan office. if you were to sport the men’s casual wear of the twen­ties across campus today, friends would bid you, “good luck on your interview.” brooks brothers dominated, and pocket squares were predominant. if you sport a pink suit, you’ll be the hit of the dance 
— just stay away from pools. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                          emcaulif@nd.edu 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Wilson cannot carry Seahawks 
Patrick McCullough 
guest columnist 
on sunday, the defending super bowl champion seahawks lost to the chargers by a score of 30-21. 
while a differential of nine points may not seem like a sig­nificant amount, it is the first time that the seahawks have lost by two possessions since the cowboys handed them a 23-13 loss in november of 2011. That is a span of 46 regular season and playoff games, which is a remarkable reflection of just how dominant the seahawks have been. 
over the span of multiple sea­sons, a given team’s record in such games is often right around .500. Thus, when a team wins a majority of one-score games, it is considered lucky. monday’s game between the colts and eagles ended with a field goal as time expired, while sunday’s game between the patriots and vikings was 30-7, yet both games count as losses for one team. while simply looking at the quantity of losses does not reflect accurately on the quality of a team’s play on a week-to-week basis, by trying to account for the difference in scores we can better judge the performance of a team. likewise, over the span of multiple seasons, a given team’s record in such games is often right around .500.  This is the seahawks first ‘convincing’ loss in 46 games, if convincing means a defeat by more than one score. 
To paint this run of domi­nance in perspective, the last so-called dynasty of the nfl, the 2003-2004 new england patriots, lost games in both the 2003 and 2004 seasons by multiple scores. while the patriots did not have any convincing losses in the 2007 season and subsequent playoffs, they only managed a streak of 27 straight games from 2006-2008. 
from 2012-2013, the patriots have a total of two convincing losses, both of which were in the playoffs, before they lost to the dolphins 33-20 in week one of this year. likewise, the broncos have lost two games by more than one score over the past two years, in february’s super bowl and to the patriots in week five of 2012. The only other team to lose only one game by more than one score last season was the chargers, which suffered a 27-17 loss to the raiders on oct. 6. 
all four of the aforementioned teams managed to win at least one playoff game last year. The patriots, chargers, and broncos all had exceptional seasons from the quarterback position with Tom brady, philip rivers and peyton manning, respectively. 
This should not be a surprise, as it is generally accepted that in the nfl an elite quarterback is needed in order to have legiti­mate championship aspirations. championship-caliber teams are more likely to perform bet­ter on a week-to-week basis, and thus lose fewer lopsided games. The stark difference between the seahawks and the three other aforementioned teams is that the seahawks do not have an elite or even a very good quarter­back. instead they relied on their dominating defense. in terms of points allowed, the seahawks have been the stingiest defense in each of the past two seasons. 
if we look at all super bowl champions since the 1997 sea­son, all but two have had two or less convincing losses. The only teams to have more are the 2007 and 2011 new york giants with five and four, respectively. 
more often than not, the num­ber of losses by more than one score is a measure of strength of a team’s quarterback and consequently, the strength of the team. The two greatest quar­terbacks of the past 15 years, peyton manning and brady, show an exceptionally low ten­dency to lose by more than one score. for instance, the last time that the patriots lost by more than one score in the regular season, prior to week one of this year, was in week nine of 2010 to the cleveland browns. however, that accomplishment is marred by the fact that the team has not won a super bowl since 2004, while it have suffered two blow­out losses in the playoffs since its last championship. in fact, brady has not lost more than two one-score games in which he started in a regular season since 2005. The last time that peyton manning has lost more than two one-score games in which he started in a regular season was in 2009. 
in the nfl, is it all but a given that a team needs an elite quar­terback to seriously compete for a super bowl. The seahawks do not have an elite quarterback to carry them from week-to-week, which makes their long stretch of games in which they have not been beaten by a significant margin quite an accomplish­ment and speaks to the quality of the team as a whole. 
Patrick McCullough is the president of the Sports by Numbers club and will regularly contribute to Sports Authoirty with statistical analysis. To find out more about the club, contact Patrick at 
Patrick.McCullough.26@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC SOCCER  | smc 1, calvin 0 
belles win nailbighter against Knights 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 

in a close contest against calvin, saint mary’s ulti­mately came out on top, defeating the Knights, 1-0, Tuesday. The win was the belles’ first miaa win in program history against the Knights. 
after a scoreless first half, the belles (3-4, 1-2 miaa) came out in the second half on the attack, putting the pressure on calvin’s defense early. in the 67th minute, sophomore midfielder Jenn Jarmy sent a cross toward the goal where senior midfielder erin mishu connected with a header for her second goal of the season to put the belles up, 1-0. 
energized by the late lead, the belles’ defense contin­ued to stand strong while the midfield and forwards helped saint mary’s freeze the Knights (1-5, 0-3) and maintain the 1-0 victory. after out-shooting the belles throughout the first half, calvin only had three shots in the final 45 minutes of play, with just one of those attempts coming on goal. meanwhile, saint mary’s was able to put three of their four shots in the second half on goal. 
saint mary’s coach michael Joyce praised his team’s de­fense in the shut out of the Knights. 
“The key to our success in Tuesday’s game was without a doubt ... defensive improve­ments,” Joyce said. “we’ve let in too many goals this sea­son, and i think we played with a little extra intensity and communication in the back, which really helped us keep a clean sheet.” 
Joyce said his senior cen­ter backs mary Kate hussey and Kerry green also did an excellent job organizing the back line and dealing with pressure and crosses. 
despite the victory, Joyce said improvements are still needed all around the squad. 
“i still think we could play a little bit sharper,” Joyce said. “There’s been a few too many unforced errors and a few too many giveaways. we like to posses the ball a lot, but we haven’t quite gotten to the point where we were last year where we are con­stantly hitting our strides.” 
The belles hope to contin­ue their success as they face hope. The flying dutch, who currently lead the miaa, are undefeated in conference play. 
“we really need to start out this game strong,” Joyce said. “every time we’ve gone up against them the past couple of years, we’ve always gotten ourselves into a hole in the first 25 minutes of play and been down a couple of goals. many games have gone well and we’ve played well after that, but it’s always tough to dig yourself out of that hole once you’re in it.” 
despite the challenges they face, Joyce said he be­lieves the belles can com­pete with hope. 
“all we can do is play as well as we can,” Joyce said. “we’re right up there with any of the teams in our league, and as long as we can remain consistent in our per­formance, then we should have no problems competing with the best.” 
The belles travel to holland, mich. to square off against hope on saturday. Kick-off is scheduled for noon. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 

MLB | aThleTics 7, rangers 2 
Athletics lose top wild card spot with loss 
Associated Press 

oaKland, calif. (ap) — sonny gray and the oakland athletics kept sliding, falling out of the top al wild-card spot with a 7-2 loss to Texas on Thursday that gave the rangers a three-game sweep. 
The latest loss to the team with the worst record in the majors dropped the a’s a half-game behind idle Kansas city for the first wild-spot slot. oakland owned the best re­cord in the big leagues as re­cently as aug. 15. 
Texas roughed up gray (13­
9) for four runs in the first in­ning and won its season-best sixth in a row. 

FOR RENT 

Fall Break at The beach in Destin FL Call 214-632-2868 www.vrbo.com/71701 www. vrbo.com/582081 BEAT FSU! 
gray saw his winless stretch reach five starts. The right-hander in his first full major league season has only one victory in 10 starts since his 5-0 July that earned him al pitcher of the month honors. 
nick martinez (4-11) allowed two runs and three hits in 5 2-3 innings, handing oakland its sixth loss in eight games. 
leonys martin hit an rbi double and the rangers came out swinging for 15 total hits. 
Texas got four straight two-out singles in the first, in­cluding rbi hits from Jake smolinski, Tomas Telis and ryan rua. a passed ball added another for Texas. smolinski had four hits. 
This series was a far cry from the end of the 2012 sea­son, when the a’s stunned the rangers by sweeping the final three games at the coliseum to win the al west. 
sam fuld’s rbi triple in the third accounted for oakland’s runs. The a’s were outscored 19-6 in an embarrassing sweep and have struggled to support their starting pitchers during this long funk. 
The rangers won again only hours after former man­ager ron washington publicly apologized in Texas, to wife of 42 years, gerry, for breaking her trust. it was his first public comment since resigning sept. 5. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
IR I S H C R O S SIN G T W N H M F o r R e n t 2 0 15 ­16 y r f r o m N D A l u m ! 4 B d r m U n i t o n B u r d e t t e ; f o r 1 o r 2 y r l e a s e . Te x t o r c a l l J o h n 2 8 1-6 3 5 ­2 0 19  S T AN F OR DFO O T B A L LC los e t o c a mS t r e e t -pr i me E m a i l n d -ho gl o b a l . ne t  ­ R E NT A L : p us / E d dy loc a t i o n . u se @ s b c ­ 



ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish welcome Tar Heels for ACC opener 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
The two most decorated pro­grams in women’s college soccer clash for the 23rd time saturday when no. 18 notre dame hosts no. 9 north carolina at alumni stadium. 
The Tar heels (3-2-1) own 21 national championships, the most in ncaa history, with the most recent title coming in 2012. The irish (5-2-1) have the second most, with three. north carolina owns the 14-6-2 edge in the series, but recently the irish have drawn even, splitting the last four matches. 
despite the historical impli­cations of the game, irish coach Theresa romagnolo said she be­lieves her team is not worried about facing the Tar heels. 
“i think we get up for ev­ery game,” romagnolo said. “obviously north carolina is an exciting start to the acc [sched­ule] so that’s also what we’re ex­cited about. but i think we get up for every opponent.” 
like the irish, north carolina has faced a brutal non-con­ference schedule, playing four ranked opponents in six games. The team’s losses came to no. 4 stanford and no. 12 pepperdine. 
both the Tar heels and the irish pushed the cardinal to overtime with the match score­less, but north carolina red-shirt sophomore goalkeeper lindsey harris muffed an easy save in the 93rd minute to send the Tar heels to a stunning opening-game loss. when notre dame faced stanford, sopho­more goalkeeper Kaela little re­corded six saves and shutout the cardinal to preserve a 0-0 tie. 
“in the first game, everyone is really learning about them­selves,” romagnolo said. “and that was [north carolina’s] first game. stanford is a good team. we saw them.” 
since then, north carolina has allowed two goals in five games, lowering its goals against aver­age to .465, which ranks 19th in the nation. on offense, the Tar heels average only .67 goals per game but romagnolo said the team is dangerous because of its ability to possess the ball for large chunks of the game. 
“carolina is very athletic,” romagnolo said. “They like the high press. for us, it’s going to be about getting our possession game going but also looking for opportunities in the spaces when they open up.” 
The irish have outscored op­ponents 13-6 over eight games, but romagnolo said the team must sharpen its killer instinct and finishing on scoring chanc­es. notre dame has 124 shots on the season, for a shot percentage of .105. 
“we’ve been working on breaking pressure,” romagnolo said of the last week of prac­tice. “we’ve also been working on creating more of an attack­ing mentality in the [offensive] third of the field. i think that the goals are going to start happen­ing for us. we’re serving in the box and we’ve got some pretty good numbers on the goal. we just need to make sure that we jump in front of some defenders and be more proactive in getting the ball.” 
last weekend, facing un­ranked Toledo, notre dame 
struggled  to  finish,  despite  
firing  12  shots.  sophomore  
midfielder  morgan  andrews  

eventually took control for the 
paid adverTisemenT 


irish, scoring twice to secure the 2-1 win. romagnolo said she thinks any other forward or midfielder could make a similar impact against north carolina. 
“morgan’s a midfielder but she was making runs in the box to make things happen,” romagnolo said. “[so] it can re­ally be anybody. They all have the personality to be able to finish.” 
The game marks the begin­ning of acc play for both teams. The Tar heels finished third in the conference last season, while the irish placed fifth. 
notre  dame  and  north  
carolina  renew  their  rivalry  
saturday  at  alumni  stadium.  

Kick-off is scheduled for noon. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 




M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
virginia’s Klockner stadium can hold roughly 7,000; the cavaliers defeated rival virginia Tech last week­end in front of 5,430 specta­tors. clark said one of the keys to the syracuse win was taking the crowd out of the game, and it will need to be one this week. The afternoon game will also be televised on espnu, the first of four slated national television appear­ances for notre dame this season. asked what his team needed to do sunday, clark focused on two goals. 
“we’ve got to play with a lot of belief,” clark said. “you’ve got to go in there and be­lieve. and then you’ve got to play smart … not give any­thing away. but i think the big thing is having the con­fidence. confidence is so im­portant, and being a team, a tight team because it’s going to be tough. 
“There are going to be parts of the game where you know it’s going to be tough, know you’re going to be under pres­sure, and you can’t panic. when you’re in these dif­ficult situations, you’ve just got to stick together, tough it out and come back into your game.” 
clark said that it would be imperative for the irish to keep their cool when they get the opportunities to put the ball in the back of the net, something the squad has struggled with this sea­son. last weekend’s game was the first time all year the irish had been out-shot all season (13-12), although they did hold an 8-3 advantage in shots on goal. 
although five different players have scored for notre dame this year, the list does not include a couple of the important names from last year, most notably junior midfielder patrick hodan, whose 11 goals trailed only former irish midfielder harrison shipp for the team lead last season. however, clark said he is very confident in his team’s ability to score goals. 

“i think we have a lot of people who can score goals.” clark said. “we’ve got a lot of people capable. it is nice if you can have someone who can get into a nice little vein of scoring goals like [shipp] did for us last year. … hodan has been a little slow to start this year, so hopefully he can, but there’s also people who can score goals.” 
notre dame received its lone goal last weekend cour­tesy of sophomore defender brandon aubrey. his first ca­reer collegiate tally came in the 75th minute of the con­test, breaking notre dame’s scoreless drought of over 215 minutes. clark said aubrey’s goal was a huge one for notre dame, but the team is still very talented and ready to score. he also emphasized that every match in the acc is a “slugfest” because of the quality of the conference’s teams. 
“i think any one of the top six teams in the acc could win a national champion­ship,” clark said. “i often joke that when we won the league last year, i said that was a bigger achievement than ac­tually winning the national championship.” 
This year’s march to­ward a title carries on for notre dame as it travels to charlottesville, virginia, for a sunday matinee match with the cavaliers. The game will be broadcast live starting at noon on espnu. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish host championships 

By MANNY DEJESUS 
sports writer 
both the men’s and women’s squads will be at full strength this weekend, as notre dame hosts the 35th annual national catholic championships, after the teams’ younger runners car­ried the irish to a strong start in the crusader open. 
in the first meet of the sea­son, the men’s team was led by sophomores chris marco and Jacob dumford, who finished first and second, respectively. notre dame had three other runners, all freshmen, finish in the top ten. John flannery fin­ished in fifth, Kevin pulliam finished ninth and calvin Kraft placed 10th out of 41 runners. for the women’s team, freshmen sydney foreman and Kaitlin frei had the best finishes for the irish, finishing fourth and sev­enth out of 39 runners. while the men defended their team title, the women’s side only raced four athletes and therefore were in­eligible for a team score. 
now for notre dame’s second meet, the upperclassmen will make their season debut after being held from the first race by new coach matt sparks. 
“This weekend we will be running all healthy and avail­able athletes,” sparks said. “we have two of our top men sit­ting out. [Junior] Tim ball has a family obligation and [junior] michael clevenger is coming off a small injury. The women’s team will be at full strength for the national catholic championship.” 
The start of the season has been exciting thus far for every­one on the team, sparks said. The chemistry between the run­ners and sparks has gotten better over the course of the training and start of the season, he said. 
“i believe the team is re­ally starting to believe in the changes to the program,” sparks said. “They are excited to put the long summer of hard training behind them and look forward to the competitive part of the season.” 
looking towards the national catholic championships, where notre dame has dominated in recent history, sparks said he expects to continue that suc­cess. notre dame’s women’s and men’s team have won first place at the national catholic championships five years in a row. since the 1999 season, notre dame has not finished lower than second place on ei­ther the men’s or women’s side. 
“we have traditionally rep­resented notre dame very well at the national catholic championship and i expect a similar experience this year,” sparks said. “This will be the first large invitational (37 teams) for the freshman and i am looking forward to see how they react.” 
marquette , holy cross, detroit-mercy, dayton and pennsylvania state are a few of the 37 teams that will be rac­ing in attempt to dethrone notre dame at the national catholic championships. over 800 runners are scheduled to compete in four races. in the men’s and women’s varsity rac­es, the team scores will be split between the div. i programs and all other competing squads. 
The 35th annual national catholic championships will take place friday at notre dame golf course, where the irish will look to take the title for the sixth year in a row. The first race is scheduled to begin at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 


INTERHALL GAMES OF THE WEEK 
Keough, Pasquerella West look to repeat titles 
Finest will rely on team athleticism, fresh talent to take down reigning champions, Pasquerella West 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
The interhall flag football season kicks off this week­end, with defending champi­on pasquerilla west going up against farley on sunday at 5 
p.m. at labar fields. 
colleen doyle, senior cap­tain and offensive lineman, believes the purple weasels have a good chance of repeat­ing this year, she said. 
“we definitely have high expectations,” doyle said. “we all have the goal of get­ting back to the stadium, so we’re eager to get playing and see how it goes.” 
farley’s season last year was not as successful as pasquerilla west’s, but the team is hopeful they will start off strong this season, sophomore quarterback lizzy moulton said. 
“[i expect] a champion­ship,” moulton said. “i ex­pect us to play well and try our hardest. i think we have a pretty athletic squad and i’m expecting big things from this farley team. we’re defi­nitely not going to go down without a fight.” 

moulton was on farley’s b-team last year, which lost at the championship at notre dame stadium. 
she said the finest’s mind­set will give them a chance at upsetting the reigning cham­pion purple weasels. 
“it’s going to be a great matchup,” moulton said. “we’re hoping to put up a good fight, we’re hoping to come out with a win. it’s definitely going to be a tough match for us, but if we play hard and play smart i think we should come out with the w.” 
likewise, doyle said she expects intangibles and new­comers to have a big impact on pasquerilla west’s  up­coming season. 
“we graduated some valuable talent and leader­ship and have some big shoes to fill but the young talent is really stepping up and we have a few returnees from abroad who will likely fill some of those gaps pretty well,” doyle said. “we’ll be counting on our juniors to be the backbone of our defense.” 
aside from a mixture of veterans and fresh talent, team unity will also be cru­cial to pasquerilla west’s per­formance, doyle said. 
“[pasquerilla west] has some really strong team ca­maraderie which i think is a big factor,” doyle said. “we’re well balanced on both sides of the ball with some very solid coaching, so we’ll see how that translates to the game.” 
pasquerilla west and farley face off on sunday at 5 p.m. at labar fields. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

The Big Red aim to go to the sky, throw past defending-champ Kangaroos 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
Keough looks to take its first step towards repeating last season’s in­terhall title when it goes up against dillon on sunday afternoon. 
while the Kangaroos lost some production due to graduation — including their starting quarter­back seamus donegan — they also return some players who made an impact in the championship game. Junior receiver and captain mitchell patin returns after catch­ing the winning touchdown pass at notre dame stadium a year ago, while sophomore defensive back matthew mooney returns af­ter making a crucial interception in the title game. 
when the two teams met last season, Keough ran its way to a 22-0 victory over dillon. The big red finished 2-2 last season, good enough to sneak into the playoffs where they fell to Keenan. 
while the dillon offense sput­tered at times last year — scor­ing under five points per game — junior quarterback and captain colin cunningham said his team hopes to get production through the air on the offensive side of the ball. 
“we’re going to try to throw the ball as much as we can,” cunningham said. “but the game plan might change throughout the game depending on how we do.” 
dillon will look towards a crop of new players this year to try and get them to the top. 
“on defense we’ve got a [junior] safety named brian walter who’s really, really good,” cunningham said. “it’s his first year playing in­terhall so he’ll be one to watch. on offense we’ve got a [sophomore] running back named morris lagrand and it’s also his first time playing. he was a stud in high school.” 
The big red will look to upset last season’s champions sunday at the riehle fields at 1:00 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Football 
conTinued from page 16 
either folston or mcdaniel has started in the backfield for the first drive, and the other has followed the next series. 
“i don’t just want to be a third-string running back — ever,” bryant said. “i’m just gonna keep making plays and see what the coaches do from there. if you make plays, they got no choice but to move you up.” 
recently, bryant has fo­cused on his patience as a run­ner. he still wants to improve his blocking skills, as well. not surprisingly, the four-star recruit, per 247sports.com, said he didn’t block much at american heritage high school in delray beach, fla. 
“That’s one thing that can separate me from not just the running backs on our team but everybody in the country,” bryant said of his blocking. 
To improve in pass protection, 
bryant said it comes down to reading his keys, keeping his hands inside and being more physical. 
The 5-foot-10, 205-pounder has had no issues with his physicality and fearlessness with the ball in his hands. 


ND Vball 
conTinued from page 16 

notre dame will have an opportunity to collect its second win against a win­less moorhead state on friday afternoon. 
The eagles (0-10) are the four-time defending ohio valley conference cham­pions, but have started the season in unprecedentedly poor fashion, with their first 0-10 start in the his­tory of the program, as well as being the worst start in program history. 
The stiffest competition in the active ankle challenge will likely come from the host team, in the purdue boilermakers. 
in contrast to the irish, the no. 11 boilermakers (8­
1) are returning 8 players. 
of those eight returning players include four start­ers from their 2013 unit that reached the elite eight. 
purdue also has history on its side — having won 12 of their last 19 matches against notre dame. 
if they are able to de­feat the billikens on friday morning, the boilermakers will advance to 9-1, which would be their best start since 2011. 
st. louis (7-3) heads to west lafayette looking to extend their seven-match win streak at the hands of the eagles, boilermakers and irish. 
The billikens are ranked 25 in the ncaa with 68 kills, irish head coach brian Kelly has joked about bryant’s al­lergy to fair catches as a punt returner. bryant admitted his boldness as a return man could be tied to his thirst to make plays and move up in the running back rotation. 
“i don’t know when i’m go­ing to get the ball again, so i might as well get this punt and try to take it to the house,” bryant said of his mentality. 
bryant did say he’ll willing­ly signal for a fair catch when­ever he feels threatened. 
has he felt threatened? 
“no,” bryant quipped. 

comfortable with the ball in his hands, bryant has also grown more comfortable with his notre dame lifestyle in year two. 
“it’s just like i adapted to living the lifestyle of a notre dame student-athlete, wak­ing up, going to school, know­ing that i gotta do stuff that i don’t want to do every day,” bryant said. “it turned me into a man now. and it made me realize the big picture. it’s not all about football. 
“it basically made me the person i am today, just to come back and be humble and be a great football player.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonoco@nd.edu 

a facet of the game that is something notre dame has struggled to overcome in re­cent matches. 
“we are always looking to continue to improve,” brown said. “This team brings good intensity and a positive attitude to every practice and match. i know that the winning will con­tinue to come after that.” 
after the active ankle challenge, notre dame re­mains on the road through the month of september. 
They will travel to coral gables, florida, on september 26. from there, they move on to Tallahassee, florida, on september 28 to take on acc foes miami and florida state, respectively. 
The irish take on purdue, morehead state and st. louis this weekend at the purdue active ankle challenge. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 
Blackhawks 
conTinued from page 16 
“i’m excited to get back out there the next couple of days and just enjoy it,” Toews said. “it’s a great little community, a great school, and a there’s a whole lot of history here, so it’s fun for us to come here and partake in and be a part of that culture too.” 
former irish defenseman stephen Johns will take the ice for the blackhawks, as he com­petes in training camp for a roster spot. notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross students, faculty and staff can watch the blackhawks for free with a valid id friday from 10 a.m., to 12:45 p.m., while the general public can watch training camp saturday and sunday, also from 10 a.m., to 
12:45p.m. 
The blackhawks will be back in chicago at the united center for their annual Training camp festival on monday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 31 “___ first you 61 Uneasy feeling don’t succeed 
1 Uneasy feeling 62 Hurricane’s 
…” 

6 Timekeeper center 
33 Seaboard 

11 Madrid Mrs. 63 Swarms (with)
34 Drummer for 

14 “Understood,” 64 “Long time 
the Who 

to a radioer ___!” 
37 Mexican 15 Drug company housesthat makes 
DOWN 

40 Slangy assents
Valium 41 Free TV spot, 1 Pinball parlors 

16 Rooster’s mate for short 2 Humongous
17 Randy Travis or 44 Attribute (to) numbers

Travis Tritt 47 Overall profit 3 Lizards
19 Chicken ___ sometimes kept king 49 Arizona as petsN.B.A.’er 
20 Tennis great 4 Past, present Andre 51 Tehran’s land and future 21 “Wing” for 52 Amaze 

Dumbo 5 Crafts’ partner 
53 College 22 Airline that transcript no. 6 Weep doesn’t fly on 
54 Period when 7 One who can’t 
the Sabbath 

a computer is catch a break 23 Finished functioning 
8 Groups of eight 24 Minivan since 56 Abbr. on a sale 
9 Alternative to
the mid-’90s item’s tag 

cash or check 27 Material in 57 Clark Kent and 
10 Lead-in to plopan underwear Lois Lane’s or plunkwaistband paper 11 Song syllables 29 Sinks to the 59 Make a sharp in the title of abottom, as silt turn back 1964 hit 
30 ’60s draft org. 60 Binge 
12 Takes a breather 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Brokerage worker 
18 Classic 1955 Jules Dassin heist film 
22 John who sang “Rocket Man” 
25 One-___ (old ball game) 
26 Without any profit 
28 Connects 
32 “___ will be done” (Lord’s Prayer phrase) 
34 Singer Carpenter 
The Observer 


welcomes back Christopher Brucker’s Highly Punlikely for this year. We are also proud to introduce Dome Nuts, a new comic from Alexandria Wellman. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

PUZZLE BY ALAN ARBESFELD 

35 Restaurant 41 Leftovers after 50 Oregon’s capital posting peeling 
36 Words after a 42 Shorthaired cat 55 Scheme 
yell of “Police!” 
43 Actress Bening 37 Flip over, as a of “American 57 Summer hours: 

boat Beauty” 
Abbr. 38 Apt pig Latin for 
45 Galoot “trash” 46 Run out, as a 

58 Band with the 
subscription

39 ___ of God 1983 hit (epithet for 48 Jordache jeans “Owner of a Attila the Hun) competitor Lonely Heart” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: your ability to assess situations and mediate will lead to victory. altering the way you handle money and health matters will bring about a better lifestyle and opportunities to explore new possibilities. emotions will be difficult to control, but will also help you address and rid yourself of pending problems that have contributed to stress. focus on the positive. your numbers are 4, 12, 18, 23, 33, 36, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t keep secrets. getting everything out in the open will give you a clear conscience to move ahead with the changes you’ve been contemplating. socializing and networking will bring you in contact with people who have something worthwhile to offer.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): volunteer something unusual that you have to offer. The people you meet along the way will be impressed with your services, talent and insight. a new partnership will be beneficial as long as you keep the contributions equal.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take it upon yourself to connect with people that you know have something to offer or groups you feel you can contribute to successfully. don’t be shy regarding your skills, but present what you can do in a skillful, diplomatic manner. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): your interest in foreign cultures and philosophies will spark your curiosity regarding courses, traveling and joining in events that can broaden your knowledge. making an unusual change to the way you look will grab attention. romance is on the rise. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): handle money matters carefully. good fortune will come to you from an unusual source. listen to complaints and look for solutions that won’t compromise anyone’s position. don’t be afraid to make a substantial move if it will benefit you.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): guard your money and possessions. changing the way you do your job is encouraged. avoid anyone looking for an argument or trying to push you into doing things you don’t want to do. poor information will lead you down the wrong path.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): indulge in things that will expand your mind and your friendships with people from different backgrounds. refuse to let someone bully you or make you feel guilty for wanting to do things your way. change will be rewarding.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): promote the skills, talents and project you enjoy doing the most. an opportunity to begin a new partnership or business may entice you, but practicality must be considered. Taking on too much will cost you and jeopardize your chance for success. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Taking care of other people’s affairs will bring you added benefits, but you are best to refrain from letting anyone interfere in your personal matters. The changes you make at home won’t please everyone, but will benefit you financially.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your opinions to yourself until you have facts and figures worked out to back your theory. use your insight and expertise to gather difficult information. money will come to you from an unexpected source. love is highlighted. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take pride in what you do and you will avoid criticism. look at your current work situation and you will find a way to use your skills to suit the changes going on in your life. diversification will lead to a better lifestyle.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will be sensitive to what people do and how they treat you. hold off committing to a deal that hasn’t been fleshed out and put on paper. be as open and honest as possible when dealing with relationships.  


Birthday Baby: you are an imaginative dreamer. you are courageous, intuitive and relentless. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GNAET  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
RTDIH  

NISGRP MIOENC  
 


“ 


” 
Answer here: 

(Answers Monday) Jumbles: BURST TRUCK VOYAGE INFAMY Yesterday’s 
Answer: The cleaning crew at Grand Central was enjoying a — STATION BREAK 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NHL
FOOTBALL 

Blackhawks begin 
Bryant breaks through 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
football seems pretty simple in the mind of greg bryant. 
it comes down to making plays, something he’s been do­ing since he was five years old. The sophomore running back has an unwavering confidence in his playmaking ability, a con­fidence constructed from his days of throwing the football in the backyard or playing catch in the streets. 
“i’m not cocky. i’m just con­fident,” bryant said. “i’m just confident i’m going to make a play.” 
Through the first quarter of the season, bryant has tallied 119 rushing yards to pace the irish ground game. he’s done so on 22 carries, the fewest — albeit not by much — of notre dame’s three running backs. bryant is averaging 5.4 yards per carry, more than sopho­more Tarean folston (3.7) and senior cam mcdaniel (3.9). 

bryant said he doesn’t think much about the mechanics us got three different running of the running back rotation, styles,” bryant said. “all of us which has mostly had the run-are not the same. so we all can ning backs alternate on each do different things. we all can drive. come in in different situations 
“it’s nice to know that all of and make plays.” 

training camp 
By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
for the second consecutive year, the chicago blackhawks took the two-hour bus drive east to kick off their training camp at notre dame’s compton family ice arena. 
blackhawks general manager stan bowman, a notre dame class of ‘95 graduate, came up with the idea to bring chicago to notre dame prior to last sea­son. bowman said he was hap­py to see the blackhawks back in south bend. 
“we’re really excited to be back here at notre dame for the second year,” bowman said. “last year was a great experi­ence for our organization and our players. 
“we’re excited to be back and 
excited to be talking hockey 
again.” 
bowman praised compton 
family ice arena and cited last 
year’s positive experiences as 
bryant, however, has mostly 

the reason for their return. been the last of the running 
“it is a first-class facility here backs to get his shot through 
and the staff is tremendous,” each of the first three games. 
bowman said. “it was a nice setting for our team to get to-
see fooTball PAGE 14 
gether. it was something a little different, and it worked really well for our group.” 

The general admission tick­ets for the blackhawks train­ing camp sold out rapidly for saturday and sunday’s train­ing camp sessions. blackhawks starting center and captain Jonathon Toews said the sup­port in the south bend area is a great place to start training camp. 
“it’s pretty cool,” Toews said. “obviously, we’re not too far down the road. ... you see a lot of notre dame football fans liv­ing in chicago. it’s nice to see, whether it’s local people, hock­ey fans, football fans, come check out our practices and our games.” 
The blackhawks have seen success recently, winning the 2009-10 and 2012-13 stanley cups, but failed last season to move past the conference fi­nals in a game-seven loss to the los angeles Kings. Toews said the atmosphere of notre dame helps put the players in a win­ning mood and will prepare them for another stanley cup run. 
see blacKhawKs PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish prepare for grudge match 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
it is said that there are few things better than sweet, sweet revenge. no. 5 notre dame will have its chance to get some sunday, when it travels to face no. 7 virginia in a marquee acc matchup. 
The irish (3-1-1, 1-0-0 acc) were shutout by the cavaliers (4-1-0, 1-0-0) at alumni stadium last year, 2-0. it was the only game the eventual national cham­pions lost in regulation all season. virginia also oust­ed notre dame in the acc championship semifinals on penalty kicks, 4-3. 
“That was a team that had our number last year,” irish coach bobby clark said of virginia. “i think they are a better team [this year], watching them on tape. … every acc game, you have to take it on its own merit. This is certainly one of the hardest games in the acc.” 
coming off a 1-0 road vic­tory against then-no. 20 syracuse in its acc opener last weekend, notre dame’s second conference tilt will pit the irish against their second top-10 opponent of the year. 
“That was a really hard win,” clark said of the syracuse victory. “That’s a really hard place to go. we had to beat a very good syracuse team that was 4-0. … very happy with that one. 
“i think every game is ex­tremely important, you don’t put one above the other … from that game, you move on to another very, very tough at virginia.” 
last weekend in new york, the irish played the orange (5-1-0, 0-1-0) in front of a school-record crowd of 2,442. virginia’s Klockner stadium can hold roughly 
see m soccer PAGE 12 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame heads to tournament at Purdue 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 

seeking to build off of their first win of the 2014, notre dame travels to west lafayette, indiana, to take on moorhead state, st. louis and purdue this weekend at the purdue active ankle challenge. after six matches at purcell pavilion, the irish (1-7) begin a three-week series of road trips as they hope to turn their season around. 
after a season marked by narrow losses to minnesota, washington state and Tcu, notre dame finally rebound­ed with a win sept. 13 against northeastern in the shamrock invitational. The irish earned 50 kills and 8 service aces in the match, both of which were season highs. 
after the victory in the morning match, the irish lat­er fell, 3-1, to northern iowa to conclude the shamrock invitational. 
notre dame will have an opportunity to collect its second win against a winless moorhead state on friday af­ternoon. The eagles (0-10) are the four-time defending ohio valley conference champions but have started the season in 

see nd vball PAGE 14 




