The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 2 | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014| ndsmcobserver.com 
ND, Saint Mary’s freshmen arrive on campus 
Frosh-O activites 

Belles Beginnings foster friendship, introduces first 
camaraderie years to SMC values 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer associate saint mary’s editor 
sunday marked the end 
First-year orientation, or of first-year orientation 
“belles beginnings,” at saint (Frosh-o) events for the class 
mary’s ended saturday with of 2018. Throughout the week-
the powerful tradition of clos­end, the first years participat­
ing the circle. ed in various activities within 
senior and vice president of their dorms and with other 
internal affairs for the student dorms, carefully planned to 
government association introduce the new students 
(sga) Kelly gutrich said clos­to the notre dame family and 
ing the circle is the last event to make students comfortable 
of orientation, where first-at their new home under the 
year students form a circle dome. 
on le mans green as a way to “i really didn’t know what 
welcome them home for the to expect going into Frosh-o, 
next four years. and i didn’t know anyone, MICHAEL YU | The Observer gutrich said she spoke 
First-year students from Zahm Hall and Lewis Hall skate together at the Compton Family Ice Arena during see Frosh-o PAGE 7 first-year orientation. Freshmen participated in a variety of events designed to welcome them to campus. see belles PAGE 7 



Football team votes to sing 
student gov’t 


Alma Mater, win or loss 
launches o’snap 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
notre dame football players will join their peers in sing­ing the alma mater after every home game, win or lose, in the 2014 season. 
student leaders, who make up the unity council of the notre dame football team, met monday with members of student government to final­ize their decision, which had been in discussion within the team for several weeks, ac­cording to irish sophomore receiver corey robinson. robinson also serves as ath­letics representative to stu­dent government. 
robinson said elected representatives from every class year make up the unity council, which voices player opinions to the coaching staff. The council voted unani­mously to sing the alma mater after every home game, and the team voted “nearly unani­mously” in favor, he said. 
“i brought this to the unity council two weeks ago and we discussed it amongst the team with the students’ [and] alumni’s perspective in mind,” robinson said. “The 




By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
elected last February and sworn into office in april, student body president lauren vidal and vice presi­dent matt devine, both se­niors, have settled in and started implementing sev­eral of the initiatives they began last spring. 
at the end of last year, vidal announced a new pro­gram, o’snap, or the student nighttime auxiliary patrol, which will enhance the safewalk program with two of what vidal calls “state-of­the-art golf carts.” safewalk currently allows students to call notre dame security police (ndsp) and receive escorts to their destinations free of charge. 
vidal said she hopes o’snap will do more than re­vamp the existing safewalk 

program. team nearly unanimously vot­
“eventually we’d like to re­ed that we sing the alma mater 
place the safewalk program entirely,” she said. see alma maTer PAGE 9 
vidal said safewalk staff members will undergo train­ing to drive the golf carts. devine said safewalk em­ployees, once trained, will drive the newly-purchased golf carts, which come fully equipped with seat belts, heating and a stereo system. 
“The first couple of weeks, o’snap may be operated by ndsp officers,” devine said. 
student government pur­chased the golf carts with funds left over from the previous administration, vidal said. she said students can still use the previous safewalk system to request an escort. 
“right now, the phone number to call is the safewalk number. Then the student will be connected to a dispatcher who will ask them where they are located, and can then provide an es­timate [time] for their pick­up,” she said. 
For the foreseeable future, o’snap will operate exclu­sively on-campus, 
see o’snap PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGES 10-11 scene PAGE 13 women’s soccer PAGE 24 men’s soccer PAGE 24 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                          alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: casey hanley 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What class are you looking forward to the most? 

Hunter Kuffel 

Albert He 
sophomore 
senior 
dillon hall 
off-campus 
“rebels in Zharist russia.” 
“credit liquidity crisis.” 

Jack Riedy 

Daniel Vivas 
sophomore 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
sorin college 
“intro to chemical engineering.” 
“intro to social psychology.” 

Madeline Kusters 

Elizabeth Akpadiaha 
freshman 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
pangborn hall 
“physics.” 
“principles of management.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds greg hadley peter durbin henry hilliard 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara daniel barabasi 
Photo Viewpoint 

Opening Mass and Campus Ministry LGBTQ Welcome Blood Drive Notre Dame Football 
wei lin gabriela leskur 
Picnic Freshman Kick-off Back Pinic Grace Hall Notre Dame Stadium Joyce Center South Quad Fieldhouse Mall 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-7 p.m. 
5:30p.m.-9:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Benefits Relay for Life. Opening game versus 
Corrections 

Food and music on Introduction for All are welcome. Rice. The observer regards itself as DeBartolo Quad. freshmen. a professional publication and 
Panel: Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass 
strives for the highest standards 

Film: “What is Grotto Trip “Understanding South Quad Basilica of the Sacred 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Cinema” Bond Hall Gaza” 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Heart 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing 10 p.m.-11 p.m. Hesburgh Center Rally for football game 7:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center Asian American 12:30 p.m.-1:45 p.m. versus Rice. Mass includes music 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
8 p.m.-10 p.m. Association leads Discussion of conflict by the Women’s
we can correct our error. 

Documentary. weekly walk to Grotto. in Gaza. Liturgical Choir. 


HHS MANDATE 

Experts compare Hobby Lobby & ND cases 
being forced by the govern-
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

editor-in-chief ment to violate their deeply 
held principles,” he wrote in Editor’s Note: A version of this the essay, which was published article appeared online July 9. Thursday. 
The court’s ruling “sim-

The June 30 supreme court ply means that the mandate ruling in favor of  hobby cannot be applied to require lobby’s decision not to provide hobby lobby to provide cover-certain types of birth control age to the drugs to which they in its health insurance plan object,” said rick garnett, a has been the subject of much professor at the law school who national attention, but extrap-specializes in freedom of reli­olating predictions from that gion and constitutional law. decision onto notre dame’s notre dame is eligible for pending lawsuit against the an accommodation that pro-department of health and vides contraception through human services is a compli-a third party insurer, but the cated process. university and several other 
o. 
carter snead, director of religious non-profits argue notre dame’s center for ethics that this violates its catholic and culture and a professor beliefs as well. in the university’s law school, hobby lobby, unlike notre wrote an essay for scoTus dame, objected to only four blog exploring what burwell kinds of birth control that act 

v. 
hobby lobby stores, inc. as abortifacients, but was will-is, they are both entitled to in-this year and has since had re-about the sincerity of a claimed might mean for religious non-ing to continue providing the voke its protections. but again, peated appeals denied in the religious belief as long as they profits (such as catholic uni-other 16 contraceptives ap-the revised mandate has not u.s. court of appeals for the do not “confuse sincerity with versities, hospitals and social proved by the Fda. (yet) been technically applied 7th circuit. correctness or reasonability service agencies) seeking relief “hobby lobby is not (yet) to hobby lobby, and it is still paul browne, notre dame’s or orthodoxy.” he said he was from the hhs contraceptive technically ‘eligible’ for the re-an open question whether the vice president for public af-not surprised by the ruling be-mandate, concluding that the vised mandate that applies to revised mandate violates the fairs and communications, cause the rFra questions of outlook was hopeful for notre notre dame,” garnett said in act as applied to notre dame said in a statement last week whether hobby lobby counted dame’s ongoing lawsuit. an email last week. “instead, and other religious employers.” that “while our attorneys are as a person under the act were “hobby lobby offers a great that revised mandate was used notre dame currently pro-still assessing it, the decision “relatively straightforward.” deal of hope to religious non-by the court as an illustration vides contraceptive coverage is an important and encourag-“rFra is a statute that goes profits that soon they will be of the fact that ‘less restrictive through its third party in-ing victory for religious liberty, beyond (that is, provides more free once again to care for the means’ are available to the surer, meritain health. it first which is at the heart of our protection than) what the poor, feed the hungry, minister government. filed suit in may 2012, re-filed lawsuit.” constitution itself requires,” to the sick, visit the prisoner, “hobby lobby and notre in december 2013, requested snead echoed this senti-he said. “congress could repeal welcome the immigrant and dame both have equal status emergency appeal before the ment in his essay, writing that the law if it wanted to, though educate the young without with respect to the act — that mandate took effect Jan. 1 of the supreme court decision president obama has said he 


“follows from the most natu-opposes repeal. because it is a paid adverTisemenT 
ral and straightforward read-statute, congress can amend it ing of [the religious Freedom by passing a new law. it could, restoration act], given both its for example, say ‘For the pur­text and the jurisprudence in poses of this act, a for-profit which it is situated.” business is not a ‘person.’’” 
The court explicitly did not in his essay, snead noted rule on the question posed by that several federal courts notre dame and other reli-temporarily enjoined the hhs gious institutions, of how rFra mandate — with accommoda­should apply to the revised tion — for multiple religious mandate accommodation, nonprofits shortly following but rather determined simply the decision in hobby lobby. that there was “a less restric-he mentioned Judge william tive means of accomplishing pryor’s opinion on the u.s. the government’s goals than a court of appeals for the 11th simple mandate to provide an circuit’s decision to enjoin the insurance policy that directly accommodation as applied covers the four objectionable to eternal word Television drugs and devices,” he wrote. network as an especially im-
The non-profit accommoda-portant argument for the reli­tion was cited as a less restric-gious nonprofit question. tive means than the “blunt “Judge william pryor cited mandate,” snead said, and the supreme court’s warning once that single alternative that neither the government was identified, “the govern-nor the court shall substitute ment’s case was doomed under its own judgment for ewTn’s rFra.” regarding the ‘substantial 
“but this finding does not burden’ of the hhs mandate resolve the challenges made in light of catholic teaching by religious non-profits,” he on cooperation and scandal,” wrote. “less restrictive is snead wrote. “. . . The accom­not the same as least restric-modation in this context forc­tive. even more encourag-es the religious employer to say ing for religious non-profits is ‘no’ in a manner that functions the court’s discussion of the as a legally operative ‘yes.’ strong deference owed to the Judge pryor is the first court faithful’s judgments about of appeals judge to explain what their religion forbids in this mechanism so clearly and terms of complicity in wrong-forcefully.” doing and requires by way of integrity of witness.” Contact Ann Marie 
garnett said that it is not an Jakubowski at intrusion for courts to inquire editor@ndsmcobserver.com 



The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND law professor acquitted of misdemeanor 
smc increases campaign goal by $10 million 
mary’s history. endowment ... is the key 
By KELLY KONYA 

saint mary’s editor “prior to ‘Faith always, to the college’s long-term 
action now,’ the excel health.” 
in may, the saint mary’s campaign [from] 1981 [to] rodriguez said the cam­“Faith always, action now” 1986 raised over $25 mil-paign money will also be campaign announced it lion for several projects used to renovate and up-reached its initial $80 mil-including construction grade angela athletic lion goal several months of the cushwa-leighton Facility and wellness ahead of schedule. library and renovations complex, the science hall 
vice president for college of the haggar college and the cushwa-leighton relations shari rodriguez center and science hall,” library. said the board of Trustees she said. “From 1991-1998, saint mary’s alumna, dr. decided to raise the goal the sesquicentennial susan Fitzgerald rice and to $90 million soon after campaign raised nearly $32 her husband, dr. don rice, 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this report appeared online May 11. 
notre dame criminal law professor stephen smith was acquitted of a misdemeanor charge of invasion of privacy in st. Joseph superior court 
with felony battery of his wife, but Judge Jenny manier ruled a jury did not have ev­idence in order to convict, the Tribune reported. 
court documents alleged that smith went to his wife’s residence while the protec­tive order was in place, but his attorney, stan wruble, said he drove there to pick up his children. 
a jury of six heard the case, but manier granted wruble’s motion for a direct verdict that found smith not guilty, the Tribune reported. 
on march 21, the indiana court of appeals upheld a ruling that smith will not face the felony charge of do­mestic battery because the state failed to compile its case in time. he still faces a misdemeanor count of bat­tery against his son, alleged in the same June 2011 inci­dent, the Tribune reported. he is expected to appear in court for a hearing on that charge later this month. 
according to the Tribune report, smith also faces an­other pending charge of in-

on 
wednesday, according 
to a report from the south 
bend Tribune. 
prosecutors 
 accused 
smith of violating a no con­
tact order put into place af­
ter the state charged him the $80 million mark was million for college priori-a notre dame alumnus, an-

reached, and the campaign ties ranging from scholar­nounced a challenge grant 

will officially conclude on ships and faculty positions for the renovation and 

december 31, 2014. to information technology expansion of the angela 

“meeting and exceed-and the annual fund.” athletic & wellness 
ing our original campaign beyond the excel and complex, according to a 

goal several months early sesquicentennial  cam-press release. The rices 

vasion of privacy allegedly in violation of the same no contact order. in that case, court documents al­lege that smith was riding in a car with his wife while the no contact order was in effect, the Tribune report stated. 
an indiana state police trooper arrested smith af­ter he pulled the vehicle over and discovered the no contact order. according to court records, the case is scheduled to go to trial in september, even though a judge threw out the traf­fic stop and evidence stem­ming from it. The Tribune reported that manier wrote in march that the trooper did not have “reasonable suspicion to believe the de­fendant was speeding.” 
is a sure sign of the enthu­siastic commitment and loyalty of our alumnae and friends,” college president carol ann mooney said in a press release. “i am con­fident that our new goal of $90 million will also be at­tained allowing us to com­plete designated campaign projects. 
“at the conclusion of the ‘Faith always, action now’ campaign, saint mary’s will be in a stronger position to fulfill the dreams of our founders, the sisters of the holy cross.” 
director of media rela­tions gwen o’brien said the board of Trustees approved the campaign in June 2008 and was publicly launched in February 2013. 
rodriguez said this is only the third major fund­raising campaign in saint paigns, several individual project campaigns funded a number of major facili­ties including the student center, spes unica hall and the welcome center, rodriguez said. 

up to this point, the mon­ey raised has gone towards scholarships, an endowed professorship in nursing, construction of the science hall greenhouse, endowed summer science research communities and four fac­ulty awards recognizing excellence in teaching, scholarship, service and mentorship, she said. 
“we hope to provide en­hanced opportunities for students in the form of fi­nancial aid, research op­portunities, study abroad, cutting edge curricular options and much more,” she said. “a stronger will match $1 for every $2 pledged up to $1 million, thus yielding $3 million for the project. Fitzgerald rice is a tri-chair of the ‘Faith always, action now’ cam­paign and a former member of the board of Trustees. 
“a focus on the ‘whole woman’ has always been foremost at saint mary’s,” Fitzgerald rice said in the press release. “women to­day embrace an even more active and healthy lifestyle. The current facility, con­structed in 1977, does not meet the needs of today’s students. The college’s plan to renovate the angela athletic & wellness complex will enhance the experience of every saint mary’s student.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at                  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

alum Jim morse donates funds for FieldTurf 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this report appeared online Aug. 25. 
Former irish running back Jim morse donated funds to the university for the instal­lation of FieldTurf in notre dame stadium, the notre dame monogram club an­nounced aug. 13 in a press release. 
morse is a private inves­tor who served as captain of the 1956 irish football team and graduated in 1957. a previous donation from him  enabled the construc­tion of the coleman-morse center, which bears his and his wife’s names in addition to that of the late Thomas coleman, according to the press release. 
morse’s other contribu­tions to notre dame in­clude “the morse Family scholarship Fund, which supports about 12 stu­dents annually; funding for football and baseball scholarships; an endowed fellowship for mba stu­dents; and a major gift for the morse recruiting lounge in the guglielmino athletics complex, fea­turing banners for notre dame’s 11 consensus na­tional football titles,” the press release stated. 
The university officially announced its plans to re­place notre dame stadium’s natural grass with synthetic FieldTurf on april 12 at the annual blue-gold game. installation began after commencement weekend (may 16-18), the press re­lease stated, but the donor’s name had not been revealed until the monogram club press release. 
on July 30, notre dame completed the FieldTurf in­stallation, according to a wndu report. 




O’SNAP 
conTinued From page 1 
but devine said he, vidal and ndsp’s sergeant Tracy skibins plan to have the pro­gram up and running this weekend or early next week. 
another initiative vidal wanted to tackle last year was the student readership program, which provides free newspapers to on-campus students. she said student government had maintained the same sys­tem for several years and decided to explore other options. 
“we essentially stayed with the gannett program, which sells a readership package to universities and colleges,” she said. “our contract with them includ­ed usa Today, the new york Times and the south bend Tribune… when we took of­fice, we realized that there may be students who have opinions on the program.” 
vidal and devine eventu­ally took the discussion to the student senate, which informed them that many students wanted to read the wall street Journal, par­ticularly because individu­al subscriptions cost more than those to other news­papers and because many business professors encour­age their students to read the wall street Journal dai­ly, according to an april 10 article in The observer. 
“we were fortunate enough to go through a negotiation process with the wall street Journal and the new york Times, and we have signed two new contracts with each publication,” vidal said. “This is the first time we will have brought the wall 


paid adverTisemenT 


street Journal to campus.” 
additionally, vidal de­cided that to save money, student government opted not to pay the companies to deliver the papers to their individual on-campus dis­tribution sites, but instead chose to do a bulk drop. 
with the saved money, student government will in­stead pay students to deliv­er the papers to these sites each morning. 
according to devine, they hope to employ two or three students who will work in rotations. This week, vidal and devine will deliver the papers to the dining halls themselves, “to determine how long it will take and how much we should pay them,” devine said. 
“we’re hoping to an­nounce the job opening at the end of the week,” vidal said, “i’m so glad we’ve been able to create what will be a steady, easy job.” 
starting this week, 400 
“We were fortunate enough to go through a negotiation process with the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times ... This is the first time we will have brought the Wall Street Journal to campus.” 
Lauren Vidal 
student body president 
copies of each newspaper will be available in both din­ing halls, laFortune student center and the mendoza college of business. 
devine said a third new initiative will give students easy access to local prod­ucts for one day this fall. 
“we’re already pretty far underway with preparations for quad markets, which will bring area farmer’s markets to campus,” devine said. “we’re looking to have it the Friday before a home game in october, and we already have several companies looking to partner with us. it will be almost run as a sort of harvest festival.” 
looking ahead, vidal said her goal for the year “is to take conversations that have been happening around campus in the last couple of years and make them prac­tical and tangible.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

Former Huddle employee dies 
Observer Staff Report 
helen hiatt, a 46-year vet­eran employee of the huddle in laFortune student center, died at the age of 92 on July 26 in her elkhart home, ac­cording to a university press release. 
students knew hiatt as “the mother of the huddle,” since she began working for the store in 1967 and con­tinued until 2013, the press release stated. despite her official retirement in 1986, hiatt took on the part-time duties of restocking the din­ing area with condiments, utensils and napkins every day from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
scherry roberts, opera­tions manager of the huddle, remembered hiatt’s spirit and enthusiasm. 
hiatt was “a wonderful, feisty lady and a great work­er. she was loved by all of us and will be greatly missed,” he said in the press release. 
memorial contributions may be made to the diabetes association of st. Joseph county, united health services, 6910 s. main st., granger, in 46530. 

smc worker pleads guilty 
co-worker reported unusual behavior in a bathroom on the fourth floor of le mans hall. 
summerfield admitted to drilling holes in the floor and attic of the le mans showers and said he watched students through them, the wsJv re­port stated. 
Observer Staff Report 
a former saint mary’s main­tenance worker charged with misdemeanor voyeurism in april pled guilty monday, ac­cording to a wsJv report. 
david summerfield, 73, also pled guilty to an additional charge of felony criminal mischief, the report stated. a felony count of theft was dismissed. summerfield is scheduled to be sentenced sept. 23. 


The college fired summerfield fired from his position in april after a 
paid adverTisemenT 




Frosh-O 
moments from the weekend freshman from pasquerilla “in their four years here was during our finger-painting west hall, said. Belles at saint mary’s, they will 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
activity with st. edward’s hall,” “we had a great Frosh-o be-learn to unlock potentials 
marous said. “while first years cause our staff was super en-and passions deep within either, but the Frosh-o lead-began their activity, the two thusiastic… some people were about the saint mary’s core themselves. whether these ers in ryan were amazing, so staffs decided to have a dance-annoyed by the forced min-values of faith and spiritual-passions are for their major, sweet, friendly and fun right off, and towards the end of the gling, but i personally liked that ity at closing the circle. their best friends and this from the start,” freshman Kerry battle all of the first years in we got to meet as many people “i remember how scary the community, or volunteering, mccarter said. “They knew badin joined in with our staff as possible as quickly as pos-start of my first year was, so et cetera, by opening their exactly how to make every-to show st. edward’s who really sible,” Zlioba said. “i think i’ll i was excited to share any hearts and minds they will one feel welcome and a part of won. be thankful for that as the year bits and pieces of encour-be led down a path of discov­something,” “i think moments like this goes on.” agement i could with them,” ery that can hold quite a few 
activities such as ice-skating one showed us how successful by the end of the weekend, the gutrich said. surprises.” and karaoke with other dorms the weekend was. when first freshmen had begun to think of gutrich said the intent of First-year student Jenny helped break the ice and make years feel comfortable and con-notre dame as their home, ju-events like closing the circle indelicato said belles friendships with students fident enough to do things like nior grady schmidt, Frosh-o is to help first-year students beginnings helped her tran­outside of their dorm, gavin this after only a few days on commissioner of siegfried hall, feel like part of the saint sition to life at saint mary’s chamberlain, a freshman in campus, then you know you’re said. mary’s sisterhood from their and inspired her to take ad-Keenan hall, said. doing something right,” she “overall, everything went re-very first weekend. vantage of the opportunities 
“i think that the activities said. ally well, better than expected “your first year of college within her first year. helped me feel more comfort-The Frosh-o staffs made sure really, and it was fun to see can be such a scary time and “it gave me hope that we able … The purpose of the their new students knew the them embrace notre dame and we hope belles beginnings will makes friends that will activities was to make us feel notre dame community would siegfried throughout the week-helps ease that scariness, be with us for a while,” said at home, and i think they suc-welcome them, junior caroline end … we were really happy and helps them start to find indelicato. ceeded as much as they could corsones, assistant Frosh-o with the participation that we their niche at saint mary’s,” First year dani meersman in doing that,” chamberlain commissioner for Farley hall, received, from not only the new gutrich said. “we truly care said the passion saint mary’s said. “after participating in said. students but also varsity ath-about our first years, so we students have is obvious and Frosh-o it’s obvious how much “The Frosh-o staff explained letes who are new to siegfried want to make them love saint the upperclassmen were very hard work these guys put into to the girls just how excited we this year, and made it to events mary’s as much as we do.” welcoming throughout the it. Their efforts have helped me were to have them in the Farley working around a busy practice sga academic chair weekend. better transition into college community, and how they schedule,” schmidt said. shannon schalk, a junior, “it almost made me tear up life.” should feel they should come to The weekend was a huge suc-helped girls move into when i got to campus and a 
The Frosh-o staffs worked us for anything, because they cess, and the new freshmen their dorms during belles girl was waving a sign that tirelessly to make sure that the were now a part of our family,” enjoyed getting to know their beginnings and also spoke said ‘welcome home, class first year-students felt at home corsones said. classmates and the notre dame about the core value of of 2018,’ meersman said. “i with their surroundings, junior The activities, while at community, schmidt said. learning. she said she felt immediately felt like i was Kelly marous, the Frosh-o com-times awkward, facilitated the interconnectedness of home.” missioner of badin hall, said. new friendships between Contact Kayla Mullen at the saint mary’s community First year abbie spica said 
“one of the most memorable new dorms, ariana Zlioba, a kmullen2@nd.edu when she spoke to the class closing the circle brought of 2018. feelings of care and compas­
“looking at the young and sion, and she could tell how nervous faces surrounding much the upperclassmen re-me from inside the circle ally care. brought back the memories “it was the first moment of me over two years ago, i had on campus that made [when] i was that young and me feel like part of a commu­nervous face,” schalk said. nity,” spica said. “learning is not just hap­pening in the classroom, it is Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at                  happening within them. hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 






Former Irish receiver receives 10-day sentence 
Observer Staff Report 
Former irish wide receiver will mahone plead guilty to and received a 10-day sen­tence for four misdemeanor counts, according to the south bend Tribune. 
The counts included resist­ing arrest, disorderly conduct, assault and aggravated men­acing, the Tribune report stat­ed. mahone, who faced two seasons of limited play due to injuries, is no longer enrolled at the university. 
irish coach brian Kelly originally suspended mahone indefinitely June 16 follow­ing his arrest in ohio on five charges, according to an an­nouncement from sports in­formation director michael bertsch. 
mahone was arrested June 14 around 10:30 p.m. after police in austintown, ohio, responded to a complaint about a fight, the south bend Tribune reported. 
he was initially charged with assault of a police offi­cer, intimidation of a public servant/party official and vandalism of a government entity, all felonies in ohio, as well as with misdemeanor resisting arrest and disor­derly conduct, according to a mahoning county sheriff’s report. 
witnesses told police mahone was intoxicated while head-butting, punching vehi­cles and trying to fight people, the Tribune reported. mahone physically resisted arrest and shouted expletives and threats at officers, and alleg­edly responded to an officer’s request to get on the ground with “(expletive), white boy.” 
he continued to resist ar­rest after being taken to the ground by an officer, the po­lice report obtained by the Tribune alleges. allegedly, the handcuffed mahone repeat­edly yelled at officers, “Take these cuffs off, and i’ll kill all of you.” 
mahone was also accused of trying to kick police and thrashing his head backwards and striking an officer on the forehead, according to the Tribune. 




mahone was initially taken to a hospital to receive treat­ment for a cut on his eye, but he continued to shout exple­tives and was later trans­ported to mahoning county 
paid adverTisemenT 
Justice center for incarcera­tion, the Tribune reported. 
“The university is aware of this incident and is confi­dent that it will be handled in a prompt and professional manner through the criminal justice system,” notre dame officials said in a June 16 statement published in the Tribune. “internal discipline is handled privately, in accord with our own policies and fed­eral law.” 



Alma Mater 
conTinued From page 1 
lose or draw out of respect for what it means to the university and to its students, alumni and supporters worldwide. 
“it’s bigger than us and it’s bigger than football. we, as a team, see the alma mater as an instrument of unity; we are notre dame regardless of what happens on the field. we know how our students fiercely support us rain, shine, sleet or snow and we want to show them our sincere appreciation by standing and singing as a unified student body celebrat­ing our wonderful university.” 
robinson and irish senior cornerback matthias Farley met with student body presi­dent lauren vidal, vice presi­dent matt devine and campus ministry representative to stu­dent government grace carroll, all seniors. 
although last season’s cap­tains and team decided to sing the alma mater only after wins, this season’s unity council re­opened discussion of the policy because both players and stu­dents expressed dissatisfaction with the decision, vidal said. she said she did not know if the decision would be revisited ev­ery year. 
student government re­searched the policy along with student opinions and present­ed Farley and robinson with five copies of a bound book containing direct quotes from students about the alma mater, vidal said. 
“The books contain about 100 quotes from the students 
— each quote represents that student’s interpretation of the alma mater and what it means to them and our university,” she said. 
robinson said the meetings 

paid adverTisemenT 
with student government with [the football players] and aimed at creating a relation-part of standing with them is ship of mutual respect between being with them through wins 
“It’s bigger than us and it’s bigger than football. We, as a team, see the Alma Mater as an instrument of unity; we are Notre Dame regardless of what happens on the field. We know how our students fiercely support us rain, shine, sleet or snow and we want to show them our sincere appreciation by standing and singing as a unified student body celebrating our wonderful University.” 
Corey Robinson Irish receiver 
the players and the student body.
 “we know how our students fiercely support us rain, shine, sleet or snow and we want to show them our sincere appre­ciation by standing and sing­ing as a unified student body celebrating our wonderful university.” 
members of the football team had expressed concern with past incidents of students dis­respecting the football team, vidal said. 
“we students have to stand and losses, standing together as a family… and understand­ing that they are vulnerable,” she said. 
robinson said the team and the unity council weighed those concerns as well as stu­dent and alumni opinions through “open discussion” as they reconsidered the previous decision to sing the alma mater only after wins. 
“The respect factor was a big factor for us,” he said. “of course we don’t want to let you guys down. when we lose it’s embarrassing for us too. we want to support you guys and we want to appreciate you guys.” 
Former irish quarterback Tommy rees faced boos from the student section during his time with the football team, robinson said. he said mo­ments like that show how the players are “in a vulnerable position,” even though the ma­jority of fans do not behave disrespectfully. 
“There have been times in the past when items have been thrown at us and we have been booed,” robinson said. “we understand that this is a in­tense game, but we hope to be treated with respect when we sing the alma mater with the student body and fans.” 
robinson said the fans’ com­mitment to the team through wins, losses and weather — such as the freezing tempera­tures during the nov. 23 game against byu — encouraged the team to decide to continue singing the alma mater. 
“it’s not about us,” he said. “it’s about the school. it’s about unifying.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 


obama addresses veterans 
Associated Press 
washingTon — Three months after a veter­ans’ health care scandal rocked his administration, president barack obama is addressing the american legion national convention in an appearance that is also fraught with midterm politics. 
The president’s speech to the legion convention Tuesday in charlotte, north carolina, aims to draw at­tention to administration initiatives to care for veter­ans once they come home. 
For obama, the visit to north carolina has a heavy political subtext. The state’s democratic senator, Kay hagan, is in a difficult re­election race and obama is not popular in the state. hagan was scheduled to speak to the american legion too, but her spokes­woman declined to say whether she would appear on stage with the president. 
The campaign of hagan’s republican opponent, Thom Tillis, accused hagan of be­ing a “rubber stamp” for obama and “compliant with the administration’s failure to provide our veterans with the health care that they deserve.” 
obama could also face a skeptical audience. in a July associated press-gfK poll, his approval rating among veterans and veterans’ households lagged behind his overall approval rating at just 33 percent, with 66 percent disapproving. 
eager to distance her­self from the president, hagan issued a statement Friday ahead of the legion convention saying the ad­ministration “has not yet done enough to earn the last­ing trust of our veterans.” 
obama’s address to the veterans also comes as his administration consid­ers whether to confront islamic state militants by taking military action against them in syria. u.s. officials said monday that obama has authorized sur­veillance flights over syria, and a third said they have already begun, a move that could pave the way for u.s. airstrikes against islamic state militant targets in that country. 
white house spokesman Josh earnest said obama was not likely to offer any details about his policy in the region. 
earlier this month, obama signed a $16.3 billion law aimed at easing the long waits that tens of thousands of military veterans had en­dured to get medical care. 
The law, a product of rare bipartisanship in the house and senate, followed reports of veterans dying while awaiting appoint­ments to see va doctors and of a widespread prac­tice of employees covering up months-long wait times for appointments. in some cases, employees received bonuses based on falsified records. 
The va says investigators have found no proof that delays in care caused any deaths at a va hospital in phoenix. 



The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

beyond expectation 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 

welcome to notre dame, class of 2018. if the numbers are correct, you’re the highest-achiev­ing class to ever enter our lady’s university. 
of course, numbers don’t take into account dreams, goals and ambitions, but i’m sure you have plenty of those. you probably want to dou­ble major, learn multiple languages, do service work abroad, be president of several clubs and land your dream job in [insert name of field here] upon graduation. more importantly, you want to do this while making life-long friends, giving up your saturdays to notre dame foot­ball and having an active social calendar, right? 
well, i’m here to say that all these things are probably not going to happen. sure, some of them will and if you’re lucky enough, it’ll go perfectly, but your actual college experience will likely only vaguely resemble what you have pictured in your mind right now. 
i say this not because i’m some embittered senior who’s experienced the “real” world. i say this because college should not follow a for­mula, and i think my personal example, as well as many other examples on campus, illustrates this. 
i came into notre dame as an intended fi­nance and economics major. why? i thought it was a stable choice, it is the most popular com­bination of majors at notre dame, and i figured my high school ap economics class was good preparation. i soon remembered that math was indeed my weakest subject and writing was indeed my best talent. now, three year later, i write this column as a marketing major and Journalism, ethics and democracy minor. 
as a freshman, i thought i should supple­ment my studies by participating in re-sume-boosting activities. having sworn off journalism in high school, The observer was not one of them, or so i thought. nonetheless, i signed up for it and about 50 other activities, decided to try my first assignment, covering an interhall football game and instantly became hooked. now, i’m lucky to say i’m the manag­ing editor of a great publication, work with the best staff on campus and get to follow the irish football team around. 
in my time at notre dame, i’ve encountered two situations that had me quite on edge be­fore entering them. The first came when i was assigned to carroll hall, and the second was just before i left to study in london, england this past semester. i was afraid to encounter both because they meant leaving the familiar behind, but i can say i met some great people and had even better experiences in both places. 
of course, a life not lived according to plan has some disappointments. i haven’t landed a cool job, figured out what i want to do when i grow up or checked off most of my college bucket list. 
but these disappointments have their place, too. They’re all part of the winding road that makes up your college story, a story that all of you have just started to write. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at      bhartnet@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Welcome back, welcome home 
To the classes of 2015, 2016 and 2017: welcome back! To the class of 2018: welcome home. 
here are a few words of reflection i offer to each of you as we welcome this new year with friends, peers and family. 
To our freshmen: you begin this year with some anx­iety, yet much excitement. we know you’re just getting used to your classes and your friends so please do not hesitate to ask anyone for help. it took us all a while to decipher the most efficient path to debart or the best hour to swipe in for a meal. use the upperclassmen as guides. don’t be afraid to ask someone to join you for lunch. one of the trickiest parts of the first few weeks on campus will be coordinating your lunch and din­ner schedules — don’t give it so much thought. i met some of my closest friends by simply asking if i could join them for a meal. also, don’t forget to get involved. every club and organization on this campus has an open door policy; don’t hesitate to use it. 
To our sophomores: you’ve been there, you’ve done that, now its time to buckle down. use this year to really get a grasp on what you want to pursue. This is a good time to stop attending meetings you do not have a sincere interest in, and it’s an even better time to get to learn a little bit more about yourself. make it a point to set out a plan of action for this year and next. if given the opportunity to study abroad, take it. although i studied “domestically” in the washington program, it was one of the best decisions i have made here at nd. be mindful of how your time abroad will affect your living on campus and how it may affect you opportunities in junior and senior year. many clubs and organizations transition leadership during the spring semester — something to keep in mind if you see yourself taking one or more leadership positions going forward. 
To our juniors: This is truly a unique one. you are one step closer to graduation, and you are officially upperclassmen. be mindful of the younger students and think about how you can include them in your ef­forts; offer them your friendship. it will feel as though your class is cut in half this year as many students will be studying abroad either fall or spring semester. do what you can to meet some of the other juniors you haven’t really had a chance to hang out with yet, and keep an open mind. pay attention to your plans for after senior year; they are closer than you think. 
and finally, to our seniors, my class peers: i hope we can use this year to really come together as a class and as true students of notre dame. i hope that we can use these final months as fruitfully as possible. let us bring together friend groups, let us support one another in our job and school searches, and let us celebrate the wins while coming together during the losses. seniors, we have one more year here as under­graduates and i hope we can make it count. attend the games and the shows, immerse yourself in the south bend area, continue to love your dorms even if you are off campus, lay the lines of lasting communica­tion with your professors, and truly enjoy being in the company of so many talented peers. cheers to the best year yet. 
notre dame: stay safe, stay smart and stay with it. we are the Fighting irish, a group characterized by strength, tradition, pride and intelligence. let’s con­tinue to act like it. 
Lauren Vidal 
president notre dame student body aug. 25 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night. 
Edgar Allan Poe 
short story author, editor and poet 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

stay open, don’t miss right now 
This last weekend i had the privilege of saying hello to and welcoming the parents of the enter­ing class of 2018. it was an honor to reflect back not only on what it was like to be a parent during my son’s college orientation, but on what it was like to be entering college myself. by welcom­ing the new students, i had a chance to recall those first few weeks of college were like for me and what i was thinking as faculty and adminis­trators tried to reassure us and provide helpful insights as to what we might expect and how we might take on what amounts to four of the most exciting and transformative years of our lives. 
in my case, there we were, an intimate 5,000 of us nervous freshman nestled together in the greek Theater, a beautiful open edifice perched dead center up in the berkeley hills. i remember the view of the san Francisco bay and the golden gate bridge, as well as the beautiful california campus below. prehistory or not, i was to be a member the class of 1970, at the university of california, berkeley (cal), in the fall of 1966. little did we know that we were on the precipice of the most tumultuous-social and political peri­od in the history of the university. Further, little did we know we would witness and participate in one of the most dramatic four-year period of cul­tural change in u.s. history. 
The vietnam war and the compulsory military draft provided the foundation for third-world strikes, women’s liberation, gay liberation, the rise of the black panthers, huey newton and eldridge cleaver controversies, roTc protests and the peoples park riot, just to name but a few. during our last semester, senior year, the cambodian invasion occurred, an expansion of the war ordered by president nixon. met by fierce nation-wide protests on college campuses it cul­minated with the tragedy at Kent state where four students were shot to death by the national guard. The killings led to many universities clos­ing down, including my own, alongside the for­mal cancellation of our graduation ceremony due to the threats of violence. it left my class with the dubious historical distinction of the first class in cal’s history to have its formal graduation post­poned indefinitely until (as it turned out) twenty years later. our graduation day finally came when we were invited to walk down an aisle to bring closure to a most remarkable and transfor­mative university education. 
certainly, that period of time was intense, but each historical period defines and makes clear without any doubt where the big problems lie. 
in that sense, now is no different. many new and yet familiar problems plague our world and conflicts make these problems clear to us. 
it goes without saying as the first year students begin and the rest of you resume your notre dame involvement that the great privilege of at­tending our lady’s university requires us to re­sponsibly work towards solutions, big and small, to the problems central in our times. 
before we can move forward with solutions, however, we must be open to discovering them. 
Try to remember when thinking about a major or a career to always remain open to what uni­versities do best — surprise you with an interest and passion you could never have anticipated. always let your heart do the choosing, because if you choose what excites you (i promise you) that not only will you never be wrong, but when the next “biggest” decision you need to make arrives, you will be exactly where you need to be. 
in other words, in choosing a major keep in mind that you will flourish in the field you love! you cannot know how you will feel one, two or three years from now, but you certainly know what you feel and think right now. Trust it, be­lieve in yourself. at first it may be scary, but your years ahead will only validate the choices made by the heart. 
my second point of advice makes me reflect on John lennon’s most spectacular observation ex­pressed in a lyric. he said, “life is what happens when you’re busy making other plans.” 
Today — right now — and the next year are as important and valuable as any days that you experience. never ignore or dismiss the joy and happiness that come from the people filling your present life, nor under estimate that, for the most part, it will never get better than how wonderful it is now. 
please students, don’t miss it! 
love and best wishes to you all. 
James McKenna 

edmund p. Joyce c.s.c. chair, anthropology director, mother-baby behavioral sleep laboratory aug. 25 
Faith in deep water 
as Faith began to wade out into the water, i at­tached her skis and taught her the basics of what to do when the boat began to pull. confident that she had a good enough sense of the mechan­ics, i told her to sit down in the water and close her eyes. after a quizzical look, she settled into the water, closed her eyes and at that moment i cupped my hands and splashed her in the face with enough water to get a quick “what did you do that for?” i looked at her and said, “most water skiers your age fail not because they can’t pull themselves out of the water, but because the wa­ter hits them in the face and they start to panic.” 
with water dripping from her face, she smiled and settled in for her first attempt. 
it wasn’t until the fourth try that we hit pay dirt. Faith made almost an entire loop around the truncated path my uncle carved out on her maiden voyage. about 100 yards from shore, Faith encountered a set of waves that looked fierce, and in fact, they were fierce. i watched her go up and down, up and down and then just down. 
splash! after my uncle circled back and began bringing Faith to shore i could see her standing on the boat like george washington on his way across the delaware. when she finally made it back, Faith looked over and said, “now that was a lot of water.” 
The key to our spiritual faith is to be equal­ly expressive. Jesus asks his disciples in st. matthew’s gospel to clarify who people think he is. They respond by saying: John the baptist, elijah, Jeremiah or one of the prophets. however, st. peter filled with faith replies, “you are the christ, the son of the living god.” 
st. peter, the fisherman by trade, the one who had a documented temper from time to time, who would go on to deny christ three times, rec­ognizes that Jesus is the messiah. Jesus’ response was clear and direct: “… you are peter, and upon this rock i will build my church.” 
was st. peter fully ready for Jesus’ invitation? debatable. yet, the compelling fact about faith is that it never leaves us where we started and rarely offers a complete road map for how to get there. when Jesus first encountered st. peter on the sea of galilee he didn’t unfurl a ten-point plan on the benefits of following him. Jesus sim­ply said, “come after me, and i will make you fishers of men.” That same invitation to follow is extended to us today. how do we respond? 
First, we can stay near the shore and play it safe. The waves will pose a minimal threat, and we’ll have no fear of the water hitting our face. This lifestyle tends to be more predictable, mini­mal risk, less stress and a greater reliance on our own abilities. 
or, we can let Jesus pull us into the deeper wa­ter where the waves are bigger, trust and belief are essential, and we are reminded that the an­swers we seek are sometimes too big to solve in a lifetime. 
you have chosen a university that subscribes to the second option. notre dame was founded on the belief that maintaining a strong faith in god was vital to all that we do. why? as st. paul so beautifully points out in his letter to the romans, “oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of god! For from him and through him and for him are all things.” 
i cannot promise that a life lived with faith will be perfect. you will fall and fail. Further, i cannot guarantee that everything will go accord­ing to plan: majors will change, relationships will change, priorities will change, and you will change. 
i can promise that lives dedicated to faith will ultimately transform relationships, improve communities and bring us all a step closer to the Kingdom of heaven. 
Fr. Pete McCormick 
associate director campus ministry aug. 25 


The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

“what if” … harry potter got fed up with life after hogwarts and ditched it all to move to canada? it makes sense when you picture his life with ginny — it may have started out nice with ginny tying his shoes and feeding him mini pies, but a man can only take so much. what if he decided to change his name to wallace and try out medical school? however, upon arrival wallace real­ized school was quite challenging without hermione’s essay help. what if he scoured the libraries for an anno­tated version of his chemistry textbook — even venturing into the restricted section – but there was no half-blood prince among the blood type texts? what if, down on his luck — with no half-blood prince recipe for Felix Felicis 
— wallace gave it up and decided to live in an attic, re­turning to his humble beginnings of a confined living space in another’s home? 
but then, what if wallace meets a quirky, bang adorned girl named chantry, and they hit it off and exchange numbers to meet up as … friends? what if, friend-zoned, wallace resists the urge to feed her a love potion and a charming friendship ensues? The two bond over one of elvis’s favorite foods: a loaf of bread buttered and hol­lowed out for peanut butter on one side and jelly on the other, then stuffed with bacon and baked. what if they discuss everything from fried pickles to cool whip and in turn it is obvious that they are perfect for each other, yet chantry has a boyfriend? 
“what if,” this is a movie. The romantic comedy came out august 15 and stars Zoe Kazan as manic pixie dream girl, chantry, and daniel radcliffe as wallace, a witty, amiable guy recovering from some disastrous relation­ships. The film also stars “girls”’ adam driver as allan, wallace’s best friend. allan closely resembles driver’s character in “girls” — the gritty humor and cynicism are there as he taunts senior citizens playing cricket in the park and yells in celebration over nachos. 
The movie is filled with the witty scripting essential to indie rom-coms. hilarious one-liners and eccentric con­versation topics, such as, “who weighs the feces left in famous people when they die?” abound. 
The film appeals to fans of the quirky romance genre. Zooey deschanel enthusiasts will appreciate Zoe Kazan’s endearing performance as a charming animator afraid of letting go of the good to venture into the unknown. 
The cast’s performances elevate the film to the top of the “confusing indie romance” category. The idea be­hind the story may be interpreted as trite at first glance, however upon ninety minutes of glances the story delves deeper and the characters’ tribulations take on tangibil­ity for the viewer. 
i even stopped picturing radcliffe in wizard robes af­ter the first thirty minutes, his previous roles in the back of my mind until he disrobed and my mom nudged me stating, “That’s harry potter naked. isn’t that wrong? isn’t this weird?” 
maybe radcliffe’s legacy as The chosen one will nev­er leave him, however he makes a convincing not The chosen one when friend-zoned in the film. one thing is for sure, radcliffe’s flirty banter has improved grandly since that awkward instance on the owlery steps with cho chang. 
if you’re wondering “what if i go see this movie. will i like it?” the answer is yes if you have an inclination for the idiosyncratic indie romance film. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

“hard” and “lemonade,” two new singles by myste­rious u.K. producer sophie, suggest two very different musical styles. but rather than containing his challeng­ing material in the first track and his sugary pop mate­rial in the other, sophie uses both tracks to playfully bury sweetness in a maze of unbridled electro-fury. To hear the irresistible bubblegum hooks nestled in sophie’s tracks, you’ll have to swim through heaps of relentless metallic and rubber percussion. although the producer’s bright, elastic production suggests radio-ready pop and hip hop music, his prioritization of percussive flow over melodic hook makes his music remarkably challenging to listen to. 
yet each track boasts more than enough rewards to make the trip worth taking. For much of its runtime, “lemonade” is the perfect trap song. its bass is remark­ably heavy, yet used sparingly to increase its impact. its rhythm is built on brilliantly fitting bubble-pop noises that are both powerful and colorful. These two elements are paired with a squealing, straw-like synth that careens across the top of the track. 
Finally, a female vocal lays down two very memorable hooks (lemonade, le-le-lemonade/candy boys, ca-ca­candy boys) with near-tangible swag. 
Then there’s the chorus — an unpredictable blast of pure, sugary K-pop. a sky-high female vocal sings about love and reunion over huge, sky-high synths and blasts of bass. The pairing of heaviness and bright, soaring pop music makes for an amazingly compelling listen, and one of the finest musical moments of the year. 
ultimately, “lemonade” is merely two verses and two choruses. These sections are so well executed and so grippingly complementary that the track’s sub-two min­ute runtime carry the weight of most trap or K-pop songs twice their length. 
“hard”, unsurprisingly, is a more difficult beast. where the trap-style verses of “lemonade” are heavy yet straightforward, “hard”’s drum-and-bass rhythms ca­reen back and forth erratically. shout samples, buzzing bass, and metallic scrapes hammer at the eardrums in turn. every hit is cut to max sonic sharpness; instead of layering drum hits, sophie lets each shine in isolation for the split second that it sounds off. shiny bells shimmer around the drums every so often, providing complemen­tary brightness until the track gives way to an unexpect­ed trance build-up. 
perhaps the most engaging part of “hard” is its female vocalist. The anonymous voice haltingly ‘raps’ through­out the track, and her tone of voice embraces human femininity in accent while imitating a robot in rhythm. in this way, she maintains identity while gaining power and tenacity. The lyrics assert an uncompromising, unique feminine sexuality in a genre where male sentiment is dominant. it’s a very bold move to make on a sonically bold track, and it works to fantastic effect. 
in both “hard” and “lemonade,” sophie casts pop elements into intimidatingly hard-hitting but colorful and rewarding musical forms. both tracks capture the essence of their titles to an unrivaled extent. The pro­duction is crisp, clear, and daring. ultimately, “hard” and “lemonade” make essential entries in the genre of electronic music as a whole, providing a fresh, unique sound in a format that best displays sophie’s remarkable strengths as a producer and songwriter. 
“Hard” and “Lemonade” 
Sophie 

If you like: Aphex Twin, Sleigh Bells, TNGHT 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

The observer |  TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

(Anything but) “Watch the Throne” Kanye West 
By MIKO MALABUTE 

a common test strategy that i’ve heard been suggested is to quickly look over the choices and see if you can immedi­ately eliminate an answer, because it’s just so egregiously incorrect or distorted from the perspective of the question. sometimes you can eliminate one, sometimes you get lucky and you’re able to eliminate two. apply that strategy to the pitchfork Top 100 albums of the decade list. you’ll find at least 70-some­thing wrong choices, if the question was “how many albums these past ten years were better than Jay-Z and Kanye west’s ‘watch the Throne’ album?” look i get it: in terms of commercial mainstream, it didn’t really get much air time; in terms of super-deep-philosophical hip-hop music, the album just didn’t have much substance to it. 
oh wait a minute, yes it did. i don’t have the space to make my point, but i will attempt to do so with these following two facts. First: their impossible-to-miss single, “in paris,” was played 12 times consecutively. 12 times. in paris. second: did i mention that song sampled “blades of glory”? oh you knew that already? well someone please remind pitchfork. 
Kishi Bashi 
By JOHN DARR 

okay, pitchfork, you’ve got a lot on your mind. you’re now less hipster, less cool, than almost every record you review. 
you have trouble getting the ladies, as demonstrated by your own people’s list. even the Facebook comments on your reviews read like they’re written by the rockist youtube warriors we all laugh at. but don’t worry: your savior awaits. he is beautiful. he has magical violin fingers. his hair is glorious. his name is Kishi bashi, and if you only reviewed his music, you’d be a happier, healthier, and more productive. 
Joy. love. more Joy. more love. all this and more love shine through Kishi bashi’s last two lp’s, 151a and lighght. glistening indie pop at its finest, singer songwriter Kauro ishibashi’s music melds together the symphonic, acoustic, and maximalist tendencies of his peers into something far uncommonly  unique and engaging. it’s not too late, pitchfork. Kick Kanye worst for Kishi besti. he’s the one you can be proud of. 
“Takyon (Death Yon)” Death Grips 
By MATT McMAHON 

whether perusing or constructing “best of” lists, i tend to hang onto the magnitude of scope and range necessary in order for an entry to be a worthy nomi­nation. with music that usually entails its effecting degree of emotional resonance. while songs like “interference Fits” by perfect pussy — the other pp song that pitchfork should have chose to represent the young band — and “hot Knife,” the best song from Fiona apple’s 2012 “The idler wheel…” overlooked by the publi­cation, definitely deserve mentions for their heartbreaking vocal performances, lyrical content and uniquely searing instrumentation; the one song released between 2010 and the former half of 2014 to evoke, bar-none, the most intense, varying response is death grips’ world-shattering cut “Takyon (death yon).” listening to the song pissed offers a vi­carious outlet akin to a session of grand Theft auto, and listening to the song happy invokes the heart-racing, hot-faced smile of a frenzied sexual experience. Flatlander’s deliberate, agro bass synth pounding behind Zach hill’s manic, marching drum fills score mc ride’s booming, borderline psychopathic, screaming, which may very well be the most aggressive oral performance ever to be recorded. death grips exploded onto the scene in 2011 by converging these maniacal elements with a collective ear for blunt, shoutable hooks, giving anyone a dual-purpose soundtrack for either extreme catharsis or joy. 
“The Mother We Share”  CHVRCHES 
By MADDIE DALY 
i was disappointed to find chvrches’ catchy tune “The mother we share” so low on pitchfork’s top tracks list. coming in at #191, this song has been stuck in my head since first discovering it and deserves to be in the double digits. it’s a poppy, bright electric beat with high-pitched enigmatic lyrics sung by band member lauren mayberry. The upbeat sound doesn’t quite match the depress­ing, creepy lyrics, but i think it’s an inten­tional contradiction that sheds light on the band’s lyrical talent. it’s a fresh sound unlike many songs on the list, and once you hear it you’ll be humming it all day long. 

“Lemonade” Gucci Mane 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
i’ve got to put a word in for my mane man, gucci. enshrined above my bed in a ravishing painting emphasizing his glori­ous ice cream cone tattoo, i am reminded daily of his perseverance — most re­cently, calling in an intro for his mixtape from jail. 
The clever lyrics of his single, “lemonade,” are engrained in my mem­ory due to the fact that i memorized all of them as a freshman in high school to im­press the attractive senior boy who took me home from cross-country practice. 
i remember the amp in the trunk pul­sating the captivating beats to the front seat where i sat rattling off the list of yel­low items, “yellow rims, yellow big booty” the lyrics flowing like the lemonade i rhymed about.  perhaps the memories i attach to the song influence my approval, but either way “lemonade” should have made it on the list. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu, John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu, Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu, Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu and Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Big lessons from the Big Apple 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
while most incoming notre dame seniors lived the corpo­rate life, researched in a labo­ratory or did some really cool service abroad, i spent my summer working for a televi­sion station perched on the top floors of new york city’s trendy chelsea market. 
as an intern in the sports department of new york 1 news, i got to go behind-the­scenes in the nation’s largest professional sports city (by number of teams, at least), and my office frequently rotated between yankee stadium, citi Field and metlife stadium. 
in addition to witnessing firsthand the madness that goes on during television pro­duction and seeing athletes i’ve been watching for much of my life, i formed several in­sights about the current and future state of the big apple’s beloved teams. 
with that being said, i pres­ent to you a slightly more grown-up version of “what i learned on my summer vacation.” 
The mets are going to be very good very soon: i get it. The mets, long a laugh­ingstock of major league baseball, have had five con­secutive losing seasons and are likely on their way to a sixth. 
with that being said, pitch­ing is the name of the game in baseball today, and the mets have lots of it. most people know about matt harvey, the team’s ace who took baseball by storm last season before suffering an elbow injury that required Tommy John sur­gery. Fewer know about Jacob degrom, a rookie of the year candidate until his recent injury, or young arms dillon gee and Zack wheeler. 
if that’s not enough, the team’s farm system was re­cently ranked fourth in the league and features even more pitching in the forms of the versatile rafael montero and the hard-throwing noah syndergaard. 
given the track record of the mets’ front office, it’s too early to make any bold predictions. but if the team’s pitching staff develops as expected, even the mets’ lan­guishing offense won’t pre­vent it from being a national league contender in two or three years. 
The yankees have fallen out of the american league’s top tier: it’s tough for me to write this because the yankees were the first sports team i followed. 
but the current version of the bronx bombers bears lit­tle resemblance to the clutch and balanced teams i grew up watching in the late 1990s and early 2000s. 
The team’s pitching staff is surprisingly stout, given the injuries that have plagued its starters. but its offense is toothless, filled with aging stars well past their primes. after finishing in third place in the american league east last season, the yankees still have an outside shot to take the league’s second wild card spot this year. but future suc­cess is not too likely unless the team opens up its large checkbook to buy some qual­ity bats in the offseason. 
The Jets and Knicks never fail to entertain: while i didn’t get to cover either of these teams, feedback on my station’s nightly call-in show suggested that fans of both teams are frustrated. and why wouldn’t they be? 
The Jets are currently un­dergoing another quarterback circus, while the Knicks came off one of their most disap­pointing seasons in recent memory. 
still, these fans need not fret too much. The Jets have an impressive young defense, led by a strong defensive line, while the Knicks made some major upgrades over the last few months, adding Jose calderon at point guard and putting league legend phil Jackson and his pupil, derek Fisher, in charge of the show at madison square garden. 
The rangers remain the city’s best shot at a champion­ship: on the ice, the rangers made an inspired run to the stanley cup in June, falling to the los angeles Kings in five games. although the team lost some key parts, including center brad richards, defen­seman anton strålman and left wing benoit pouliot, it retained most of the scrappy core that led it past most of the eastern conference’s powerhouses this past spring. plus, the rangers still have henrik lundqvist in goal. and in a city fit for a king, the so-called “King henrik” might be the most important piece in ensuring that a canyon of heroes parade will once again be on new york city’s social calendar. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Colts build ground game 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — The colts keep trying to find that perfect offensive mix. 
with andrew luck and a deep corps of receivers, they know they could have one of the league’s most po­tent passing games in 2014. The hard part has been giving luck a solid run­ning game that is still try­ing to get off the ground.
 Three seasons into coach chuck pagano’s indianapolis colts tenure, indy’s most experienced running backs—Trent richardson, aquired last season in a trade with the cleveland browns, and ahmad bradshaw— have combined for just 53 yards on 23 carries in three preseason games.
 “it’s going to be a work in progress for us the whole season,” pagano said monday. “all we want to do is be better tomorrow than we were today or the next day or the next game.” 
during saturday night’s miserable performance against new orleans, richardson carried six times for 17 yards, bradshaw carried three times for two yards and luck had the best showing among the start­ers with two carries for 22 yards. The numbers im­proved dramatically in the second half, thanks in large part to a 43-yard run from daniel herron, but there’s certsinly plenty of room for improvement. 
richardson has contin­ued to be a favorite target for critics, who argue the colts gave up their first-round pick in may and have yet to see a payoff. last season, richardson aver­aged 2.9 yards per carry after coming over from cleveland, and the conven­tional wisdom was that a 

FOR SALE 
Looking to trade 2 tickets for MI in Section 3 Row 38 plus cash for 3 tick­ets together anywhere in the stadium for MI. Please call 574-850-2487 
FOR RENT 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/Eddy Street -prime location. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
“September” -Earth, Wind, and Fire “Do you remember the 21st night of September?/ Love was changing the mind of pretenders/ While chasing the clouds away/ Our hearts were 

full offseason in indy’s sys­tem would help the no. 3 overall pick in the 2012 draft regain his timing down and find more success.
 The result: he’s averag­ing 2.8 yards this preseason 
bradshaw has been limited throughout much of train­ing camp as he tries to re­turn from neck surgery and ran only three times for two yards against the saints in his first preseason action.
 The third guy in the back­field rotation was expected to be vick ballard, who sustained a season-ending torn achilles’ tendon last month. That has opened the door for herron, who leads the colts with 18 carries for 104 yards to make the team. 
players and coaches say they understand what’s wrong.
 “it comes with guys straining a little more to stay on blocks or get on blocks,” tight end dwayne allen said. “we’ve been able to go through the film and there are some big plays out there. but it’s not the run­ner, it’s the blocking.” 
part of the explanation could be the mix-and-mash lineups the colts have used because of injuries. 
indy lost starting left guard donald Thomas be­fore the first preseason game and projected start­ing center Khaled holmes hasn’t practiced or played since spraining his left ankle on the first posses­sion of the first preseason game. second-round draft pick Jack mewhort, who split snaps at center and left guard after holmes’ injury, has been dealing with a sore right knee and seventh-round draft pick ulrick John is expected to miss substantial time with a lower right leg injury. 
undrafted rookie Jonotthan harrison, who started the last two games at center, is now hurt, too. he missed monday’s prac­tice with a sprained right thumb. 
Though pagano remains hopeful holmes will start sept. 7 season at denver, the colts know they can’t afford to start making ex­cuses at this point. 
“There’s a standard for everybody who gets in the game and that’s to do well and get better,” luck said. 
while the numbers don’t show it, luck insists the colts are progressing and pagano said he believes the colts are heading in the right direction. but the real test won’t come in Thursday night’s pre­season finale at cincinnati, when most of the start­ers will be on the bench. 
indy will have to wait un­til the season-opener to see if they’ve finally found a recipe for the power-run­ning game it wants. 
“it’s just paying atten­tion to details,” allen said. “we’ve had some success, but the not the success that catches people’s eyes.” 
notes: colts players and coaches attended a me­morial service sunday for maveah alice hughes, the 3-month-old daughter of defensive tackle montori hughes who recently died from a sudden illness. hughes has missed almost two weeks of practice and did not play in saturday’s game. 
darius butler, the colts’ no. 3 cornerback, sat out monday with an un­disclosed ankle injury. defensive lineman arthur 
Jones  did  practice  after  
leaving  saturday’s  game  
with a rib injury.  

pagano said that delano howell, who was battling for the starting job at safe­ty, is still get evaluations on his injured neck. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ringing/ In the key that our souls were singing/ As we danced in the night/ Remember, how the stars stole the night away, yeah yeah yeah/ Hey hey hey/ Ba de ya, say do you remember/ Ba de ya, dancing in September/ Ba de ya, never was a cloudy day/ Ba duda, ba duda, ba duda, badu/ Ba duda, badu, ba duda, badu/ Ba duda, badu, ba duda/ My thoughts are with you/ Holding hands with your heart to see you/ Only blue talk and love/ Remember, how we knew love was here to stay/ Now December found the love that we shared in September.”Only blue talk and loveemember, the true love we share today Hey hey hey Ba de ya, say do you rememberBa de ya, danc­ing in September Ba de ya, never was a cloudy day There was a Ba de ya, say do you remember Ba de ya, danc­ing in September Ba de ya, golden dreams were shiny days 
“Young”-Kenny Chesney Looking back now, well it makes me laugh We were growin our hair, we were cuttin’ class Knew it all already, there was nothing to learn We were strikin’ matches just to watch ‘em burn Listen to our music just a little too loud We were hangin’ in there with the outcast crowd Headin’ to the rapids with some discount beer It was a long train tussle but we had no fear. Man I don’t know, where the time goes But It sure goes fast, just like that We were wanna be rebels who didn’t have a clue. 



MLB | cardinals 3, piraTes 2 

Jay lifts Cardinals to win 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — Jon Jay al­ready had a bat in hand before st. louis cardinals manager mike matheny even called his name. 
a minute later the veteran outfielder was standing on second base after his pinch hit tied the game. Jay didn’t stay there long, racing home with the go-ahead run on matt holliday’s sharp single in a 3-2 victory over the pittsburgh pirates on monday night. 
“he just sensed,” matheny said of Jay’s precocious grab of the bat. “we hadn’t had any interaction at that point. he’s smart, he knows the game.” 
and the cardinals know a thing or two about coming through late. st. louis scored all three runs off reliever Jared hughes (6-4) with two outs in the seventh inning to back John lackey and send the scuffling pirates to their sev­enth loss in 10 games. 
lackey (2-1) worked out of trouble early to last seven in­nings in his second victory for the cardinals after arriving in a trade from boston on July 31. 

he was 11-7 with the red sox. 
Trevor rosenthal gave up a leadoff home run in the ninth to andrew mccutchen but held on to earn his 39th save. 
“i think guys know when we have a pitcher like lackey on the mound, he’s going to keep us in the game,” matheny said. “we’ve just got to keep fight­ing and figure out a way to get something going.” 
pedro alvarez hit his 18th homer in the second off lackey, but the pirates man­aged little after that to fall further behind st. louis and first-place milwaukee in the nl central race. 
pirates starter Francisco liriano overwhelmed st. louis for six-plus innings before leaving after Kolten wong’s in­field single led off the seventh. hughes came on and promptly picked off wong. 
Things didn’t work out so well for the normally depend­able right-hander, however, when he went to the plate. 
Tony cruz started the game-changing rally by turning an 0-2 count into a single, moved to second on a sacrifice bunt and scored on a sharply hit single by Jay. holliday then gave st. louis the lead with a grounder past shortstop Jordy mercer. st. louis has 209 rbis this season with two outs, tops in the national league. 
“it was just a night where (hughes) couldn’t get the ball where he wanted to go,” pirates manager clint hurdle said. 
The cushion was more than enough for lackey, who had little trouble after navigating a choppy second inning. alvarez hit a long home run to center with one out, and infield hits by starling marte and Jordy mercer followed. The runners moved up on a sacrifice by liriano, but Josh harrison’s sharply hit fly to left went right to holliday. 
lackey settled down follow­ing the reprieve, not allowing a runner past first base over his final five innings. he walked one and struck out three to im­prove to 3-0 against national league teams this season. 
“i think Tony and i made some good adjustments af­ter the first time through the lineup,” lackey said. “The last three innings were as good as i felt.” 
PGA | The barclays 

Mahan overcomes winless drought 
Associated Press 
paramus, n.J. — hunter mahan knew he was on the verge of something special, even with a record that looked ordi­nary by his standards. 
he had gone nearly 30 months and 48 tournaments worldwide without winning. he was no. 62 in the Fedex cup, with no guar­antee of lasting more than two tournaments. he finished 25th in the ryder cup standings and was not even part of the conver­sation as a potential wild-card pick. 
he felt great about how he was playing. The hard part was to stay calm with his emotions, his swing and his game and to “just let everything happen.” 
“and it did,” he said. “and ob­viously i made some huge putts coming down the stretch.” 
in a traffic jam of contend­ers sunday at The barclays, mahan pulled away with five birdies in a seven-hole stretch on the back nine at ridgewood, including three in a row late in the final round that sealed the win. with a bogey he could af­ford — though he could have done without the drama until he made an 8-foot bogey putt 
— mahan closed with a 6-under 65 for a 14-under-270 total and a two-shot victory in the opening playoff event for the Fedex cup. 
he won by two shots over Jason day, who couldn’t manage anything but pars over the last four holes and shot 68; stuart appleby, who had to scramble for par on the last two holes for a 65; and cameron Tringale, who made bogey from the trees on the final hole for a 66. 
it was the sixth career win for mahan, which includes a pair of world golf championships, though this might have sur­passed considering what was at stake. it had been since the shell houston open in the spring of 2012 since he had won. it as­sures that he will play all four playoff events for the eighth straight year, and it guarantees him a clear shot at the $10 mil­lion bonus when the Fedex cup ends at east lake with the Tour championship. 
paid adverTisemenT 



MLB | yanKees 8, royals 1 

Yankees beat Royals for fifth-straight win 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — michael pineda kept throwing strikes. The royals kept tak­ing them, trying in vain to drive his pitch count up. when yankees catcher brian mccann looked up in the third inning, his right-hand­er had still thrown just 35 pitches. 
he knew then that pineda was in a groove. 
pineda wound up pitch­ing into the seventh inning monday night to win for the first time since april 16, helping new york beat the Kansas city royals 8-1 for its fifth straight win. 
“he’s got so much cut on his fastball,” mccann said. 
“i feel like he could liter­ally throw it every pitch and be successful. when he’s like that, he’s as good as anybody.” 
in the makeup of a game rained out in early June, pineda (3-2) gave up a solo shot to mike moustakas lead­ing off the third inning. but that was about it in pineda’s third game back from the disabled list. he struck out five without a walk. 
Jacoby ellsbury drove in a run in the seventh inning with the 1,000th hit of his career, then added a two-run homer in the ninth. derek Jeter added a pair of rbis in his final scheduled trip to Kauffman stadium, and stephen drew and martin prado had solo home runs. 
“it’s nice when you have a lot of people contribute,” yankees manager Joe girardi said. 
James shields (12-7) al­lowed six runs over 6 2-3 in­nings for Kansas city. 
“we’ve been playing really, really good baseball the last month or so. we’re definite­ly not going to let just one little game take care of us,” shields said. “we’re going to move onto this next series and hopefully we’ll win it.” 
if you’re willing to count the makeup against new york as a true series, it was the first time in their last 11 that the royals have dropped one. 
“it’s going to happen,” outfielder alex gordon said. “we’ll bounce back. we’ll be oK.” 
Jeter, who is retiring af­ter the season, answered a standing ovation as he stepped to the plate in the third inning with a ground-out to shortstop that gave new york a 1-0 lead. 
moustakas tied the game with his 15th homer in the bottom half. 
drew gave the yankees the lead back in the fourth with his home run, and they piled on four more runs off shields in the seventh to put things out of reach. 
The last of the runs was scored by ellsbury, who came home on a sacrifice fly by mccann. ellsbury initially was ruled out at the plate, but the call was overturned after a 2-minute video review showed his left leg sliding just under catcher salvador perez’s tag. 
That was plenty of support for pineda, who had gone through the ringer since his previous win. he served a 10-game suspension for get­ting caught with pine tar on his neck in a game against boston, then landed on the dl with shoulder trouble that kept him out until mid-august. 
pineda was stuck with a pair of no-decisions in his first two starts back. 
“i feel pretty good,” he said. “i feel like i have good power in my arm.” 

paid adverTisemenT 




MLB | orioles 9, rays 1 

orioles blast past rays with homers 
Associated Press 
balTimore — delmon young, J.J. hardy and chris davis homered in succession during a six-run fifth inning, and the baltimore orioles cruised past the Tampa bay rays 9-1 monday night to end a three-game losing streak. 
baltimore hit five hom­ers in all, four off rookie Jake odorizzi (9-11). nick markakis and steve pearce delivered back-to-back shots in the third to spark the orioles to their ninth win in 13 games against Tampa bay this season. 
after totaling four runs and 13 hits in three road losses to the chicago cubs, the orioles got 14 hits against a Tampa bay staff that had a major league-best 2.28 era since the all-star break. 
chris Tillman (11-5) yielded an unearned run and three hits in seven innings. he is 4-0 in eight starts since July 18. 
baltimore led 3-1 before pulling away in the fifth. Three straight singles produced a run before young hit a three-run drive to left. hardy chased odorizzi with a shot to center, and davis greeted Kirby yates with his 22nd home run. 

it was the first time since may 2012 that the orioles homered in three successive at-bats. 
odorizzi yielded eight runs and 11 hits, both career highs, as were the four home runs. 
baltimore added a fielding gem in the sixth when cen­ter fielder adam Jones made a leaping catch at the wall to rob evan longoria of a homer. Jones then threw out matt Joyce, who tagged up from first base. 
after the rays scored in the third, baltimore went up 3-1 in the bottom half. markakis snapped an 0-for-21 skid with a two-run drive and pearce followed with his 15th hom­er, the fourth in his last eight games. 

paid adverTisemenT 
MLB | phillies 3, naTionals 2 

Phillies top Nationals behind Burnett’s strong start 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — a.J. burnett struck out 12 in sev­en innings and cody asche and carlos ruiz homered to lead the philadelphia phillies to a 3-2 victory over the washington nationals on monday night. 
domonic brown had two hits and an rbi for philadelphia, which won for the fourth time in five games. 
wilson ramos and anthony rendon homered for nl east-leading washington, which lost for just the second time in 14 games. 
burnett (7-14) won for the first time since the all-star break, allowing one run on three hits with just one walk. The right-hander entered leading the majors in walks with 76. 
Tanner roark (12-8) gave up two runs on five hits in six innings and lost for just the second time in his last nine starts. roark has a 2.25 era over that stretch. 
burnett retired the first eight batters before roark’s two-out single in the third. it was just the pitcher’s sixth hit in 60 at-bats this season. 
MLB | aThleTics 8, asTros 2 
The nationals didn’t get another hit until rendon’s one-out homer to left in the sixth that pulled them with­in 2-1. it was the third hom­er 15 at-bats for rendon off burnett. 
burnett had been 0-6 with a 7.41 era in seven starts since the all-star break prior to monday. but he was stellar against washington, setting a season-high in strikeouts while finishing in double-digits for the 35th time in his career. 
The phillies took a 1-0 lead in the fourth on brown’s rbi single and went up 2-0 on asche’s leadoff homer to deep right in the fifth. 
after washington closed within a run, ruiz cleared the wall in left off left-hander Jerry blevins to push philadelphia’s advantage to 3-1. 
ramos homered to right with two outs in the ninth off Jonathan papelbon, who earned his 32nd save in 34 opportunities. 
ben revere, who began the day tied for the nl batting lead at .314 with colorado’s Justin morneau, went 0-for-4 to drop his average to .311. 
chase utley went 0-for-4, extending his slump to 3-for-29. 
second baseman asdrubal cabrera was out of the start­ing lineup after injuring his rib in sunday’s 14-6 win over san Francisco. manager matt williams said prior to the game that cabrera is day-to­day. cabrera pinch-hit in the ninth inning and singled. 
oF John mayberry Jr. (wrist) played in his fifth 
rehab  game with  Triple-a  
lehigh  valley  on  monday  
night.  mayberry  entered  

4-for-14 with a homer and three rbis in four games there. 
lhp gio gonzalez (6-9, 
3.83) takes the mound for washington at 7:05 Tuesday. he pitched seven shutout in­nings but got a no-decision in the nationals’ 1-0 win over arizona Thursday. gonzalez has received two runs of sup­port over 33 1/3 innings in his last six starts. 
lhp cole hamels (7-6, 2.53) got rare run support in his last outing when he snapped string of seven straight starts with at least seven innings in a 4-3 win over seattle wednesday. hamels is 15-7 with a 2.54 era in 30 careers starts against washington. 

A’s roll past Astros on road 
three runs to lead the oakland 
Associated Press 
athletics over the houston astros 
housTon — Jeff samardzija 8-2 monday night. pitched eight solid innings samardzija (4-3) allowed six and Josh donaldson drove in hits, two runs and tied a season 

paid adverTisemenT 

high with 10 strikeouts to bounce back from a two-game skid in which he yielded 11 runs com­bined. The right-hander was 2-7 with the chicago cubs before an early July trade. 
Josh reddick hit a two-run homer and donaldson had three hits after sitting out sunday with a knee injury. donaldson doubled twice for his first extra-base hits and rbis in his last nine games. 
reddick’s 10th home run sailed into the seats in right field to push oakland’s lead to 3-0 in the fourth. 
chris carter hit an opposite-field, two-run homer in the eighth to pull the astros within one, but the a’s added five runs in the ninth to extend the lead to 8-2. 
scott Feldman (7-10) allowed seven hits and three runs in sev­en innings. 
The astros couldn’t string anything together against samardzija through the first seven innings. They didn’t have more than one hit in an inning until the eighth, when Jose altuve singled before carter’s homer. 
houston reliever Tony sipp, who had allowed just 10 walks in his previous 41 innings, walked all four batters he faced. 


The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC SOCCER 

Belles open season against Bethel 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
as saint mary’s continues to prepare for its upcoming season, belles coach michael Joyce said he is confident in the potential of his squad, which features both expe­rienced veterans and an exciting class of incoming freshman. 
after working to build fit­ness and chemistry through­out the preseason, the belles have begun to focus on tac­tics as they get ready for their season opener against bethel on Friday. 
The belles, who posted a 10-7-3 record last season, will return 17 players, including 11 who got significant play­ing time last season. nine of the returners are seniors, including forward Kelly wilson, who notched three goals and two assists for the belles last season. Joyce also said he thinks highly of the group of six incoming fresh­men on the team. 
however, last year’s lead­ing scorer, forward rosie biehl, is not returning for the 2014 season. biehl, now a sophomore, scored a team-high eight goals in 2013. 
saint mary’s will start the season with four games against non-conference opponents before kicking off a stretch of 16 miaa games, beginning with Kalamazoo on sept. 11. 
“our conference opener at home against Kalamazoo will be important to set the tone for the season,” Joyce said. “The last four times we’ve played them, they’ve all been one-goal games that could have gone either way.” 
The belles began last sea­son with two conference losses, which put them in a hole in the conference stand­ings from which they never fully recovered. Joyce said he hopes his squad will be able to change that this year, put­ting particular importance on opening the season on the right foot. 
“The conference is very competitive,” he said. “we’d love to start out well.” 
The belles missed the playoffs by a single game in 2013, finishing 8-5-3 in con­ference. Joyce said he was happy with the performance of his players but knows the team can improve on that record this season and build on their success. 
“we had a good season last year and played great soccer all season but were left out of the playoffs by one win,” he said. “we’ll take a lot of positives from last year, but beginning on november 6, and Joyce sees that as the end goal for his team. 


“The top four [teams] make the playoffs and we expect to be there,” he said. 
The belles will open their season Friday against bethel at saint mary’s. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
we’ve got lofty goals of keep­ing things tight in the back and giving up very few goals and putting more in the back of the net.” 
after Kalamazoo, the belles will quickly turn around and face alma and calvin, the miaa runner-up and champion from last sea­son, respectively. These two early match-ups may have a critical impact on the direc­tion of the season, Joyce said. 



within the following two­and-a-half weeks, the team will square off against hope, albion, olivet, adrian and Trine to wrap up the first round of conference play, be­fore facing each conference opponent again. 
miaa games conclude with the conference tournament 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish expand team goals under new leadership 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
Their coach might have changed, but their goals have not. if anything, they have increased. 
with the retirement of long­time coach Joe piane this sum­mer, notre dame will face its first season with a new coach in 39 years. but there are no plans for a rebuilding year, as the men return three and the women five of the seven runners who competed at the ncaa cham­pionships. The men finished in 23rd place, while the women ended the race 29th out of 31 teams. 
“[making it back to the ncaa championship] is one of our main goals this year, and we definitely want to place better than we did last year,” junior molly seidel said. “we didn’t reach our goal of placing at na­tionals that we had last year, and i think that that reminder of not quite reaching that goal and doing not as well as we wanted to do is kind of a fire under the butt for this year to really give it everything that we have. we definitely have high expectations.” 
entering the season, the irish are ranked seventh on the men’s side in the great lakes re­gion, while the women are slot­ted in eighth, below their finish last year of third and fourth, respectively. only the top-two teams in each region earn au­tomatic bids into the national championship, while the irish advanced on at-large bids. 
while last year’s ncaa championship was a disap­pointment, especially for the women, the acc champion­ship was a bright spot for both squads, with the men finish­ing in third and the women in fourth. Four irish athletes earned all-acc honors, includ­ing senior hannah eckstein, who will join seidel as one of notre dame’s top returning runners. repeating that suc­cess at this year’s conference championship has been an ear­ly focus of new head coach alan Turner and distance coach matt sparks, seidel said. 
“we were just talking about [goals] with the team and coach Turner,” seidel said. “he said that one of the biggest goals is to go in to accs hoping to place really well or even win it. ... i think if we work really hard and everyone stays healthy, then it’s a real possibility so hopefully we get some results from that.” 
while Turner has already spent four years with the irish program as an assistant and as­sociate coach, his new position has brought some change to the teams 
“it’s been a little bit hectic these first few days,” seidel said. “There’s been a lot of changes with [weight training] and the roster. ... [but Turner’s] been with the program for a while. he’s a great guy. i think it’s a great opportunity for the team. 
“he’s someone that people already know and trust, and i think that people are looking forward to having him in that position. one of the biggest changes in cross [country] is the addition of ... coach sparks, so we’re looking forward to get to know him a little.” 
last year’s varsity returners on the women’s side are seidel, eckstein, junior sydni meunier and seniors emily Frydrych and gabby gonzales. The men re­turn juniors michael clevenger and Timothy ball and seniors 
paid adverTisemenT 


Jake Kildoo and christopher Quinn. while notre dame’s first meet of the fall sea­son is sept. 5 at the crusader invitational in valparaiso, ind., the varsity squad will not race for another few weeks so the squad’s younger runners will get their first chance at colle­giate racing. 
The varsity runners will not debut until the national catholic championships on sept. 19 at the notre dame golf course. The irish have captured both the men’s and women’s titles in this meet for the past five years. 
notre dame starts its season at the crusader invitational in valparaiso, ind., on sept. 5. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 




W Tennis 
conTinued From page 24 
“[gleason] had a really good year last year,” louderback said. “she made the ncaa [in­dividual tournament]. she’s matured a lot more and tal­ent-wise, she is very talented. … she showed last year that, basically, she can play [first singles position] for us this year. i think she can make an­other jump.” 
although the bulk of last year’s matches were played by the underclassmen and graduated seniors, the irish do have two experienced se­niors this year who will play a key role this year. molly o’Koniewski saw time on the doubles court last year, where she found success with closs later in the season. Katherine white also played several doubles and single match­es for the irish last year as well. louderback said that both seniors will compete for chances to play but that their contribution to the team will extend beyond the court. 
“They have both been in and out of the doubles lineup,” louderback said. “but i just think that the biggest thing with them is that their lead­ership is something we really need because we lost three seniors, and we lost some very good leadership out of them.” 
The irish have three tour­naments scheduled this fall, the first of which they will host on the final weekend of september. louderback said these early-season clashes are extremely important in help­ing determining the lineup for the spring, when team matches and acc play begins. 
“The fall is mainly for our kids to get matches in,” louderback said. “we see who’s worked hard over the summer and who’s made jumps, and it really helps us come spring.” 
Fall is also a key time for the irish to try and piece together doubles pairings, something that was a thorn in their side all of last season, louderback said. 
louderback also said that he expects notre dame’s path through the acc to be even tougher this season. 
“everyone just seems to have reloaded,” louderback said. “There were a couple programs that are usually very strong that had down years, but who have reloaded and are going to be tough this year.” 
with that in mind, the irish will begin their 2014-2015 season when they host their first tournament of the year sept. 26-28 at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


MEN’S GOLF 

Kubinski has ‘great faith’ in squad, new leaders 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
after a season that ended with the team finishing sev­enth in its inaugural acc championship and one golfer competing at the ncaa re­gionals, notre dame returns to the fairways looking to build on the previous year’s success. 
irish coach Jim Kubinski said he is optimistic for the upcoming fall. 
“our main goal though is always to see our players im­proving throughout the sea­son,” Kubinski said. “we’ve been successful in this way, in both years, we’ve made an ncaa run and in years when we missed out on ncaas. it’s a process goal, which is where our focus is and should be.” 
There is a hole to be replaced in the irish lineup, as former team member niall platt grad­uated last year. platt was one of two irish golfers to be named to the 2014 all-acc academic team, in addition to being the only notre dame competitor to qualify for the ncaa sugar grove regionals last season, where he placed 34th. 
Kubinski said he is not too worried about replacing the lost talent. 

“i see several players with the ability to step up and en­joy success this year, includ­ing our incoming freshmen,” Kubinski said. “i don’t see any obvious weakness at this point. i think we’ll be looking for leadership. we don’t have a single player who has been a regular lineup contributor over multiple seasons. yet, i don’t think that fact is a huge concern. i have great faith leaders will emerge.” 
senior patrick grahek said he has a clear idea of how he and others will replace platt’s presence. 
“The other upperclassmen and i will lead by example,” grahek said. “we will work to bring together a really cohe­sive team to align ourselves to make it to the postseason, so if we can come together on and off the course to make a good team environment, that will be a huge factor for our success.” 
That’s not to say that every­thing will be a smooth transi­tion, grahek said. 
“our biggest challenge as a team will be finding the right mix for players to fill out our lineup,” grahek said. “we have a diverse group of guys in terms of class year. we are heavy upperclassmen-wise, but we have a lot of under­classmen talent, so finding the right team mixture will be a challenge, but once we secure that, we will be able to build from there.” 
The first action for the irish begins with the notre dame Kickoff challenge, hosted at warren golf course. Kubinski said he looks forward to the experience it should bring. 
“The fall season counts the same as the spring, so a sol­id start is our expectation,” Kubinski said. “The initial competition, the 36-hole day on august 31, is something we’ve not hosted before but is designed to get us out and ac­climated to the 10-hour com­petition day before we head out on the road for multiple 36-hole days this fall. playing at home early is a great place to get our guys tested and ready.” 
The irish begin fall play with the notre dame Kickoff challenge on aug. 31 at warren golf course. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at      mginocch@nd.edu 
MLB | red sox 4, blue Jays 3 
boston ends losing streak 
Associated Press 

ToronTo — yoenis cespedes singled home the go-ahead run in the 10th inning and the boston red sox survived a ninth-inning collapse to beat the Toronto blue Jays 4-3 on monday night, snap­ping their losing streak at eight games. 
cespedes has 19 rbis in 22 games since being traded to boston on July 31. seven of those 19 rbis have given the red sox a lead. 
brock holt hit a one-out single off aaron sanchez (2-1) in the 10th and stole second as dustin pedroia struck out, with the steal confirmed by video review. holt stole third before cespedes drove him in with a single up the middle. 
boston won for the first time since august 16 against houston and snapped a six-game skid against the stumbling blue Jays, who dropped to 6-15 in august. 
Koji uehara (6-4) got the win despite blowing his fourth save in 30 chances, and craig breslow finished for his first save in two chances. 
Toronto managed just two singles against red sox starter clay buchholz through the first eight innings, but rallied in the ninth after Jose reyes and melky cabrera delivered back-to-back hits and Jose bautista walked to load the bases. 
uehara came on and got adam lind to ground into a fielder’s choice as reyes scored. edwin encarnacion followed with a two-run double beyond the reach of a leaping cespedes in left, tying it at 3-3. 
mookie betts hit a one-out drive into the second deck in the fifth, his first homer since July 2. Two batters later, dustin pedroia hit a two-run shot, his first since august 3. 
it was boston’s first multi-homer inning since July 21, also at Toronto, when they hit two in the fifth inning of a 14-1 rout. The red sox have hit 12 home runs at rogers centre this season, their highest total at any road stadium. 
both homers came off blue Jays left-hander J.a. happ, who al­lowed three runs and five hits in six innings. 
boston won despite playing without slugger david ortiz, who sat out with of a bruised right foot. ortiz left sunday’s game against seattle in the sixth, two innings after fouling a ball off his foot. manager John Farrell said he’s “hopeful” that ortiz will be able to return Tuesday. 


The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 24 
from ten yards into the top left corner for a 2-0 irish lead. 
“i thought we opened the game well,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we played pretty well up until we got the sec­ond goal, then i thought we kind of just stopped for a while in the first half.” 
notre dame controlled the game for most of the first half, keeping most of the play in wisconsin territory, although the visitors made a push right before halftime. The irish finished the period with eight shots, while the badgers registered their first shot of the game in the 38th minute yet totaled four for the half. 
“[The players] knew they had stopped playing for that period in the last fifteen min­utes of the first half,” clark said. “we got two goals up and then they went to sleep, so i woke them up a little bit at halftime, and i feel they responded very well.” 
notre dame reclaimed the momentum only three min­utes into the second half pe­riod, when junior midfielder evan panken worked a give­and-go with brown into the wisconsin penalty box which panken finished into the top corner. 
“it was a nice ball, i for­get who played it into evan,” brown said. “evan laid it off to me then made a great run by the defense. it was easy to find him after that run.” 
The irish would strike again only a minute later as sophomore defenseman brandon aubrey scored his first career collegiate goal on a header on a corner cross from hodan to put the irish up 4-0. 
That would be all for the irish starters, as clark would sub for all of his players in the 60th minute to save them for the regular season. 


“This is one of the hard­est starts we’ve ever had,” clark said. “we play two top-12 teams in marquette and georgetown. They know we’re number one in the country and they’ll want our scalps. … we’ll be ready. we’ll be prepared also.” 
The irish open the regu­lar season in bloomington, ind., at the adidas/iu credit union classic against marquette on Friday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at         zklonsin@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 24 
this year, it’s been a different back four,” romagnolo said. “we’re still trying to figure out who’s going to play on a game-by-game basis, but i was really happy with the back four that played [against oakland].” 
notre dame’s opening match against illinois start­ed off poorly, as the irish conceded a goal to the illini (1-1-0) in the 23rd minute. playing in the rain, the irish responded in the 40th minute when sophomore midfielder morgan andrews connected with freshman midfielder Taylor Klawunder for the squad’s first goal of the year. 
Just two minutes later, the irish completed their come­back when a corner from notre dame would add a tally in the 85th minute when freshman midfielder Jon gallagher scored from distance. wisconsin would answer in the same minute with a goal by freshman for­ward christopher mueller for the badgers’ lone score. 
junior defender brittany von rueden found the head of ju­nior defender Katie naughton. The team’s final goal of the game came from junior for­ward anna maria gilbertson late in the second half. 
andrews, notre dame’s leading point scorer last season, added two more as­sists two days later against oakland (0-2-0). both times, the ball ricocheted off the goal frame, only for freshman forward Kaitlin Klawunder and senior forward lauren 
bohaboy  to  score  on  the  
rebound.  
despite  the  shutout,  

romagnolo said the irish still have work to do. 
“it was definitely a hot day, and coming off the illinois game, i think we showed that we are a little bit tired and are still getting our fitness for the season,” romagnolo said. 
notre dame finished the exhibition season 1-0-2 af­ter ties with saint louis and bradley earlier in august. looking ahead, the start of the regular season is this weekend for the irish, and they jump right into the thick of things. 
The Klawunders, one of two sets of twins in notre dame’s freshman class, became the first pair of sisters in program history to each record at least one career goal. The irish played six freshman over the weekend, part of the no. 3-ranked class in the country. 
“i think from the very be­ginning, [the freshman] have been involved [in our game plan],” romagnolo said. “even in some of our first scrimmages, we had some key freshman step up, and [against oakland] Kaitlin Klawunder came up big for us off the bench. There’s a lot of talent within that class.” 
against oakland, however, the leading scorer was the veteran bohaboy, who add­ed a second goal in the 75th minute against the golden grizzlies. The pair of scores made her notre dame’s points leader early in the sea­son and added to her success in the month of august. last season, bohaboy scored four of her seven goals on the year in august. 
“it feels good to get the win,” bohaboy said. “To start with goals, it’s always a good way to build confidence.” 
against oakland, the irish were whistled for seven off­side calls, just less than tri­ple their average last season (2.45). They also committed 14 fouls and drew two yellow cards. 
“i think we need to be a little more patient [on the off­side call],” romagnolo said. “i don’t know if they were all necessarily offsides, but i like offsides [calls] because it shows that we’re being ag­gressive and we want to score goals.” 
The irish take the field next for the notre dame invitational against no. 17 Texas Tech on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Greg Hadley at            ghadley@nd.edu 
paid ad 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: plan your actions carefully and make choices based on your abilities, as well as what’s important to you. Taking an emotional, passionate approach to what you do is fine as long as you don’t let feelings stop you from finishing what you start. use your energy effectively and recognize that anger is a waste of time. your numbers are 9, 16, 23, 26, 37, 41, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): emotional upset and anger will not solve any personal problem that arises. Take the quiet, observant approach and document anything that is bothering you. impulse will lead to a no-win situation and potential loss. bide your time. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make plans to get together with friends, or delve into a hobby or activity that brings out your best. make travel plans or sign up for a conference or course that will enlighten you. expand your interests and meet new friends. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t make a move because you are uncertain about your current direction. Know exactly what you want to do and where you want to go before you initiate any plans. put thoughts on paper and research the possibilities. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): lighten up and let your imagination take you on a journey. look at the possibilities and discover what’s available to you. changing the way you live or where will revitalize you. initiate love and romance to enhance your personal life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do your best to please those who are counting on you. added responsibilities are likely. handle whatever you are given swiftly and you will gain control and respect. once you are in the driver’s seat, you can make the changes you want. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): last-minute changes will take you by surprise. stay on top of any joint investments. don’t let an emotional relationship cost you. love is in the stars, but that doesn’t mean you have to spend in order to gain someone’s attention. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): ease into whatever you do. expect to face opposition. look for ways to appease everyone you have to deal with without compromising your own position. an unusual approach to problem-solving will give you the edge you need to excel. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel and dealing with people from different backgrounds will lead you on an adventure. love and romance are highlighted and should be incorporated into whatever plans you make. let your intellectual wit and keen intuition lead the way. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t wait for someone to ask for an update regarding a financial, legal or medical matter. get your personal papers in order and be prepared to discuss whatever needs to be done so you can make the adjustments that will make you happy. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Question motives, take a step back and re-evaluate your situation and your strategy. Follow your gut feeling and ask direct questions in order to find out where you stand. The choice you make now will influence your future. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): whatever you do, don’t slow down when there is so much to do in order to reach your destination. concentrate on what’s important and refuse to let anyone push you off course. The changes you enforce will help to stabilize your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of your needs. pampering or socializing with the people you enjoy being with the most will help you relax and will rejuvenate you for upcoming endeavors. your love life will take a positive turn if you let your romantic nature lead the way. 


Birthday Baby: you are intelligent, intuitive and articulate. you are determined and willful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 5, wisconsin 1 
Picking up where they left off 
Defending-champion Irish best No. 21 Wisconsin in final exhibition match 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
in a rematch of last year’s second-round playoff game, as no. 1 notre dame de­feated no. 20 wisconsin by a score of 5-1 in its final exhi­bition match of season. The irish won last season’s play­off game 4-0 in route to the program’s first-ever national championship. 
notre dame picked up where it left off last year in the sixth minute, as graduate student leon brown found a loose ball just outside the six-yard box and slammed it into the back of the net off wisconsin freshman goal­keeper adrian remeniuk. 
“[senior] vince [cicciarelli] took it down the left side, and i kind of made a run in and tried to get a touch in behind the defender,” brown said. “The ball kind of hit him and i got a shot off and it deflect­ed and went in. it was a good start to the game.” 
brown, who scored five goals last season for notre dame, would also hit the bar in the 23rd minute, leading to a mad scramble in the six-yard box before the ball harmlessly rolled over the end line. 
There were questions en­tering the year about who would replace the offense of last year’s leading scorer, the graduated harrison shipp, but brown thought notre dame’s performance tonight would help answer them. 
“[The exhibition season] started off slow with the [0-0] saint louis and [2-2] bradley ties,” brown said. “The guys have been working hard in practice on our finishing and our attacking plays. it was good to see it come out here, especially with a couple big tests coming up here this weekend.” 
The irish would strike again in the 29th minute, when senior defenseman max lachowecki fed a pass from the edge of the penalty box to junior midfielder patrick hodan, who chipped a shot 
see m soccer PAGE 22 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish junior midfielder Patrick Hodan dribbles between two Wisconsin players in Monday’s 5-1 win over No. 21 Wisconsin. Hodan tallied a goal in the  29th minute and an assist in the match’s 49th minute. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, illinois 1; nd 3, oaKland 0 
Two victories highlight Romagnolo’s first weekend 
By GREG HADLEY 
associated sports editor 
after 15 years under the command of coach randy waldrum, no. 16 notre dame entered 2014 with a new coach, a sizable freshman class and plenty of question marks. Two games into the season, however, the irish are unbeaten after a 3-1 road win against illinois on Friday and a 3-0 home shutout sunday against oakland. 
“overall, i was very pleased with the effort we put on the field,” new irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “we had a good crowd [against oakland], and the girls were excited.” 
in the two wins, the irish (2-0-0) have allowed just two shots on goal and four corner kicks. sophomore goalkeep­er Kaela little was forced to make only one save in both games combined, despite several lineup changes in her defensive front. 
“in every game we’ve played 
see w soccer PAGE 22 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

nd starts season with new leaders 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 

notre dame enters the 2014 fall season having lost three of its top players to gradu­ation in britney sanders, Jennifer Kellner and Julie sabacinski. however, irish coach Jay louderback said he feels good about where his team left off and where they are going. 
“i felt really good about the end of last year,” louderback said. “we had a great ncaa tournament. our seniors played really well at the end of the year and did an out­standing job.” 
The irish reached the round of 16 in the ncaa tournament, upsetting re­gional host northwestern be­fore falling in a tight match to alabama in athens, ga. looking to build off of the strong finish to last year, the irish have a little momentum heading into this season. 
“replacing [last year’s se­niors] isn’t going to be easy, but we have a lot back,” louderback said. “we have five of our top seven girls re­turning and then added two very good freshmen.” 
Those freshmen, brooke broda and allison miller, are both top-20 recruits and will help fill the void left by the three seniors, as will sophomores mary closs and monica robinson, who were both regulars for the irish last year, louderback said. 
“[broda and miller] are both left-handed players, who are always hard to play in doubles, so we’ll have three on the team which is good,” louderback said. “They are a lot like how [robinson and closs] came in last year as freshmen and i think these two will rival those two and compete for playing time.” 
Junior Julie vrabel was a mainstay for the irish sin­gles lineup and fellow junior Quinn gleason, last year’s midwest player to watch, is set to anchor the first posi­tion in singles play as well as provide experience for the irish doubles squad. 
see w Tennis PAGE 21 




