The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 75 | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Mass honors life of graduate student 
Students show their support for late graduate student Friday morning 
Fisher hall, presided at the friend to many of you,” metz biomolecular engineering 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news editor ceremony. in his homily, he said. “i never got the chance program. The university did urged attendees to join in cel-to meet akash, but when i not comment on the cause of while they may not have ebration of sharma’s life. learned he played cricket on his death, but friends said he 
known him personally, many 

the quad … i knew i must have died of health-related causes. 
students might remember seen him once or twice.” sharma served as co-presi­



oscar­winner to visit theater 

akash sharma from the sight 
of him playing cricket in front 
of stinson-remick hall of 
engineering. 
sharma, a graduate student metz said sharma’s advisors dent of the indian association 

and friends described him as a of notre dame during the “very friendly person,” always 

students 
2012-2013 academic year and 
smiling, and a good listener was a teaching assistant for 
and support source for his several classes. sharma was 
from delhi, india, died Jan. 1. a memorial mass for him took place Friday morning at the basilica of the sacred heart. 
Fr. brad metz, rector of 

“[he was] our brother at notre dame, a student teach­er, a bright student, a zealous friends. 
a resident of Fischer graduate residences, sharma was a third-year ph.d. stu­dent in the chemical and also a member of the notre dame men’s boxing club. 
his work as a teaching 
see mass PAGE 4 


Nearly 100 seniors go on retreat 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
over the weekend, a group of nearly 100 notre dame and saint mary’s seniors went on took time out to reflect at the beginning of their last semes­ter of college. 
The campus ministry senior retreat took place Friday and saturday in the sacred heart parish center, located on the other side of st. Joseph’s lake, retreat director margaret morgan said. 
“The retreat is a chance for the senior class to come to­gether and reflect on their time at notre dame and what they’ve learned. it is also a chance to look forward and think about who you are and who god wants you to be,” said morgan, who is also the rector of howard hall. 
mc larme, a notre dame se­nior who attended the retreat, said the experience helped her reflect on many of the ques­tions she faces as a senior ready to go out into the world. 
“out of the retreat, i feel like i got a lot of questions about my future and a framework for my relationship with god as i prepare to leave notre dame,” larme said. 
morgan said the theme of the retreat was “live the big Questions now,” a line taken from a poem by rainer maria rilke, and they wanted to help the seniors embrace the 
see reTreaT PAGE 4 



By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
award-winning actress dianne wiest, who appeared in such movies as “edward scissorhands” and “hannah and her sisters,” will host “an evening with dianne wiest,” at 7:30 p.m. tonight in o’laughlin auditorium. 
The margaret m. hill visiting guest artist pro­gram made the visit possible through an endowment made by a college alumnus who is now a new york theatre pro­ducer, associate professor of theater Katie sullivan said. 
“This [endowment] is a great way to give something really tremendous to our students,” sullivan said. “To have such a program … that in four years our students will have met with, worked with, shown their work to, had lunch with these amazing artists … to have this oppor­tunity is almost unheard of.” 
wiest has won two oscars and two emmys among other 
see wiesT PAGE 5 


Project aims to connect ND with local music scene 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
a benefit concert on Friday will kick off The bridge project, a new initiative to in­crease connections between members of the notre dame and south bend communities. 
The notre dame student expo, featuring five student bands and one south bend group, will take place at 6 p.m. 
at The pool, a venue located in the central high/stephenson mills apartments. 
according to its Facebook page, The bridge project is an effort to increase interactions and friendships between the south bend community and its college campuses by expos­ing students to the local music scene. 
Junior will murray, a stu­dent founder of initiative, said the idea for the project arose from his and others’ experi­ences studying abroad, where he said other universities’ campuses were more integrat­ed into their cities. 
“They [students studying abroad] really just had an amazing connection with the city they were staying in and the campus they were on, just really benefitting from that connection and having a lot more to do on the weekend that notre dame really doesn’t have,” murray said. “we weren’t sure there was a lot to do in south bend, but sure enough there is, and we’ve been exploring it through our contacts in the community.” 
murray said he collaborated with several other students and two community members, pool operators dena woods and lt. gus bennett, to create and maintain a Facebook cal­endar that comprehensively lists upcoming concerts and events. he said that donations from Friday’s concert would go towards developing the cal­endar further. 
“There’s tons of awesome bands in south bend that no one really knows about,” murray said. “now it’s all 
see bridge PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 hocKey PAGE 16 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could make up a new sport for the Winter Olympics, what would it be? 



Breanna Leahy 
sophomore 
regina hall 

“26-mile snow obstacle course.” 

Christopher Genco 
senior 
Keenan hall 
“lunch tray sledding.” 

John Richardson 
freshman 
Keenan hall 
“competitive snowball fight, capture-the-flag style.” 


Kevin Kim 
senior 
carroll hall 

“extreme dog sledding through the quads. hitting geese earns extra points.” 

Kim Orlando 
freshman 
regina hall 

“polar bear plunge - who can stay in the water the longest.” 

Marykatherine Curtin 
sophomore 
le mans hall 

“hamster ball on ice.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
meg handelman Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kelly Konya mary green emily mcconville mike ginocchio 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa  daniel barabasi 
Photo Viewpoint 

Swim lessons Panel: “Out @ Work” Valerie Sayers Zen Meditation Women’s Tennis 
Jodi lo dan brombach 
Rockne Memorial Legends reading 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion 9 a.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Hammes Bookstore Coleman-Morse 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Registration for LGBT issues in the 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Center The Irish play the 
Corrections 

semester-long lessons workplace. Professor and novelist. Held every Thursday. Illinois Fighting Illini. 
an article published on Thursday, Jan. 23 quoted debie cole, president 
Lecture: Irish studies Men’s Basketball Film: “Blackmail” Women’s Basketball Oscar-nominated 
and ceo of goodwill industries of 
424 Flanner Hall Purcell Pavilion at the DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion at the short films 
michana as saying that the company’s 
12 p.m. - 1 p.m. Joyce Center Arts Center Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing 
second chance provides work 

“Irish-American Novels 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. 8 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 
experience for over 400 sex offenders 
and Songs in the The Irish play the Part of the Hitchcock The Irish play the 6:30 p.m. 
annually. The correct term is “ex-sex 
Nineteenth Century.” Virgina Cavaliers. Film Series. Virginia Tech Hokies. All the 2014 nominees. 
offender.” 



Lecture explores oral culture in digital age 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
william butler yeats and Federico garcía lorca may have been writing 100 years ago, but english phd can­didate John dillon suggests their works from near the turn of the 20th century re­flect a moment of change 
similar to  today’s  cultural  
upheaval.  
dillon,  the  notebaert  

graduate presidential Fellow in the department of english, delivered a lecture Friday titled “From oral culture to open access: yeats, lorca and the digital Turn.” he argued that the current dig­ital or information revolu­tion mirrors the industrial revolution that catalyzed european modernism at the turn of the 20th century, and that by examining the work of writers like yeats and lorca today’s readers can better understand the cur­rent cultural climate. 
explaining the fascination the writers had for the folk­lore of their respective irish and spanish cultures, dillon said both were immersed in folk culture and for them, the artistic event of a folk tale was far more remarkable than written word. 
“if folklore, as yeats and lorca would insist, is not what is kept in the archive but in the heart, then one should reconsider their engagement with folklore based on how they encountered it rather than what they collected,” he said. 
dillon said lorca especial­ly was “highly suspicious of the written word” and had a deep commitment to cre­ating a “living art” as “alive and pulsing as a frog.” 
because of lorca’s up­bringing in southern spain, dillon said the poet was im­mersed in the rural, folkloric culture throughout his early life. 
“For lorca, any sort of cos­mopolitanism is complete­ly a second language,” he said. “growing up in Fuente vaqueros, a folk way of life would have been as natural as the ground beneath his 
feet.” lorca’s early works, notably 
“If folklore, as Yeats and Lorca would insist, is not what is kept in the archive but in the heart, then one should reconsider their engagement with folklore based on how they encountered it rather than what they collected.” 
John Dillon 
PhD candidate 
“poema del cante jondo” and “romancero gitano” reflect this deep-rooted identifica­tion with spanish folklore, dillon said. similarly, yeats’ understanding of the organic nature of art allowed him to think of literature as an activity or a game being played, he said. because of this, yeats created a “potent” and “ephemeral” art. 
“This is a living art; it’s stitched into life,” dillon said. “This is perhaps the critical characteristic of the art … in this way, the aware­ness that what one is doing is art flickers in and out, which makes it spontaneous, or­ganic and undefinable.” 
The intersection of folk culture and european modernism in yeats’ and lorca’s writing is important because it affects the way today’s scholars view litera­ture, he said. 
“if the aesthetic catalyst at the beginning of the 20th century was the industrial revolution, then the digi­tal or information revolu­tion bookends this century,” dillon said. “we can hold up the former as a foothold for perspective to see the latter. 
“it seems to me that with the digital turn … we are moving towards a form of art which is quite like the type of living art i have been describing. it’s strange; we are moving forward in time but we’re aesthetically regressing.” 
dillon said the digital revo­lution creates a type of “gold rush,” where people anx­iously attempt to preserve and archive today’s culture. 
“we have to digitize every­thing. everything must be in an archive,” he said. “we are the contemporary folk­lorists… [and] this rush of anxiety parallels the devel­opment of new tools for re­cording and preservation. 
“more can be recorded, so more must be recorded. we also see an obsession with metadata, taxonomy and classification.” 
in the midst of a moment of cultural change, dillon said both writers and readers must resist the marketabil­ity of art and remember that content is not created for the market. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

belles blog about saint mary’s fashion 
By ELIZABETH KENNEY 
news writer 
saint mary’s juniors erin hall and anna sullivan are two of the newest belles jumping on the blogging bandwagon. 
The pair recently began writing as correspondents for fashion and lifestyle blogs targeting the saint mary’s community. 
hall blogs for u lala, a fash­ion and lifestyle website for college women with corre­spondents from more than 28 campuses around the na­tion. hall said she knew she wanted to be involved the first time she came across the website. 
“[i] thought it was a great place for college women to get ideas on everything from fashion to diys so when they accepted my application to start the saint mary’s branch i was super excited,” hall said. 
hall said she enjoys writing 

paid adverTisemenT 

about a variety of topics, including travel, cooking, crafts, and music. 
“i love to switch up what i’m writing about and pick new things,” hall said. 
sullivan writes a blog for college Fashionista as the saint mary’s contributor. This website focuses on fashion style and trends making their ways on college campuses around the country. sullivan contributes photographs and feature articles that highlight different looks and people around campus. 
sullivan said her page on the blog is called “Fashionista spotlight.” 
“basically, i choose a girl once a week to interview,” sullivan said. “i ask her a va­riety of questions ranging from her favorite designer to what her favorite trends are. Then, i take a few pictures of her to accompany the article once it goes live.” 
hall said her blog not only offers the women of saint mary’s something unique, but also this writing format complements her own work as a student. 
“i was eager to do some­thing other than just work and take classes,” hall said. “i figured it would be a fun way to gain experience.” sullivan said blogging enhances her academic experience. 
“writing for college Fashionista or any other blog allows your work to get out there and [be] taken serious­
“Writing for College Fashionista or any other blog allows your work to get out there and [be] taken seriously in a different setting other than the classroom.” 
Anna Sullivan 
junior blogger 
ly in a different setting other than the classroom,” sullivan said. 
professor helen ho, as­sistant professor of com­munication studies at saint mary’s, said simply reading blogs and certainly writing in this format can be helpful for students. 
“when we are pushing stu­dents to become better writ­ers, which saint mary’s does so often, part of being a good writer is to keep up your read­ing,” ho said. 
she explained that any form of reading and writing, even online articles and blogs, all contribute to this. 
hall said her inspiration often comes from other blogs such as ‘They all hate us’ by Tash and elle, ‘Tuulavintage’ by Jessica stein, and ‘lovelypepa’ by alexandra. 
sullivan said she emphasiz­es fashion at saint. mary’s in­stead of focusing on national trends. 
“i really like writing about why girls dress they way they do. most likely they have never thought about it them­selves, but actually they way we dress says a lot more about us than we think,” sullivan said. 
Contact Elizabeth Kenney at ekenne01@saintmarys.edu 



Retreat 
conTinued From page 1 
questions and uncertainties in their lives. 
“There are so many popula­tions who can benefit from re­treats, but in a way our seniors are most in need,” morgan said. “we often underestimate how stressful senior year can be. it’s such a crucial moment in their lives that it’s often easy to push faith aside.” 
larme said many of the ac­tivities on the retreat centered on questions seniors face everyday. 
“based on the question of ‘who am i?’ we got to paint whatever came to our head,” larme said. “we had one hour and a blank canvas. it was re­ally cool.” 
larme said even though she is a senior, the retreat still ex­posed her to people she had never met before. 
“i got the chance to talk to 
Mass 
conTinued From page 1 
assistant intersected with box­ing when two undergraduate bengal bouts captains enrolled in his chemical engineering lab section and ignited his interest in the clue. 
“he loved the sport,” senior alex oloriz said. “we kind of got him into it. he was always ask­ing us for advice.” 
senior Jeff ulrich, another captain, said sharma filled the teaching role well in the la, but readily accepted the role re­versal when his students were teaching him boxing. 
“one thing i liked about him was that he definitely loved to learn in boxing and was very helpful as a teacher [in the lab], but i thought he also did a great job of trying to connect on a personal level too with his stu­dents,” ulrich said. “he always wanted to connect on a person­al level and not just learn the skill, or just teach the subject. That was a great thing about him.” 
grief counseling is avail­able to students through the university counseling center, campus ministry, and international student and scholar affairs (issa). 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

people that i’ve never known before and i realized they’re thinking about a lot of the same things i am and they have a lot of the same ques­tions and concerns that i do,” larme said. “i signed up [for the retreat] on my own accord but then it turned out that five to seven of my close friends signed up, too. but i also met a lot of people i hadn’t met be­fore, so it was a cool balance of both.” 
larme said she did not know what to think going into the retreat, but knew she wanted the chance to remove herself from her everyday life for a little bit. 
“i really wasn’t sure what to expect from the retreat, but i knew i wanted to take the opportunity at this point in senior year when stuff gets really busy to slow down and think about my relationship with god,” larme said. 
campus ministry intern rob goodale said the retreat, which he and morgan have been planning since october, formed after talking to several other schools about their se­nior retreats. 
“we talked to people at villanova, marquette, gonzaga and Texas a&m about what they were doing with their seniors to get ideas for what we wanted to do,” goodale said. 
larme said the retreat fea­tured typical activities such as silent reflection and small group time, but also included some creative and fun exercis­es designed to help students reflect. 
“we recorded videos of our­selves talking about where we are in our lives and sent them to an e-mail address set up my the retreat directors and they will send them to us after graduation,” larme said. “it will be interesting to see how we have changed from now until then.” 
larme said the retreat made her realize once again how much she appreciates the en­tire notre dame community. 
“it just reinforced the feel­ing that i am so lucky to be in the type of school environ­ment we have,” larme said. “it made me fall in love with my school all over again.” 


Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Bridge 
conTinued From page 1 
centralized, and people will be able to explore that and re­ally benefit.” 
dena woods, an opera­tor of The pool who is work­ing with The bridge project, said she hopes the students expo will bring the initiative to students’ attention and en­courage them to explore local music. 
“every time i’ve interacted with students, they don’t seem to know what we’re doing,” she said. “it’s a bit harder for students to find out about these events because they’re so isolated ... we want to ex­pose them to the space and ... create an awareness of what’s going on downtown.” 
woods said The bridge project is currently focused on developing the music scene, but the group hopes to expand into other areas, such as art, film and poetry. 
“right now the easiest way, i think, to connect with college students is the music scene, so that’s definitely the driving force behind it, but we’re cer­tainly looking to open it up to many more events,” said James bachmayer, another founder of the project. “i just went to the farmer’s market yesterday, actually, and brought a couple friends, and there was a nice post on the website. when i was there a lot of vendors were talking about these events that aren’t music-related that are happening throughout the month, so we definitely want this to be a catalyst for future growth.” 
murray said he hopes the concert will encourage stu­dents from all college cam­puses in south bend to get involved with the project and apply their majors to as­pects of the campaign, such as graphic design. he said he also wants students to attend events on the calendar and form bands to perform at local venues. 
“once we pop this bubble and get the connection flow­ing, we can just accomplish so many things,” he said. 
For more information on The bridge project and the students expo, visit the group’s Facebook page or con­tact them at thebridgeproj­ectsb@gmail.com. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Wiest 
conTinued From page 1 
honors and is known for her 10-year career with popu­lar series “law & order” as district attorney nora lewin. she also appeared in mul­tiple theater productions and over 54 films, including “Footloose” and five woody allen films such as “hannah and her sisters.” 
“The amount of plays she’s done and the amount of mov­ies she’s done can be split up amongst several differ­ent lifetimes,” junior maria welser said. “and i think the best thing ever about it is even if you don’t know her, she’s worked with some of the biggest names in theater and in movies and television.” 
wiest will partake in a three-hour class with college theater students, sullivan said. during the class, 13 stu­dents will present six short scenes they have prepared. 
“[wiest] is really dedicated and interested in doing the very best job of coaching and guiding she can,” sullivan said, “usually we don’t have as many as 13 performers. she was very interested in being as inclusive as possible.” 
sullivan said an hour-long private lunch will follow the class. with no faculty pres­ent at the meal, 19 theater students will have the chance to ask questions and converse with the actress. 
sophomore Katie corbett said the time at lunch will al­low her and fellow students to peek into wiest’s world. 
“i think it’s such a rare opportunity for us to have someone who’s so acclaimed from the industry,” corbett said. “she will be able to give advice to any saint mary’s woman … it’ll be an incred­ible opportunity.” 
sullivan said she plans to ask wiest a series of ques­tions regarding her childhood and career, allowing wiest to share personal anecdotes and stories with the audience, she said. 
“we’ve all been a fan of a movie or a person, and the idea of getting to hear them really talk about the experi­ence that meant so much to us is really cool,” sullivan said. 
Following the presentation 
paid adverTisemenT 
there will be a question and answer session with the audi­ence, she said. 
“i think there will be fans from various walks of life, not just theater trained people but movie goers, Tv watch­ers, people who think ‘wow, i have the chance to hear somebody speak as her real self when i’ve been watching her for years,’” sullivan said. 
corbett said wiest’s strength and independence embodies what saint mary’s is all about by. she said she sees wiest’s story as motiva­tion for other women to craft an enriching career no matter where they come from. 
“a lot of times when we’re hosting a woman, we’re say­ing to our students ‘This is possible. dream big,’” sullivan said. “it’s not just about showing off or saying ‘help me, help me,’ it’s really about saying ‘my gosh we have this opportunity to pick someone’s brain, who has been where you are, young and full of desire’, and learn from her. it’s a great learning experience.” 
Tickets are free to students, faculty, and staff from saint mary’s college, university of notre dame and holy cross college. admission is $10 for general public and $5 for senior citizens. Tickets are available at the moreau box office, by calling (574)-284­4626, and online at www. moreaucenter.com. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

edm is more than drugs 
Karla Moreno 
photographer 

last February, ryan raddon, the chicago­based dJ better known as Kaskade, wrote a blog post titled “no one Knows who we are,” in response to an los angeles Times ar­ticle which highlighted many of the dangers of drugs and what they dubbed as “electronic festival culture.” 
in his writing, raddon called the Times out for painting a negative picture of elec­tronic dance music (edm), of factionalizing it into an “ecstasy-fueled underground … leaving a trail of dead, drug-addled kids.” while he wrote about the advancements the edm scene has made in ensuring safe ven­ues and highly stimulating local economies, raddon went on to address an even higher topic: the culture of the genre. 
For those who have been to music festivals, you share with me that memory of closing your eyes, taking a deep breath and knowing that life can’t feel much better than the pure and organic joy of that moment. any song can trigger this emotion or, better yet, a mea­ger and mildly-reduced sample of it, but only through the act of closing my eyes can i ever fully feel it in my chest. 
mainstream media has not taken the issues of drug-related deaths lightly, and rightly so. however, to paint an entire genre’s picture as one solely contingent upon an il­legal substance is both criminal and a fallacy. Firstly, what does “edm” even mean? a list of popular touring dJ’s? is it defined by venue, its audience or what its audience wears? 
There is no standard way to define this “genre” because it isn’t one. it’s the malleable and evolving composition of a certain repro­duction of the exuberant and wild experi­ence that is our humanity. i don’t even know if that sentence makes sense but it just feels so right. it’s the only way i could ever describe what this music is. it’s common theme, i believe, is that it isn’t the words which drives its fanatics to assemble by the hundreds of thousands. it’s the beat. That beat is palpat­ing, lively and, i would argue, the drug itself. 
The moment you are able to match your own heart’s beat to the one a producer has assembled for you, you’re able to share and express it with the world. you don’t need a substance, just the music, just the dance. 
in his closing, Kaskade dispels the myth of a community hinging on drugs by proclaim­ing, “This community is exceptional in its ability to bond all types together, and i am not exaggerating when i say it saves lives. our audience is intelligent and kind, discrimi­nating only in regards to which sound they like best.” and any fears about his relevance should be dimmed by the two grammys he was nominated for. 
we’re afraid of the unknown. we demand to know that we’ll be safe. besides the basics of your physical safety, i would challenge you to step outside that box. don’t be afraid to tune your frequency to one higher than the one you dance to now. besides, you never know how tuned in you really are anyway. 
Contact Karla Moreno at kmoren01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

i can’t tell you i know advice up­perclassmen gave me when i came to notre dame. Judging from the section i’ve come to know, it was probably well-intentioned, carefully thought out and, at a minimum, r-rated. i probably would’ve been well served by listening, but in truth, much of col­lege is something you can only learn by experiencing. in short, their advice went over my head like a playtex com­mercial at the vatican. but if i were giving advice to freshmen now, here’s what i’d say. 
Find something bigger than your­self, and i don’t mean go jersey chas­ing after linemen. Find something the result of which is not entirely within your control. work for it any way. it could be a charity, a campaign or any of 100 causes on campus. i think it’s good to go after something without pause, knowing full well you may fail. it’s good to be exposed a little. 
ditch your homework one night and find an adventure. if you can’t find one, create one. don’t make a habit of the homework ditching. 
don’t be really stupid. but once in a while, do something crazy. crash a class, a final or a wedding. don’t get caught. stay up late talking to your friends, strangers at laFortune or your ra. There are literally thousands of incredible people here. listen to your friend tell you how he’s decided to become a rapper at 3 a.m. learn when to sleep, and when staying up late is worth it. hint: it’s usually worth stay­ing up. 
get in some trouble. i’m not saying get arrested, reslife’d or whatever poorly chosen verb the kids are us­ing these days. don’t screw up your future, but also make sure you don’t regret what you didn’t do in the past. That previous sentence was originally “don’t regret the past.” Then i realized that probably went out the door for most people around domerfest. 
pay attention to emails you get early on at notre dame. There’s truly an endless amount of opportunities here. don’t be afraid to get involved. go see what people around campus are do­ing. see the humor artists, halftime and harmonia. go to a play and the Keenan revue. go to flag football games and start some questionable cheers. don’t go to the bun run. 
call your family. enjoy them while you’re home. you’ll start seeing them less and less. have dinner with them. ask your little sibling annoying ques­tions about his or her high school love life. walk away when they turn the question back on you. go for a walk with your mom. watch a movie at home. don’t pick “love actually.” don’t get me wrong, it’s a great movie and my conviction in grand romantic gestures has never been higher. but i could’ve done with a tad less nudity in a movie i’m watching with my mom and two sisters. save love actually for your section romcom night. and don’t pretend like your dorm doesn’t have one too, guys. 
make sure you appreciate how great your friends are. be thankful for them and don’t be afraid to make a couple more. 
write some stuff down. write letters to your friends while you’re abroad. write down great quotes, adventures and that number you just got at a party or from the steak n’ shake waitress. write a bucket list. and due dates. i definitely should’ve written down due dates. one of my friends told me we should write down funny things i say. i started, but i’m still on page one. 
have a huge dorm party. invite everyone you know. play “call me maybe.” a lot. when it comes to space, there’s always room for one more in a car, cab or dorm room. That latter one is only applicable between the hours of 9 a.m. and midnight with an appli­cable social gathering form filled out and sufficient space left for the holy spirit. you’re on the honor system, but remember folks: god is watching. 
so that’s really all i have. a not-so­wise man once asked, “is it worth it? The late nights out? The mindless nights in? all the studying?” and there’s really only one way to respond to that. is bruce springsteen america? is “stacy’s mom” a great song? was “boy meets world” a phenomenal show? was mr. Feeney the teacher we all wish we had? is everett golson back? if you respond no to any of those, my friend will gladly inform you you’re either a dirty british loyalist or a godless communist. or both. 
a bunch of us were hanging out in my ra’s room one night at about 2:03 a.m., or, as we know it in siegfried hall, “girls out, pants off o’clock.” we were discussing what made notre dame so great, why everyone in the room could be consistently found with a massive, foolish smile on their face. people tossed out answers about football and the dome and “this girl i just met. sasha. or sarah. i think.” but in retrospect, my ra had it right. life is so great, he summed up, “because you’re friends with these idiots.” and i wouldn’t change a thing. 
barring a victory lap, we have four years to squeeze every ounce of excite­ment, opportunity and memories out of this place. no matter where you find your friends, where you go for fun or what you study, don’t dare squan­der a second of it. ultimately, grab your friends, pursue your passions, go after your dreams and don’t be afraid to become one of “these idiots.” i promise it’ll be a hell of a time. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. “Idiot” is the nicest thing he’s been called in recent memory. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The value of ‘vanilla’ 
i wish to offer a response to your recent edi­torial (“our commencement speaker,” Jan. 24). The observer has made known its displeasure with this year’s so-called boring choice of com­mencement speaker, but i believe that you do yourselves and the university a disservice through your slanted commentary on this issue. 
you claim to not want to be “bored or unin­terested on one of the most important days of [your] lives,” but it seems to me that you are ig­noring the real benefit of a neutral speaker: he causes no controversy and takes no attention away from the graduating class. you opine for the likes of melinda gates or eric schmidt, but have you considered the consequences which would follow an invitation to either? melinda gates has been heralded in the press as “throw­ing the gauntlet in the face of the vatican” by claiming to be a faithful catholic while donating millions of dollars to provide mass contraception services in africa. eric schmidt was a campaign advisor to president obama and currently serves on his council of advisors on science and Technology. you may have forgotten 
— though i doubt it — that our university is cur­rently suing the obama administration over the requirement that our insurance provide contra­ception coverage to university employees. what kind of publicity (and alumni) fiasco would we be embroiled in now if the university had fol­lowed your advice? 
Furthermore, you yourselves noted that awarding honorary degrees is a momentous oc­casion for the university. The university must be careful whom it chooses to invite into the notre dame family. in 2009, we learned what happens when a university claiming to be faith­ful and catholic makes a poor choice in this regard. The obama debacle consumed and marred what should have been an exciting, posi­tive final semester for the graduating class. i doubt very much that the administration will err in that way again. christopher patten was governor of hong Kong, chairman of bbc and is the chancellor of the world’s most famous uni­versity. There are plenty of students on campus who would dispute your labeling such a man “vanilla.” i suggest that you embrace this oppor­tunity to learn something new and interesting during your controversy-free graduation. i hope you will. There’s more to consider here than just the name recognition of the speaker. 
Michael Rangel 
sophomore Zahm house Jan. 25 
UWIRE 

locked into bitcoin 
Raven Jiang 
The stanford daily 

a huge part of the appeal of bitcoin is its prom­ise of being decentralized yet secure, but what happens when the system requires fundamental adjustments? 
in traditional monetary systems, a credible government is necessary to guarantee the value of fiat currency. across the political spectrum, from the anti-establishment online movements to more traditional libertarians, there are groups of people who believe the central authority rep­resents a single point of failure in the economy, allowing corrupt or incompetent governments to devalue existing money to the detriment of the people. The dramatic rise in the price of gold over the past decade can be partly attributed to this desire for a non-inflationary currency. as former congressman ron paul puts it, “gold is the ultimate money.” 
with bitcoin, we seem to have finally discov­ered digital gold. like gold, the supply is finite and not subjected to intentional increases by political entities. The amount of gold is pres­ently limited by the earth’s composition while the number of bitcoins is bounded mathemati­cally to 21 million. Therefore bitcoins and gold are both naturally deflationary — their values tend to increase over time. The inventor of bitcoin even used the term “mining” to describe the process in which new coins are computed. unlike gold, bitcoin is vastly more functional as a currency. The peer-to-peer network handling bitcoin transactions allows fast, pseudonymous, and cryptographically verified payments all without the involvement of any monetary au­thorities. bitcoins do not require trust in tradi­tional institutions, but merely trust in the open source mathematical algorithms. 
so is this the freedom that cyberlibertarians have long fantasized about? if we are merely talking about freedom from governmental control, then the answer is yes, eventually. while governments presently exert control over bitcoin by targeting exchanges and physical infrastruc­tures that power bitcoin, these leverages dimin­ish over time as the economy becomes more self-contained. if people outgrow the constant need to convert bTc into usd and anonymiza­tion of bitcoin transactions become routine, then it seems inevitable that monitoring finan­cial transactions will become increasingly im­practical for governments. Forget fiscal policies and taxation — the government needs to first prove that your wealth exists. That may well be the libertarian idea of paradise. 
but is that really freedom? or are we are simply the subjects of a new, subtler master? instead of a flawed, but democratic government, we place our trust in an algorithm from an anonymous creator 
— the same individual whom some believe owns 
4.7 percent of all bitcoins that will ever exist. 
in the peer-to-peer transaction network, the rules of bitcoin are enforced purely by majority consensus of the nodes. no one has any real idea what the hard limit and the designed deflation would mean for a significantly sized economy, or how the extreme inequality in accumulated bitcoin wealth would serve to influence and perhaps distort society, especially since these pockets of wealth can never be overcome due to the hard cap. within the bitcoin community, the canned response to questions about the hard limit is that each bitcoin is divisible down to eight decimal places and therefore there will be more than enough units of currency to go around. The fallacy in this line of thinking is obvious when we look at legacy problems such as the exhaustion of ipv4 addresses. 
a separate but related problem is that of lost bitcoins. due to encryption, it is not hard for individuals to irreversibly lose access to their bitcoins by accident. There are many precautions one can take in backing up encryption keys, but human error will always exist. since the encryp­tion used to protect the wallet is impervious to cracking (or there would be far greater problems at hand), these coins are lost forever. Therefore, the final number of bitcoins is not just capped at 21 million but ever decreasing, placing yet an­other limit on the flexibility of bitcoin as a global currency. 
if bitcoin truly intends to go mainstream, it must look to address these issues in the long term. however, the decentralized design makes it nigh impossible for anyone to make adjust­ments to the underlying system. yet if bitcoin is to become more than just a temporary asset bubble, there are numerous conceivable systemic changes that may be required as scalability lim­its of the system are tested by growing demands. For such changes to be successfully implement­ed, some form of committee or central authority must emerge to fulfill that role. 
There have been limited attempts at this in the form of bitcoin improvement proposals (bip). suggested changes to the network are put into mining clients as bips, allowing individual min­ers to vote in favor of or against the proposal as part of the mining process. The problem with bips is that they are never adopted in practice because any protocol change requires more than 51 percent of the miners in the network to vote positively as a technical and not merely proce­dural necessity. Think about how hard it is to get bills passed in congress and combine that with the low voting turnout of most modern democra­cies. That is no way to run an economy. 
if it proves to be technically infeasible for a credible and potent bitcoin authority to emerge, then investors and their wealth may ultimately be locked into the unchanging algorithm. let us hope that satoshi nakamoto, unlike the cre­ators of the internet protocol, got it right the first time. 
The Stanford Daily is the independent student     newspaper serving Stanford University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

while oscar buzz dominates nationwide, a great film event rolled out much closer to home this past weekend. 
The notre dame student Film Festival ran from Jan. 23 through 25 at the debartolo performing arts center, and featured 14 works of 31 student filmmakers. These mov­ies were culled from the class projects of the advanced, intermediate and introductory video production and film courses taught in the department of Film, Television and Theatre. and frankly, they were all outstanding. 
The films ranged from the serious, like “The suicide disease,” to the comedic, such as “unexpected Fortune,” and even to the dark and terrifying, like “dinner for none.” such a wide variety of films gave the audience the ability to experience an ample assortment of emotions over a short two-hour period. 
one of the quirkiest films presented at the festival was “rice bag,” an off-the-wall comedy about the wacky events surrounding a blindfolded man tied to a chair in the middle of nowhere. This ridiculous premise allowed for some great character interactions and a number of laughs as they struggled to figure out what to do with the constrained man. as ridiculous as the initial premise was, the twists and turns over the course of the next five minutes were even more ludicrous and left the viewer in 
Erin Thomassen 
scene writer 

snow boots are not dancing shoes. my uggs were not going to stop me, though, from entering legends’ “so you Think you can dance” competition last Friday night. The odds were in my favor; i had obviously prepared the most, since i decided to enter the competi­tion two minutes before the cutoff. i could also disco, which was way more impressive than breakdancing. 
i pretended to stretch while i sized up my competi­tion: muscular men from project Fresh and a blonde girl in sequin leggings. Their headstands were intimidating, but i closed my eyes and told myself that i had nothing to worry about. i was a macarena master. 
The first tribute entered the ring, and the battle began. The kid spun fire. okay, maybe they were electronic lights, but the Katniss everdeen in me saw blazing torch­es instead of glow sticks swung by shoelaces. 
next, the blonde girl aerialed into the center. darn those sequined leggings that sparkled in the spotlight. she proceeded to do a handstand and twerk upside-down. The judges leaned forward in their seats. The 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

a confused, but satisfied state by the end. 
another highlight was “The last Free place,” a docu­mentary taking a thought-provoking look at the lives of the eccentric residents of slab city, a hodgepodge of trail­ers, tents and other campsites built on the remains of camp dunlap, a world war ii marine base. The people of slab city have abandoned modernity for a plethora of reasons, whether it be to avoid taxes, escape the harsh reality of poverty or even to just get off the grid and ex­perience an unprecedented amount of freedom. The film shows the struggles of their minimalistic lifestyle as they attempt to scavenge whatever resources they can muster in the middle of the colorado desert, but also examines the simple joys in their lives. at one point, slab city’s denizens gather around a bonfire of otherwise unusable objects, laughing and singing campfire songs as the trash of the modern world burns away. The film made a great point of showing how these people made an enjoyable life for themselves without the comforts of contemporary american culture. 
one of the more purely artistic films was “discordance,” a short chronicling the rise and fall of a fictional on-campus relationship set to the tune of a single piano. The character development was phenomenal, especially considering how not a single line of dialogue was spoken. “discordance” pulled at the viewers’ heartstrings and created a masterfully wonderful, bittersweet love story 
audience of three started wondering where the rest of the crowd went. 
The next four dancers were all professionally trained break-dancers. 
i told myself that, at least, while they effortlessly per­formed kick-ups, springing from a collapsed back-bend position to standing up straight. one of them spun around in a one handed push-up, and another showed off his arm muscles in a slow-motion worm. i put on my game face and tried to forget that they actually started dancing one to two years ago, when youTube videos inspired them to join project Fresh. 
it was my turn. The ring was empty, and so was my mind. i forgot my routine. i forgot that i did not prepare a routine. Then my years of awkward school dances paid off. i raised the roof. i mashed the potato. i inspired feminists by becoming a running man, and then disap­pointed them by retreating to the shopping cart. who says you have to be an astronaut to moonwalk? i traveled to the past with the charleston and to the future with the robot. i got hot with the hustle and cooled off with the sprinkler. i worked up quite an appetite, so i found a cabbage patch and picked it. 
needless to say, my performance was the most over the course of five minutes. 
“lilith’s game” was one of the more terrifying films shown at the festival. This short follows a young man as the disturbing horrors lurking within his video game es­cape into the real world. “lilith’s game” was a particu­larly enjoyable take on the classic scary movie genre. it’s exceptionally notable thanks to the sound direction of the film. 
The only noise the characters make are screams, mak­ing the moments of horror that much more intense. The soundtrack was really unique as well, relying only on dubstep and other electronic music in order to success­fully convey a wide variety of emotions in a relatively short amount of time. The artistic direction was also remarkable, especially the way the special effects of the video game escape into the real world at the same time the villain does. 
overall, i was really impressed with how all the shorts managed to develop powerful and interesting characters, relationships, and stories with such a limited amount of actual screen time. all of the films were of incredibly high quality and managed to achieve the goals the directors set out to reach. The notre dame student Film Festival was a huge success, and i cannot wait to see what they have in store for us next year. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
technically challenging and emotionally rousing one of the night. everyone knows that the hokey-pokey is more challenging than splits and salsa dancing. imagine my surprise then when the judges cut me before the second round. 
i tried to hold back tears, but they dribbled out like soccer balls. suddenly, though, it all became clear. i was not kicked out of the competition because i was not the most skilled dancer to walk the planet, but because i for­got to cite my sources. as a notre dame student, i should always acknowledge when i am adapting someone else’s creation. 
The tears commenced again, this time because i was ashamed for forgetting to specify that i had not choreo­graphed the y.m.c.a. 
i trudged back to my dorm and the tears froze on my face. i pitied my talent, plagued by plagiarism. 
To comfort me, snow oozed through my boots and cuddled with my toes. 
snow boots are not dancing shoes. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

is there any awards show even that’s even marginally relevant to how actual people actual watch movies or listen to music? 
according to the first day of my intro to sociology course, generally we all do stuff differently because we’re all different in our own way. i dropped after the first day. if i were to be so bold as to extrapolate this insight to the world of entertain­ment, i might say that no two people consume entertainment, be it movies, music, books, art or anything else, in the exact same way. one of the things we love about our entertainment, or at least i do, is to discuss with friends and politely, delicately disagree with the values of your individual perspectives on something. 
but even if we all see things differently, it doesn’t mean we can’t build something resembling a consensus on what’s good and what’s bad. and, in theory, we have awards shows to see the works of film or music that the general population should look to as examples of greatness; or at least that’s how i see awards shows. 
much has been made of the general out-of-touchness of the grammys, which aired sunday night but after i wrote this column. not that it would’ve mattered for me to wait and watch the grammys — i’m not going to, because i don’t care. music just isn’t my jam (classic pun). but i still listen to it, and there’s music that i enjoy. i apparently outed myself as artistically ignorant when it comes to music when i announced to my more musically literate staff that i enjoyed macklemore’s album and was greeted with looks of outright shock on their faces. let alone the fact that the only album i’ve ever actually purchased was coldplay’s “viva la vida,” a decision that, in my defense, i later regretted. 
i’m not deaf though. i know “my beautiful dark Twisted Fantasy” from Kanye west deserved at least an album of the year nomination in 2012, and probably the award itself. pusha T’s “my name is my name” was one of my fa­vorite albums of the year, and deserved at least some kind of nomination at the grammys. even as a macklemore fan i can say “nosetalgia” was leaps and bounds a better rap song than “Thrift shop.” 
The oscars, which covers an arena of entertainment about which i do have some small bit of knowledge (read: snob­bery), will get their own round of bad press over the next month as the ceremo­ny gets closer. but they’re not even the awards show i want to pick a bone with today. no, it’s not the oscars that bleeped off on my film snob radar, but they’re spoof, parody cousing the razzies. 
The golden raspberry awards began in 1980 with the explicit purpose of mocking the worst in cinema each year. They’re generally something of a publicity stunt in and of themselves, but this year’s razzies are grinding my gears at a new level. 
instead of attempting to examine film and the public’s reaction to this year’s slate of the overhyped, the underwhelm­ing, the unflinchingly self-important and the James Franco, they opted instead for a collection of in-jokes that they hope peo­ple will find funny enough to tune in. 
The awards for worst picture are an amalgamation of movies that read as if Jay leno was writing his monologue and saying, “hey, i’m pretty sure regu­lar folks don’t like these guys! i should make fun of them!” included in the list . “after earth” (“hey, people don’t like m. night shyamalan!”); “grown ups 2” (i’m pretty sure people think adam sandler is a goof!”); “a madea christmas” (“people think Tyler perry’s movies are garbage!”); “The lone ranger” (“i read about this movie not being good on rotten Tomatoes!”); and “movie 43” (the only movie that feels like it really earned its way on this list). 
i’m not saying that any of those movies were good . “movie 43” was truly misera­ble. but it truly feels like a bad monologue joke at a vegas nightclub from a washed up comedian than any kind of thoughtful critique that people can look at and think about. 
maybe that’s not what awards shows are about. maybe nobody should pay at­tention to them and we should all make fun of them. but if even the awards show that’s supposed to be making fun of awards show can’t find anything relatable in its mockery, awards shows are seriously in the muck. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

south bend felt a little hotter on saturday night in legends thanks to the latin musical stylings of salsa band afinca’o. a surprisingly large group of stu­dents braved the subzero temperatures and they dressed to dance. The chicago­based band went on at 10 p.m. followed by legends’ salsa dance night. The array of musicians boasting a keyboard, trumpet and a saxophone livened up the atten­dance and spirit of the traditional night. 
it was not a lone dance kind of night. 
people were fast to pair off once they ar­rived. There was something very friendly and traditional about the social dancing, and ease of asking and being asked to dance by strangers. it didn’t matter if you did not know how to dance salsa, because it’s legends, and for some reason that means that social rules and shame go out the window. There were a lot of non-novice salsa dancers though. They knew what they were doing on the floor and it was fun just to watch them go. These fan­cy dancers were mostly couples, which was probably for the best. it would be very intimidating to dance with such an expert dancer unless you yourself were also skilled or at least romantically entangled with said dancer. The band took a break halfway through the set, which forced a well-needed water break midst the lively dancing. They knew what they were do­ing, and responded to the mood of the crowd throughout. 
The music was a more americanized version of salsa than i expected, they were almost jazzy at times which i attribute to their chicago roots. it would probably cost a fair amount to go to one of their concerts, or pay the cover fee in one of the clubs they play, making our free legends concert all the more thrilling. The band chatted with the crowd and dancers in between songs. They played really rous­ing catchy beats and called out some of the more talented dancers, compliment­ing their hip movements and fast feet. 
salsa night is intrinsically fun on its own, but the addition of the large live band really made it. you can’t beat a live salsa band at a place like legends were there is little shame to begin with. it was definitely worth making the trek. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Top rivalry is a real ‘Thrilla’ 

Greg Hadley 
sports writer 
what are the ingredients for a great rivalry? 
obviously, there has to be a mutual disdain between the two teams or individuals. a friendly rivalry is nice, but it’s not a great one. 
both individuals also need to be at the top of their sport. nobody noticed the seahawks-49ers rivalry until both teams started winning. 
a rivalry has to have history to be great too. The longer, the better. 
and most importantly, a truly great rivalry is bigger than sports. in the very best rivalries, the two sides repre­sent something bigger than themselves. 
by all these measures, no ri­valry can compare to the one between muhammad ali and Joe Frazier. Three epic fights, spanning four years, at a time when boxing was still one of the most popular sports in the world. 
one might argue that be­cause they only fought three times, the rivalry was less bitter than those that span decades. but Frazier and ali poured more intensity and venom into those three fights than most athletes can even dream of. 
at the time of the first bout, in 1971, both boxers were undefeated. Frazier was the world champion, because ali had been stripped of his title for resisting the draft for vietnam. For many, ali repre­sented the young, the liberal and the anti-war movement, while Frazier was backed by those that supported the war. The fight itself went the full 15 rounds, with Frazier winning by unanimous decision. ali, to put it delicately, disagreed. with his signature style and flair, he basically called the decision a travesty. 
Three years later, neither fighter was world champion, but when they met up to fight again, a firestorm erupted. in a pre-bout interview on abc, ali, again being ali, started to pick a fight with Frazier, call­ing him ignorant. Frazier, nor­mally a calm, dispassionate person, blew up and the two started wrestling on live Tv. imagine if richard sherman and michael crabtree stopped trash-talking and actually started going at it while erin andrews tried to interview them. now add about thirty pounds each, not to mention no pads and punches that would knock most people out. 
The fight itself went to ali by unanimous decision, but both sides were not happy about the refereeing. ali got away with grabbing Frazier’s neck illegally, and the referee stopped a round early, stop­ping ali from delivering a knockout blow. ali went on to beat george Foreman in The rumble in the Jungle, win­ning the championship belt back. 
Finally, the two met for the last time in the Thrilla in manila. The fight is rec­ognized as one of, if not the greatest fight in boxing histo­ry. in the run-up to the fight, ali let loose on Frazier, calling him stupid, ignorant and ugly. he promised that, “it will be a Killa and a Thrilla and a chilla when i get The gorilla in manila.” 
Frazier, for his part, used political connections to pre­vent the referee of the second bout from even traveling to the philippines. he also said his strategy was to hit ali so hard and often in the body that his organs would stop functioning. at a press confer­ence, he said he wanted ali’s heart. 
The fight itself was so epic and intense that Frazier ef­fectively lost his eyesight from the swelling in his face under ali’s barrage. even then, Frazier tried to prevent his manager from stopping the fight. ali didn’t escape Frazier’s blows any better. he later said that bout was the closest he ever came to dying. still, with the victory, he held onto his championship belt. 
These three fights capti­vated not just the nation, but the world, with their intensity. it wasn’t just about the boxing ring. Frazier and ali repre­sented two very different ap­proaches to the racism of the time. ali’s brash sophistica­tion contrasted with Frazier’s quieter personality and lack of formal schooling. and the animosity refused to die for years afterwards. only in 2001 did ali apologize for calling Frazier ignorant, and even then, Frazier remained bitter, growing angry when people even mentioned ali. 
if a rivalry is two of the greatest competitors ever hat­ing each other with a venom that lasts for years afterwards, putting out some of the finest performances of all time and transcending their sport in a cultural phenomenon, then ali-Frazier is a no-brainer as the best rivalry ever. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA TOUR 
stallings shoots 68, wins at Torrey pines 
Associated Press 
san diego — in a tourna­ment that was up for grabs, scott stallings hit a 4-iron worthy of a winner sunday in the Farmers insurance open. 
stallings was in a five-way tie for the lead when he hit his second shot on the par-5 18th hole as hard as he could. it was enough to barely clear the water, and he took two putts from 40 feet for birdie and a 4-under 68 at Torrey pines. 
That was enough for a one-shot victory when no one could catch him. 
it was the third career pga Tour victory for stallings, who earned a return trip to the masters and should move high enough in the world ranking to qualify for the match play championship next month in arizona. 
K.J. choi had the best score of the week on the south course with a 66 and was among those who tied for second. The pins were set up in favorable positions for birdies, making the course play the easiest it had all week. 
but that didn’t make it easy 
— not for gary woodland, Jordan spieth, pat perez and so many others who squan­dered a good chance to win. 
woodland appeared to have the best chance to catch stallings. he was one shot be­hind — with plenty of length to reach the 18th in two — un­til he chose fairway metal off the tee on no. 17 and hooked it into the canyon. he felt he had to make his 45-foot par putt to have any chance, and three-putted for double bo­gey. woodland, who had a one-shot lead going into the final round, missed an easy birdie attempt on the 18th and closed with a 74. 
“This will be hard to swallow,” woodland said. “i felt like i kind of gave one away today.” 
marc leishman of australia had the last chance to force a playoff, but his drive on the 18th went well right and bounced off the cart path and a fan. he had no shot at the green in two, and his wedge for an eagle stopped a few feet to the side of the hole. his tap-in birdie gave him a 71 and a share of second. 
stallings finished at 9-un­der 279. 
Jason day (68) and graham delaet of canada (68) each made birdie on the last hole to tie for second. so did perez, the san diego native who grew up at Torrey pines and whose father is the long­time starter on the first tee at the Farmers insurance open. perez missed a 10-foot birdie chance on the 17th. he closed with a 70. 
NHL 
Rangers ice Devils at Yankee Stadium, 7-3 
Associated Press 
new yorK — Too much sun forced the boys of winter to wait to play at the ballpark in the bronx. 
once clouds filled the skies over yankee stadium and snow began to fall — hockey weather for sure — henrik lundqvist and the new york rangers got the best of the new Jersey devils. 
rick nash scored for the fifth straight game during new york’s four-goal middle period, and the rangers ral­lied for a 7-3 victory over the devils on sunday. 
sun reflecting off the ice delayed the start of the first hockey game at yankee stadium for about an hour. The wait was expected to be longer, so lundqvist took a nap. cloud cover took care 

FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo -Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588-5520 
If I leave here tomorrow Would you still remember me? For I must be trav­eling on now ‘Cause there’s too many 
of that problem more quickly than expected. 
suddenly the all-star goal­ie was awakened and told warm-ups would take place in 30 minutes. he put on his pinstripe pads, but still looked groggy in the first pe­riod when new Jersey took a 3-1 lead. 
“i was half asleep, mentally somewhere else, but then i re­grouped and i am happy with how i finished,” lundqvist said. 
“i’m not going to lie, when they scored the third one, i had a bad feeling about it. my first thought was, ‘am i going to be able to finish this game? Then you kind of regroup and tell yourself, ‘i need to stop the next shot. That’s it. There is no other way to do this.’” 
devils counterpart martin brodeur had no such luck. he allowed six goals on 21 shots and was replaced by cory schneider at the start of the third. 
“you rely a lot on instinct, and poise, and i couldn’t close my glove, it was so 
cold,”  said  brodeur,  who  
along  with  rangers  coach  
alain  vigneault  criticized  

the chippy ice that required repairs. 
new york got within one before the first intermission and then swarmed brodeur. 
dominic moore and marc staal had goals in the first for the rangers, then mats Zuccarello scored two straight to put new york ahead for the first time. carl hagelin and nash found the net, too, behind the belea­guered brodeur, who angrily swatted the puck away after one of the tallies. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
places I’ve got to see. But if I stayed it so badly, ‘Cause Lord knows I’m to here with you, girl, Things just couldn’t blame. But if I stayed here with you, be the same. ‘Cause I’m as free as a girl, Things just couldn’t be the same. bird now, And this bird you can not ‘Cause I’m as free as a bird now, And change, oh, oh, oh, oh. And this bird this bird you’ll never change, oh, oh, oh, you can not change. And this bird you oh. And this bird you cannot change. can not change. Lord knows I can’t And this bird you cannot change. Lord change. Bye, bye, baby, it’s been a knows, I can’t change. Lord, help me, sweet love, yeah, Though this feeling I can’t change. Lord, I can’t change. I can’t change. But please don’t take Won’t you fly high, free bird, yeah? 



MEN’S SWIMMING | louisville 186, nd 114 
irish drop meet to louisville 
FENCING 

ND finds success in N.Y. 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish travelled to the big apple this weekend to take part in the nyu invitational on saturday, with the no. 4 men finishing 5-1 and the no. 3 wom­en finishing 4-2. in the st. John’s invitational on sunday, notre dame’s men placed second be­hind columbia while the wom­en took third. 
in men’s epee, sophomore connor mcgrath led the way in an unblemished day for the squad, whose 5-0 record includ­ed a narrow 5-4 win over sixth-ranked ohio state. mcgrath finished his day 15-3. 
men’s sabreurs sophomore John halsten and senior Kevin hassett finished with 12-4 and 12-5 records, respectively, going undefeated against both north carolina and nyu. 
in men’s foil, newly-minted world number-one senior foilist gerek meinhardt backed up his ranking, going 10-2. seniors nick Kubik and ariel desmet also posted notable results, with Kubik going 9-2 and desmet posting an 8-3 mark. The squad’s only loss was to no. 1 columbia. 
on the women’s side, the women’s foil duo of sophomore lee Kiefer and junior madison Zeiss posted 10-2 and 12-4 marks on the way to a 5-1 squad record. The unit’s only defeat came at the hands of no. 6 columbia. 

Junior ashley severson paced the women’s epee squad with a 12-5 record, while junior nicole ameli also turned in an im­pressive showing, posting 2-0 clean sheets against yale, no. 7 northwestern and nyu, as well as a 2-1 mark against no. 5 ohio 
paid adverTisemenT 


state. 
lastly, in women’s sabre, sophomore Johanna Thill turned in a 12-5 record to lead her squad. in her first collegiate action, freshman allison barry went 7-8. 
sunday, the men’s epee team rolled off four straight wins, three of them 5-4 finishes, be­fore falling to columbia, 5-4. mcgrath led the way with a 9-6 record. 
meinhardt, Kubik and irish freshman Kristjan archer earned records of 9-1, 8-3 and 5-3, respectively in the men’s foil portion of the competition. 
sophomore catherine lee led the irish women in the epee with an 8-7 mark. Kiefer was nearly perfect in the foil, win­ning 10 of her 11 matches. barry impressed again with an 8-7 record in the sabre and a 3-0 sweep against columbia. Thrill posted the top line for the irish in the event, though, ending at 11-4. 
The irish will be back in ac­tion saturday, as they trav­el to northwestern for the northwestern duals. 

paid adverTisemenT 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame returned to the water Friday night, posting four first-place finishes and eight runner-up slots before ultimately falling 186-114 to no. 7 louisville on the road at the ralph wright natatorium in louisville, Ky. 
The loss came on the heels of a 150-150 tie in a dual meet against northwestern last week. 
irish senior captain Frank dyer continued his winning ways for the irish (4-5-1), secur­ing a victory in the 100-yard but­terfly with a time of 49.03. dyer, who is also an all-american, brought a set of third-place fin­ishes to notre dame’s effort in the 100- and 50-yard freestyle events with times of 46.45 and 20.03, respectively. 
Touching the wall just be­hind dyer in the 100-yard butterfly was teammate and fellow all-american junior John williamson. he finished less than a quarter of a second be­hind dyer with a 49.14 in the event. williamson also secured the first irish win of the night with a 1:47.62 in the 200-yard butterfly. The time earned him an ncaa b-cut. 
irish juniors nick nemetz and Zach stephens took home the third and fourth gold med­al finishes for notre dame on Friday. nemetz set the standard on the diving boards, finishing with 349.35 points for the irish in the 3-meter dive. stephens, another irish all-american took home the final first place fin­ish in the dual meet in the 100­yard individual medley, with a time of 1:49.26. stephens also garnered second place honors in the 100- and 200-yard breast­stroke, with times of 55.35 and 1:59.08, respectively. his breast­stroke performances also se­cured stephens ncaa b-cut distinctions. 
For the relays, sophomore bogac ayhan, junior cameron miller, stephens, and dyer took second place in the opening event of the evening, the 200­yard medley relay. The team swam a time of 1:29.18. 
next up, the irish will return to the rolfs aquatic center for a meet for the first time since nov. 16. notre dame hosts the shamrock invitational on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1. 



M Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
against minnesota, how­ever, the irish doubles teams lost two out of three dou­bles matches for the first time all season as andrews and lawson provided the lone win in the category. in singles play, bandy, hagar, junior wyatt mccoy and freshman eddy covalschi all won to secure a notre dame victory for the evening. 
“This is really a great group of guys,” sachire said. “at this point, it is about trying to get your fair share of wins to establish an identity. we have been fortunate enough to do that pretty early in our season.” 
The match against Kentucky came down to the final set of singles play as covalschi won the last two games for the irish in the sixth slot. bandy and sopho­
more  eric  schnurrenberger  
also  notched  wins  for  
notre  dame in singles play  

saturday night. 
such competitive matches are not unfamiliar territo­ry for sachire. Though this is his inaugural campaign as head coach, sachire has been a perennial presence for the irish for more than 11 years as a former player and assistant coach. 
“The way i look at it is that is about we and not one indi­vidual player or coach. This is a tough team and i am re­ally excited to be a part of it,” sachire said. 
notre dame will hope to replicate its performance down the stretch in a re­match with Kentucky on Feb. 2, this time at the eck Tennis pavilion. The irish will then travel to champaign, ill., for a match against illinois. 
“we always can play bet­ter,” sachire said. “Kentucky is a top-10 opponent and the goal is to play well enough down the stretch that we have a chance to win in the end, which is what we were able to do this weekend.” 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 




TRACK AND FIELD | noTre dame inviTaTional 
Women finish first in ND Invitational 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
notre dame played host to michigan state, southern illinois and illinois state on saturday for the notre dame invitational, earning a victory on the women’s side and fall­ing just eight points shy on the men’s side of michigan state. 
with the new mexico Team invitational and the indiana relays looming next week, irish coach Joe piane said he was pleased with his teams’ performances. 
“There is always a focus on improving and starting to qualify for accs, but any time a meet is scored and you wear that nd [monogram] on your chest, it’s an important meet,” piane said. “on the men’s side, we came up just a little short in a few events. on the women’s side, a win is a win. we always want to win.” 
graduate student Jeremy rae highlighted the second-place finish on the men’s side by set­ting a notre dame record in the 1,000-meter run. rae’s time of 
2:22.07 narrowly clipped the mark of 2:22.22 held by phil mishka since 2000. 
“This was Jeremy’s first race of the year, marvelous perfor­mance,” piane said. “but right behind him we had [freshman] Jacob dumford, [graduate stu­dent] J.p. malette, and [sopho­more] eric gebeke … great race for us.” 
The irish also got first-place finishes from senior Jarrod buchanon in the 60-meter hurdles (8.04 seconds), senior patrick Feeney in the 400-meter (46.38), junior chris giesting in the 500-meter (1:04.52), fresh­man patrick o’connell in the 800-meter (1:52.09), malette in the 3,000-meter (8:24.32), and in the 4x400-meter relay (3:10.36). Feeney’s time in the 400-meter ranks him fourth in the country this year. 
“The times speak for them­selves, but patrick does so much for us,” piane said of his two-time all-american. “he has always led by example … he does all of the little things, any­thing it takes to be good.” 
on the women’s side, the irish narrowly outscored michigan state, 179-173, and earned a first-place finish on home turf for a second consecutive year. 
piane said he was particularly happy with the performance of junior twins Kaila and Jade barber, who combined to finish first or second in six different events. 
“Jade won the [60-meter] hur­dles, her sister ran a wonderful 200-meter to finish second, 
and they both ran great legs in the mile relay,” piane said. “Those were important points for us.” 
notre dame got victories on the women’s side from senior aijah urssery in the 60-me­ter (7.56 seconds), sopho­more margaret bamgbose in the 400-meter (54.08), senior megan yanik in the 500-me­ter (1:14.38) and senior alexa aragon in the mile (4:46.88). 
it was a number of perfor­mances in field events though, piane said, that made the irish victorious. Junior emily morris claimed second in the shot put at 15.45 meters, junior carly loeffel finished third in the high jump (1.70 meters), and senior Jessie christian went bronze in the long jump (5.79 meters). 
“emily morris and carly loeffel both had good days,” piane said. “carly was third in the high jump… that was ex­cellent.  without that perfor­mance, we don’t win.” 

piane said he was happy with the state of his teams heading into a big meet next weekend. 
“at this stage, i feel great about the team,” piane said. “we have a big couple of weeks coming up, but i’m confident we are ready to do well across the board.” 
The irish travel to albuquerque on Jan. 31 for a two-day event at the new mexico invitational against new mexico, arizona state, and ucla, among others. simultaneously the irish are slated to make an appear­ance at the indiana relays in bloomington, ind. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | ariZona sTaTe 4, nd 0; nd 3, oKlahoma sTaTe 0 
irish blank cowgirls after falling to asu 
shut out the irish in terms of 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

sports writer points, notre dame played 
well and kept matches close, 

after a 4-0 loss to arizona which made the matches state on saturday, the no. harder to lose, louderback 21 irish bounced back with said. a 4-0 victory over oklahoma “i think more mental-state on sunday at the ly than physically, com­iTa Kick-off weekend in ing back that quickly can evanston, ill. be tough after we lost to 
entering the weekend’s arizona state 4-0, but it was matches, both arizona state a tight match,” louderback (3-0) and oklahoma state (0-said. “bouncing back from 
2) were on the cusp of top-25 that that quickly, i thought rankings, at no. 26 and no. we handled it really well.” 29 respectively. The irish at no. 1 doubles, sopho­(3-1) played the sun devils more Quinn gleason and in a late match saturday senior britney sanders se­and recovered from the cured notre dame’s only loss to beat the cowgirls at victory against arizona 10 a.m. the next morning. state. irish coach Jay louderback gleason and sanders nar­said his team displayed re-rowly won again sunday, 7-6 silience and mental tough-(3) against oklahoma state’s ness during the challenging duo of senior Kanyapat contests. narattana and freshman 
“we had a late match, and carla Tur mari. The irish that’s a little bit tougher,” also won at third doubles Through the iTa Kickoff state, and i feel like we just played them. we played louderback said. “we fin-as well as at no. 1, no. 4 and weekend, teams can qualify played a little too nervous, a more relaxed because ished at about 7:30 last night no. 5 singles. for the iTa national Team little too tentative in those think that’s just a matter of and then turned around and louderback praised soph-indoor championships held matches, in those close playing some good teams played at 10 this morning, omore Julie vrabel and se-in charlottesville, va., from ones.” the first matches. we’ll play and our team handled it re-nior Julie sabacinski, who Feb. 7-10. notre dame’s biggest better the more of those we ally well.” played at no. 5 and no. 6 louderback said the takeaway from the week-play.” 
notre dame started its singles, respectively. irish seemed to calm down end should be the ability to The irish return home this matches saturday against “overall, everybody against oklahoma state. play against some of the top weekend for a match against arizona state an hour be-played well,” louderback “i think our biggest thing teams in the country. illinois on Friday at 3:30 hind schedule. weather said. “Two of the places is to get into some tight “oklahoma state is about p.m. and against indiana on delayed oklahoma state’s where we struggled last year matches,” louderback said. as good as arizona state,” sunday at 10 a.m., both at arrival until saturday, so all were no. 5 and 6 singles, and “we were better in the tight louderback said. “They’re the eck Tennis pavilion. of the day’s matches were i thought our five and six did matches today [sunday]. very good. They’re a top-pushed back. really well this week, and yesterday [saturday], we had 30 team. Today [sunday] Contact Samantha Zuba at 
although the sun devils neither one lost a match.” close matches with arizona in those tight matches, we szuba@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

some threes.” from sherman and auguste to 
M Bball both teams came out of the even the score in a hurry. The 
conTinued From page 16 gate slowly, but notre dame squads traded buckets over the 
worked its way into a 14-13 first 10 minutes of the second 
shots. There were clutch offen-lead 10:22 into the game. The half from there. wake Forest 
sive positions that took away irish offense stalled from opened up its biggest lead 
any hope for us.” there, though, as wake Forest of the half to that point with 
Trailing by eight points with embarked on a 12-2 run to 9:45 remaining when a devin 
7:37 to play, notre dame used open up a nine-point lead Thomas layup put the home a six-point run to claw back with 3:42 remaining. neither team up eight. after notre into the contest. atkins pow-team managed any points in dame responded, wake Forest ered the run with consecutive the subsequent minutes until extended its lead to eight again baskets and an assist on a la-atkins poured in five points in with 7:37 left in the game. yup by irish freshman guard the final 51 seconds of the half after scoring no points in steve vasturia. after trailing for to cut the deficit to four. the first half, irish junior for-nearly 11 straight minutes, the wake Forest led 25-21 enter-ward pat connaughton fin­irish captured a share of the ing the break, largely on the ished with 10 points and eight lead with 3:50 remaining af-strength of sophomore for-rebounds. 
it took just 2:13 more for ter freshman guard demetrius ward devin Thomas. Thomas The three irish freshmen 
Hockey 
northeastern to go up 2-0 as reid Jackson converted the back had 11 first-half points while combined for only three points 
conTinued From page 16 
parked himself in front of the net 

end of a pair of free throws. a making all five of his field goal in 54 total minutes. Jackson and netted his second goal of the 
sherman free throw a minute-attempts. sherman and atkins scored one point while at-forward peter schneider, who game. 
and-a-half later put the irish up led the irish in the half, with tempting no shots in 22 min-also recorded an assist on the “you give up a breakaway goal 
one, but wake Forest (14-6, 4-3) eight points and seven points, utes, while vasturia had two hinostroza goal, completed a trio and a two-on-one in the first 10 
responded with a basket and respectively. The irish only points and four rebounds in of goals for the third-line team-minutes and we’re down 2-0,” 
a pair of free throws to open managed three assists in the 30 minutes. Freshman forward mates when he received the puck Jackson said. “That dictates 
up a three-point lead it would half, but forced six demon v.J. beacham had zero points in from senior captain and forward everything.” 
not relinquish. The demon deacon turnovers. two minutes of action. Jeff costello and senior defense-northeastern added a third goal 
deacons made several free irish senior forward Tom Thomas finished with 21 man Kevin lind to tally a short-just 1:44 into the second when 
throws in the closing minute to Knight made his return after points and six rebounds to lead handed goal 4:45 into the second huskies freshman forward mike 
secure the win. missing several weeks with ill-the demon deacons in the period. szmatula tallied his 10th of the 
wake Forest took advantage ness, and the irish turned to contest. “i thought that hinostroza’s season on a power play goal. 
of notre dame’s league-worst him early off the bench with “he’s a really good player be-line was much better tonight,” Following the goal, costello 
3-point defense, making five sophomore forward austin cause he has got that wide body irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. earned himself a 10-minute mis-
of 17 attempts from behind burgett out following a car-and it’s hard to get around him “schneider’s been playing much conduct penalty after shooting the 
the arc. The irish hit only two diac episode that occurred and then he spins off you,” brey better for us this season and i puck in frustration. 
three-point shots in the game notre dame’s matchup with said. “he is really crafty. he is thought he might help that line “i was upset because my guy 
on 16 attempts. Florida state on Tuesday. just a heck of a young player in with some speed.” scored the goal,” costello said. “i 
“i give credit to their de-Knight scored eight points on this league.” The irish had a potential second think the ref thought i was shoot­
fense,” brey said. “we had some 4-for-4 shooting and snagged after failing in its third at-shorthanded goal waved off at the ing at him.” 
great looks early in the game. three rebounds in 17 minutes tempt to notch the team’s first end of the second period after time reid’s linemate mike mcmurty 
you got to make a couple of in the game. irish sophomore acc road victory, notre dame had expired. despite committing scored on northeastern’s seventh 
those to feel good on the road. forward Zach auguste made returns home to face virginia six penalties on the evening, the shot of the night at 11:26 of the sec-
we could never make enough his fourth start of the season on Tuesday at the purcell penalty-kill unit was able to hold ond period, running summerhays 
three-point shots to feel like and scored four points to go pavilion at 9 p.m. northeastern (15-8-1, 8-5-1) with-out of the game in favor of fresh-
you are in a pretty good groove. with seven rebounds. out a goal in addition to creating man goaltender chad Katunar 
That’s a weapon of our offense. The irish began the second  Contact Joseph Monardo at chances on its own. who would go on to make seven 
That’s a staple, we need to make half with back-to-back buckets jmonardo@nd.edu on Friday evening, northeastern saves the remainder of the game to paid adverTisemenT 
took advantage of its opportunities keep it at 4-0. and scored four times in their first The irish travel to durham, seven shots to gain a 4-0 victory. n.h., to take on new hampshire 
The huskies got on the board next weekend in a two-game series inside the first six minutes when before returning to the compton huskies junior forward adam reid Family ice arena for a home series blocked a shot at the blue line and with maine on Feb. 7 and Feb. 8. took it the rest of the way, finishing top-shelf on the breakaway at the Contact Alex Carson at               5:46 mark. acarson1@nd.edu 
said of allen. “so i think just her W Bball awareness of the game and how conTinued From page 16 smart and how high of an iQ she 
has as well as how well she knows 

The Terrapins enter the game the offense now, it’s all just piecing off an 86-72 loss to virginia de-together, and she’s a great leader for spite Thomas’s 27 points and 10 us in terms of keeping us on pace.” rebounds. if loyd does not suit up against 
senior forward natalie achonwa the Terrapins, the irish must fig-said she thinks the irish can be ure out how to make up for her 16.9 even better if they get out to quicker points per game and 6.1 rebounds starts. per game, along with her lockdown 
“you see glimpses,” she said. defense. “The fact that we can [take over “i think her energy, you know, games] is really scary, but the part she’s an energy player, and i think that would be great is if we could do she adds so much,” mcgraw said of it in the first half.” the sophomore guard. “she can get 
Freshman guard lindsay a big rebound, make a big stop. she allen may see an increased role can steal, get a basket. obviously, in upcoming games after sopho-we’re different without her, and more guard Jewell loyd suffered we’re praying for a speedy recovery a sprained right knee against because we’d love to get her back in Tennessee. loyd is currently listed the lineup soon.” as day-to-day. with the possibility of playing 
“The more she knows the of-without their leading scorer, the fense and the more we get to know irish take on the Terrapins tonight each other in terms of the whole at 7 p.m. at the comcast center in team, you can see we all just kind college park, md. of know where we’re supposed to be, and she knows what plays to Contact Mary Green at call for certain people,” achonwa mgreen8@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sara Rue, 35; Ellen DeGeneres, 56; Eddie Van Halen, 59; Lucinda Williams, 61. 
Happy Birthday: plan to have fun, but don’t neglect your reputation or responsibilities. you’ll face uncertainty if you are too frivolous or make an impulsive change without proper research. Time spent fact-finding and opting for change that will increase your chance of success, along with doing your best to protect your physical and emotional well being, should be your goal. your numbers are 6, 15, 26, 28, 31, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get involved in a cause or sign up for a fundraiser that requires your physical, mental or financial assistance. someone you meet will lead you to an interesting proposition. change is upon you, so take a deep breath and embrace the future. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): re-evaluate your relationships with others. consider how you can make improvements that will benefit you. don’t let anger ruin your day. Focus on love, peace and happiness. eliminate any negativity in your life. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get your priorities straight. make decisions that will improve your reputation, status and your future. share your thoughts and plans. don’t adhere to criticism. doing what’s best for you is your ticket to a better life. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more adaptable you are, the easier it will be to move forward. don’t let what others do influence you. make your choices based on how you feel; allow others the same freedom and much can be accomplished. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll be drawn to someone or something that gets you thinking about your future and how to incorporate the things you enjoy doing into a lucrative pastime. research and network and you’ll find a way to put your plans into motion. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Join in the fun and focus on love, romance and playful action, but don’t go over budget. an unusual individual will capture your attention, but before you divulge your personal information, question the trust factor involved in this connection. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take a step back and find a way to balance your energy and emotions. Too much of anything or anyone will drag you down. you should distance yourself from anyone putting demands on you. plan a day geared toward pampering. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take an innovative approach to the way you do things at home, or sign up for a course that will help you be more diverse with your talents and skills. Keep an open mind when dealing with personal matters. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): someone is waiting for you to divulge personal information to use against you. concentrate on home, family and fixing up your place to suit your growing needs. secrecy and sticking to a budget will be the key to your success today. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you may want to be in charge, but if you do so aggressively, you will face opposition. reverse psychology will work much better than using force. include everyone in your plans and you will get the help and support you need. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): improve your reputation by showing an emotional side that others rarely get to see. don’t let legal, financial or medical issues stress you out. Focus on what you need to do in order to take care of your personal business. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): check out an investment that interests you, but don’t borrow in order to take part. stay within your means and build a stable and solid financial foundation. a promise will be honored and a relationship will turn out to be beneficial. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY | norTheasTern 4, nd 0; nd 3, norTheasTern 0  ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL  
summerhays rebounds to  ND travels to  
shut out northeastern  No. 6 Maryland  

By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
The no. 15 irish used a shut­out from senior goaltender steven summerhays in a 3-0 win saturday to gain a series split with no. 11 northeastern after dropping Friday’s contest 4-0. 
summerhays — who gave up four goals on just seven shots be­fore being pulled Friday — made 36 saves saturday en route to his division i-leading fifth shutout of the season. 
“Tonight i was able to get into the game a little more,” summerhays said. “i was able to feel the puck early and that helped my confidence.” 
notre dame (15-9-1, 4-6-1 hockey east) got on the board six minutes into the game saturday as freshman center vince hinostroza scored his sixth goal of the season, converting on a cross-ice pass from sophomore forward mario lucia. 
“we got a quick goal off the beginning and then we fed 


By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame puts its perfect record on the line once again tonight when it faces off with no. 6 maryland in a top-10 battle at the comcast center in college park, md. 
both the irish (18-0, 5-0 acc) and the Terrapins (16-2, 4-1 acc) come in to the matchup with high-powered offenses, as notre dame’s 88.1 points-per-game av­erage ranks fourth in the nation, while maryland’s 84.8 comes in at seventh. 
notre dame, however, has struggled recently with slow starts, needing to overcome early deficits against no. 11 Tennessee and miami before eventually pulling away in its 

off that,” lucia said. “i saw the season after being set up by 
last two games. [hinostroza] and it’s a play you junior forward austin wuthrich 
irish head coach muffet work on every day in practice.” and hinostroza at the 10:17 
mcgraw said after the 79-52 win several minutes later, just six mark of the first period. 
over the hurricanes on Thursday seconds into an irish power play, in the second period, junior 
that her experienced players are lucia followed up on his assist 
key to helping the squad climb 
“we’ve been effective scoring off the tip,” she said. “you could just tell after that first possession when we couldn’t score, i think everyone got a little tight, and that’s when we really need our veterans to step up and relax and make shots.” 
now in the heart of their con­ference schedule, the irish may face stronger challenges in com­ing back from a deficit against opponents from the acc, which claims four top-10 teams. 
“we’re going to be in some battles in this league,” mcgraw said. “everybody is good, so we’ve really got to be ready.” 
notre dame will have to be ready for maryland and senior forward alyssa Thomas, the two-time reigning acc player of the year. Thomas, who recently surpassed the 2,000-point mile­stone, averages a double-double with 18.3 points per game and 
11.1 rebounds per game, leading her team in both categories. 

with a career-high 13th goal of see hocKey PAGE 14 
back to take the lead. see w bball PAGE 14 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, minnesoTa 3; nd 4, KenTucKy 3 
Notre Dame tops Gophers, ’Cats 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
The irish continued their winning ways over the week­end, besting both minnesota and Kentucky, 4-3, on the road in lexington, Ky. The upset of the eighth-ranked wildcats came on the final set of the seventh match, propelling the undefeat­ed irish to their fifth win of the spring campaign at the iTa Kick-off weekend tournament. 
“This weekend really es­tablished a foundation for this season,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “The coaching staff is very excit­ed about what we saw this weekend.” 
notre dame had to come from behind against Kentucky, as irish seniors ryan bandy and matt dooley lost the first doubles match. The irish pairings of senior greg andrews and sophomore alex lawson, ranked 21st in the coun­try, and senior billy pecor and freshman Josh hagar won the remaining doubles matches, which gave the team the lead heading into singles play. 

“These 50-50 matches like we saw this weekend against Kentucky and minnesota and last weekend against michigan state are awe­some. That’s what makes tennis fun because it pro­vides an opportunity to re­ally learn a lot about your team,” sachire said. 
see m Tennis PAGE 12 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | waKe ForesT 65, nd 58 
irish fall late to deacons 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
notre dame’s most recent acc contest followed the script that has become all too familiar on the road for the irish. 
down for most of the game, the irish threatened to steal the game in the final minutes before falling short, this time 65-58 to wake Forest. 
irish graduate student center garrick sherman made a pair of tough shots in the lane in the game’s final 1:08 before foul­ing out, but notre dame (11-9, 2-5 acc) could not pull off the comeback victory. sherman led the losing charge with 20 points and six rebounds, while irish se­nior guard eric atkins contrib­uted 13 points and six rebounds. 
“you got to take your hat off to wake Forest,” irish coach mike brey said. “They made re­ally big shots at key times in the last couple of minutes. i love our group, again we put ourselves in position. we weren’t playing that great offensively but we still found a way to be in position 

to maybe steal a road win. i thought wake made big time 
see m bball PAGE 14 


Hockey vs. Northeastern  L 4-0  Women’s Tennis vs. Arizona State  L 4-0  Women’s Basketball at Maryland  7 p.m. 
Men’s Swimming at Louisville  L 186-144  Men’s Tennis vs. Kentucky  L 4-3  
Men’s Tennis vs. Minnesota  W 4-3  Fencing vs. Ohio State  W 14-13  
Men’s Basketball at Wake Forest  L 65-58  Fencing vs. NYU  W 19-8  Men’s Basketball vs. Virginia     Tues., 9 p.m.  
Hockey vs. Northeastern  W 3-0  Women’s Tennis vs. Oklahoma State  W 4-0  Women’s Basketball vs. Virginia Tech  Thurs., 7 p.m.  






