The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 63 | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SMC organizes letter writing to Pope 
Group delivers letters as part of project expressing Catholic women’s relationship with the Church 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
pope Francis asked, and saint mary’s delivered — literally. 
in the fall of 2013, 10 saint mary’s students, the office of campus ministry and the center for spirituality (cFs) came to­gether to discuss ways in which the catholic church could better reach young women around the world. Together, the group came to one conclusion: write to pope Francis. 
elizabeth groppe, director of the cFs, said the group of women were inspired by pope Francis’s call to catholic youth to contribute to the church’s life and mission. This call to action comes at a time when an estimated 35 percent of millennial women (born between 1981 and 1995) who were baptized catholic have turned away from the church and no longer practice their faith. 
in august 2014, the “voices of young catholic women” project was underway, groppe said. The college extended a national in­vitation to write to pope Francis to more than 700 members of the catholic campus ministry association, saint mary’s alumnae, catholic parishes in the diocese of Fort wayne-south bend, catholic high schools with which saint mary’s has connections through the college’s recruiting network, 
see pope PAGE 4 

Photo courtesy of Gwen O’Brien 
Saint Mary’s College President Carol Ann Mooney (left) and senior Kristen Millar shake hands with Pope Francis as they deliver 225 letters from Catholic women across the United States on Nov. 26. 


badin sale supports charity 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
badin hall’s sixth annual conscious christmas Fair Trade handicraft sale will run Friday from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the dorm, and all proceeds from the sale will support the hope initiative, industrial design pro­fessor ann-marie conrado said. 
conrado, who co-founded the hope initiative in 2004, said the sale offers a variety of reasonably priced gifts, including scarves, bags, wall hangings and hemp products. 
“we sell things that are very af­fordable, up to quite reasonably priced luxury items like 
see badin PAGE 5 





Aidan Project donates blankets 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The ninth annual aidan project — a service event dedi­cated to making fleece-tie blan­kets for hospitalized cancer patients throughout indiana 
— will take place sunday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at south dining hall. 
circle k president ivana surjancev, a junior, said aidan Fitzgerald, a 2009 notre dame alumnus who lived in knott hall and battled cancer while at the university, worked with his hall and circle k to help organize the project as a signature dorm event after his diagnosis in 2006. 
“we donate all the blankets to both oncology and pediatric units to help remind the patients that they are not alone and that, as a community, we are keep­ing them in our thoughts and prayers,” surjancev said. 
students have the opportunity to volunteer for any length of time, and surjancev said it only takes 20 minutes to make one blanket. volunteers also have the opportunity to write a personal­ized note to be delivered to the patients along with the blankets. 
“it’s very easy to make the 
see aidan PAGE 5 


‘Asian Allure’ explores Asian experience at ND 
the asian community at notre skits. instead, the event will 
By KATIE McCARTY 

news writer dame, ho said. feature stories submitted by 
“This theme addresses the faculty, alumni and students, 

The asian american growth of the asian commu-along with dance and fashion association will hosts its an-nity in notre dame through-elements. nual signature performance, out the years,” she said. “The “each asian club contribut­asian allure, on Friday and production will carry the audi-ed a traditional dance piece,” saturday in the washington ence through a transition from she said. “There are more di­hall auditorium, junior Jen ho, the traditional to the new.” verse individual performers the event’s director, said. ho said this year’s perfor-who successfully auditioned 
This year’s theme, “There mances are different from past and back again,” focuses on years in that there will be no see allure PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 nd volleyball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News 
Jack rooney kayla mullen madison Jaros 

Graphics 
keri o’mara 

Photo 
karla moreno 


Sports 

mary green greg hadley christine mayuga 
Scene 

miko malabute 

Viewpoint 

mary kate luft 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s your favorite catch phrase? Bryan Daly 



Mary Kate Healey 
senior 

sophomore off campus 
lyons hall “knope we can.” 
“Jesus take the wheel.” 



Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Eileen McTigue 
sophomore 
badin hall 

“so great, so great, so excited to be here, so great -Jimmy Fallon.” 
Janel Allison 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“you got it dude.” 


Shadmn Minir 
junior morrissey manor 
“it is what it is.” 
Shannon Takahata 
sophomore mcglinn hall 
“are you talkin’ to me?” 
Friday 
Christmas Cookie Decorating 
LaFortune Student Center 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Free for students. 
ND Chorale Concert 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Featuring Handel’s “Messiah.” 
Saturday 
Women’s Basketball 
Purcell Pavilion 
3:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. ND vs. Connecticut. 
Men’s Basketball 
Purcell Pavilion 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. ND vs. Fairleigh Dickinson. 

Sunday 
Classic Film: “It’s a Wonderful Life” 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Free for students. 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:15 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. Features all choirs. 
Monday 
Feast of the Immaculate Conception 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Open to the public. 
Campus Ministry Christmas Party 
Coleman - Morse Center 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Freshmen invited. 
Tuesday 
Men’s Basketball 
Joyce Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. ND vs. Mount St. Mary’s. 
“The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp” 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Free for students. 
Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


Professors examine Latin American democratization 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
The book “democracies and dictatorships in latin america: emergence, survival and Fall,” co-authored by scott mainwaring, professor of comparative politics, and aníbal pérez-liñán, associate professor of political science at the university of pittsburg and notre dame graduate, re­cently won two major book awards in the area of compar­ative politics: the american political science association’s realize they had an oppor­tunity to make an important theoretical contribution to discussions of democracy and dictatorships. 


“we want to question the way that we currently study political regimes,” mainwaring said. “we make a strong argu­ment that you have to look at political actors or the people that really have the power in a country. 
“you can’t deduce what ac­tors prefer just from their structural location. you can’t assume that the wealthy al­ways support dictatorship and grounds,” mainwaring said. “our argument is that some or­ganized actors favor certain re­gimes that are contrary to what would necessarily benefit them the most. we call this measure­ment normative preference.” 
“The second variable is a measurement of how radical these actors are, on a scale to from moderate to radical,” he said. “The argument for de­mocracies is that radicalism makes it harder for a democra­cy to survive, but it doesn’t have an effect on a dictatorship.” 
“radical oppositions can 

saint mary’s hosts madrigal dinners 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s traditional christmas-themed madrigal dinners will transform the north lounge of regina hall into a me­dieval banquet hall for students and members of the community dec. 5 to 7, director of special events richard baxter said. now in its 42nd year, the weekend-long event provides an alternate mode of celebration and prepa­ration during the advent season, baxter said. 
The saint mary’s department baxter said. 
“They actually have a boar’s head that they parade around,” baxter said. “They do it every year. They serve different cours­es. There are jugglers [and] de­pending on the weather, they juggle pins outside. There are dancers that perform medieval dance. by the end of the eve­ning, hopefully [the audience] got a sense of what the evening’s about.” 
The dinners also feature a is a holiday feast that includes prime rib, roasted potatoes, glazed car­rots, waldorf salad, wassail and 

the poor always support de­
mocracy. These are misleading 
simplifications.” 
mainwaring said what 

makes the book unique is its 
application of a hybrid model 
that uses quantitative scales to 
analyze political actors. of music organizes and performs cheesecake with flaming cher­


an array of renaissance and ries, baxter said. 
madrigal-oriented music courte-along with the food, baxter 
sy of the 21 members of the saint said she believes the music 
mary’s women’s choir and its di-makes the dinners special. 
rector nancy menk, professor of “[The choir doesn’t] just stand 
music. menk, who has conducted and sing,” baxter said. “They’ll 
the madrigals for 31 years, said move around the whole area. you 
the dinners have changed over won’t even recognize it when we 
“most works on democracies  time in style but not in spirit.  
comparative democratization  and dictatorships use statisti­ help undermine dictatorships  For the 40th anniversary of  
section’s 2014 best book award  cal analysis, looking at struc­ and bring about a democracy,  the madrigals two years ago,  
and the donna lee van cott  tural analysis variables such as  but they can also have a coun­ the  show’s script and song list  
book award for the year’s best  how wealthy a country or in­ tervailing effect,” mainwaring  changed, menk said, though  
book in the latin american  come inequality,” mainwaring  said. “if there is a radical guer­ some traditional favorites  
studies association’s political  said. “These are things that  rilla group in my country and  remained.  
institutions section.  you can just pull off of a shelf  i’m a dictator, i may dig in more  “some of the music is really tra­ 
“you spend years and years  and run regressions on. but  in order to maintain control.”  ditional, so we do it every year,”  
working on these things,”  where are the actors? They’ve  mainwaring said their model  menk said. “we always have a  
mainwaring said. “i’m still sure  disappeared.”  is not that different in concept  returning group of seniors every  
that some people will read the  “every qualitative analy­ from established literature;  year, but we sort of have a basic  
book and just hate it because it  sis of political regimes looks  rather, it is in the way they have  group of repertoire.  
takes on a lot of established lit- at actors, so there was a weird  conducted their analysis that  “i try to pick repertoire that  
erature. it’s a book that invites  disjuncture in the literature  makes the model unique.  is from the renaissance or at  
controversy. so the awards tell  between qualitative and quan­ “The thing that no one ar­ least sounds like it’s from the  
me that even if six million peo­ titative approaches,” he said.  ticulates is that when anyone  renaissance. i want all the pieces  
ple turn out to hate it, at least a  “we tried to bridge that gap in  writes a history or a political  to be like christmas, and there  
few people liked it.”  the literature.”  analysis, you always make de­ aren’t really a whole lot of mad­ 
mainwaring and pérez­ mainwaring said they coded  cisions about who the key ac­ rigals that are about christmas.  
liñán began with the pur­ the actors on two different as- tors are, we just systematized  we at least want to go with an im­ 
pose of explaining the major  pects, which both relate to the  these decisions in a dichoto­ age of earlier times.”  
waves of regime change that  actor’s beliefs.  mous way,” he said.  The dinners attempt to  
have swept latin america,  “The first is whether or  recreate a medieval ball at  
mainwaring said, but he and  not they value democracy or  Contact Matthew McKenna at  christmastime, complete with  
pérez-liñán soon came to  a dictatorship on intrinsic  mmcken12@nd.edu  a toast and a real boar’s head,  

paid adverTisemenT 
finish it. it’s a big production. it’s far more focused and controlled. it’s not like being on the street, it’s more concentrated. it is like you’re time traveling.” 
baxter said the madrigal din­ners only work with the help of an entire team of people. 
“There are maybe probably 25 members of the choir and anoth­er 15 servers, so there’s probably 50 people back there making it work,” baxter said. “we’re there making sure everything’s smooth.” 
Though preparing the same music every year may seem a lit­tle mundane, menk said the con­stant change of students is what delights her most. 
“i love to watch them get excit­ed about it,” menk said. “by the time we do it, it’s fun. The atmo­sphere at the madrigal dinners is always so festive that it’s easy to see why so many continue to make this a part of their annual holiday celebrations. 
“at every performance, when i step into the hall and see the beautiful candlelit setting and the looks of anticipation on our patrons’ faces, i feel really proud of what we have offered to our community for 42 years.” 
some of the event’s most popu­lar features include the jugglers and the procession of the boar’s head, but everyone always enjoys something unique and different, menk said. 
since first taking over the pro­duction, menk said she has read­justed and perfected the show for each year’s audiences. 
“now we have a formula that works, we don’t even have a meet­ing beforehand,” she said. “The choreographer does her thing, and i do my own thing, and in the end it all comes together.” 
The madrigal dinners are saint mary’s way of reaching out to the community beyond campus dur­ing the advent season, menk said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

and nourished by the church.” letters nov. 26 at the weekly papal delivering the letters was wholly urankar, is simply for the letters to 
Pope 

kristen millar, a senior and audience. thrilling. be read. 
conTinued From page 1 

active participant in campus urankar said the weight of the “it’s not only thrilling to go to “some young women poured 
team leaders of the Fellowship ministry, said she was first asked to project did not hit her until she rome, and it’s certainly thrilling to their hearts out in the pages of of catholic university students help with the project last year, and literally found herself carrying the actually talk to the pope, but it was those letters, so what one hopes (Focus) and catholic web media. agreed to help without any idea of bag with the large binder contain-truly thrilling to feel like we were is not only that they are read — 
what it would turn into. ing the 225 letters through the met-there doing something that was re-and i trust they will be — but that The Project “as i met with [members of the al detector at the vatican. ally important,” mooney said. with the holy spirit, there’s some 
Following the national invita-cFs], we went over some of the “To physically carry them re-besides attending the papal au-realization of unmet needs and tion, the project’s team compiled articles that spurred this project minded me of the old belief dience and meeting pope Francis, how the church can work to meet the letters, poems and other forms — about millennials leaving the ‘strength in numbers,’” urankar the group attended a mass of-them,” mooney said. of creative expression into a binder church and the problems young said. “with so many voices rep-fered by bishop rhoades with the in regards to the project’s de­for pope Francis as they were sent women face today — and it was resented, how could we not be students studying in the college’s velopment, mooney said she was to the college, groppe said. shocking for me to discover all heard?” rome study abroad program at the impressed by the enthusiasm and 
The responses addressed four of this because i honestly didn’t after the papal audience, basilica of sant’andrea della valle, courage of the students. questions, centered on what is know,” millar said. rhoades introduced millar millar said. “Quite often, one loses that op-cherished about the catholic tra-The cFs received 225 letters, and mooney to pope Francis in “one night at dinner, president timism and that belief that they dition, what it is like to be a young including several poems, some spanish, and all were able to shake mooney, her husband, george, and have the ability to make change,” woman today, how young women prayers and a number of drawings pope Francis’ hand as they deliv-grace and i sat down and had a re-mooney said. “we all need to keep can contribute their gifts to serve and works of art, groppe said. most ered the binder and stole. ally good conversation about the that belief in ourselves alive. The the church’s mission and what notably, students at saint ursula “i presented the stole from project and the pope and how we optimism and enthusiasm that fu­other ways young women can sup-academy in cincinnati designed a saint ursula’s, and then president need to remember that the pope is eled this project is very important port one another’s return to the handmade pink and red satin stole mooney gave pope Francis the human too,” millar said. for everybody to keep.” church, if disconnected, groppe for pope Francis. binder and said that the letters “when we saw him in the audi-The project will continue to said. Though most of the letters have contained the joys, hopes, griefs ence, he was so charismatic and manifest, millar said, if women 
college president carol ann been kept confidential, the let-and sorrows of young women from gets so much joy out of being with advocate for other women in our mooney said the project ties in with ters expressed love for the church the millennial generation,” millar the people. daily lives in all situations, as pres-the saint mary’s mission “about as and the pop, but also included said. “he shook both of our hands “i am just grateful to be able to sures build from society to remain clearly as anything does.” concerns about today’s secular and said ‘please pray for me, i need do my part in answering his call to faithful. 
“we are concerned at saint culture, which often objectifies the prayers.’ young women,” millar said. “it’s important that women mary’s not simply with, of course, women, director of media relations “The very day before, pope see their roles in the church and the academic and intellectual de-gwen o’brien said. Francis was in France, and the next ‘Together, we can do even within one another’s lives as vital velopment of our students, but also day he was leaving for Turkey, so it more’ and necessary, because they are,” their moral, social and spiritual Delivering the Letters to just shows you how much of an ef-with the letters delivered, the millar said. development. That’s our philoso-Pope Francis fort he is making to reach different project’s team has since returned “we all just need to remember phy,” mooney said. “This project is over Thanksgiving break, communities,” millar said. “he’s a to the united states and hopes the that although you may be one per-not just about saint mary’s or our bishop kevin rhoades, of the universal symbol for the universal idea behind the project will contin-son, you can do so much, and to-students, but it is more about our diocese of Fort wayne-south church, and we were honored to ue to be discussed in the church gether, we can do even more.” church and how it can better reach bend, mooney, millar and alum-be able to present him with a na-and beyond, millar said. out to young women and keep na grace urankar, (class of 2014) tional symbol — the letters.” one of the most modest hopes, Contact Kelly Konya at them close, well-served, sustained traveled to rome to deliver the mooney said the experience of expressed by mooney, millar and kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Allure 
conTinued From page 1 
for their roles in music, dance and spoken word. 
“There is also a fashion show that will showcase both the traditional and modern styles of asian culture. Though it is a production showcasing asian culture, the cast is in fact the most diverse it has ever been in terms of age, culture and talent.” 
asian allure aims to show­case asian culture and better connect notre dame with the asian community, ho said. 
“asian allure is the only event that showcases every asian cultural club in addi­tion to non-affiliated acts on campus in performance,” ho said. “each year presents a different theme to serve the purpose of better connecting nd with the asian commu­nity through understanding of the different cultures.” 

ho said planning for asian allure began in July when the board began to think of ideas for the show. 
“The planning process be­gan over the summer when i was selected to be the direc­tor in the end of July,” ho said. “The asian allure board was then established, and we im­mediately began brainstorm­ing ideas of what the vision of asian allure should be this year in contrast to past productions.” 
ho said auditions were held early in fall semester, and rehearsals began shortly afterward. 
“auditions took place in late september and selected per­formers were notified of their participation the same week, after which we immediately began collaboration,” she said. 
ho said asian allure is not just put on by students for students. 
“not only are students in­volved, but the alumni asso­ciation and faculty of nd are as well,” she said. “many visit just to watch the performance and experience the growth of the audience in numbers and diversity since their years on campus. 
“Though it may only seem like a mere production, asian allure annually reminds notre dame of the special presence of the asian com­munity of notre dame and how unique each individual is. it is not only a rewarding experience to those who are involved, but also to whom­ever come out to watch the show.” 
Tickets will be available for $7 at the laFortune box office until an hour before each show. Tickets can also be pur­chased for $10 at the door. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Aidan 
conTinued From page 1 
blankets and always a lot of fun to do,” she said. “aidan still visits our event, too, and it is inspirational to see how this project has touched so many dif­ferent people.” 
one of the biggest compo­nents of the project is its ability to raise awareness about cancer, surjancev said. 
“more importantly, it helps lend warmth, strength and hope to those currently fighting can­cer,” she said. “many hospitals and patients benefit from receiv­ing these blankets.” 
knott hall president and ju­nior Joseph schneider said the aidan project is great because it allows students to share the sup­port system they have at notre dame with children in need of encouragement. 
“as with all dorms on campus, you become a part of the family when you live there,” schneider 
paid adverTisemenT 


said. “The great thing about hav­ing that sort of family support system is that you can team up with your friends and room­mates to help people truly in need. 
“That is exactly what aidan Fitzgerald did when he started the aidan project in 2006.” 
while the event only lasts one day, surjancev said planning begins more than half a year be­forehand. each year, a minimum of 15 circle k board members join the hall staff and service commissioners of knott hall to organize the event. 
Junior ralph hauke said the event is a great opportunity to help others. 
“so many members of the notre dame community come out to make a blanket or two, so we really couldn’t do it with­out the community support,” surjancev said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Badin 
conTinued From page 1 
pashmina and silk,” she said. “This is a really great way for peo­ple to be conscious of the things that they are buying, how they are purchasing them, that they are ethically sourced, that they are making a big impact. if you are splurging on another person or yourself, you can do it in such a way that it helps and has a much greater impact.” 
Junior chau-ly phan, one of the event’s organizers, said badin res­idents have worked to advertise and set up for the sale. 
“during the actual event, there are badin girls helping with the sale by working checkout, an­swering questions, and being personal shoppers and giving gift advice,” she said. 
proceeds from the sale support a variety of projects from the hope initiative, including scholarships and initiatives for children of illit­erate families, conrado said. 
“so where there’s no educa­tional background for that child to succeed we offer before- and after-school programs so that [they] can get extra help in school, that they can be exposed to a stronger educational underpin­ning,” she said. “[hope initiative] uses creative thinking to address issues of poverty and educational access. because i am a profes­sor of design, i like to think that we can offer creative ways to ad­dress these intractable human is­sues and problems in developing countries.” 
phan said when the sale raises more money, the hope initiative is able to disburse more scholar­ships and host health clinics. 
“in one sale, we have the oppor­tunity to provide these kids with opportunities and the care they deserve for the entire year, and if enough people purchase goods, we can help so many more people throughout the year.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

‘Nowhere else but ND’ 
on dec. 6, 2011, my twin sister morgan leigh Judd passed away unexpectedly from a blood clot that formed in the back right part of her brain. morgan was a freshman at wake Forest university where she was double majoring in ac­counting and dance. The day before she passed away, she danced at the wake Forest basket­ball game and showed no signs of inconsistent health. morgan was well known for her grace on the dance floor and much loved for her unwaver­ing kindness and compassion. 
grieving over morgan’s unfortunate and unex­pected passing has been a long and taxing pro­cess for me and my family. being twins, morgan and i had gone through every life experience together — i had never imagined living in a world without her always by my side. whenever i had an issue, i knew i could turn to her and she would respond with a comforting smile and understanding embrace. but suddenly, that rock i had always held to was swept out from under me, and i was forced to face a sea of uncertainty without the one person who truly understood me. 
This upcoming saturday — which marks the three-year anniversary of morgan’s passing — my friend marie davidson (’15) is coordinating the third annual 24-hour vigil of notre dame students and faculty at the grotto of our lady of lourdes. more than 70 students and faculty from across campus are signed up to participate. other than hometown friends, none of these stu­dents have ever met morgan Judd. in years past, several dear friends have stationed themselves for several hours through the night, enduring sub-15 degree temperatures all in the name of a girl they will never get the chance to meet. 
over time, i have come to realize that morgan’s spirit didn’t simply fade away — anything so visceral couldn’t just disappear. rather, i like 
“In years past, several dear friends have stationed themselves for several hours through the night, enduring sub-15 degree temperatures all in the name of a girl they will never get the chance to meet. 
to think that her essence was so strong that it exploded like a supernova, spreading tremen­dous light and warmth in its wake. morgan 
never attended notre dame, yet i see her daily. i see her in the smiles of strangers walking on the quad. i hear her in the cheers from the stu­dent section on a football saturday. i feel her through the power of friendship, when a group of 20-year-olds spend all night at a grotto for a girl they never knew. 
The athletic culture and strong academics are what initially drew me to notre dame, but it is events like this grotto vigil that made me real­ize that notre dame has become my home. The past three years have demonstrated what a truly unique faith-based community we share, com­posed of people capable of such overwhelming compassion. 
To all those who have supported me this past week and every day for the last three years, i want to express my profound gratitude. you are all a constant reminder of how incredibly blessed i am to attend this university and serve as a poignant reminder that we have an angel here watching out for all of us. 
nowhere else but notre dame. 
Michael Judd 
senior o’neill hall dec. 4 

we must petition for pe 
hard questions need to be asked about the university’s decision to eliminate the physical education department and replace the long­standing program and swim requirement with a vague and irrelevant mandatory credit class for incoming freshmen. This decision was an­nounced in mid-april of last year with very little student input and was even a complete surprise to the pe department employees, whose jobs are now in jeopardy. in 2012, a committee was con­vened to look into possible alternatives for the pe department. Their recommendation options were as follows: merge the pe department and rec sports, retain the pe department and replace the requirements with a credit-bearing course available to the entire student population and reduce the pe requirements to a one-semester wellness class. in 2014, an ad hoc committee with one student representative chaired by dean hugh page was established to examine these options. strangely, their final recommendation was not any of the options previously put for­ward. instead, the proposal that was presented to the academic council (passed with a thin margin and many absences) was a yearlong credit-bearing course that included vague topics such as “discernment,” “cultural competence” and “mind-body awareness” and completely eliminated the pe department at our lady’s university starting with the class of 2019. 
late last year, i started an online petition to help save the notre dame pe department that has now gathered more than 1,000 signatures of alumni, current students and faculty. in ad­dition to the signatures, the petition also gath­ered more than 100 strongly worded comments such as “pe was one of the remedies to my stress freshman year,” “physical education was one of my best memories” and “Talking about fitness doesn’t make you more fit.” dean page and Fr. Jenkins, in a world with shocking obesity rates and an ever-increasing amount of academic pressure on students, why is the school deciding to replace a stress-relieving aspect of First year studies with a credit course that will add to the workload of students and decrease time spent on physical activities? 
during the summer, i was in contact with dr. vincent Friedewald, notre dame alum and 
“ Dean Page and Fr. Jenkins, in a world with shocking obesity rates and an ever-increasing amount of academic pressure on students, why is the school deciding to replace a stress-relieving aspect of First Year Studies with a credit course that will add to the workload of students and decrease time spent on physical activities? 
an associate editor of the american Journal of cardiology. he was shocked that notre dame has decided to eliminate the pe department, which is an essential part of the notre dame 
experience, and put students’ health at risk. he shared my concern that the rec sports depart­ment is currently extremely unequipped to take over the responsibilities of physical activity. while dean page claims rec sports will be over­hauled, the department currently has no director and no instructions on how this will take place. i have also spoken with dennis stark, former irish swimming coach and class of 1947. he has been trying to get alumni involved in this issue as well, but was stonewalled by the administration when he requested to present a case to president Jenkins. 
as a current student, i believe that we have both the right and responsibility to question the administration’s decision on this issue. earlier this year i was working with student government, but they are committed to working with dean page to move forward with the new plan. i know there are other pressing student issues (such as the commencement decision), but i believe all students both past and present should be con­cerned about this issue because of its implica­tions for future students. i urge you all to sign my petition online (google “nd pe petition”) if you feel strongly about this issue. my contact information is on this petition, and i urge you to contact me if you have any further suggestions. i have done extensive research on this decision and would certainly be willing to discuss further. 
“vita, dulcedo, spes.” 
Aaron DeGagne 
sophomore Zahm house nov. 20 



The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Christ, goodness and light are constant 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i don’t know if any of you have read the colum­nist david brooks from the new york Times, but i have taken a liking to him recently. his articles began to pop up on my Facebook news feed ear­lier this year. 
The first article i read was titled, “stairway to wisdom.” in it, brooks analyzes the ways we learn and acquire information about social problems. 
he starts by analyzing the benefits of science, which, as he states, are advantageous in that they allow researchers to make “informed generaliza­tions about how people are behaving.” 
but this quest to understand others, he says, is ultimately limited in that it does not “allow for deep understanding.” in other words, it doesn’t allow for the beauty and complexity of the human person to emerge, a beauty that can never be fully defined or contained by a set of statistics or data. 
brooks then goes on to write, “we all know people whose lives are breathtakingly unpredict­able: a mormon leader who came out of the closet and became a gay dad; an investment banker who became a nun; a child with a wandering anthro­pologist mom who became president.” 
in sum, we never know what remains hidden, what dreams hover beneath the surface of our souls and the souls of others, ready to emerge into bodily and material reality like a caterpillar from its cocoon. 
and that’s precisely the point. brooks observes, “To move the next rung up the ladder of under­standing you have to dive into the tangle of indi­vidual lives.” 
of course, that task is easier said then done. who wants to encounter the difficulty of the tangle or the messier parts of life? dive there and you can count on a journey that’s sure to involve a little bruising, battering or maybe even some seri­ous injury. 
we fear what we do not know. To stand face to face on the precipice of a tough reality, to stand in anticipation of a journey we (most likely) will not be able to control — that could be one of most daunting challenges put to humanity. 
and it’s daunting because of our expecta­tions. we expect a “good” life. we expect to be “healthy.” we expect to receive what we are due if we work hard. but, unfortunately, that’s not al­ways the reality that stares us back in the face. 
sometimes these expectations cloud our vision. Too often, i think, we look at the exterior of an­other person’s life and observe that everything is going right for them. but that image is a mirage. no one’s life is perfect. no day will be the “per­fect” day. no relationship the “perfect” relation­ship. why? because that’s life. 
presumptions and observations without deeper knowledge are like cataracts for the soul. They cloud our vision, distancing us from the real­ity we seek to know. Try to see anything from so great a distance, and it will appear distorted, fuzzy and not true to form. our eyes might show us what we want to see, but we will be settling for a cheap version of reality. 
Fortunately christ, the great bridge-builder, has sought to show us true reality, a reality anchored and rooted in love. 
in the incarnation, christ lived out this love to the fullest. he took on humanity, bridging the man-made chasm of sin that had separated human and divine. he drew close in order that we might see him clearly. he came to us so that we might see and freely choose him again and desire our union with him just as much as he desired it with us. 
brooks sums it up perfectly: “love impels you not just to observe, but to seek union — to think as another thinks and feel as another feels.” christ wept, like us; he suffered, like us; he died, like us. but, he also rose from the dead and showed us that, in him, death would not be the end of our story. 
but death always wants to silence love. it wants to exploit the fact that the “bad stuff” does not disappear in a moment and that pain is, often times, not any easier to face. 
but when we choose christ, when we draw clos­er to him, we see that he has already promised us a different ending: “i am with you always, until the end of the age.” 
it’s christ who is constant, not sin or death. 
and like christ, we must be constants for one another. we must continue to draw close, to shine christ’s light for each other when the darkness in our lives becomes too great to bear alone. 
we must remind each other that we are reflec­tions of eternal light. and no tangle will, if we remember christ’s promise, be able to contain that light. 
Scott Boyle graduated in May of 2012 with a degree in Theology and a minor in Medieval Studies.  He cur­rently lives and works as a Campus and Youth Minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program. Contact him at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

continue progress on lgbTQ issues 
remember two years ago? Two years ago, barack obama was reelected. The royal baby captivated our nation, sight unseen. notre dame was going to the national championship as the no. 1 team. These events stick in our minds and bring back salient memories of how our lives were changed, yet despite heavy coverage in The observer, and a major press release by the university, another event in the fall of 2012 may not be remembered so clearly. 
on dec. 5, 2012, notre dame took a large step to­wards creating a more inclusive community when it reaffirmed its commitment to its lgbTQ students by releasing the pastoral plan, beloved Friends and allies. members of student affairs, Fr. Jenkins’ team and faculty and staff all over campus came together, performing a review of university services that dem­onstrated their commitment to the holy cross values upon which notre dame was founded. after more than 27 years of struggle, campus welcomed the cre­ation of an official student organization, an advisory committee for student affairs and a full-time staff position, all focused on inclusion for its lgbTQ stu­dents. This tangible action was manifested adminis­trative support of a burgeoning student conversation, led by some of the best student and campus leaders in recent notre dame history. Things have changed over the last five years for this campus, and lgbTQ people are becoming more tangibly recognized as a part of the notre dame family. 
unfortunately, when putting on campus events, we are still asked questions that amount to: “look, i totally support you lgbTQ students, but why do you have to be so in-my-face about it?” on our second birthday, we’d like to answer this question: 
Because the words “we respect human dignity” are meaningless if what follows fails to recognize the humanity of LGBTQ people. 
it’s not enough to pay lip service to love and re­spect. without engaging in concrete actions that support a community, rhetoric can prove empty to those who need it most. spread the love – it’s impor­tant to be accepting, but it is as important to make this acceptance known to those it will most positively impact. 
Because students still have experiences with un­supportive parents, educators or peers. 
From personal interactions with prism members, to mr. london’s letter wednesday, we are constantly reminded of the negative consequences of people’s attitudes. Tolerance does not soothe the wounds of discrimination. it’s acceptance that demonstrates true goodwill and a desire for reconciliation. 
Because sexuality and gender are universal experiences. 
each and every person has a unique and valued sexuality and gender; where you fall on the spectrum is an important part of your personhood. identifying with a sexuality or gender that is more accepted in the mainstream discourse does not mean it is some­how more valuable – all people’s personal stories are part of a tapestry of experience that all should work to cherish. 
Because looking at LGBTQ people only as bur­dened individuals does not fully capture a person’s experience of their sexuality and gender. 
recently, the synod on the Family debated and ultimately rejected the use of a phrase saying that homosexual persons have “gifts and qualities to offer to the christian community.” rather than a change in church doctrine, it would have been a reframing of how we should see our lgbTQ peers. it challenges us to look at others not as deficient, but as containing a whole person, bringing with them their own valuable perspective and personal experiences. 
as a community, we have the ability to come to­gether and manifest our love into a true family, wel­coming to all people. on this two year anniversary, we invite you to join us in committing to fully sup­porting, loving and accepting all lgbTQ students. 
sincerely, 
Lilian Crawford 
junior badin hall 
Bryan Ricketts 
junior duncan hall dec. 3 




By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 
main street coffee house, located in downtown south bend, recently began display­ing images from a new art proj­ect titled “south bend: Then and now.” The project features pictures of south bend loca­tions found by the studebaker national museum juxtaposed with modern photographs of these same locations. as i sit in the coffee shop, one particular photo grabs my attention: an expressionless man on a horse-drawn grocery delivery wagon stares at a camera, while a curi­ous little boy around the corner timidly looks on. when i look at the current photo, i see a famil­iar destination also committed to preserving history of forgot­ten items: Junk evolution. 
Junk evolution is located at 528 e colfax ave. in south bend, situated at the cor­ner of hill and colfax in the east bank village. Featuring a beautiful mural showcasing stores and other parts of the east race neighborhood, the building serves as an impor­tant part of south bend history. constructed in the 1890s, the building has served a variety of functions ranging from grocery store to residence to its current fate, Junk evolution. 
Junk evolution has existed in this space since march 2010, continuing a long legacy of re-purposing this building that hasn’t changed much since its creation. This doesn’t seem to be an accident, as discov­ering new uses for old items seems to be at the heart of Junk evolution. 

“we’re all about sustainabil­ity and repurposing and recy­cling,” owner linda sherck said. “so that was our initial theme, trying to save things from the landfill and keeping things from being thrown away, and that is what it remains today” 
during a season where con­sumerism runs rampant and the pressure is on acquir­ing the newest, latest gadget, Junk evolution encourages the community to look at already existing products in a new light. offering beautifully re-purposed products, entering junk evolution feels like en­tering a well-curated treasure trove. 
“we’re everywhere,” sherck joked as she described the ex­tensive hunt that staff members go on to find products to repur­pose for the store. “we’re a lot of your usual suspect places. goodwills, thrift shops, estate sales, auctions, friends. we’re dumpster divers, taking things off our neighbors garbage piles; we’re not above that.” 
all of the staff’s hard work pays off, as the store manages to offer a unique experience to shoppers with a different theme each month. Fittingly, the store features a special christmas theme for the month of december, which includes various toboggan sleds coated in garland hanging from the ceiling. 
in addition to various home goods, visitors can also pay a visit to the circa arts gallery and buy vintage clothes from the company vintage Twill or products from carpenter gothic. “The way we have it set up, items can be rung up at either place, and see things are definitely more cohesive between the two businesses,” sherck said. despite the variety of goods offered in the space, the focus of Junk evolution has always remained on selling re-purposed home goods. 
“we have always been a home décor store that focuses on repurposing and recycling,” sherck said. in terms of home goods, sherck believes that functional and versatile items often are the most popular items in the store. “buffets are a really big item, dressers also are very big sellers for us, tables and chairs. i think with the way the economy has been, people are interested in buying things that are useful and functional. people aren’t quite buying use­less and frivolous things for themselves yet.” 
For individuals who miss a particular month or would like to see the full inventory of the store, Junk evolution offers a warehouse sale once a month that features products from pre­vious months that have not been sold or items that would not fit in the store on colfax. located at 1212 high st. in south bend, the warehouse sale occurs on the third saturday of each month. however, due to the christmas holiday, the december ware­house sale will occur dec. 3, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Featuring items ranging from vintage clothing to finished dressers and paintings, the event pro­vides unique christmas gifts for everyone on the christmas gift list. 
Contact Marc Drake at                    mdrake@nd.edu 
The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

spoken word nd hosted their annual poetry slam event wednesday night in the washington hall lab Theatre. 
The night opened with the emcee ex­plaining the history and rules of the poetry slam. poetry slams originated in the 1980s in chicago, working to engage the audi­ence in the performance of poetry. 
There were five judges chosen from the audience, who were asked to rank each of the 11 contestants from one to 10. Their scores were announced to the audience (and the audience was encouraged to cheer in support of scores they liked — or re­spond with “listen to the poem!” to scores they didn’t). The high and low scores were dropped and then the other three were av­eraged for a final score out of 30. at the end, the top three scorers were announced as winners of the poetry slam. 
each poet would get three minutes to perform his or her poem. audience mem­bers were encouraged to react audibly to 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

are you experiencing stop-action mo­tion sickness? is your heart growing two sizes too small for “The grinch?” are you ready to throw yourself under “The polar express?” 
i know i am, which is why i rejoiced when i saw “happy christmas,” a 2014 christmas film starring lena dunham and anna kendrick, on netflix. 
The film, released this summer, stars my two favorite Twitter heroes/it girls/ hysterical hollywood stars. as such, i had high expectations for this holiday film: “girls” situational irony fused with fam­ily holiday parties plus ”pitch perfect”­caliber caroling seemed like a holiday recipe to beat peppermint bark. pretty much i was expecting what sufjan stevens has done with christmas music: a sophis­ticated, indie twist on an overdone genre. however, the 2.6 stars on netflix should encourage the poet to continue to go for it, especially when the audience liked what was being said. The first 10 seconds after three minutes would be allowed with no penalty, but every 10 seconds after that would cost them half a point off their final score. 
The night started with the “sacrificial poet.” her role was to help calibrate the judge’s scoring to prevent any contestants from being punished by a judge who was too harsh. wednesday’s sacrificial poet was spoken word nd’s president beth spesia, who read a poem titled “That activism poem” and received a final score of 24.2. From there, the competition began. 
The star of the first half of the poetry slam was stephanie konrady, who read a poem named “peter pan syndrome.” in it, she told the audience, “i’m saying no” to adulthood. she said “i won’t reach for security at the expense of creativity” and ended her poem with the idea of faith. she received an 8.8, 8.8, 8.7, 8.2 and 8.3 for her efforts, for a final score of 25.8. 
after konrady, the poetry slam featured 
have been a warning that this holiday film would not make the nice list. 
First off, this film is advertised as a holiday movie — it is titled “happy christmas” — so you would assume holi­day parties, a little christmas music and some holiday cheer, right? nope. There were maybe three gifts exchanged and no bing crosby or sleigh bells to be heard. 
it is a lousy marketing scheme. since december is the month everyone de­vours mariah carey ballads and any films with reindeer like they’re free candy canes, this movie tries to slip under the christmas genre and suck in anyone who listens to spotify’s “Folksy christmas” list and scours netfllix for “alternative” christmas movies — aka me. 
however, taken as just an indie mov­ie — it was released in July— it had its moments. 
carson (played by dunham) delivers as the sassy, attentive best friend who offers questionable advice and great one-liners a “guest speaker” of sorts in the form of 

p.e.a.T.e. (poetically educating all Thru expression), a local spoken word artist. she apologized for not being prepared and then performed an entirely memorized piece “my knees.” her performance stood out for her ability to combine both the theatrics of poetry slam with the deeper meaning many of the other poems were striving for. it partially helped that she was the first memorized poem of the night. 
The last three poets of the night stole the show. it started with kelsey collett, who performed “my passive aggression isn’t so passive.” it was one of the shorter poems of the night, but definitely powerful. she said she didn’t know if she could be a hero but “i think i could be a contender” and told the audience, “you can get in my corner or you can get in the ring.” it was a strong poem and she ended up with an 8.0, 8.5, 86, 8.8 and 8.6. her final score was a 25.7. 
Following collett was Zeda biosa. her piece was about “the night i became yours forever.” it was a powerful storyline, told in time fragments from 8 p.m., 9 p.m. and so 
— so basically dunham did a great job playing herself. 
Jenny (played by kendrick), is an inse­cure 27 year old living with her brother and his wife and baby after a bad break­up. she is an irresponsible, selfish and rather mousy character that it is hard to sympathize with — just wait until you get to the scene the christmas eve scene (of course, you won’t know it was the night before christmas until the next morning because christmas is not a central topic in “happy christmas”). 
a character that is easy to sympathize with is kelly (played by lynskey). Jenny’s brother’s wife and mother to adorable baby Jude, she is fed up by wearing “pa­jama tops with spit-up on them all day” and having no time to write her novel, but is too polite and kind to ever complain. 
as carson, in classic dunham/ horvath-style, says, “she’s so pretty in that way that’s, ‘oh, i didn’t have time to take a shower. oh, i didn’t have time to on. she was given an 8.5, 8.8, 8.9, 8.4 and 7.9 for a final score of 25.7, tying with collett for second place behind konrady. 
The final performer ended up taking the night with a score of 25.9. garrett blad took the stage and told us that he wanted to write a love poem but “my mind is full of numbers.” he took us through the story of the glacier lily and the broad-tailed hum­mingbird. he lamented that the glacier lily and the broad-tailed hummingbird were just years away from never meeting again because of natural migration cycles. he told the audience, “we can read the history of the natural world in braille” and that the “best way to destroy a library is to for­get how to read.” he warned there was no turning back from modernity. he won the night with a 9.6, 8.6, 8.4, 8.9 and 7.9. 
all in all, the poetry slam was an in­credible night of talent from notre dame students. it showcased the extraordinary creative talents of students. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
do anything. i’m just mommin’ it up’ and she’s so beautiful.” 
carson and Jenny take unassuming kelly under their wing and try to help her find time to do things she wants to do, starting by convincing her to write an erotic novel for fast cash. kelly starts to like Jenny, an unexpected turn after nearly kicking her out of the house the first night. i never felt this inclination, however, as Jenny remained selfish and unstable pretty consistently throughout the film. 
This movie is a mediocre indie film that falls below mediocre when watched as an indie christmas film. you will not feel any happier this christmas by watching “happy christmas.” 
sorry to be a scrooge, but that he at least he has remorse for his unsavory past ac­tions — the same can’t be said for Jenny. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

76ers hang by a thread 

Greg Hadley 
associated sports editor 
stop the presses everyone. The philadelphia 76ers won a game. 
Twenty teams played wednesday night, and the 76ers generated the second-fewest points of any of them against the nba’s second worst defense, the minnesota Timberwolves. but that doesn’t matter, because they finally found a team that had no answer for the league’s worst offense. 
with the win, philadelphia moves to 1-17 on the season and avoids tying the worst start in nba history. i’m pretty sure that a healthy portion of the 10,463 people in atten­dance at the Target center in minneapolis only showed up in the hope of being part of sports history. but the sixers would just not be denied. 
in all sincerity though, we should give the team credit for not giving up and slouching its way into the record books. when the playoffs are already laughably out of reach, when you’re playing in front of dwin­dling, unenthusiastic crowds, when team management is already looking ahead to next year, or maybe the year after that, it cannot be easy to give a full effort for 82 games. 
but still, the 76ers missed out on history. They could have been the gold standard for atrocious, the paragon of pathetic, the epitome of aw­ful. decades down the road, grandparents would say, “well, yes, they’re bad, but they’re nowhere near as bad as the 76ers used to be. let me tell you ... “ instead, the 2014-2015 76ers will be lost in the sea of simply “bad” sports teams. 
no, i’m not saying philadelphia should have lost on purpose. all i’m saying is that, by winning, they lost out on sports immortality. as much as we celebrate the greats of the athletic world, we also don’t mind looking back at the all-time worst. Futility is one of the most enduring sto­rylines in sports, and everyone likes to occasionally remem­ber just how bad some teams can be. 
Take for example the 2008 detroit lions, the only team in nFl history to go 0-16. perhaps the defining moment of that season was the week six game against the minnesota vikings, when quarterback dan orlovsky took the snap in the first quarter and ran out of the back of the end-zone untouched for a safety. naturally, the vikings won, 12­
10. at a certain point, the level of incompetence becomes comical. 
John mckay certainly under­stood that. during his time as head coach of the Tampa bay buccaneers in the franchise’s shambolic early years, he was asked about his team’s execu­tion and replied, “i’m all for it.” 
in 1979, several kansas city royals players invented a new term for incompetence when when they joked that hall-of-Famer george brett’s batting average was getting too close to that of mario mendoza, a light-hitting shortstop. The “mendoza line” has since be­come ingrained in baseball as the standard of weak hitting. it’s a clubhouse joke gone too far, maybe, but still a great way to describe a batter that just looks hopeless at the plate. 
or to return to basketball, there is a certain cruel irony in acknowledging that michael Jordan, the greatest player of all time and the leader of the best team in nba history, the 1995-1996 bulls, was also the owner of the worst team in league annals, the 2011-2012 charlotte bobcats. while Jordan watched, the bobcats stumbled and bumbled through a 23-game losing streak to a 7-59 record and a .106 winning percentage. 
a lot of football fans know the score 222-0, the final result between georgia Tech and cumberland in 1916 and the most lopsided defeat in college history. lest you feel too sorry for cumberland, the story goes that georgia Tech’s legend­ary coach John heisman ran up the score to avenge a 22-0 beatdown the bulldogs laid on the engineers the previous spring in baseball. heisman was also georgia Tech’s base­ball coach. 
in general, good sports teams are fun to watch and bad ones are boring, but on occasion, squads can simply be so grossly inept that it’s fun to watch them go down in flames. if you don’t believe me, rewatch the infamous mark sanchez “butt fumble.” it’s stupid, and it’s kind of sad, but i don’t know a non-Jets fan that can help themselves from laughing. 
so while i salute the 76ers for avoiding ignominy for now, i will still keep a close eye on them as the season goes on. after all, their winning per­centage is only at .059. They’re not out of the trash heap of history just yet. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Senators threaten NFL to drop ‘blackout’ rule 
Associates Press 

washingTon — senators from both parties warned the national Football league on Thursday to get rid of a four­decade-old Tv “blackout” rule or risk congressional action to restrict the league’s lucrative antitrust exemption, which al­lows nFl teams to negotiate radio and television broadcast rights together. 
The blackout rule, which bars home games from being televised in a local market if they have not sold out, is un­fair to fans who have helped the league reap billions of dol­lars in revenue from broadcast rights to games that are among the most-watched programs on Tv, lawmakers said. 
in return for their loyalty, “fans in the public are of­ten treated like a fumbled football,” said sen. richard blumenthal, d-conn. “when places like buffalo, new york, fail to sell out its 74,000-per­son stadium, the bills game is blacked out for local fans.” 
The Federal communications commission voted this fall to stop enforcing the nFl’s blackout policy, but the action did not end black­outs, which are written into the nFl’s private contracts with broadcast and cable companies. 
blumenthal and other law­makers at a senate Judiciary committee hearing said Thursday the blackout rule has long outlived its useful­ness. The rule was adopted in the 1970s to encourage ticket sales at nFl games, which now routinely sell out at stadiums across the country. 
“The simple fact is that these rules only serve to benefit sports leagues and their mem­ber teams at the expense of the hardworking fans who support them so loyally through their money, time and passion,” said sen. John mccain, r-ariz. 
during last year’s nFl play­offs, fans of the cincinnati bengals, indianapolis colts and green bay packers came close to experiencing black­outs when those games had not sold out just days before kick-off, mccain said. The blackouts were averted when local businesses bought tick­ets to bring the total above the nFl’s required threshold. 
a bill co-sponsored by blumenthal and mccain would revoked the league’s an­titrust exemption unless it re­moves the blackout rule. 
The senators made it clear at Thursday’s hearing that they would prefer not to enact a bill. blumenthal and other law­makers urged the nFl to act on its own. 
“i think they’d become heroes rather than the op­posite, which they are now,” blumenthal said. 
gerard waldron, a lawyer who represents the nFl, said the proposed bill would harm the people it intends to help 
— the fans — by undermin­ing “the complex business and legal structure that allows the nFl to be the only professional sports league that offers all of its regular-season game to viewers at no charge” through over-the-air broadcasts. 
without the certainty of paid attendance provided by a blackout rule, nFl games are likely to migrate from free broadcast Tv to pay Tv such as cable and satellite, waldron said. 
The bill also aims fix a prob­lem that largely does not exist, waldron said. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

eight big east teams open conference schedules    
Associated Press 

new york — The big east got an early start on its conference season with eight of the 10 teams opening on wednesday. 
it’s the second time in four sea­sons that the conference got a jump on play. The early start was caused by a new schedule that has the league playing its conference games on Friday and sunday. The way the calendar falls with holi­days and such it wouldn’t have been possible to start the final weekend in december which the conference did last year. 
The men will begin their con­ference play in a new year’s eve marathon. 
The games wednesday were competitive for the most part. villanova and providence got the day started with the Friars winning on Tori rule’s running layup with two seconds left. no. 25 depaul trailed butler by six at 

FOR RENT 

1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 
the half before rallying for the 92­76 win. seton hall beat creighton 79-74. 
st. John’s was only up three at the half over Xavier before turn­ing the game into a rout in the second half. 
“This is the third game in five days for us,” st. John’s coach Joe Tartamella said. “They were ex­cited and energized. i think it gave us a focus knowing it was a conference game.” 
Tartamella was an assistant at the school in 2011 when the con­ference also had an early opening date. 
“i can see it being weird for those who haven’t gone through it before,” he said. “however, as far as scheduling is concerned we control what we can.” 
The red storm (6-0) have been together since the summer after spending time overseas in spain and italy on a foreign trip. so the team has had more time than some others to get ready for the upcoming season. 
“we’ve been working for a long time now,” said danaejah grant, who had 23 points in the 65-42 win over Xavier. “it’s a good test for us to see where we’re at in our conference.” 
marquette and georgetown were the only two teams not to play conference openers. The golden eagles lost 79-53 to auburn on Tuesday night. 
The big east wasn’t the only conference to open early. The big south began play on monday with charleston southern fac­ing unc asheville. The metro atlantic athletic conference also opened wednesday with one game on the schedule. 
The earliest a conference has opened its women’s schedule since 2000 as when the colonial athletic conference had a game between Towson and old dominion on nov. 16, 2001. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
SPRING SEMESTER -rental avail­able. Fully Furnished. 2BR 2BA. $700 per bedroom. Call 925-640-4707 or email jatkins3@nd.edu  Have a holly jolly Christmas. It’s the best time of the year. I don’t know if there’ll be snow, but have a cup of cheer. Have a very holly jolly Christmas.  



SMC BASKETBALL 

SMC wins third straight 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
saint mary’s opened con­ference play at home with a 64-61 win against alma on wednesday night, the team’s third win a row. 
The belles (3-3, 1-0 miaa) and the scots (2-3, 0-1 miaa) both attacked the rim early, trading points on both ends of the court over the first five minutes of the game. however, the belles shored up their defense, prompting an 11-0 run that led to a 19-8 ad­vantage over the visitors. The scots fired back shortly after, narrowing the lead to within five as the teams returned to trading baskets. 
The game was contested in the paint, with saint mary’s taking a slight lead in re­bounds with 38 to alma’s 34. senior guard and captain ariana paul led the way on the boards for the belles with 15 rebounds of her own, in­cluding 10 on the defensive end. she added 12 points and seven assists on the evening, earning her third double-double on the season. 

paul’s night crowned what belles coach Jennifer henley described as an emotion­ally satisfying night for saint mary’s. 
“beating alma on the open­ing night of conference play is always a good feeling,” henley said. “These two teams bat­tled to the end.” 
The belles established a 12-point lead in the opening five minutes of the second half, before weathering an ag­gressive alma counterattack. The squad clung to its lead, even as alma came within three points on a number of occasions. 
henley attributed the scots’ near comeback to their pos­session game. 
“a big part of alma’s run was due to our turnovers,” she said. “we had some poor decision-making in the heat of the game that led to some easy points for alma. we missed too many free throws that kept the game close as well. i think our defense did just enough to secure that win 
— but we will need to do a lot more as we face Trine.” 
The belles have begun to prepare to face the confer­ence rival Thunder as exams loom. henley said the team’s spirits remain high as the sea­son grows more hectic. 
“i think this is a crazy time for everyone as we open up miaa play, prepare for finals and have another holiday sea­son upon us,” she said. “i be­lieve our morale is good, but i know we do have a lot of aca­demic stress upon us. we will work to keep our focus as we prepare for the next stretch of games prior to finals.” 
The belles resume confer­ence play saturday when they travel to angola, indiana, to face the Thunder at 3 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

NHL | lighTning 5, sabres 0; canucks 3, penguins 0 
bolts rout sabres in 5-0 victory 
Associated Press 
Tampa, Fla. — steven stamkos had a goal and an assist during Tampa bay’s three-goal second period, ben bishop made 13 saves, and the lightning beat the buffalo sabres 5-0 on Thursday night. 
nikita kucherov, brenden morrow, Jason garrison and brett connolly had the other Tampa bay goals. The eastern conference-leading lightning improved to 5-0­1 in the last six games, with lone loss in a 2-1 shootout de­feat at buffalo on Tuesday. 
buffalo, which had won six of seven, went 22 1/2 min­utes without a shot during one stretch before rasmus ristolainen got one with 3:41 left in the second. 
The sabres, last in the atlantic division, are 1-13­1 when the opponent scores first, and are pointless when trailing after the first (0-10-0) and second (0-12-0) periods. 
after stamkos was left alone near the post and scored his 16th goal of the season off a pass from ryan callahan at 
4:28 of the second, morrow made it 3-0 from in-close 71 seconds later. 
The lightning went up 4-0 on garrison’s goal with 6:20 left in the period. 
bishop made a nice save on Zemgus girgensons late in the second. 
kucherov opened the scor­ing 2:33 into the game when he redirected radko gudas’ shot past Jhonas enroth. he has three goals and five points during a five-game point streak. 
enroth was credited with a save on Tyler Johnson’s shot during a 2-on-none that hit the post in the final minute of the first. 
There were three scrums through the midway point of the third that resulted in four fighting majors and six 10-minute misconducts. 
connolly had a late third-period power-play goal. stamkos got his second assist of the game on it. 
Canucks 3, Penguins 0 
piTTsburgh — brad richardson scored two goals and added an assist, and eddie lack posted his fifth nhl shutout to lift the vancouver canucks to an­other road win, 3-0 over the short-handed pittsburgh penguins on Thursday night. 
The canucks, in the midst of a season-high, seven-game trip, won their league-best 11th road game. vancouver, which has won five of six overall, beat the penguins in pittsburgh for the first time since nov. 22, 2008. 
richardson scored his fifth and sixth goals, and shawn matthias also netted his sixth and added an assist for the canucks, who hadn’t de­feated pittsburgh anywhere in four years. 
lack stopped 21 shots for his first shutout and second win of the season. 
Thomas greiss made 28 saves and took the loss in his first home start. 
vancouver took advan­tage of pittsburgh’s patch­work lineup, scoring once in the first period and pull­ing away with a pair of goals during the second when the canucks carried the play. The penguins were held without a shot for the first 12 minutes of the period. 
The penguins, already without several regulars, lost another top-line winger when patric hornqvist left with an upper-body injury midway through the second after canucks’ d ryan stanton hit him with a shoulder at cen­ter ice. hornqvist, second on the team with 11 goals, didn’t return. 
it was another setback to a team already without pascal dupuis (blood clots) for the season and chris kunitz, who is out at least two weeks with a fractured foot. They have a combined 15 goals and 31 points. 
pittsburgh also played without d kris letang (groin), beau bennett (lower body) and defenseman robert bortuzzo, who served the first of a two-game suspen­sion for a hard hit Tuesday on new Jersey devils forward Jaromir Jagr. 
richardson opened the scoring at 8:33 of the first, finishing a one-timer from matthias, who beat defense-man olli maatta to a loose puck behind the net. 
pittsburgh nearly tied it on an ensuing power play, but sidney crosby missed an open net, hitting the post to the far side. lack lat­er stopped brandon sutter on a short-handed partial breakaway. 
matthias teamed with richardson again to extend the lead in the second. 
richardson forced simon despres into a turnover be­hind the net and quickly centered to matthias, who flipped a shot over greiss’ shoulder. 
richardson scored a short­handed goal two minutes later, giving vancouver a three-goal lead. 



MEN’S SWIMMING 

irish head to iowa for hawkeye invitational 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
in its last competition of 2014, notre dame travels to iowa for the annual hawkeye invitational, which runs from tonight until sunday. 
The irish (3-2) hope to con­tinue their winning ways in iowa city, iowa, after besting michigan state on the road two weeks ago. 
notre dame’s divers will face a rematch with the spartans this weekend, since the michigan state squad will also make the journey to iowa city for the hawkeye invitational. The irish will also face iowa, denver, washington state and uw­milwaukee in swim and dive competition. 
iowa state, nebraska, northern iowa, ohio state and michigan state are also par­ticipating in the meet, though only in the diving events. 
on the diving boards, the team looks to continue its re­cent dominance. against the spartans two weeks ago, notre dame claimed each of the top five places, led by sophomore Joe coumos, who won both the 1-meter and 3-meter boards with scores of 370.80 and 383.10, respectively. 
The hawkeye invitational is familiar territory for the irish. This will be the fifth consec­utive year notre dame has traveled to iowa for the meet. last season, it won the meet, scoring 1,228.5 points for the second-highest total in the history of the annual event. 
The irish hope for a simi­larly strong performance this weekend, the first time notre dame will enter the meet with matt Tallman as its head coach. Tallman previously served as assistant coach un­der former head coach Tim welsh, the current interim coach of the women’s team. 
“we obviously want con­sistency, and i would say that the transition has been seam­less,” Tallman said. “having coach welsh working with the women’s team has helped us transition and keep our fo­cus of preparing for the next competition.” 
in terms of preparation, Tallman said notre dame is still reaping the benefits from their fall break spent at the u.s. olympic Training Facility in colorado springs, colorado. after starting 1-1 on the season, the team has collected two wins in three meets since the trip, beating pittsburgh, 286-84, on nov. 8 and michigan state, 171-127, on nov. 14. 
despite the recent success, Tallman said the irish remain committed to improving on the margins. 
“i always want our guys to be able to come out of every meet and say that they im­proved and left everything in the water,” Tallman said. 
The irish are slated to re­sume action after the start of the new year with a double dual meet against michigan and northwestern to be held in ann arbor, michigan, on Jan. 10. notre dame will not return home to rolfs aquatic center until it hosts the shamrock invitational on Jan. 30-31, after nearly three months of swimming away on the road. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Split squads wrap up first day of competition 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame closes out its fall season with two meets in two states, as the swimmers headed down to austin, Texas, for the Texas invitational, while the divers traveled to iowa city, iowa, for the hawkeye invitational this weekend. 
This will be the third con­secutive year that the notre dame divers head to iowa city. The irish will compete against full squads from iowa, denver, washington state and wisconsin-milwaukee and diving-only squads from iowa state, nebraska, northern iowa, ohio state and michigan state. 
last season, the swimmers and divers combined to domi­nate the invitational, scor­ing 823 points and distancing themselves from second place by 80 points. 
in preliminary competi­tion Thursday at the Texas invitational, junior genevieve bradford and sophomore katie miller placed 10th and 11th, re­spectively, in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley, qualifying them 
paid adverTisemenT 
both for the finals. additionally, senior courtney whyte fin­ished with a time of 54.19 to place 18th in the 100-yard but­terfly, while junior catherine galleti followed close behind her in 22nd place with a time of 
54.44. both advanced to the fi­nals today. 
The irish are without their top swimmer, senior emma reaney, this weekend, as she competed in the Fina short course world championship in doha, Qatar. on wednesday, reaney swam in the prelimi­naries of the 50-meter breast­stroke, qualifying for the finals in the last possible spot. yesterday, she moved up to place sixth with a time of 30.05. she will race in the 100-meter breaststroke Friday and fin­ish the weekend’s competition with the 200-meter breast­stroke saturday. 
meanwhile, the irish will be­gin the finals today at the Texas invitational in austin, Texas, where the team’s divers will go through qualifying today and saturday before the finals sunday. 





Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
game. 
“i’ve gotten more engaged with it to try and get their at­tention,” Jackson said. “we worked on it for an extended period of time before prac­tice, in practice, and we’re just going to have to pound it into them until we get some success. we have to get bet­ter at faceoffs, moving from there and getting traffic at the net. Those have been my points of emphasis. i went through each individual player and told them why we’re not successful and how they’re contributing to that.” 
as the irish move forward, both Jackson and Fogarty said the irish need upper­classmen to take ownership of the team and lead the young irish to a turnaround. Jackson said he felt the fresh­man were meeting expecta­tions for the most part and needed the older players to take greater strides for the team to improve. 
“i think the biggest thing is, we need our upperclass­men to take over the team,” Jackson said. “The young guys have done a pretty good job; as players, they’ve been pretty good, and i think they’ve done a pretty good job in a lot of different situations. The thing is, i think our up­perclassmen have to step up and be more effective. we are a young inexperienced hock­ey team for the most part, but there are a number of veteran players who know how we do things around here and how we perform, and they need to step up and make sure that doesn’t slide.” 


Fogarty said he agreed with his coach and added he was prepared to accept the bur­den of leading a young strug­gling team. 
“when you go through tough patches like this, the younger guys look to the older guys to see how they’re responding,” Fogarty said. “in past years, we’ve had droughts like this, and it’s just about keeping level head­ed and staying positive. we have a mature team, which is kind of ironic with so many freshmen, but they have the right mindset. i think we can just learn from it and move on. i try to keep playing hard, do what the coaches ask and keep a positive attitude — just try to lead by example.” 
This weekend, Fogarty leads notre dame against a massachusetts unit that only has one conference win. The minutemen (4-9-0, 1-7-0) have dropped four of their last five and are surrendering more than four goals per game. despite massachusetts’s re­cent struggles, Jackson said he hopes his team is focused on the weekend ahead and is ready to be tested. 


“we have to just focus on Friday night right now,” Jackson said. “we’re on the road; it’s going to be a bit more challenging. we have to be prepared to the things that are going to make us success­ful. it’s important that we have some success this week­end to get some confidence going into the second half.” 
when asked if this was the most important weekend of the season so far, Fogarty was quick to say that he felt it was. 
“i think it is,” Fogarty said. 
“i think we all know how im­portant this weekend is, so we can get everyone having fun again going into the long break.” 
after this weekend, the irish do not play again until dec. 28 and 29 at the Florida college hockey classic in estero, Florida. 
notre dame and massachusetts face off Friday and saturday at the mullins center, with both nights’ action getting underway at 7 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 


finished in the bottom third of the acc. in 2013, they en­dured a seven-game losing streak, including five confer­ence games and placed only one athlete, senior middle blocker Jeni houser, on the third team all-acc. This sea­son, the squad dropped even further, winning just 30 sets over 29 matches. Freshman middle blocker sam Fry was the only player to earn con­ference honors as part of the all-rookie team. 
“my primary goal has been to provide a great experience for our student-athletes and winning is certainly a part of having a great experience,” brown said in the press re­lease. “unfortunately, the wins did not come as needed the past couple years.” 
despite her departure, brown said she felt confident that the team would bounce back soon. 
“i would have liked the op­portunity to coach this team and to bring us back,” brown said. “we have a great young nucleus, and you know, we had some obstacles to over­come. ... i really believe in what could happen and what should happen, and i would have loved the opportunity to coach them, but i don’t have that.” 
looking ahead, brown said going to rush into anything, and [i’m going] to take some time to reflect and see what’s available.” 


swarbrick announced in the press release that the university would conduct a nationwide search to find brown’s replacement. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
ND Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
named conference coach of the year six times and did not register a losing season for her first 22 years. under 
paid adverTisemenT 

her leadership, notre dame had 23 players named to all­american squads, the most in program history. 
“The highlights [of my ca­reer] are just the relation­ships and the time i spent together with these young women,” brown said. “i’m just so thankful and so blessed to have had those op­portunities. when the alums come back to campus, and we reminisce and talk about things ... it’s not necessar­ily about a significant win or loss, it’s just about experienc­ing life together. That’s where i think the highlights are.” 
in the past two seasons though, the irish have 

paid adverTisemenT 
she is unsure of her next move after spending more than two decades at notre dame. 
“i think i’m just going to take some time,” brown said. “after being here for 24 years and being a head coach for 30 years, it’s something i just need to take some time and think about, you know, what would be the next move and what to do. but i’m not 



W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
among the best we’ve ever had,” mcgraw said. 
huskies center stefanie dolson and guard bria hartley graduated as well, and uconn welcomed four freshmen this season, includ­ing guard kia nurse, who has averaged 13.7 points per game as the huskies’ third-leading scorer. 
notre dame and connecticut do, however, return key veter­ans despite the graduation of several star players. 
huskies senior forward kaleena mosqueda-lewis and junior forward breanna stewart have led uconn’s scoring with 18.0 and 16.7 points per game, respectively. 
For the irish, junior guard Jewell loyd has once again established herself as the team’s leading scorer at 21.1 points per game. 
“she’s improved,” mcgraw said of loyd. “she’s worked on her game, and she’s one of the hardest workers, if not the hardest worker, in the gym, and … i think she’s been waiting for this oppor­tunity to shine.” 
sophomore forward Taya reimer and senior guard madison cable have also made strides in their devel­opment this season, and the irish have spread the ball around through their first eight games, mcgraw said. 
“we aren’t a one-man team,” mcgraw said. “we can’t be a one-man team.” 
Turner too had leapt onto the scene as a starter in every game and the team’s second-leading scorer before a shoul­der injury in the first half of wednesday’s 92-72 win over no. 15 maryland limited her to just four minutes on the floor and no points. mcgraw said Thursday she had no update on Turner’s status but that the injury occurred as Turner tried to recover a loose ball on the floor. 
on the heels of the maryland game, uconn’s visit marks the first time this season the irish will play back-to-back ranked oppo­nents, and both are rematch­es of notre dame’s two Final Four games last season. 
“it’s interesting how that worked out,” mcgraw said. “it’s good for us because we have to get ready for the acc. … i think the caliber of teams we have to play will give us a good idea for where we are in december.” 
The huskies are 1-1 on the road this season with an overtime loss to stanford, 88-86, on nov. 17. This week­end, notre dame will have the benefit of a large home 


M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
sophomore guard steve vasturia each saw more than 40 minutes of playing time against michigan state. but sophomore forward austin Torres took over junior for­ward Zach auguste’s spot in the paint and played 19 min­utes overall, including the fi­nal 13:08 of the game. 
Torres finished up with only two points, but brey said the granger, indiana, native did everything he needed to down low, including slowing down spartans senior guard/ forward branden dawson. 
“The thing is, [Torres] un­derstands his role: do the dirty work, screen and re­bound,” brey said. “… he was the one guy that could give a physical presence on dawson. That really helped us.” 
moving forward, Torres will likely see increased playing time, especially with sopho­more forward v.J. beachem out with plantar fasciitis, but his role on the team will not change, brey said. 
“[Torres] isn’t going to be taking any 3-point shots in practice [Thursday], i can tell you that much,” brey joked. “he’s going to do the same thing every day. … [wednesday was] a big night for him because he kind of solidifies himself in our ro­tation right now.” 
brey said the win over michigan state will act as a confidence-booster as the irish prepare for their final few games of the non-conference season. 

“it’s a nice step for this group as we’re kind of getting into new territory,” he said. “i think this group is very level-headed. i want them to be more confident because of tonight, but [Thursday] is an off day, and we need it. we need to come back to work and work on some things be­fore we play saturday night.” 
notre dame’s opponent saturday night, Fairleigh dickinson (3-3), will en­ter the game off an 89-85 home victory over princeton on wednesday. The victory snapped a three-game losing streak for the knights, who beat a st. Joseph’s team com­ing off an ncaa tournament appearance last season in their opener. 
senior guard mustafaa Jones and sophomore guard matt macdonald lead the knights in scoring with 15.5 and 14.7 points per game, respectively. macdonald is also the team’s leader in re­bounds with 5.8 boards per game. 
notre dame and Fairleigh dickinson will square off at 8 p.m. saturday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
crowd, an advantage the irish freshmen have quickly learned to appreciate. 
“They love playing at the Joyce center,” mcgraw said after wednesday’s game against maryland. “They found that out the exhibi­tion game. The crowd had so much energy, and they love our fans. They know how ex­citing it’s going to be.” 
The irish and huskies tip off at 3:15 p.m. saturday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Samanatha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Note: A certain three-letter word, appropriate to this puzzle’s theme, goes in the unnumbered center square. 
ACROSS 1 Fig. mentioned in 
Miranda warnings 4 Feudal V.I.P. 8 Made ends 
meet? 14 Your substitute? 15 Arabian 
Peninsula land 16 Lead dancer in a ballet company 17 Exonerated boxer who is the subject of a Bob 
Dylan song 20 Exceedingly 21 Tennis’s Agassi 22 Capt. : Navy :: 
___ : Army 23 Grazeland? 24 Young ’uns 25 Drops 27 Transition 29 ___ and the 
Waves (“Walking on Sunshine” band) 
31 Superman’s dog 

33 2008 recipient of govt. largesse 
34 Piercing gaze 
35 Ingredient in a witch’s potion 

39 Address for a G.I. 
40 Weighted fishing nets 
41 Walt Disney World’s ___ Lagoon 
45 Name dropper, often? 
46 Get extra value from 
48 “___ a Spell on You” (1956 hit) 

50 Nevada birthplace of Pat Nixon 
51 Resident of an elaborate underground “city” 
52 Hidden valleys 
53 Farm females 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


55 Minor-leaguer whose team is named after a Coney Island roller coaster 
59 Orangutan locale 60 Land with a harp on its coat of 
arms 61 ___ lane 62 Measure of a 
man? 63 Falls into decay 64 Revolutionary 
icon 
DOWN 1 Tenderfoot 2 Hustling is 
the same as cheating, according to these authorities 
3 Where to work out 4 Its code uses just G, T, A and C 
5 Four of a decathlon’s 10 events 
6 Enforced silence 7 Giant Ferris wheel 
on the Thames 8 Easily passed 9 Terre in the eau 
zone? 10 Border 11 Name in old 
graffiti 12 Be sassy, with 
“off’ 13 Autumnal hue 18 Uses sock 
puppets to talk to a therapist, say 19 Voting against 25 Is suitable for 26 Ogling wolfishly 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

PUZZLE BY TIMOTHY POLIN 
27 Med. readout 43 Enlightening 54 Portentous 28 Vast treeless area experience nights 30 Go up, up, up 44 Ambassador from 32 “That being said,” 
the Holy See 56 Air Force ___
in textspeak 46 Certain teacher 36 Mess hall queue 
47 Onetime sponsor 37 Green, juicy fruit of what is now 57 It means “white” 

Minute Maid Park 
38 Ending for a 
in Hawaiian record-breaker 49 Part of an affair 41 Certain teachers to remember? 42 Unctuous 52 Latch (onto) 58 Instant 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 



Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


10/4/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ve got plenty of choices, so think big while remaining realistic. The combination will help you reach your goals successfully. adaptability is your saving grace, and chance will keep you from boredom. listen carefully, do your research and stick to the facts, and you will bypass any unfortunate mishap caused by vague conversations. love is highlighted. your numbers are 6, 10, 13, 20, 27, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get together with people you find mentally stimulating. enjoy sharing information and you will find a way to make positive changes to the way you live. don’t let someone you work with bully you. use your intelligence to outsmart an aggressor. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Tie up loose ends. Financial gains can be made if you invest in yourself. add to your skills or knowledge and you will be able to apply for a better position. Talking with someone you respect will lead to a new opportunity. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): strive to reach personal goals. self-improvement will result in compliments. stand up to anyone who gets in your way. your knowledge and expressive way of dealing with others will buy you time. romance looks promising. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): refuse to let your emotions take over. listen carefully and take care of your responsibilities. someone will take advantage of you if you don’t clearly state what you will and won’t do. put yourself on the line and be consistent. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): add a little excitement to your life. plan a trip or indulge in something you’ve never done before. open your mind to learning new skills that can be incorporated into your resume. stop dreaming and start doing. love is beckoning you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): hold on to what you’ve got. don’t give in to someone pressuring you to spend your money. you can make an investment, but stay within your means. do what feels right and works for you. personal problems will be based on false information. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out and meet new people. a partnership will lead to new possibilities. sharing ideas and space with someone looks favorable, as long as you iron out any kinks at the very beginning. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): change can be good if it’s built on solid ground. don’t be a follower or you will have regrets. Take your own unique path and develop what works best for you. recognition is heading your way, along with new opportunities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): improve your surroundings and start getting ready for the holiday season. you can make financial gains if you take care of unfinished business. concentrate on new beginnings. love and romance are on the rise. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): mull over any suggestions without feeling the need to make hasty decisions. don’t fall for the tactics used by someone who wants to manipulate you emotionally. it’s ok to waffle if the cost is high and uncertainty prevails. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): give whatever you do your best shot and head for the finish line. you have more going for you than you realize. a promotion, change of status or recognition will give you the confidence you need to forge ahead. embrace change. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work on creative endeavors that can bring in extra cash or help you save during the upcoming months. striving for greater stability or financial security will pay off. good fortune can be yours if you make the right choices. 


Birthday Baby: you are aggressive and challenging. you are a lover and a crusader. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
FDTAR  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
HUORG  

SMADEK TECPIO  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Ans:  
Yesterday’s  (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CONGA LARVA CRUNCH BESIDE Answer: She was struggling in geometry classbecause there was a — LEARNING CURVE  



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer |  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Rivals set to collide 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
Two titanic programs meet saturday in one of the most dynamic rivalries in wom­en’s basketball when no. 3 connecticut visits purcell pavilion to play the no. 2 irish. 
“it’s a great game for women’s basketball,” irish coach muffett mcgraw said Thursday during a telecon­ference. “i think everyone in the country gets excited about the rivalry. … This game has kind of a special place.” 
after years of competi­tion in the big east, the two schools did not meet last regular season as notre dame (8-0) shifted to the acc and uconn (5-1) moved to the american athletic conference. 
but the irish and huskies squared off in the ncaa championship april 8 in nashville. uconn won the first-ever championship clash of unbeatens, 79-58, to wrap up the season at 40-0. notre dame finished 37-1. 

The irish played without forward natalie achonwa, sidelined with an acl tear suffered in the regional final against baylor. 
achonwa has since gradu­ated, as have guard kayla mcbride and forward ariel braker, making way for freshmen brianna Turner (forward), kathryn westbeld (forward) and mychal Johnson (guard), who have racked up minutes and made an immediate impact. 

“This class is probably 
see w baskeTball PAGE 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Brown will not return in 2015 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
Following a second straight losing season, debbie brown will not re­turn as head coach of the irish in 2015, the university announced in a press release Thursday night. 
brown, who finished her 24th season with notre dame this fall, won 519 matches with the irish, including 15 regular-season conference titles and 22 ncaa tourna­ment berths. however, since joining the acc for the 2013 season, the squad has strug­gled, posting a combined record of 19-41, including a 10-28 mark in conference play. 
“debbie has probably un­derstood what notre dame and its student-athlete ex­perience is about as well as any coach on our staff,” university director of athletics Jack swarbrick said in the press release. “she has represented the university in exceptional fashion in her time here. 
“however, our expecta­tions regarding competitive performance are also high, and we regrettably have not been able to meet those in recent years. i’d like to thank her for all she has done for the program and, in par­ticular, for all she has done for the student-athletes who have played for her.” 
brown declined to com­ment to The observer on the specifics of her departure from notre dame. 
“i would just say i’m disap­pointed,” she said. 
while notre dame was part of the big east confer­ence, brown enjoyed a long run of success, earning 15 straight ncaa bids. she was 
see nd volleyball PAGE 13 
HOCKEY 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish hoping to 
nd looks to dodge letdown 
halt slide on road 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
coming off a tough week­end, the irish look to gain momentum when they visit massachusetts in amherst, massachusetts, on Friday and saturday. 
notre dame (6-8-2, 2-2-2 hockey east) has not gotten a win in regulation in their last nine times on the ice. 
after last saturday’s 5-1 loss at the hands of ohio state, irish coach Jeff Jackson said he hoped the team had hit its low point and was ready to turn things around. 
“maybe that was us bot­toming out and hopefully, now we can start building up again,” Jackson said. “The break’s coming at an oppor­tune time, but i hope we fin­ish on a positive note, and that’s been the emphasis. let’s finish the first half on a positive note and empty the tank.” 
Junior center and cap­tain steven Fogarty said he agreed with Jackson’s as­sessment and said he and the team were focused on mov­ing forward. 
“i think bottoming out is a good way to put it,” Fogarty said. “we don’t want to go any lower than that. it’s un­acceptable and not what this program is about. we’re putting what happened in november in the past and trying to get two good games this weekend going in to break.” 
Jackson said the two things that are most frustrating about notre dame’s play of late are its inability to score on the power play and the lack of competitive fight shown when it gets behind. 
“i thought that we let up,” Jackson said. “we can’t accept guys giving up. That’s not ac­ceptable in this program, and i thought we stopped going after it.” 
as far as the power play, on the season the irish have scored on a paltry four of their 61 power-play chanc­es. The irish actually have a higher shot percentage when they are shorthanded than when they have the man ad­vantage. This poor showing prompted Jackson to say he is taking a more involved role in the power-play facet of the 
see hockey PAGE 13 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 

after enjoying a little bonus basketball in its 79-78 overtime victory over michigan state on wednesday, notre dame resumes play saturday night when the irish host Fairleigh dickinson at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (7-1) se­cured its first victory over a ranked team this sea­son in defeating the no. 19 spartans. despite being outrebounded by 17 boards, the irish topped michigan state largely on the strength of turnovers, committing only four to the spartans’ 12, and the play of the team’s guards. senior Jerian grant scored a career-high 27 points and sophomore demetrius Jackson added a career-best 22 points. at your jugular and when which i think we can de­
after wednesday’s game, they meet big guys, they can velop more of — it doesn’t irish coach mike brey did not draw fouls because they’re always have to be Jerian off hold back in heaping praise so strong.” a ball screen,” brey said. “it on the two guards, whom he brey said Jackson’s play can be demetrius off a ball said formed “the best back-over the course of the sea-screen and going at some-court in the country.” son has caused him to give body’s throat. and i think 
“They’re both really quick the sophomore the green that’s something i’m ex-and athletic,” he said of light to drive to the hoop cited about nurturing when the duo wednesday night. more often. we get back to practice on “They have the ability to “one of the things we Friday.” drive it and physically drive started doing [wednesday], 
see m baskeTball PAGE 14 





