The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 65 | tuesday, december 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Grc celebrates tenth anniversary 
Notre Dame Gender Relations Center strives to promote healthy gender relations among students 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
The notre dame gender relations center (grc) will celebrate its 10th anniversary this wednesday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the dooley and sorin rooms of laFortune student center. The open house will consist of informa­tional activities showcasing the work the grc has done over the past 10 years and a hot chocolate bar, danielle aase, a student event coordi­nator with the grc, said. 
“The grc 10th anniversary celebration is not only a cel­ebration of what the grc has accomplished over the last 10 years, but also a way for students to learn more about the history of the grc and suggest ideas for conversa­tions they would like to have in the future,” aase said. “in addition to timelines detail­ing major grc events over the last 10 years, there will be whiteboards available for stu­dents to write what the grc and healthy gender relations means to them. 

“There will also be a sug­gestions box for students to submit ideas for potential programs they would like to see in the future.” 
past events have included 
see grc PaGe 5 




alumnae share rwandan experiences 
said. 
in 1994, over one million Tutsi rwandans were killed in a 100-day period. during this genocide, one out of every 10 Tutsi rwandans were killed, palmer said. 
“in recognition of 20 years post-genocide, malea and i were driven by saint mary’s core values of faith and spirituality, commu­nity learning and justice to embark on this mis­sion of solidarity ... simply to hear the stories of the people,” palmer said. “we 
see rwanda PaGe 5 



Committee celebrates diversity 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
within the saint mary’s student government association (sga) is the council of committee chairs (ccc), headed by se­nior katie stare and made up of 18 committee chairs and co-chairs who lead 12 differ­ent committees. 
stare said the 12 com­mittees encompass aspects of the college commu­nity such as alumnae, athletic, community, First-year concerns, Food services, market research and media, mission, social concerns, sophia program, sustainability and Technology. but one of the committees worth spot­lighting, having established and accomplished notewor­thy goals during the fall se­mester, is the international committee, stare said. 

The international committee is spearhead­ed by co-chair and senior catherine sullivan and co-chair and sophomore ruby Truong, who is an interna­tional student from vietnam, sullivan said. 
“as committee chairs, we arrived back on campus a week early than everyone else in august to work on first-year orientation, and even before that, we did group bonding time where we broke into groups and talked about our goals for the year,” sullivan said. “Those goals are still posted in the sga office, and we check them off as we go along.” 
along with her co-chair Truong, sullivan said she established early on in the year that the international 
see commiTTee PaGe 4 



By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
on monday evening, saint mary’s alumnae liz palmer ‘13, malea schulte ’14 and co-travelers Jonathan and Tameka bell shared the lessons they learned from spending two weeks in rwanda this past summer in a presentation titled “project rwanda: a Journey in solidarity.” 
in the rwandans they met, palmer and schulte saw strength and faith res­onating in the aftermath of the 1994 genocide, palmer 

ND grad founds new bus company 
Christopher Cali
graduate student 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
christopher cali, a 2014 alum­nus and current graduate student at notre dame, recently started a company called better cheaper bus llc, which offers affordable transportation for notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross stu­

dents to both o’hare and midway airports in chicago. 
“Final steps with the university are being taken to have the buses use mckenna hall as a departure point,” cali said. 
better cheaper bus identifies as a third party transportation 
see bus PaGe 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your spirit animal? 


Ashley Murphy 
junior howard hall 
“a puppy.” 
Joe Nelson 
freshman dillon hall 
“a tiger.” 
Kevin Frost 
junior o’neill hall 
“ke$ha.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Liam Kane 
senior 
off-campus 
“gordon macdougall.” 
Rebecca Flynn 
senior 
off-campus 
“an eagle.” 
Shannon Holley 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“a turtle.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
kayla mullen alex carson peter durbin matthew mckenna 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
keri o’mara caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Basketball Hesburgh Library Mindful Meditation President’s Fall MFA Student 
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 
Purcell Pavilion Renovation Launch Coleman-Morse Christmas Reception Reading Series 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Hesburgh Library Center Main Building 209 DeBartolo Hall The Irish take on 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Mount St. Mary’s. “Farewell to the Floor” Open to students of all Open to all University Masters students read 
in the dec. 8 edition of The observer, Open House. faith. employees. from their creative the article “Fire department celebrates 
works. 

135th anniversary” incorrectly stated 
Four:7 Catholic Fall Concert: ISI Fellowship Mass in the Basilica Women’s Basketball 
the month of the 1879 fire on notre 
Fellowship Collegium Musicum Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Purcell Pavilion 
dame’s campus. it occurred in april. 
Cavanaugh Hall DeBartolo Performing Center Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 
The observer regrets this error. 

8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Arts Center 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Irish take on Michigan. 
Faith and fellowship. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Interdominational praise Mass for the Feast of Open to all. and worship. Our Lady of Guadalupe. 


SBPD aims to strengthen trust amongst community 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
why would you call the police? 
it’s an important question that south bend police chief ron Teachman and his de­partment face, as they seek to stimulate civic engage­ment and strengthen rela­tionships between police and the community. 
The answer is a simple word, but it expresses a state of confidence difficult to achieve — trust. 
“Trust is our goal,” Teachman says. “it’s our destination.” 
developing positive rela­tionships that lead to trust in a community can be chal­lenging when most of the department’s contact with citizens involves responding to crisis and conflict. 
“most people don’t engage with us in a positive way, and we need to find ways to amplify those positive or at least non-adversarial contacts because most of our contact is adversarial,” Teachman said. “we pull you over for a traffic viola­tion. we go to your house and do a drug raid. we go to notre dame houses to squelch loud parties.” 
That last relationship, at least, has started to change in recent years, Teachman said. 
“before i came here, there was a shift in our relation­ship between this depart­ment and the notre dame students that live off cam­pus,” Teachman said. “i’m told it was rather adversari­al, confrontational, not long ago.” 
Teachman and other rep­resentatives of the depart­ment meet with student government officials and campus police to have “con­versations about our expec­tations of each other” in an effort to better interact with students, Teachman said. 
strengthening trust re­mains an ongoing process for the department. when people don’t trust the police, they won’t consistently call to report certain crimes. 
people tend to report property crimes because of the insurance incentive to do so, Teachman said. 
“The relationship the in­dividual victim has with the police department is al­most irrelevant because you have an insurance motivator that requires you to report,” Teachman said. “you could hate the police. you could hate the chief. … but in or­der to get your insurance premium, you have to file a police report.” 

but with other crimes, that’s often not the case. in instances of assault or rape, a victim’s perception of the police matters, particularly when the assault was com­mitted by someone the vic­tim knew, Teachman said. 
“you’re just going to see a male uniform, and he’s go­ing to ask you these very personal questions about your relationship with this guy, and maybe you’ve had intimate relations before, so why is it rape tonight?” Teachman said. “and soci­ety’s judging you, and what were you wearing, and what did you do and were you drinking, were you lead­ing this guy on? and all that stuff going through your head, why would you call? 
“if you didn’t believe that the police department was empathetic, professional and competent, why would you call?” 
because of this, the de­partment has worked with organizations such as the ywca to improve its re­sponse to such incidents, Teachman said. 
gun violence also of­ten goes unreported. after the department installed shotspotter, a program that uses an acoustic system to detect gunfire, it discovered that instances of gunshots recorded by shotspotter of­ten weren’t reported by the public. 
Teachman describes four reasons why people wouldn’t report gunfire: recognition (unsure whether they heard a gunshot), redundancy (they think someone else will call), retaliation (they fear retribution for being a “snitch”) and resignation (they are desensitized to gunfire). 
in an effort to combat these problems, the south bend police department has engaged in “collab­orative policing,” efforts to better serve and protect by increasing community involvement. 
“There’s never going to be enough money to effectively police a community without community involvement,” Teachman said. “There can never be enough police of­ficers, and we’re never going to arrest our way out of this. The answer is that the com­munity engages in its own public safety program.” 
The department has ad­opted a number of strate­gies to ignite this kind of community engagement. For example, in schools, the department has sought to increase positive, “non­adversarial contact” by tak­ing time to read with kids or play sports at recess. 
“when kids see the of­ficer who comes to school, whether it’s the police chief or a captain or the officer on that beat, regularly comes to school and engages with them, now when they see that same uniform after school and out of school, it’s not an adversary, but it’s a friend,” Teachman said. “it’s a supporter. it’s someone who cares about them. we think that translates. That’s why we wear a uniform in the first place.” 
a change in departmental practice — the regionaliza­tion of beats — has played a key role in the collaborative policing strategy, Teachman said. officers are assigned to beats based on geography rather than time of day so that they become familiar with the areas they police. knowing neighborhoods keeps officers safe and helps residents get to know their police. 
“you get to have a rela­tionship,” Teachman said. “you’re not just some guy driving by in a squad car with tinted windows, [and] you never get out of the car unless you’re going to arrest somebody or yell at them.” 
The crime rate might even seem to increase as people feel more comfortable re­porting crimes they wouldn’t have before, Teachman said. 
but so far, the department has seen positive outcomes, including an increase in citizens reporting gunfire. public reporting of gunfire has increased to over 25 per­cent, more than the national average, Teachman said. 
strengthening trust in a community requires partici­pation from all its parts, and notre dame students can contribute as well, accord­ing to Teachman. 
“regardless of your field of study, citizenship requires community engagement,” Teachman said. “There are innumerable opportunities to volunteer here in south bend. There are also unlim­ited possibilities of expand­ing your study field by using south bend as a petri dish, as a laboratory, whether it’s entrepreneurship, whether it’s working with a nonprofit to help with their business model. 
“… if you want to say, ‘let me prove my model, let me experiment, let me do some research, let me volunteer,’ lend your expertise and your skill sets to the city, and i think you can find a way to engage.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
identity project addresses issues of human dignity 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
The identity project of notre dame (idnd), a stu­dent club that addresses is­sues of sexuality and human dignity through the lens of catholic church teaching, is in the midst of planning its 
annual  edith  stein  project  
conference.  
“The  edith  stein  project  
conference  is  the  largest  

student-run conference in the united states,” hailey vrdolyak, club co-vice presi­dent and junior, said. “The conference brings together 30 speakers to discuss what the catholic church can offer to the discussion of issues faced on college cam­puses, such as the hook-up culture, pornography and other topics regarding hu­man sexuality.” 
vrdolyak said past confer­ences have been attended by more than 300 people, in­cluding notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross stu­dents and professors. This year’s conference, to be held Feb. 6-7 in mckenna hall, will address the theme of “radiant image: cultivating authentic identity in the modern world” and will focus on the central idea of living in god’s image, according to the idnd website. 
The conference’s name­sake, edith stein, was can­onized in 1998 as st. Teresa benedicta of the cross and “fought for the truth and the dignity of women through her writings and frequent letters,” according to the idnd website. working as a teacher, nurse and phi­losopher and eventually as a cloistered carmelite nun, she was martyred at auschwitz in 1942. The club website states: “we look to edith stein for inspiration as a model of turning one’s heart to god and as some­one who lived her vocation with the genuine spirit of self-gift.” 
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the edith stein project conference. 
“The club was founded in 2004, and the first confer­ence was held in the spring of 2005,” idnd president and senior mary kate martinson said. “The identity project has hosted an annual con­ference every spring since its founding.” 
although the annual con­ference serves as the club’s 


“The conference brings together 30 
speakers to discuss 
what the Catholic 
Church can offer 
to the discussion 
of issues faced on 
college campuses, 
such as the 
hook-up culture, 
pornography 
and other topics 
regarding human 
sexuality.” 
Hailey Vrdolyak 
co-vice president 
Identity Project of Notre Dame 
main event, idnd co-spon­sors other campus events that promote the catholic identity of notre dame and help students develop as catholic leaders, alexandra desanctis, idnd co-vice president and junior, said. 
The club meets on Tuesday nights at 7 p.m. in the mcneill room of laFortune. 
“we foster fruitful con­versation about issues of identity … and healthy rela­tionships,” desanctis said. “we often read articles on these topics and discuss in a group. The meetings are also often used as a time to plan for the conference.” 
Contact idnd@nd.edu or visit the club Facebook page at https://www.facebook. com/identityND for more information about the club or the conference. Register for the conference online at www3.nd.edu/~idnd/. Registration is free for Notre, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students. 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 



committee 
conTinued From page 1 
committee would focus on three major goals. 
“one of the first goals we worked towards was the diversity dinners, which bring together different cui­sines and groups of interna­tional students to celebrate the diversity of our student body,” she said. “we wanted to have four or five the first year (this school year), which highlight different aspects of the culture that represents saint mary’s and also the tri­campus community.” 
sullivan said the two diversity dinners that were held during the fall semes­ter were very successful — more successful than she and Truong had predicted. 
“The italian dinner, which took place in september, was the kickoff diversity dinner event, and then we had the chinese diversity dinner in november,” she said. “They both sold out, so to speak, because each dinner is lim­ited to 50 people, and we had some extras sneak in.” 
in the spring semes­ter, sullivan said the international committee has planned a Tunisian dinner and a vietnamese dinner. 
“it’s great because all of the food is either cooked by our students, by our faculty or is donated by local restau­rants,” she said. “so we are also helping local restaurants 
bus 
conTinued From page 1 
provider with the central goal of making transportation more effi­cient as well as more affordable to students. cali said the idea came to him when one of his friends experienced frustration with the transportation to midwestern airports. 
“my friend, rory dunne, took a trip back home to ireland, and [when he] came back here, [he] had a 5-hour layover using the current transportation service,” cali said. 
cali said it was his friend’s per­sonal inconvenience that helped him to conceive the idea of better cheaper bus. 
“it was the week before Thanksgiving ... that we start­ed talking about it,” cali said. “Through interviews with stu­dents, we got a lot of good feed­back to make it more efficient.” 
cali said aside from benefitting students, better cheaper bus also benefits the south bend commu­nity by donating 20 percent of its profits to the south bend center for the homeless. 
“when we were thinking about the business, we realized it typi­cally fell around certain holi­days,” cali said. “we figured that we talk a lot about social respon­sibility, and the center came up in our minds really quickly.” 
This donation is the reason in the south bend communi­ty, alongside our internation­al community.” 
according to sullivan, the committee’s second goal for the year was to help the in­ternational students at saint mary’s make their way into the bigger community as a whole. 
“at saint mary’s, we have that issue that the interna­tional students are sort of on their own. even at orienta­tion, the international group is separated,” she said. “we wanted to work on integrat­ing them as best as we could, so the diversity dinners work towards this goal — in that anyone can come to them, and it also teaches non-in­ternational students about other cultures. 
“at the chinese dinner, we were actually taught about the seven different areas of china and the different cui­sine that come with each re­gion and why that happened and how that developed. one of our Fulbright scholars did the presentation on it, so that was really great.” 
The third and final goal of the committee is the international buddy program, which pairs each new international student with a returning saint mary’s student, sullivan said. 
“basically, you sign up to be a roommate for an inter­national student and end up rooming with the person,” she said. “This way, the inter­national students can easily 
behind the business’ slogan, “ride with a cause.” The money donated to the south bend center for the homeless will help to fi­nance holiday dinners during the christmas season. 
“starting a business isn’t easy, and we’re learning a ton,” cali said. “we circumvented difficul­ties by getting the word out early, talking to students and creating a ‘request Time’ button on our website.” 
cali said the input of students is crucial to the entire entrepreneur­ial process and led to the “request Time” button and student inter­views. Through student feedback, better cheaper bus could decide when services would assist stu­dents the most. 
“we’re thinking of running it during christmas ... spring break and at the end of spring semester,” cali said. 
better cheaper bus aims to provide a more efficient option for transportation, and cali also hopes to make the students’ ex­periences more comfortable and enjoyable. 
“we’re offering wiFi; we have phone chargers on board and hopefully a dvd player. all the while, you’re donating 20 percent of what you spend to charity,” cali said. “it’s a simple way to give back without necessarily lifting a finger.” 
Contact Serena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

feel apart of the community and have a friend base, which intertwines with our second goal.” 
This program will begin during the spring semester or next fall and will be orga­nized under an application process facilitated by the international committee and residence hall association. 
“This will majorly help with the rooming situation for in­ternational students because oftentimes these students are juniors or seniors who get randomly paired with first-year students, and it doesn’t work out so well,” sullivan said. “and single [dorms] are a bad idea because they don’t get to practice english or meet anyone.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 



Grc 
conTinued From page 1 
distributing t-shirts in the dining halls and in laFortune student center, regina gesicki, assistant director of educational initiatives at the grc, said. The design includ­ed a depiction of a tree, with the branches representing the different topics the grc focuses on and its anniver­sary year slogan, “growing healthy relationships since 2004,” gesicki said. 
“we’re planning events throughout the 2014-2015 academic year,” gesicki said. “in the spring semester, we plan to host a panel discus­sion about the grc’s … alums and staff who have shaped … its history.” 
The gender relations center opened on a part-time basis in the fall of 2004 and be­came a full department in the division of student affairs in the fall of 2005, gesicki said. heather rakoczy russell, the pangborn hall rector at the time, served as the founding director, gesicki said. 
“in the few years prior to the grc’s founding, the first female student body presi­dent, brooke norton, and other campus student lead­ers had called for the creation of a university-sponsored ‘center for men and women,’” gesicki said. 
The difference between notre dame’s gender relations center and other similar centers at other uni­versities lies in the fact that the notre dame grc focuses on both women and men. 
“This breadth is one unique aspect of the grc,” gesicki 

“The GRC  designs and implements 
programs 
about healthy 
relationships, 
gender and 
sexuality 
consistent with the 
Catholic character 
of the University.” 
Regina Gesicki 
assistant director of 
educational initiatives 
GRC 
said. “Though loosely mod­eled on women’s centers at other top 25 universities, the grc was, from the outset, meant to serve as a resource for all students at notre dame as they navigate healthy rela­tionships, gender and sexu­ality within the catholic character of the university.” 
The grc is dedicated to promoting moral formation in order to create a healthy culture at notre dame, gesicki said. it seeks to en­gage the campus in respectful dialogue and to build a com­munity honoring the human dignity of all students. 

“as an office in the division of student affairs, the grc designs and implements pro­grams about healthy relation­ships, gender and sexuality consistent with the catholic character of the university,” gesicki said. “it creates dia­logue on campus by collabo­rating with student groups, other departments at notre dame and community orga­nizations in south bend.” 
aase said she learned about the gender relations center during freshmen orienta­tion and knew right away she wanted to get involved. 
“i think the grc is incred­ibly important because it fa­cilitates conversations that i believe are necessary to have on campus – ones that help our community become stronger,” aase said. “The grc puts on programming about topics such as healthy relationships, sexual and gender identity and violence prevention. 
“i think educating people on these topics makes the community a healthier and more welcoming place.” 
some notable milestones in the 10-year history of the grc have included the transition from a part-time to a full-time staff, gesicki said. by fall 2010, the grc’s office space, programming and budget had all quadrupled from their ini­tial size, gesicki said. 
“we also expanded in ways that allowed us to delve fur­ther into the intersection­ality of identities, with the hiring of an assistant direc­tor for outreach services, a position that included ‘men & masculinity’ initiatives in 2012 and assistant director for lgbTQ student concerns in 2013,” gesicki said. 
The grc also sponsors various training sessions for students, staff and faculty, gesicki said. 
“we offer support and guid­ance to students as they seek to answer three important questions: who am i? who am i with others? who am i with god?” gesicki said. “we provide opportunities for leadership development through various roles in our student leader program: Fire starters, event facilita­tors and dorm commission­ers, as well as student office assistants. 


“we strive to provide varied opportunities for students to learn to develop healthy and safe relationships, while ac­knowledging and lifting up the inherent dignity of self and other as those created in god’s likeness.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
rwanda 
conTinued From page 1 
were looking to highlight our shared humanity and weave into the fabric of our culture that every single life matters.” 
The project began as part two of malea’s senior com­position titled “storybank,” which included 26 portraits depicting a cross section of the saint mary’s community, schulte said. 
“one of the participants was a woman from rwanda whose story inspired me to journey to her home coun­try with the goal of learning through listening and shar­ing through art,” schulte said. 
before journeying to rwanda, schulte and palmer part­nered with people improving communities through organizing (pico), an inter­national, faith-based, non­governmental organization committed to stimulating com­munal growth through organi­zation, schulte said. 
“Together we formed a del­egation of 20 people, and it included catholic priests, lutheran priests, writers, storytellers, professors and artists,” schulte said. 
Two members of the del­egation were Jonathan bell, a senior communications advisor to pico-rwanda, and Tameka bell, a story and communications trainer for pico’s international net­work, schulte said. 


with pictures taken by Jonathan bell hanging in the gallery, Tameka bell shared her experience during the presentation. in rwanda, she witnessed community building in numerous lives, including when a woman died while giving birth dur­ing a long walk to the nearest hospital, she said. a few days after the woman’s death, a much-needed clinic and road was finally completed as a result of community organizing. 

“when one person tells a story to another person, they can change the world,” Tameka bell said. “That’s re­ally at the center of commu­nity organizing.” 
a meeting with the vice president of rwanda’s senate inspired the group to share the story of their time in rwanda with others, Tameka bell said. 
“he said to us, ‘when you go back to the united states, would you tell them who we really are? ask them not to judge us by the worst day of our life. ask them to see the whole person, the whole community — the joy and the sorrow and the laughter and the innocence — who we really are,’” Tameka bell said. 
rwandans have worked for reconciliation and forgive­ness in the aftermath of the genocide, schulte said. The gacaca courts facilitated healing by allowing perpe­trators a chance to confess and ask for forgiveness, she said. 
“we witnessed victims and perpetrators working to­gether in harmony,” schulte said. “we visited a women’s vegetable cooperative where perpetrators and victims were working together to support themselves. … it was very clear they worked with a sense of pride and to­wards the common good.” 
in interacting with rwandans, palmer and schulte initiated conversa­tion with the question, “how do you want to be remem­bered?” The variety of an­swers to that question, such as “i pray,” was life chang­ing, palmer said. 
during their time in rwanda, schulte and palmer lived by the saying, “we don’t wait for road to be built; we build them our­selves,” a quote adopted from pastor John, a friend made in rwanda, palmer said. both learned about the world and themselves and how to grasp every moment of life. 
“Time is money, and we don’t know how much time we do have, and that’s one thing the rwandans defi­nitely made clear,” palmer said. “and yet they live every day to the fullest. i think life is a series of single moments, and we need to grasp that.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

Originality: The story of Susan 

InsIde column 

what’s up, dec. 9th? 
Roni Darling 
news writer 

happy pre finals week to all! we are just 11 days away from the end of the semester, and even fewer remain for those lucky few. as the days until the end of the se­mester dwindle, i have, like many (most) of us, lost almost all sense of creativity. instead of riddling you with the quintes­sential “finals survival guide,” i thought it would be nice to acknowledge some events that took place on this day in his­tory. in the lull of my studies i came across a website that lists events in chronological order that took place dec. 9. i apologize for slapping all of you studying for history finals with even more dates. in case some of these events ever happen to show up on trivia, you’re welcome. 
1793 — noah webster establishes new york’s 1st daily newspaper, american minerva. 
1926 — usga legalizes steel shaft golf clubs. 
1941 — hitler orders us ships torpedoed. 

1953 — general electric announces all communist employees will be fired. 
1963 — Frank sinatra Jr. is kidnapped. 
1965 — “a charlie brown christmas” 
premieres. 1967 — Jim morrison arrested on stage for disturbing the peace. 1968 — krne Tv channel 12 in merriman, nb (pbs) begins broadcasting. 
1968 — nls (a system for which hyper­text and the computer mouse were de­veloped) is publicly demonstrated for the first time in san Francisco. 
1978 — The first game of women’s pro basketball league (wbl), chicago hustle vs. milwaukee does. 
1983 — united states performs nuclear test at nevada Test site. 
1985 — phoenix arizona, gets 3” of snow (hmm…). 
1987 — larry bird ends streak of 59 consecutive free throws. 
1988 — new york yankees sign 12-year television contract with msg for $500m. 
1989 — “les miserables” opens at princess Theatre, melbourne. 
1993 — “my Fair lady” opens at virginia Theater nyc for 165 performances. 
2005 — “brokeback mountain,” star­ring heath ledger and Jake gyllenhaal, is released. 
2013 — no. 89 jersey (ditka) is retired by the chicago bears. 
also, a happy 56th birthday to donny osmond! 
but wait! There are many other events listed that i did not mention due to my limited word count. if you would like to inquire more about dec. 9 or any other day of the year, you can check out the site, http://www.brainyhistory.com/days for yourself. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

be original. it’s the advice susie got from her parents, college counselors and the disney channel. This advice stressed susie out, for susie realized she was about as origi­nal as a disney channel original movie. if you have yet to see high school musical 1, 2 or 3, that is to say susie was not very original. 
susie thought she had an original halloween costume, but it turned out that 23.7 percent of the notre dame stu­dent body also owned a furry animal onesie and decided to wear it on october the 31st. she thought she had original likes and dislikes until Facebook told her that 24,587 other people also liked guacamole facials. susie thought she was the only one to cheer against the nd football team until she met every michigan fan. if you’re not getting the point yet, susie both tried and failed to be original. 
susie would not give up. whenever there was a lull in the conversation, susie tried to make an original insight, such as 1) hey, what if what i see as blue is what you see as red? 2) hey, what if our dreams are reality, and reality is a dream? and 3) hey, can you really bite your finger off as easily as a carrot? 
susie offered these profound thoughts and waited for her new acquaintances to gawk at her awesome brainpower. instead, they shrugged or nodded, mentioning they had heard that before. 
Those shrugs, nods and mentions slit susie’s soul, shed­ding type-b blood (This is a sneaky way of implying that even her blood was unoriginal. oooh metaphor, it’s so deep and cheesy and wonderful, like a huge bowl of nachos). 
susie picked herself up and brushed herself off from these disappointments and decided she needed to come up with some truly original material if anyone was ever going to find her interesting. Then she realized that lots of people pick themselves up and brush themselves off, so she picked herself down and brushed herself on. Then she got to werkk (her original spelling of work). 
susie made a list of original things that only she had thought of, but got stuck after “parents are not potatoes.” she was pretty sure she was the only one who confused her father with mr. potato head as a child. when she was baby­sitting, though, she learned that an unfortunate number of children spend more time with mr. potato head than with their fathers who werkk overtime and likewise confuse their starchy parent with a starchy vegetable. 
now susie gave up on her list. she decided instead to observe those around her, find the thing that no one is doing, and do that thing. Then, and only then, would she be original. 
susie saw lots of people walking and talking, so she de­cided to do neither in the future. she saw babies crawling and making gaga sounds, so she wouldn’t do that either, no matter how tempting it was. she saw a frog hopping, but didn’t see any people hopping, so she penciled in hop­ping as an option (she wasn’t sure yet if it was original and didn’t want to jump to any conclusions). 
susie saw an old man napping in the park, so she decided to no longer nap. she saw some babies sleeping in their cradles, so she would no longer sleep. she spotted some children playing leapfrog and crossed hopping off of her list. 
susie was somewhat limited on her transportation op­tions, as she chose to no longer walk, crawl or hop. inspired by some birds, she decided she could try flying. she didn’t have wings and couldn’t drink redbull (not original), so she boogied (instead of walking) to the airport. waiting for her flight, she got tired and almost fell asleep, but could not let herself do so, as she remembered the old man napping in the park. 
she kept herself awake until her flight arrived and boo­gied on board. The flight attendant stopped her and told her she was allowed only one carry-on and had two bags under her eyes. susie wanted to slap the aforementioned flight attendant, but had seen other people slap people in movies when they were offended. she had never seen anyone do the macarena when they were insulted, and she was al­ready warmed up from boogieing, so she did the macarena until the flight attendant gave up and let her on board. 
That is when susie realized how much fun it could be to do what other people didn’t do. other people didn’t like getting weird looks, so susie loved it. other people didn’t like having their sanity questioned, so susie loved it. other people didn’t like getting arrested for causing disturbances, so susie loved it. 
doing downward dog in her prison cell (she couldn’t sit because the other prisoners were sitting), susie took a good look at the other inmates and decided none of them looked happy. so, of course, susie had to become the happi­est inmate who ever existed. Finally, she was original, and finally, she was truly happy. she just had to forget that she was wearing the same orange uniform as everyone else. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her san­ity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIal cartoon 


Meet the new deal, same as the old deal 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

in august of this year, i traveled deep into rebel territory in chiapas, mexico, to the jungle compound of “la realidad” — a major base of operations for the Zapatista army of national liberation. i was welcomed by the masked revo­lutionaries and invited to stay as long as i liked. They called me “compañero” and asked me to write of their global struggle against neolib­eral capitalism, which they call the war against oblivion. Their 20 years of rebellion began on January 1, 1994 — the day the north american Free Trade agreement went into effect. From union halls in chicago to rebel villages in chiapas, the new era of global “free trade” has been denounced as an affront to workers’ rights and human dignity. 
This wednesday, president obama clashed with labor unions and their supporters over the pro­posed Trans-pacific partnership. encompassing 12 countries and some 800 million people, the Trans-pacific partnership (Tpp) is the naFTa on a larger stage. including the original naFTa coun­tries — canada, the united states and mexico — plus vietnam, malaysia, australia, chile, brunei, new Zealand, singapore, peru and Japan, the Tpp promises to rewrite the terms of international trade on a massive scale. 
after years of secret negotiations between governments and corporations, the proposed treaty has drawn fire for both its content and the process that has produced it. The Trans-pacific partnership takes the framework of the naFTa, increases the scale and adds provisions even more harmful to the maintenance of a free and fair society. 
signed in december 1992 and effective as of January 1994, the naFTa was promoted as the future of the globalizing economy. promises came from the leaders of all three countries involved that the agreement would stimulate economic growth while freeing businesses to import and export to mutual gain. rises in gross domestic product (gdp) were hailed as proof positive that free trade was working. 
unfortunately, you can’t eat gdp. hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs were lost in the united states as business owners moved their factories to mexico. although manufacturing workers in mexico might have been glad for the new work, corn farmers were devastated as heav­ily subsidized corn from the united states drove them off their land. individual workers rose or fell with the naFTa, but working people at large took a loss as wages and workplace standards fell. 
For all the talk of a new era of free enterprise and a global market thriving with innovation, “free trade” bore more bitter fruit — consolida­tion. new mechanisms for lowering wages, es­caping workplace safety regulations and forcing more government subsidies helped the largest conglomerates consume more and more of the international market. 
The greatest problem with the naFTa has been the issue of rights. There is “free trade” for the owning class, while the working class is left behind. The naFTa provides for the free flow of capital but not of labor, meaning that when jobs move, workers are not free to follow them. Temporary work visa programs exist, but are lim­ited, regulated in ways capital is not, and put even more power over a worker’s fate in the hands of the boss. 
agreements like this serve to assert the suprem­acy of multinational corporations over the public interest. provisions in the naFTa ban member countries from making labor or environmental laws that threaten corporate profits under the agreement’s guarantees and allow corporate in­terests to sue countries for hundreds of millions of dollars in those cases. The indigenous revolu­tionaries who welcomed me into their collectiv­ized territory this summer rebelled because the naFTa stripped provisions for land reform and peasants’ rights from the mexican constitution with the full complicity of the state. “Free trade” serves only one master, and that is the small class of individuals who own nearly all the world’s capital. 
so enter the Trans-pacific partnership. we don’t know what it says, and the president is asking for “fast track” power to sign it without congres­sional debate or alteration. From leaked sections, we know it would subject all member states to corporate tribunals with the power to strike down national, state or local laws if they run counter to guarantees made by the treaty to corpora­tions. we know that punitive intellectual prop­erty clauses are likely to make the price of vital medicines in the developing world skyrocket. we know that it will lead to a greater consolidation of wealth into a few hands. we know that workers will suffer. so let’s stand up against the march of neoliberalism and let those in power know that we won’t be fooled again. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letters to the edItor 

hoops spring eternal 
one of the most delightful things about bas-rat and hoops freak, i think we can attribute a around for an old, ratty pink panther costume, ketball is that it has the power and magic to take touch of your early success to the wacky, garish, too. one’s mind off a south bend winter. This season awesome retro uniforms. school bus yellow and bring on the acc and bring back the energy of demonstrates that vividly. script “irish,” who knew? keep channelling that the acc (the athletic and convocation center). 
coach mcgraw and the women continue to de-shumate-brokaw-dantley-duck-dice-dwight-all the best, light, entertain and inspire us all. we would have digger energy. you have done the impossible again loved to have beaten uconn, but our time will — you’ve made winter in michiana entertaining. Tim Boyle come again. The only missing ingredient is the theme from class of 1977 
To coach brey, you got some mojo working “hogan’s heroes.” look deep into nd hoops cedar rapids, iowa again for you. as a ‘70s alum, rock and pit gym arcana and you will catch the reference. look dec. 7 
dear notre dame, 
you are Fine. 

Farley introduced our new signature event, be Fine, last Thursday. while many members of the notre dame community expressed excitement about the event, i am aware of both concerns and negative reactions across campus. 
be Fine was not a day to attack makeup or to put any type of importance on physical appearance. be Fine was a day to promote healthy self-image and confi­dence. it was a celebration of all the unique charac­teristics that make each and every one of us Fine. our definition of natural beauty is not simply a makeup-free face. natural beauty encompasses so much more. it is the way we laugh or the way we care about others. it is sharing musical talents or feats of athleticism, or even the ability to remain calm and collected in stressful situations. natural beauty is different for everyone, and 
you are fine 
we want to celebrate that and let our inner lights shine. 
i love make-up. i love trying new products and matching the color of my eyeliner to my outfit. i love showing my irish spirit by wearing gold sparkles on game days. ask any of my lovely roommates, and they will tell you my morning routine includes 15 minutes of make-up application (while simultaneously drinking my absolutely necessary coffee, of course). 
make-up had nothing to do with be Fine. refraining from make-up for a day was our way to invite oth­ers to bring recognition to the societal expectations placed on the appearance of females and the negative consequences of those expectations. is there a reason interview etiquette advises women to “choose a color that complements your skin tone and hair color?” (The nd career & Job search guide, 2013-2014). is the photoshopping of images sending the wrong message to young girls? when is wearing makeup a choice versus something you feel required to do? 
we wanted to express an appreciation for beauty beyond appearances. not wearing make-up was a way in which we thought we could bring widespread recog­nition to the matter at hand.  The fact that people are having conversations about be Fine is exciting! our goal was to raise awareness and encourage conversation, and that is what we have done. 
if you do have suggestions for the growth of be Fine or other ideas on how to address the issues we hoped to bring awareness to, please let us know. Farley is always looking for ways in which we can serve and love those around us. 
Finest wishes, 
Casey Skevington 
president Farley hall dec. 7 


Daniel Barabasi 
scene writer 

winter semester, deceptively named “spring term,” can be a time of stylistic regression. Take the gifts and time christmas break offers to refresh your wardrobe and delay the onset of the daily groutfit. don’t know what to ask for? here are a few tips: 
alterations on your suit 

you wear your suit on the most important occasions of your life. as January rolls around, you’ll start having interviews for future positions, presentations in your classes and formals to show off your sartorial class, so you’ll want the suit that makes a difference. even if it’s a hand-me-down, having a suit tailored to fit makes you look on top of your game, even if you’re focusing on con­taining your nerves. wearing a baggy suit is just as out of style as baggy jeans are, and no one should look like a Zoot suit riot enthusiast. 
ties, especially from the tie bar 
everyone loves ties; it is scientifically proven. To be on your game, snag a couple slimmer, 2.5-inch-wide ties to go with your newly fitted suit. i never understood why men began to wear wider and wider ties, but thankfully, “mad men” reminded us of the glorious 1960s slim ties. 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

Justine marino and the humor artists performed at legends on saturday night just before hip hop night was cancelled due to a power outage. 
The humor artists were on first, performing their im­prov games for the audience. They started off with “Four corners,” in which four of the performers take prompts in pairs from the audience and rotate when called for a new prompt. 
The next game they played was “replay.” Three of the artists performed a scene based on an adjective and noun provided by the audience (“slippery Finland”) and then were asked to replay it using different emotions and then again with a different genre. during the emotions section, we learned “constipation” was an emotion, at least at a humor artists’ show. 
The highlight of their performance was perhaps the “dating game.” one of the artists leaves the stage while three others are assigned (1) a celebrity, (2) a strange job and (3) a strange habit/belief. 
The three contestants were paris hilton, a male my personal favorite source is The Tie bar. on their front page they offer personal styling based on your occasion, shirt type and comfort level, and the results are spot-on. if you’re completely lost on what to choose, get an urban stripe, the modern remake of the classic power stripe tie. what to avoid unless you really know what you’re doing: the collection of printed, “conversational” ties your dad keeps around for casual Fridays. all regular ties are $15 on The Tie bar, with designer collaborations running at $25 apiece. 
a tweed blazer 
The winter coat of blazers. in the bone-rattling winters of indiana, it can be an extra layer, and in the spring and fall, you can use it to replace a light jacket. The versatility of this piece also amazes: you can throw it on with jeans and a T-shirt, or wear it to a holiday party with the same jeans, a button-down and the tie you snagged off The Tie bar. 
when browsing colors, avoid the browns, unless you’re trying to be mistaken for someone’s philosophy profes­sor. snag a grey herringbone for a classic or a dark blue as a risk. elbow patches optional. 
a fisherman, or any chunky, sweater 
if i could choose one article of clothing to wear for the rest of the eternity that is winter, it would be a thick, chunky, knit sweater. be it a Fair isle cardigan or a 
prostitute and a communist. at the end of the game, the first artist was asked to guess who/what the three con­testants were (she was spot on with paris hilton, guessed the male prostitute after a few more hints and took a little while with the communist). 
The humor artists introduced Justine marino as a game of “45-minute monologue” and left the stage for her bit. she was complimentary of her opening act and talked a little bit about her own beginnings in improv before go­ing into the main part of her set. 
a couple of themes recurred during her monologue. The first was her strong desire to learn either the shmon­ey dance or the nay-nay dance. 
it was kindled by her knowledge that hip hop night was to follow her show, and she wanted one of the au­dience members to show her how to do it. one of the students in the back claimed to know it (or his friends claimed he did) but there never was an answer on how to perform the shmoney. 
one of the best bits of the show was her discussion of the different ways guys and girls get ready for a night out. she imitated guys and girls performing the different ste­reotypical things they do to get ready and reflected on cable-knit fisherman sweater, these beauties have the substance and warmth that you want once the chill sets in. Then, as green re-emerges, they can be dug back out to enjoy the woods in style. Just as they blend heat and elegance, a chunky sweater will convey the gruff, outdoorsy man and the creative soul of hemingway all in one. when specifically should you wear it? holiday parties, shoveling snow, jetting off ski slopes or cradling a mug of hot chocolate in one hand and a novel in the other.
 Joggers 

you have enough sweatpants emblazoned with the notre dame logo. what’s the difference you ask? Joggers are loose near the top, but get tight through the legs. weird, you say? Just think for a moment, why are tight-fitting leggings a girl’s go-to? The slim leg portion pro­vides the comfort of sweats cloth with the extra, er, space you might near the waist. plus they look a lot more fash­ionable, even if you’re still wearing it with a nd hoodie. 
socks 

everyone needs socks. running out of socks means doing laundry. don’t run out of socks. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
how strange the opposites were. perhaps the best bit was her parody of girls talking about a night out the way guys are often depicted to do. 
she commented a few times on the oddities of notre dame and specifically parietals. marino asked the au­dience if we went out, hooked up and then went home alone or if car hook-ups were still a thing at notre dame. This led into a couple of stories from her own experience at an all-girls catholic high school. 
her show also included bits about what it means to be basic, what your tour guide at universal studios is actu­ally thinking and how 90s television shows are still rel­evant today. 
The audience for her show was small, and at times, it was clear that her bits would work better with a larger crowd. she tried to engage the audience members, call­ing out a few members for texting and posing for the camerawoman. 
For those who missed it, Justine marino is featured in Jenny mccarthy’s “dirty sexy Funny” on netflix and has a couple videos available online at justinemarino.com. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

i watched “peter pan: live!” primarily to see if my doubts could be assuaged by the opening credits. The first shrill of the orchestra from grumman studios in bethpage, new york led a whimsical rush of musical score lighting up a bird’s eye view of london in minia­ture, the camera panning seamlessly to the home of the darling family. high expectations had been laid for this production since its first preview, but thankfully, they weren’t too high for the work of a sprinkle of fairy dust. 
peter pan returned to nbc for the fourth time since 1955, but this time, he brought along additional songs from various revivals, entirely new songs and the resto­ration of a song that had been cut from the musical be­fore its original broadway premiere in 1954. The original 1954 broadway production starred mary martin as peter, commencing a continued tradition of females cast in the role, and cyril ritchard as captain hook. 
The mindset of many tuning in to this year’s nbc live musical broadcast was largely divided on the basis of two elements: known-name casting and the potential to one-up last year’s “The sound of music.” if carrie underwood was the achilles’ heel of nbc’s casting, christopher walken (captain hook) was the same diagnosis on the other foot. The man possesses that coveted gift of subtle, dry humor acting capable of creating relatable charac­ters out of a stereotype. here, unfortunately, he is the stereotype. 
as far as villains in children’s literature go, none are quite as classically vile and likable as captain hook. his name is enough to send shivers down the spines of the young and also prompt laughs from adults. establishing and maintaining that equilibrium is demanding enough 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

it has been a great year for movies, which also means that it has been a great year for movie soundtracks. soundtrack songs are special, not only because of the emotional significance they can convey on their own, but also because of the inseparable ties they construct between the audio and visual realms. it is important to note that in the following list, these are not necessar­ily the best films of the year, but the best soundtracks. They augmented the films well by creating extra emo­tional layers. with this in mind, here are my top movie soundtracks of 2014: 
#4 — “the Grand budapest hotel” 
wes anderson’s “The grand budapest hotel” is one of the quirkiest films of the year, so naturally it has to have one of the most eclectic and unconventional soundtracks. alexandre desplat definitely brings his eclectic a-game to this soundtrack, incorporating flamingo guitars, church organs, spooky pianos and a music box interlude among a plethora of other instruments to properly dis­play the relationship between a legendary concierge and his new lobby boy. it also features a russian folk orchestra before the addition of the “musical” portion. 
every actor onstage must be a triple threat, but hook needs to be the scene-stealer. walken was a scene-stealer in that audiences were reduced to pushing him along like parents encouraging a baby to walk (“go on, you can do it, come on”). he fell flat on his face for such a recogniz­able role. no amount of fairy dust could levitate the mus­cles in his face to form an expression beyond “hey, i’m christopher walken.” 
as saturday night live pointed out this weekend, hook should still be able to carry a tune despite having one hand. The overall performance wasn’t walken portray­ing the notorious captain hook. he was captain hook wearing the skin and acting with the mediocre energy of a seriously miscast walken. 
speaking of the dear captain, he is typically portrayed by the same actor as mr. darling, a mind-bending juxta­position between the story’s dual motifs of imagination and reality. This mr. darling (christian borle) doubles not as hook but as his dim-witted, pirate partner-in­crime, mr. smee. smee and hook’s slimy pirate league make for one of the show’s strengths, along with the fan­cy footwork of peter pan’s lost boys. 
at least mr. and mrs. darling (kelli o’hara) were tal­ents pulled from the great white way, speaking and singing in sophisticated english accents. The children played pretend with heavily forced tongues bordering on cockney. all of the premature plot unfolded predict­ably yet nostalgically, thanks in part to the tremendous christmas-themed set. The cast was perfect in the molds they knew they had to fill as iconic characters, relishing in their chance to be the next generation’s wendy (Taylor louderman), John (Jake lucas), michael (John allyn) and, of course, the boy-who-never-grew-up (allison williams). 
and an opening with swiss yodeling, so you know it has to be good. 
#3 — “the hunger Games: mockingjay Part 1” 
lorde has to be feeling like the katniss everdeen of the music world right now. after her meteoric rise thanks to smash hit “royals” and the universal praise of her debut lp “pure heroine,” the eighteen-year-old new Zealander is at the forefront of pop music. 
her latest effort, curating the soundtrack for “The hunger games: mockingjay part 1,” is no exception to her magnificence. enlisting the help of a ridiculous number of artists including chvrches, haim, pusha T, charli XcX, major lazer, The chemical brothers and like a gazillion others, lorde has mashed together what feels like a “who’s who” of the music scene right now into a ri­diculously great mixtape. 
#2 — “Gone Girl” 
director david Fincher has worked with atticus ross and nine inch nails frontman Trent reznor before on “The social network” and “The girl with the dragon Tattoo,” but this is by far the best soundtrack they have put together so far. The “gone girl” soundtrack creates a sense of ambiguity and has a noticeable lack of emotional 
williams, perhaps known best for her role as marnie michaels on hbo’s “girls” (and for being the daughter of nbc’s “nightly news” host brian williams), shines brightest as peter pan when the focus is not on her limit­ed dancing skills but on the emotion she effectively emits during the broadcast’s quieter moments. her best scenes include her gentle yet heart-tugging number, “when i went home,” and her reactions to internal pain, such as the clutching her heart in uncertainty about how to inter­pret the heartbreak of seeing wendy, her brothers and the lost boys go back to london to grow up, never to return to neverland. 
whatever sins i spotted and nitpicked, they were nearly forgotten by the production’s end scene, a bittersweet re­union between peter and a grown-up wendy (played by a refreshing minnie driver, also the show’s narrator). The emotional weight within these final minutes transcends the miscasting of walken and the half-hearted delivery of lines. 
growing up in a physical sense is out of our hands. maturing comes with acceptance of that physical trans­formation. Time in our world is measured in technical, practical and serious terms. however, neverland knows no such measurements. 
it is a mixture of everything peter pan embodies: youth, joy and freedom. we all want to go to neverland, if only to hold those memories which we will have forever, long past our maturity into adulthood. This is the ulti­mate theme of “peter pan,” and it is exactly what makes the end title a fulfilling conclusion to an otherwise off­beat production. you want to return to neverland despite whatever elements of its setting and people you did not wholly appreciate. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
cues, creating a rather unnerving experience that is right on point for this film. The songs all seem to have this sense of false optimism that requires digging through the layers to find the chilling depths below. and boy does this soundtrack have layers. The amount of effort this power group put into this album is ridiculous and defi­nitely worth a listen. 
#1 — “Guardians of the Galaxy” 
ooga chaka ooga ooga ooga chaka 
if the opening to blue swede’s “hooked on a Feeling” doesn’t get you pumped, you’re either dead inside or have been living under a rock for the past 40 years, or at least since the first trailers for “guardians of the galaxy” were released. director James gunn cherry-picked the best songs of the seventies to provide cultural reference points and ground main protagonist starlord and the rest of this ridiculously awesome space opera to earth. The tracks are unique in that they provide an unparalleled level of accessibility through its powerful nostalgia that can register with older audiences and millennials like me who grew up on these songs. and on top of all that, the soundtrack is just plain fun. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 



The observer | tuesday, december 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

sPorts authorIty 

Ten bowls no one should miss 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 
The holiday season is here. The turkeys have come and gone; the impending doom of finals is in the air, and it’s beginning to look and sound like christmas. 
however, i will be spending my christmas far away from this winter wonderland. in fact, i will be in the sunny and 75-degree weather that ethiopia offers. yet, while ethiopia has no snow, it also has no cable Tv. so, although i will have family and food, football will be sorely lacking — especially col­lege football bowl games. 
yes, you may have heard, there is a college football playoff this year. The committee has laid out its picks, and everyone outside of Texas is content with them. but there are also 32 more bowl games that will take place from dec. 20 to Jan. 4. i will be able to watch exactly zero of these games. i will not see another snap of college football action until the national championship game on Jan. 12. 
That’s 38 bowl games i’m missing out on. That’s tough to stomach for me. i mean, not all 38 games are going to be great. i am less than heartbroken to miss out on the godaddy bowl showdown between Toledo and arkansas state. 
There are still a lot of great matchups though. so, i thought i’d at least write about them for a bit. below are the top 10 bowl games i wish i were able to watch. 
10. texas bowl: texas vs. arkansas 
is anyone going to score in this game? both teams are brutal in the trenches, and both teams are brutal to watch on offense. arkansas will probably be able to run enough to get by the longhorns, but i would watch to see these old southwestern conference rivals hammer it out. 
9. liberty bowl: texas a&m vs. West Virginia 
This game would be the polar opposite of the one above, as it’s possible no one will even bother to play defense. This should be a fun track-meet of a contest where both teams chase 50 points. 
8. outback bowl: auburn vs. Wisconsin 
Two great rushing attacks here. melvin gordon is a heisman final­ist, and the auburn high-tempo running game has been the foun­dation of the Tigers' recent resur­gence under gus malzahn. 
7. Fiesta bowl: arizona vs. boise state 
The broncos return to where their heartwarming romp through the hearts of everyone outside of norman, oklahoma, began. arizona has overachieved all year, and it would be fun to watch the upstart wildcats square off with everyone’s favorite underdog. 
6. alamo bowl: Kansas state vs. ucla 
bill snyder’s determined, hard­working bunch against Jim mora’s ucla team that look like world-beaters one week and then forget how to play football the next. brett hundley is always fun to watch, and Jake waters has been under the radar all year, just like his wildcats. 
5. sugar bowl: alabama vs. ohio state 
i am less excited about this game than some because i don’t like either team and really just never find it fun to watch both of them play. still, saban and meyer are two of the best ever, and it will be fun to watch the chess match play out between them. however, saban has a few more nFl-bound pieces and isn’t using his third-string quarterback. advantage goes to the Tide. 
4. orange bowl: mississippi state vs. Georgia tech 
Two teams that have exceeded expectations and have thrilling dual-threat quarterbacks. can Tech knock off another sec pow­erhouse or will dak prescott put a final exclamation point on a fan­tastic season for the bulldogs? 
3. Peach bowl: tcu vs. ole miss 
The horned Frogs will be disap­pointed to have not made the top four, and ole miss knows it was literally an inch — and a laquon Treadwell injury — from a very different season. These are two talented teams, and it should be an electrifying affair. 
2. cotton bowl: baylor vs. michigan state 
baylor may feel even more snubbed than Tcu, and michigan state will be ruing the big op­portunities that it let get away this season. The bears have a chance to send a message about the big 12’s supremacy over the big Ten, and michigan state is looking for a second straight big bowl victory. 
1. rose bowl: oregon vs. Florida state 
The last two heisman winners. The team that’s looked the most dominant versus the team that has just refused to lose. oregon trying to finally break through against the defending national champions who have won 29 (!) straight games. i can’t believe i’m going to miss it. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

nFl 
Texans prepare for Colts after pair of wins 
Associated Press 
housTon — The houston Texans took care of business against two bad teams. 
now they are moving on to face much tougher competi­tion, starting with sunday's trip to indianapolis, a place where they've never won. 
coach bill o'brien doesn't have to say anything to his team about its history in indianapolis 
"we're well aware that we have not won there," o'brien said. 
The colts are in first place in the aFc south, two games ahead of second-place houston with three games left in the reg­ular season. The Texans have already won five more games than they did in last year's 2-14 season, but are still aiming higher. 
o'brien and the Texans don't talk about their possibilities for the postseason because they know there's no way they'll get there if they don't focus on each opponent. 
"This game right here is a playoff game," o'brien said. "as far as that's concerned, as far as our team, this is a big game." 
houston lost to the colts 33­28 in the first meeting this sea­son after falling behind 24-0 in a disastrous first quarter. The Texans were forced to punt on their first three possessions in that game and the colts recov­ered an onside kick to build the big lead. 
o'brien doesn't like to talk about the past, but he is remind­ing his team about its struggles in that one. 
"The thing that happened in the last indianapolis game can­not happen," o'brien said. "if it does, we have no chance ... we can't get down like that to a re­ally good football team and ex­pect to win, especially on the road." 
The Texans have won two games in a row for the first time since the first two weeks of the season and o'brien believes his team has grown since the last game against the colts. houston trailed 13-10 at halftime on sunday before rallying for a 27­13 victory over Jacksonville. 
"i thought our guys came in at halftime and really had a resolve about them that they were going to go out and win the game and that they were go­ing to play better over the last half of the game," o'brien said. "i think that has improved over the year." 
The Texans could have to face indianapolis without andre Johnson after the receiver suf­fered a concussion on a hel­met-to-helmet hit on sunday. o'brien said Johnson will have to go through the concussion protocol and that he'll be listed day to day this week. 
if he can't go the Texans could rely more heavily on slot re­ceiver damaris Johnson, who has 250 yards receiving and a touchdown in limited action this season. 
"That slot position is a very im­portant position for us," o'brien said. "we certainly want it to be more involved probably than it has been this year." 
houston's defense was bol­stered by the return of corner­back kareem Jackson, who had missed three games with a knee injury. it's a unit that has been led all season by defensive end 
J.J. watt, who had another big game on sunday. 

Colts acknowledge Wayne’s triceps injury 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — colts coach chuck pagano has an explanation for reggie wayne’s recent struggles — the six-time pro bowler has been playing with a torn left triceps. 
until sunday, indianapolis had only acknowledged wayne had injured his left elbow oct. 19 against cincinnati. 
but after beating cleveland 25-24, pagano inadvertently mentioned on sunday’s post-game radio show that wayne had been battling an assort­ment of injuries including a “torn tri” before stopping in mid-sentence. 
“you know what, he battles every week, coming back from the knee, the elbow, a lot of nagging stuff that’s difficult for anybody to deal with,” pagano said monday after acknowledg­ing the two arm injuries were connected. 
“There’s something there be­cause we know the player reggie is and how he contributes and how he can make the clutch catch and all those things.” 
clearly, wayne hasn’t been 100 percent. 

since sitting out against pittsburgh on oct. 26, wayne has only 17 receptions for 207 yards and one touchdown in five games. Two of the past three games have been especially difficult. 
wayne was targeted eight times sunday and dropped three. he finished with one catch for 5 yards, ending an nFl record streak of 82 consecutive games with three or more re­ceptions, though he did run the key rub route that led to andrew luck’s winning touchdown pass to T.y. hilton. 
Two weeks earlier, in a win over Jacksonville, luck threw two short passes to wayne in the waning minutes to keep the reception streak alive. after wayne got his third reception, luck started going to his knee. 
with his contract about to expire, wayne’s declining pro­ductivity has led to speculation about the future of a 36-year-old receiver who missed the last nine regular-season games in 2013 with a torn acl in his right knee. 
Through the years, wayne has been the model of consistency. he had seven straight 1,000-yard seasons, topped the 100-catch mark three times in four years and is tied with peyton manning for most games (208) and most wins (141) in franchise history. wayne could break those re­cords if he plays in sunday’s reg­ular season home finale. 
indy (9-4) also can clinch its second straight aFc south title with a win over houston (7-6) this weekend. 
but pagano isn’t giving away his plans yet. 
“we’ll do whatever gives us the best chance to win and obvi­ously, what’s best for the player,” he said. 
not disclosing accurate injury information can be a violation of league rules. 
late last week, nFl officials said they would “look into” the reasoning behind omit­ting dallas quarterback Tony romo’s injured ribs from the weekly report. The league has not commented on it since then, and coach Jason garrett said monday he believes it is a “non­issue” and has not heard back from the league. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


ncaa basKetball | buTler 93, ksu 51; miami 70, ssu 39; purdue 63, ipFw 43 
butler cruises to win after climbing to 15th in ap poll 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — roosevelt Jones scored 14 of his 19 points in the first half, and no. 15 butler beat kennesaw state 93-51 on monday night. 
kelan martin had 17 points and kellen dunham added 13 for the bulldogs (8-2), who have won four straight games. Jones finished with seven rebounds and seven assists. 

yonel brown had 14 points for the owls (3-7), who have lost three in a row. delbert love and orlando coleman each scored 11. 
The bulldogs led by as many as 26 points in the first half. They had an early 10-2 run and took a 32-15 lead when austin etherington converted a three-point play with 10:22 left. 
butler was 16 of 25 from the field in the first half and led 52-27 at the break. 
The bulldogs moved up eight spots in this week’s ap poll from no. 23. They knocked off in-state ri­val indiana state and beat northwestern 65-56 last week to land the team’s highest ranking since it was no. 9 in January 2013. 
no. 20 miami bounces back following first defeat 
Associated Press 
coral gables, Fla. — angel rodriguez scored 17 points and no. 20 miami re­sponded from its first loss of the season and routed savannah state 70-39 on monday night. 
The hurricanes (9-1) nev­er trailed and increased an 11-point halftime lead with a 13-2 spurt in the open­ing 6:39 of the second half. manu lecomte’s 3-point play with 13:21 remaining ended the surge and gave miami its first 20-point lead at 46-25. 
The hurricanes had their first 30-point led at 64-33 after sheldon mcclellan’s two free throws with 2:53 remaining. miami outscored savannah state 36-16 in the second half. 

mcclellan and lecomte each finished with 15 points for the hurricanes, who dropped five spots in the rankings following a 68-55 home loss against wisconsin-green bay on saturday. 
rodriguez’s 3-pointer and three free throws in the first 
8:20 helped the hurricanes start the game with a 17-4 lead. Tonye Jekiri’s layup with 11:40 remaining in the first half ended the early surge for miami. 
The hurricanes had their biggest lead of the half at 27­10 on mcclellan’s dunk with 
4:46 remaining. 
demarcus bryant hit con­secutive 3-pointers as the Tigers (3-7) outscored the hurricanes 13-3 in the next 
3:14. Jamal norman’s dunk with 1:32 remaining ended the spurt and cut miami’s lead to 30-23. 
bryant led the Tigers with nine points. 
Two free throws each from deandre burnett and rodriguez in the final 1:04 gave the hurricanes a 34-23 lead at halftime. 
purdue finishes strong to take down in-state rival 
Associated Press 
wesT laFayeTTe, ind. — purdue dominated the first half monday night, and then pulled away at the end for a 63-43 victory against in­state rival ipFw. 
having been shocked on saturday in a 73-70 home loss to north Florida, the boilermakers (7-2) bounced back with a 35-19 halftime lead against the mastodons (5-3) and finished the game with a 19-6 burst after ipFw crawled within seven. 
kendall stephens and a.J. hammons led purdue with 13 points each, and isaac haas added 10, all in the first half. 

after leading by as many as 21 during the first half, purdue allowed ipFw within 44-37 on steve Forbes’ dunk with 10:28 to play. 
dakota mathias countered with a 3-pointer at 9:43, and vince edwards added a layup at 9:04 to push the boilermakers to a more com­fortable 49-37. 
stephens’ 3-pointer with mastodons a 3-0 lead, then countered with a 26-5 burst from the 17:49 mark through 

3:07  left  essentially  iced  
it, giving  purdue a 58-41  
cushion.  
purdue  spotted  the  

8:03 when stephens capped the run with a 3-pointer from the top of the arc. 
ipFw started the game 3 of 22 from the field and finished the opening 20 minutes 7 of 31 (22.6 percent). six of those missed shots were blocks by five different boilermakers. 
using its superior size to the maximum, purdue had 18 first-half points in the paint while ipFw had only four. The boilermakers out-rebounded the mastodons 22-17 before intermission. 

nhl | devils 2, hurricanes 1; rangers 4, penguins 3 (oT) 
Jagr nets goal in devils victory 
Associated Press 
raleigh, n.c. — Jaromir Jagr had a goal and an as­sist in his 1,500th nhl game, and the new Jersey devils defeated the carolina hurricanes 2-1 monday night. 
devils goalie cory schneider made 39 saves, including 17 in the third period. 
adam henrique scored the go-ahead goal on a power play with 13.4 seconds re­maining in the second pe­riod for the devils, who won for only the second time in eight games. 
Jagr’s fifth of the season tied the score with 5:15 left in the second when he took a pass from scott gomez, who finished with two as­sists in his fourth game of the season. 
carolina defenseman Justin Faulk opened the scoring with a second-peri­od goal. cam ward made 14 saves for the hurricanes. 
carolina registered the first 13 shots on goal in the third and ended up with a 17-1 edge in the period. 
The 42-year-old Jagr set up henrique’s goal, moving the puck around the back of the net and hitting his team­mate with a pass. 
Jagr has 710 career goals and 1,062 assists. 
Faulk’s goal came on the 13th shot of the game for the hurricanes, who failed to score more than twice in any of the five games on their homestand. The defen­seman took a pass in the slot from andrej nestrasil before firing a shot past schneider. 
new Jersey killed off a carolina power play in the third period when former hurricanes forward Tuomo ruutu was in the penalty box for boarding. 

rangers rebound from blown lead 
Associated Press 
new york (ap) — kevin klein, bloodied earlier by a high stick that ripped off part of his ear, fired in a slap shot 
3:45 into overtime to give the new york rangers a 4-3 victory over the pittsburgh penguins on monday night. 
klein, a defenseman show­ing off his offensive skills recently, scored for the sec­ond straight game and for the sixth time this season, a career high. he rescued the rangers, who blew a 3-1 lead late in the third period when pittsburgh scored twice in 24 seconds to tie it. 
part of klein’s left ear was severed and reattached dur­ing the game, rangers coach alain vigneault said. 
rick nash broke a second-period tie with his sixth goal in eight games, and henrik lundqvist returned to the net with 32 saves for new york. 
nash and J.T. miller scored in the middle period to turn a one-goal deficit into a lead, and kevin hayes made it 3-1 with 7:02 left in the third. lundqvist earned his third win in his past five appear­ances after sitting out new york’s 3-2 loss at detroit on saturday. 
nick spaling staked pittsburgh to a 1-0 lead in the first period, and evgeni malkin and steve downie scored in rapid succession in the third. marc-andre Fleury stopped 25 shots for the penguins, who have dropped two of three overall and two of three to the rangers this season. 
malkin started the come­back with his 15th goal at 15:17, and downie tied it with his fourth after rangers defenseman marc staal couldn’t handle a bouncing puck. downie also assisted on spaling’s goal. 
pittsburgh wore its old-school, black-and-gold uni­forms but fell to 9-2-2 on the road. new york has earned a point in eight of the last nine regular-season meetings with the penguins (5-1-3). 
The rangers finished the first period and started the second on the power play, thanks to a 4-minute high-sticking penalty on Zach hill that caused klein’s cut. 
new york didn’t take ad­vantage of the long power play, but tallied the tying and go-ahead goals 4:50 apart to take a 2-1 lead. 
after lundqvist made a save on a short-handed breakaway early in the sec­ond, the rangers seemed to gain their legs and energy. 
miller tied it 1-all off a feed from martin st. louis at 3:50 of the second for his second of the season. nash put new york in front at 8:40 with his 18th goal — the second-most in the nhl. 


The observer | tuesday, december 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

smc basKetball | Trine 97, smc 66 
belles suffer first conference loss of season 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
Trine snapped the belles’ three-game winning streak by beating saint mary’s, 97­66, on saturday. 
The belles (3-4, 1-1 miaa) took a 15-9 lead only seven minutes into the game, but the Thunder (5-1, 2-0 miaa) soon closed the gap. 
The game remained close for much of the first half, with the lead changing three more times and the teams level with under six minutes remaining in the half. however, Trine pulled away late, establishing a nine-point lead before two free throws in the last minute from junior forward krista knapke left the belles behind, 42-35, entering the break. 
belles coach Jennifer henley said she was im­pressed by her team’s ability to match the Trine offense early in the game. 
“in the first half, we kept trading baskets with Trine,” henley said. “we kept the game close.” 


The Thunder pulled away in the second half, however, scoring nine unanswered points within three minutes of the start of the period. 
The belles managed to close the gap slightly, bringing the game within 11 points, but the Thunder continued to score, and saint mary’s didn’t keep up the offensive pace. The Thunder outscored saint mary’s 38-18 in just over 10 minutes and eventually ended the game as 31-point victors. 
henley said her team was unable to cope with Trine’s second-half adjustments, let­ting the Thunder score freely. 
“in the second half, Trine packed the paint and took away our ability to score in­side,” henley said. “we con­tinued to struggle on defense and allowed them to attack the paint at the other end very easily.” 
henley added that, al­though she thought her team could have performed bet­ter in the second half, Trine played well and has a lot of talent. 
“we knew Trine was play­ing well,” said henley. “They are a completely different team last year with a lot of new faces, including several transfers and a new coach. 
“They work hard and don’t turn the ball over very much. i think they will surprise a lot of teams this season.” 
senior forward ariana paul led the belles in points with 18, as well as in rebounds, with six. Junior forward elena shea added 14 points and 2 blocks. 
despite the loss, the belles will have many chances to succeed with some minor im­provements, henley said. 
“my team has a lot of po­tential — we just have to get everyone on the same page defensively and not be driven so much emotionally by our offense,” said henley. “it’s still pretty early in our sea­son. we have such a great opportunity to compete this weekend as we travel to hope college. we have to keep our focus as we prepare for finals too.” 


saint mary’s will play at the hope classic this week­end, starting with a matchup against hope at 5:30 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

nba | cavaliers 110, neTs 88; hawks 108, pacers 92; warriors 102, Timberwolves 86 
lebron, cavs roll in front of royal audience 
Hawks, Warriors snag double-digit road wins to continue long winning streaks 
Associated Press 
new york — lebron James and the cleveland cavaliers turned a close game into a clinic after britain’s prince william and his wife, kate, grabbed courtside seats to watch them, beating the brooklyn nets 110-88 on monday night. 
kevin love was shooting free throws when the royal couple emerged from a tun­nel with 7:14 remaining in the third quarter. perhaps dis­tracted by the loud roar, love missed the second, leaving the game tied at 61. 
but James, putting on a show that few others could, threw some sharp passes to go with his nine points in the period and the cavs cruised from there to their seventh straight victory. 
he finished with 18 points after joining kyrie irving and some nets players in wearing “i can’t breathe” shirts during warmups. 
That would’ve been the story most nights, but he had to share it with the roy­als’ arrival during their first visit to new york. They met earlier in the game with nba commissioner adam silver, celebrating a partnership be­tween the royal Foundation and the league to raise aware­ness about the importance of international wildlife conservation. 
The buzz built as officials began gathering near the tun­nel at halftime for the couple, and it may have amped up James, who had a quiet first half but took his game to an­other level in front of william and kate, a day after saying it was an “honor” to have them watch him play. 
James’ biggest statement before then came during the pregame layup line. he and irving, along with kevin garnett, deron williams and two other nets, wore warmup shirts in support of the family of eric garner, who died July 17 after a police officer placed him in a chokehold when he was being arrested for sell­ing loose, untaxed cigarettes. 

a recording of garner’s arrest showed him gasping, “i can’t breathe” during the fatal en­counter, and thousands have protested a grand jury deci­sion not to indict the officer since the announcement on wednesday. 
williams had 13 points and 11 assists but shot 3 for 14 for the nets, who played without injured starters brook lopez and Joe Johnson. 
love had 19 points and 14 rebounds. dion waiters came off cleveland’s bench for 26 points. 
hawks 108, Pacers 92 
indianapolis — al horford scored 25 points, and Jeff Teague added 21 as the atlanta hawks beat the indiana pacers 108-92 on monday night. 
kyle korver added 13 points for atlanta, which has won eight of its last nine games and seven straight. 
The hawks dominated early and never let up as they built a 28-18 first quarter lead. in building that lead atlanta (14-6) shot 5 of 9 beyond the arc. 
The lead went to 21 when Teague made a layup and free throw after with 8:25 to play in the third quarter. 
c.J. miles and rodney stuckey each scored 15 points to lead indiana (7-14). luis scola came off the bench to score 12. 
The pacers only lead, 8-7, came at 7:31 in the first quarter. 
demarre carroll and the hawks came out shooting from long range. all five of his first quarter field goal at­tempts were from 3-point range. They made three. They had 22 points in the paint dur­ing the opening half and fin­ished with 48. 
indiana tried to rally when damjan rudez made a 3-pointer to start a 10-2 run late in the first half. 
but, the hawks answered with an 11-4 run, including the final seven points of the half to take a 60-43 lead. 
indiana had nine first half turnovers which atlanta converted into 10 points. The pacers finished with 17 turn­overs that the hawks used to score 15 points. 
pacers coach Frank vogel was called for a technical foul with 7:05 to play. korver co­verted the free throws to give atlanta a 97-79 lead. it vogel’s second of the year. 
Warriors 102, t-Wolves 86 
minneapolis — stephen curry overcame a rare off night from long range to post 21 points and seven assists and help the golden state warriors to their 13th consecutive win with a 102-86 victory over the minnesota Timberwolves. 
curry missed six of his seven 3-point attempts, but the top-ranked warriors’ de­fense forced the short-handed Timberwolves to shoot 36 per­cent and turn the ball over 19 times to improve to an nba­best 18-2. klay Thompson add­ed 21 points and the warriors left holding their breath af­ter andrew bogut left with a knee injury early in the first quarter. 



m basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
to the big guys and getting some buckets.” 
mount st. mary’s is the last opponent notre dame will play before it starts its acc season with a game against Florida state this saturday. The irish, however, play three more non-conference games, including a matchup with purdue at the crossroads classic in indianapolis, be­fore resuming acc play against georgia Tech on Jan. 3. 
brey said notre dame will focus on a few key areas over the course of its remaining nonconference schedule. 
“not having slippage de­fensively, staying on that, keeping that in the forefront,” brey said of the key to the next few games. “we’re try­ing to improve as a defensive rebounding team. i think that’s an area we’re going to always have to look at. what forwards are we using off the bench — that could be by committee — and what do we do with another guard? … i think those are things we need to look at here up until christmas.” 
notre dame will try to fo­cus on these areas when it hosts a mount st. mary’s team coming off a 74-65 win over loyola (maryland). The mountaineers, who have played only one home game this season, have dropped road contests at no. 3 arizona, seton hall and wake Forest. 
mount st. mary’s has shot 
40.2 percent from the field this season, well behind notre dame’s nationally leading mark of 55.8 percent. The mountaineers have been 


led by graduate student for-opener against the seminoles “i think we’ve been kind of a mount st. mary’s tonight. ward kristijan krajina, who looming, the irish will be poor team, and who are we to Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m. is first on the team with 9.2 careful not to overlook mount look past anybody?” at purcell pavilion. points per game and second st. mary’s, brey said. notre dame aims to ex-with 4.8 rebounds per game. “i’m not as concerned tend its winning streak to five Contact Brian Hartnett at 
even with a conference about [a letdown],” brey said. games when the irish meet bhartnet@nd.edu 
head coach in July following 39 years with recently-retired Joe piane at the helm — said this first meet was important for setting a tone for the season. 
“i told the team to get the first-race jitters out, and i wanted to see a competitive effort,” he said. “sometimes a lot of times athletes think, ‘it’s the first meet; we’re not run­ning against any acc or big Ten teams,’ but it’s important to go out there and give 100 percent effort every time.” 
The irish had 46 overall top-three finishes in the 30 events of the meet. 
“The effort was definitely there, and the kids were com­peting hard,” Turner said. “competing hard needs to be­come a habit … and i’m very pleased with the effort my team gave tonight. This is go­ing to carry them throughout the year.” 
The irish continue their sea­son after winter break with the simmons-harvey invitational in ann arbor, michigan, on Jan. 17. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


track 
conTinued From page 16 
all-american pat Feeney fin­ished close behind in 21.63, competing unattached. 
sophomore emily carson, after finishing fifth in the 60-meter dash, posted a 5.81 meter mark in the long jump to win the event. 
Freshman distance runner celena guerrero also posted a victory in the first meet of her collegiate career with a 5:07.90 time in the mile run. 
similarly, on the men’s side, freshman distance runner billy dolan claimed the top spot in the mile at 4:16.53. 
senior keith mesidor won the long jump with a distance of 6.89 meters, and freshman hunter holton won the high jump at 2.00 meters. 
in the weight throw, senior ihuoma nwaogwugwu took first place with a distance of 
17.34 meters, while morris fin­ished second. 
The irish also claimed the titles in both the men’s and women’s 1,600 meter relays. 
Turner — who was named 


The observer | tuesday, december 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


with containing reigning ap while obviously no one on 
hadley 
player of the year junior for-the irish bench wants to 
conTinued From page 16 
ward breanna stewart, who lose, perhaps it’s best that is 6-foot-4. she had no prob-they did. 
connecticut may have lem scoring 15 points and There’s no shame in los­dominated notre dame collecting nine rebounds. ing to connecticut, and this weekend, but there is That left sophomore mcgraw has repeatedly said plenty of basketball left to forward Taya reimer and that a group this young will be played. while some may senior forward markisha take its lumps early. maybe place great stock in momen-wright to try to contain se-it’s best to simply get the tum swings and confidence-nior center kiah stokes and defeat out of the way and boosting wins, the irish are redshirt sophomore morgan remind everyone on the young enough, and muffet Tuck. They were not up to team what it is like to lose. it mcgraw is a good enough the task. stokes grabbed 18 lowers outside expectations coach to make sure that her rebounds in 24 minutes and and could give the irish a team will move on. Tuck scored a career-high 25 chip on their shoulder that 
in the grand scheme points. mcgraw can call upon later. of the 2014-2015 season, if the 6-foot-3 Turner had ultimately, nothing was one nonconference loss in been healthy, the entire at stake for notre dame on december will not sink the dynamic of the game could saturday night that hasn’t irish, just as a win would not have changed. maybe loyd been before. it has already have defined them. if any-would not have to attempt beaten connecticut. it has thing, with such a youthful 27 field goals in a desperate already gone undefeated squad, mcgraw is fortunate comeback attempt. maybe through the regular season. to now have the chance to stewart, stokes and Tuck it has already defended its examine what went wrong would not have been as home court time and time and see how her team re-dominant inside. maybe. again. 
boards, where the irish were sponds to adversity. Turner’s absence is not The irish had nothing to 

The other good news on a complete excuse for the prove to themselves, to their W basketball out-rebounded 52-34, with 
conTinued From page 16 

the night is that freshman loss. Junior guard michaela fans, to the media or to the ward brianna Turner. Turner the absence of freshman for-
forward brianna Turner’s mabrey, the best 3-point huskies. sure, a win would percent. she also turned the is out with a right shoulder 
right shoulder injury is not shooter on the squad, was a have been nice, but if notre ball over a game-high seven injury, robbing the irish of 
as serious as it could have ghost on the floor saturday. dame advances to the Final times. their best post player. 
been. she is officially listed she went 0-for-7 from the Four or the ncaa champi­despite those numbers, “The game was lost on the 
as day-to-day. field, 0-for-5 from behind onship again, no one will loyd did collect a game-high boards,” mcgraw said. “we 
The irish absolutely need the arc and grabbed only care about whatever hap­31 points, tying her career just went soft. it was very 
Turner to have any chance one rebound in 29 minutes. pened in december. best, as well as four steals, disappointing.” 
against connecticut if the The least that can be said for in recent years, also a career high. mcgraw in addition to rebounding 
two meet again. The huskies her is that she did not turn notre dame could beat praised loyd’s performance and defense, mcgraw said 
won the rebound battle, the ball over. connecticut in the regular saturday. her front court simply did 
52-34, and put up 44 points in fact, not a single player season but not come tourna­“i think Jewell has [that not perform like they should 
in the paint, compared to 28 in notre dame’s starting ment time. maybe this is the toughness],” mcgraw said. have when presented with 
from notre dame. lineup shot better than 36 year that changes. “i thought Jewell was the shot opportunities. 
geno auriemma’s squad percent yesterday. They also best player on the floor, but “They sagged [on defense]. 
was simply too big and too combined for 16 turnovers. Contact Greg Hadley at we didn’t give her any help at They sagged, daring us to 
long for the irish to contain. That’s not good enough to ghadley@nd.edu all, and i think we’re capable shoot the jumper,” mcgraw 
at several points, 5-foot-11 beat connecticut, with or The views expressed in this of more.” said. “and that’s something 
senior guard madison cable without Turner. column are those of the author loyd had 17 of her points we worked on in practice, but 
or 5-foot-10 junior guard but the season, like notre and not necessarily those of The come in the first half on 11 we didn’t look like we did. 
Jewell loyd were tasked dame, is still young. and Observer. shots, but ran into trouble we froze a lot on offense. we in the second stanza, throw-stopped moving, we stopped ing up 16 shots, half of the screening, we pretty much team’s field goal attempts in stopped doing everything.” the half, and connecting on The key to fixing these just five of them. problems is more experience 
both loyd and sophomore and players stepping up in guard lindsay allen faced the locker room, mcgraw double and even triple teams said. throughout the game, as the “There’s a couple of peo­huskies (6-1) tried to shut ple who have a little bit of down notre dame’s lead-toughness,” mcgraw said. ers in scoring and assists, “but sometimes it’s a quiet respectively. toughness. i think lindsay 
“[The double teams] af-has a quiet competitive fected us a little bit,” allen spirit, but we need a vocal said. “we worked on it a bit leader. we need somebody in practice … but it definite-to be the one to get everyone ly slowed us down, which fired up and ready to go, and was the point.” Jewell is trying real hard to 
although those double do that, but she has enough teams left players open, the jobs. i’d like somebody else irish were unable to capital-to do that.” ize. The problem, mcgraw mcgraw did not offer any said, was that younger team suggestions of which player members looked to loyd to that might be but did say she carry them down the stretch. thought the loss could pro­
“it was us,” mcgraw vide the team with valuable said when asked about experience down the road. connecticut’s defense. “we “i think, in the long run, looked like a deer in head-this could be good for us,” lights. we made some shots she said. “we can learn a lot early, and when things are from it.” going good, i think that’s the The irish have a short kind of thing a young team, turnaround to learn these they’re going to roll along lessons, as they take on no. with it. but when things 25 depaul on wednesday in [went] bad, Jewell was the chicago. Tip-off is sched­only one who really wanted uled for 9 p.m. the ball.” 
another issue was notre Contact Greg Hadley at dame’s weakness on the ghadley@nd.edu 



crossWord | will shorTZ 


hIGhly PunlIKely | chrisTopher brucker 
sudoKu | The mepham group 

dome nuts | aleXandria wellman 

horoscoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Follow the trends and observe how others respond around you this year, and you will figure out how to maneuver your way through the ups and downs that come your way. gains can be made if you make a move or adjust your current living situation. embrace knowledge and new possibilities, and you will discover talents you never realized you possessed. your numbers are 2, 17, 21, 26, 38, 45, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): it’s full speed ahead. refuse to let an emotional matter blow up, causing you to miss out on an opportunity. experience is the engine for success and will enable you to expand your interests and goals. love is highlighted. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): rely on those you trust and respect. don’t get angry about the suggestions made. listen carefully and you will find a way to use the information you receive in a positive manner. a self-improvement project will bring good results. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): ask for help and fight back if someone is unfair. don’t let an emotional or personal matter stop you from pursuing a position or occupation you desire. a partnership can change the way you live. love is in the stars. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): emotional matters will flare up if you have been inconsistent. don’t let uncertainty about your future stand between you and an opportunity to enhance your professional relationships. Try to understand the background or history of your peers. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): socialize and you will attract enthusiastic people interested in helping you bring about the changes you feel strongly about making. a money deal or contract will face some glitches due to a lack of conformity. do your best to present conservative alternatives. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your efforts to help a cause will not be in vain, but could be met with opposition. expect someone you live near to offer false information or misinterpret you. changes at home may be worrisome, but in time will prove to be beneficial. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take the initiative and make things happen. you can make a difference if you follow through with your beliefs and make your voice heard. romance will bring positive results in your love life. make positive changes at home. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get to work and show everyone what you can do. it’s up to you to manipulate your vocational situation to help you market your talent and protect your position. use your experience, quick response and insight to get ahead. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): withhold secret information that someone may be able to use against you. use your knowledge, experience and versatility to improve your personal life. greater emphasis on important relationships will pay off, ensuring positive alterations at home. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): let situations unfold naturally. it is best not to interfere or get in the middle of someone else’s agenda. concentrate on personal concerns and how you best see yourself moving forward. Take care of your own concerns, not someone else’s. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): explore new avenues, meet interesting people and share your views. be a participant and your help and encouragement will be rewarded. an important relationship can be taken to the next level. options for professional advancement are apparent. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): rely on the people you know you can trust. do not share personal information that has the potential to damage your reputation or prospects. connect with someone from your past. youngsters can offer an innocent point of view. 


Birthday Baby: you are expressive, caring and direct. you are outgoing and independent. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

men’s basKetball 
Irish 
crack 
top 25 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
no. 25 notre dame will play its first game as a ranked team this season when the irish meet mount st. mary’s tonight at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (8-1) grabbed the last spot in monday’s ap poll after winning both of its games last week, a 79-78 overtime victory over then-no. 19 michigan state on wednesday and a 75-57 win against Fairleigh dickinson on saturday. The irish sit one spot out of the usa Today coaches poll, having the most votes of any team under the “others receiving votes” category. 
notre dame will en­ter the game against the mountaineers (2-4) com­ing off a hard-fought vic­tory against the knights on a weekend when several big-conference programs lost in upsets. The irish shot 50 per­cent from the field against Fairleigh dickinson, but they hit only 23.5 percent of at­tempts from 3-point range. 
with 3-point shooting stag­nant, irish coach mike brey said notre dame turned to its defense, which held Fairleigh dickinson to 37.7 percent shooting from the field. 
“i think defense was the an­swer for us,” brey said in his postgame press conference saturday. “we weren’t in the best of offensive rhythms. 
“The area where we have grown showed up [saturday] — offense isn’t going great, and we’re not making shots, but we are able to guard. we are able to go back and be mentally tough enough to still defend.” 
irish senior guard/forward and captain pat connaughton said the team’s offensive ap­proach becomes more ag­gressive when shots behind the arc are not falling. 
“we’re a great shooting team, but there are nights when you’re not on your game, and you’re not going to be shooting the ball particu­larly well,” he said saturday. “you just have to figure out how to positively affect the game in other ways, and i thought we did that by at­tacking the basket, shooting the free throws, dishing it off 
see m baskeTball PaGe 13 

nd Women’s basKetball 
ND seeks to improve after setback 
Lack of toughness hurt Notre Dame against UConn 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 

reflecting on her team’s 76-58 loss to connecticut on saturday, muffet mcgraw said what disappointed her most was not no. 5 notre dame’s rebounding woes, defensive struggles or poor shooting. 
what really displeased the irish coach was the lack of toughness from her squad, as the irish (8-1) first failed to hold on to a 10-point lead, then came up short in their effort to rally from a 20-point deficit. 
“i don’t think we’re tough enough,” mcgraw said. “i don’t think we have the men­tality of toughness that the last four teams have had.” 
The irish shot just 31.4 per­cent from the field and made five of 18 3-pointers. Junior guard Jewell loyd shot 37 percent from the field, down from her season average of 50 
see w baskeTball PaGe 14 
nd tracK and FIeld 

morris, harris break school records 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 

The irish men’s and wom­en’s teams opened their sea­sons with successful results across the board, captur­ing first place in 22 of the 30 events and breaking two school records at the blue 
&  gold  invitational  held  
at  loftus  sports  center on  
Friday.  

notre dame hosted four men’s programs and five women’s programs for the season’s inaugural meet – the women’s team from northern illinois, and both men’s and women’s squads from bethel, detroit mercy, depaul and marquette. 
The event was highlight­ed by the record-breaking performances of senior thrower emily morris and freshman middle distance runner Jessica harris. morris crushed the field in the shot put, winning by a margin of 
1.07 meters over the nearest competitor. she surpassed notre dame’s previous 15.64-meter record on each of her three throws, with her second throw being the lon­gest at 16.02 meters. 
harris, at her first meet in an irish uniform, impressed by pulling away from the field in the 1,000-meter run, com­ing in at a time of 2:46.47 to finish ahead of her freshman teammate and second-place finisher ashlyn rambo. her effort was enough to break the previous school record of 2:48.18. 
irish coach alan Turner said he was excited about the record-breaking performanc­es so early in the season. 
“i wasn’t expecting that at all,” Turner said. “These were positives from our team go­ing forward in the season.” 
senior Jade barber was another standout for notre dame, taking first place in both the 60-meter dash and the 60-meter hurdles. 
in the 200-meter race, notre dame runners finished in two of the three medal po­sitions. senior sprinter chris giesting finished first with a time of 21.30 seconds, and former irish standout and 
see Track PaGe 13 


Saturday was just one loss on a long road for the Irish 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
in some ways, no. 5 notre dame’s 76-58 loss to no. 2 connecticut on saturday was eerily similar to its na­tional championship loss to the huskies last season. 
once again, connecticut dominated in the paint, as notre dame’s top post player was sidelined by injury. 
once again, the irish guards desperately tried to keep their team in the game, going one-on-one and throwing up dozens of shots. 
once again, at game’s end, irish fans sat in stunned si­lence after starting the game with raucous enthusiasm. even the score was practi­cally identical, 79-58 in the ncaa championship and 76-58 this weekend. 
That’s the bad news. The good news is that this is december, not april. 
see hadley PaGe 14 





