



Administration plans ceremony 
ndsmcobserver.com P.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556  By LESLEY STEVENSON news editor  diploma.” hurley said Thursday’s senior class prayer service  dye, the student musicians and the choir provide us with arrangements that are second  of academic ceremonies. “The office of the registrar coordinates the academic  
Editor-in-Chief Ann marie Jakubowski Managing Editor  Business Manager  The University will hold 19 diploma ceremonies in addi­ and last visit to the basilica of the sacred heart and the  to none.” hurley  said  the  weekend  events of commencement weekend,” he said. “We help  
brian hartnett   Peter Woo  tion to other special events for  Grotto, as well as the service  demands a large amount of  students  and  faculty  obtain  
Asst. Managing Editor: Asst. Managing Editor: Asst. Managing Editor:  Isaac Lorton Kevin song samantha Zuba  campus groups and parents on the weekend of its 169th  send-off ceremony andcommencement mass  the  on  planning from The office of the registrar to coordinate ev­ their academic regalia. The of­fice provides the diplomas to  
News Editor:  Lesley stevenson  commencement,  University  saturday, stand out as popular  ery event and welcome about  all graduates. We reserve and  
Viewpoint Editor: Sports Editor: Scene Editor:  Gabriela Leskur mary Green Allie Tollaksen  registrar chuck hurley said. “Undergraduates typically  events for the weekend. “Personally, my  favor­ 25,000 guests of the 3,000 gradu­ates to notre dame stadium for  coordinate event locations and schedules.”  
Saint Mary’s Editor: Photo Editor:  Kelly Konya Wei Lin  look forward most to their  ite  moment  annually  at  the commencement ceremony.  A full list of events through- 
Graphics Editor: Multimedia Editor: Online Editor:  Keri o’mara brian Lach Kevin song  sunday afternoon college or school diploma ceremony,”  commencement is the mass,” he said. “It is an extraordinarily  “Planning for ment typically  commence-begins in  out commencement Weekend can be found at http://  
Advertising Manager: Ad Design Manager:  elaine Yu Jasmine Park  hurley said. “That is the oppor­ holy event.  late summer,” he said. “due  c om menc eme nt .nd .e du /  
Controller: Systems Administrator:  Alex Jirschele Jeremy vercillo  tunity students and families have been waiting for all week­ “The holy cross clergy orga­nize a wonderful celebration of  to the sheer size of our commencement, planning is  commencement-weekend/ schedule-of-events/  
Office Manager & General Info Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927  end. It is the chance to walk across stage, have one’s name  the eucharist for our students and families. moreover, [di­ happening nearly year-round.” hurley said The office of the  Contact Lesley Stevenson at  
Advertising  read and actually receive their  rector of bands] dr. [Kenneth]  registrar focuses on the logistics  lsteven1@nd.edu  
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com  

Editor-in-Chief 

Business Office 
(574)631-5313 Schedule of Events: Schedule of Events: 

News Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 9:00 a.m. 
ROTC Commissioning Ceremony 1:00 p.m.  Nursing Pinning Ceremony at 
(574)
631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 10:00 a.m. Graduate School Commencement Ceremony                Church of Our Lady of Loretto Scene Desk 10:00 a.m.  MCOB Graduate Program Ceremony 4:00 p.m.  Baccalaureate Liturgy in the 

(574)
631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 12:30 p.m.  Law School Ceremony                                    Angela Athletic Facility    Saint Mary’s Desk 1:00 p.m.  Service Send-O˜ Ceremony kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 5:00 p.m.  Commencement Mass at Purcell Pavilion 



6:30 p.m.         Graduation Dinner 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 

8:30 a.m. Graduation Brunch at Noble Dining Hall 
(574) 631-8839 
12:00 p.m.          Commencement Ceremony in                                     Court of LeMans Hall 

Policies
 7:30 a.m. Notre Dame Stadium opens for guest seating        4:00 p.m.  
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
Vigil Mass at Regina Chapel   8:15 a.m. Candidates Assemble for Academic Procession 
in print and online by the students of the University of notre dame du Lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post office Information The observer (UsPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices PosTmAsTer send address corrections to: The observer P.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
9:00 a.m. Commencement Ceremony at Stadium 
STEPH WULZ and LESLEY STEVENSON | The Observer STEPH WULZ and LESLEY STEVENSON | The Observer 


Saint Mary’s names valedictorian 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 

Editor’s Note: A version of this article appeared in the March 17 edition of The Observer. 
senior brianne michaels, a computational mathematics major and economics minor, has been named saint mary’s college valedictorian, making Joint mathematics meeting in baltimore. 
“These sales were record-breaking, and more important­ly, the number of members we were able to send to the confer­ence was also a new record,” michaels said. “It was very excit­ing, [and] I have loved serving my term as president of Pme.” 
chair of the mathematics de­partment colleen hoover said an internship last summer. michaels was honored with the Intern Award for her outstand­ing performance and leader­ship, and she will continue there as an Information Technology rotational Analyst after 
graduation. 
michaels said she is looking forward to her new career and plans to continue to challenge hours she puts into her school­work each day. 
“[brianne] is intrinsically mo­tivated and extremely confident in her abilities, so I know she will be successful in achieving her goals in the future,” Golden said. “she is the type of person who works very hard but always makes time for her friends.” 
michaels said she owes much of her success at saint mary’s to her supportive friends and 
family. 
“I have gained life-long friends 
at saint mary’s, which is just as 
valuable to me as the outstand­
ing education I have received,” 
michaels said. “The campus is 
filled with intelligent, indepen-her the student with the highest michaels’ dedication to raising 


cumulative grade point average money to send students to the 
in the class of 2014. conference was impressive. 
michaels, a native of “As a faculty advisor for Pi mu 

valparaiso, Ind., said she has epsilon, I can say that I have 

News Sports 

had a love of math for as long as never witnessed this kind of 
Lesley stevenson mary Green 
Jack rooney Greg hadley 

she can remember. unfailing dedication to student 
mike monaco 


Graphics 

“The power of mathematics travel, and we all owe brianne a 
Keri o’mara Scene 

is so intriguing, and a major in debt of gratitude,” hoover said. 
dent women, and I am honored 

Allie Tollaksen 

Photo 

mathematics leads to an endless Joanne snow, professor of herself both in her career and to call myself a saint mary’s stu-

Viewpoint 
Wei Lin 

number of career opportuni-mathematics, said she got to academically. dent and soon-to-be graduate.” 
michael Yu Gabriela Leskur 
ties,” michaels said. know michaels better through “I wish to learn as much as “I have made it a priority to michaels said she has found her work as president of Pme possible throughout my life,” perform to the best of my po­her niche in the mathematics and having michaels in class. michaels said. “I have always tential in school and to learn 

Corrections 

department at saint mary’s, “brianne is an excellent stu-viewed a college education as as much as I possibly can,” she The observer regards itself as which has become her “home dent. she is also very conscien-my ticket to a successful future said. “I strive for excellence in a professional publication and 
away from home.” tious and very thorough in her as an independent woman, and academics, because it is what strives for the highest standards 
As president of Indiana work,” snow said. “If she takes this is proving to be true.” makes me happy. being de­
of journalism at all times. We do, 
epsilon, the college’s chap-on a task, then you know it will Friend and classmate megan clared valedictorian is just a
however, recognize that we will make 
ter of the Pi mu epsilon (Pme) be done and done well.” Golden said she had always told bonus.” 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
mathematical honors society, snow said michaels has dis-michaels she would receive the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so michaels raised money to tinguished herself at Land valedictorian award because Contact Kelly Konya at 
we can correct our error. send nine members to the o’Lakes Inc., where she had of her work ethic and the long kkonya01@nd.edu 




Architecture student earns valedictorian honor 
get the commission.” 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

news editor santrach said his experiences encouraged him to develop a 
Fifth-year architecture stu-passion for using architecture dent mark santrach’s first sur-and urban design in ways that prise came when he received will benefit groups of people or an invitation to apply to give entire cities. the valedictory address at notre “I do hope to design build­dame’s 169th commencement. ings but also be involved with 
“I actually didn’t know that urbanism, whether that’s at a I was even eligible,” santrach micro level or macro level,” he said. said. “… Urbanism could mean 
months later, after he had anything from changing zoning just finished presenting his the-codes, or it could mean devel­sis project, a design proposal oping undeveloped lands, or it for notre dame’s future matt could be redeveloping existing and Joyce Walsh Family hall of urban forms.” Architecture, santrach received This summer, santrach will a phone call encouraging him move to London to work for to check his email. Porphyrios Associates, which 
“I was in shock,” he said. “I is “one of the most prominent had to keep it confidential, and I classical architecture firms in still had to go to one more class.” the world,” according to asso­
santrach, a member of the ciate professor of architecture Tau sigma delta Architecture Lucien steil. santrach said he honor society, earned a 3.993 previously studied the theo­cumulative grade point average retical writings of the firm’s and “achieved dean’s List hon-leader, demetri Porphyrios, ors each semester while at notre who in 2004 received notre dame,” according to a may 1 dame’s richard h. driehaus University press release. he said Prize for classical Architecture, he could be notre dame’s first according to the school of as you would imagine, both a through to their end. father” when he found that valedictorian to hail from the Architecture’s website. little daunting and very inspir-“he always goes above and santrach had been named vale-school of Architecture. steil said he first came to ing,” he said. “… he is humble beyond in completing any task dictorian. he said santrach, 
“I was told that it’s a once-know santrach during their to the core, and while he does he is given,” she said. “he has who took courses in the in-a-century kind of thing,” he first and second years at notre only the finest design work, he the ability to deeply immerse mendoza college of business said. “Actually I asked … [as-dame, respectively. steil said is always reticent to accept any himself in whatever project he to complete a concentration in sociate professor of film and he had moved to notre dame praise for his projects because is undertaking.” architectural practice and en-television] dr. [susan] ohmer from europe and he “connected he is sure he can do better. stephen santrach said terprise, welcomed him into his … I said, ‘has this ever hap-quickly with the whole class” of “The effect that mark’s drive his family was “thrilled and group of “arkies,” or architec­pened before?’ and she said, second-year architecture stu-has on his peers is immediately shocked at the same time” when ture students. ‘To our knowledge, there has dents through santrach. perceptible in a studio environ-they found out mark santrach “mark is the most unassum­never been an architecture “I was immediately impressed ment; the quality of every stu-would give the valedictory ad-ing person you’ll ever meet,” valedictorian.’” by his charisma, his intellectual dent’s work is elevated as mark’s dress, but he said he was more egan said. “he can talk with 
santrach said as a high school curiosity and his smile,” steil positive attitude and desire to pleased that his brother had anybody about anything, and student, he planned to study said. “I have never seen him exceed expectations rub off on found a true vocation. he’s present for the entirety of medicine until he shadowed gloomy, impatient or irritated.” the group. Though he is an out-“I’m most proud of my broth-the conversation.” an emergency-room doctor and steil praised santrach’s at-standing designer, mark is al-er for pursuing his passion and cook said santrach is a “nor­fainted during an operation. titude as a “very kind and al-ways courteous of others’ ideas being independently-minded,” mal, down-to-earth and fun 
“my mom actually ended up truistic student” of classical and celebrates good design no stephen santrach said. “The guy” whose capacity for “end-suggesting that I pursue archi-architecture. matter where it comes from.” valedictory is a great honor, but less gratitude” endears him to tecture and … she was abso-“mark is not waiting to be santrach’s brother stephen, I am most proud of his artistic friends, classmates and profes­lutely right,” he said. “… I used taught passively but engages a 2011 notre dame alumnus, ability, work ethic and emotion-sors alike. to play sims. my brother and I proactively and positively with said mark santrach’s work ethic al stability. mark is very com-“he never forgets an expres­used to have these competitions the University and with profes-and care for others sprung from fortable in his own skin and has sion of gratitude where one is of who could build the most sors, believing that learning is their family upbringing in st. a very generous heart.” needed,” cook said. “mark may elaborate house, and I think not a one-way consuming and Paul, minn. camille santrach said mark hold the record for most hand-that kind of became addicting, digesting but a creative dia-“When we were kids, our par-santrach lives with a passion written thank you notes — often so I started to pursue it.” logue, a dialectical process and ents made us do a lot of manual not only for architecture but decorated with pressed leaves, 
now, santrach has complet-a joint venture benefitting most labor — mulching, tree trim-also for life as a whole. she drawings, or watercolors. ed theoretical design projects to those who invest genuinely ming, weeding, cleaning, et ce-said his “distinct” and “abso-“his very vocal appreciation based on real problems that [and who] most generously tera,” stephen santrach said. “At lutely contagious laugh” dem-of the actions of others is a re­face areas as diverse as a cuban participate and most seriously the same time, they demanded onstrates that “while he is very minder for me, and I think ev­harbor and a Tibetan refugee commit not only to their own academic excellence and this serious about his work, he defi-eryone else in his life, that we camp. career but to the pedagogical fostered both mental and physi-nitely knows how to have fun.” do not live in isolation and that 
“[Architecture students] do ideals of their discipline,” he cal stamina that persists to this “mark does not simply go we have so much to be thankful hope that our ideas and pro-said. day … I think architecture for through the motions in life; for. mark is a rare combination posals can actually promote … Fifth-year architecture stu-him is truly a calling.” he embraces it,” she said. “he of talent, gratitude and humil­some tangible change,” he said. dent matt cook said santrach’s mark santrach’s sister camille is thoughtful, articulate, and ity, and I think it is this mix of “so for example, I know that intelligence and humility pro-santrach, a junior at the college passionate, and he has taught outstanding traits that makes what I designed for my thesis moted a better collaborative at-of the holy cross in Worcester, me a great deal about the art of him so well loved by all.” isn’t going to be built, but I hope mosphere in the class of 2014’s mass., said mark santrach “has living.” it provides a different perspec-studio space. always been an exceptionally senior business major sean Contact Lesley Stevenson at tive for whoever may actually “being in class with mark is, hard worker” who sees projects egan said he felt like “a proud lsteven1@nd.edu 

The Observer would like to thank the following seniors for the countless hours the they spent in the newsroom and on location to uncover the truth and report it accurately.
 Abi Hoverman Marisa Iati Nicole Michels Christian Myers Tori Roeck Meghan Thomassen 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


ND seniors react to change in commencement speaker 
think our class could use and observer.
By LESLEY STEVENSON and 

would love to hear and be in-“We are disappointed that
ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news editor and editor-in-chief spired by that sort of spirit Lord Patten will be unable before we go out into the real to join us and will keep him In a change that pleased world. While he might not in our prayers,” University many notre dame se-be the premier catholic man President Fr. John Jenkins niors, rev. ray hammond in england, rev. hammond said in the press release. “At will deliver the 169th is spreading the love of God the same time, we are de­commencement address in-through action to those who lighted and grateful that rev. stead of Lord christopher need it. That is the sort of ray hammond has accepted Patten, the chancellor of the message I want to hear.” our invitation to address the University of oxford and senior ben Finan said class of 2014. chair of the bbc Trust, the Patten spoke two years “his life’s story and work University announced in a ago in Geddes hall about are an inspiration, and I press release may 1. oxford and his time as the 
humanitarian to address saint mary’s graduates 
and Peabody Award winning
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news Writer documentary series, “Portrait 
of America,” mcelroy said. Editor’s Note: A version of this In 1989, through a grant article appeared in the March 17 from the John d. and catherine edition of The Observer. T. macArthur Foundation, 
mayotte began a three-year 
Judith mayotte, a humani-research journey that took tarian, professor, author and her to the refugee camps in emmy Award-winning televi-cambodia, Thailand, eritrea, sion producer, will deliver the sudan and Pakistan, mcelroy 167th commencement address 

hammond, a Philadelphia last british governor of hong 
native, founded bethel Kong. Finan said he regret-
African methodist episcopal ted Patten could not attend 
church in boston. he en-but looked forward to hear­
tered harvard college at age ing hammond speak. 
15, graduated with a bache-“Although I am sad to see 
lor’s degree at 19 and earned Lord Patten fall ill and be-
his medical degree at 23, ac-come unable to make it after 
cording to the press release. I heard him speak two years 
senior Lucy smith said she ago, ray hammond seems to at saint mary’s college on may 

17, according to a press release. 
mayotte and helen murray 
Free, a pionnering chemist, 
will receive honorary doctor of 
humanities degrees from the 
college at the ceremony. 
“I am delighted to recognize 
two exceptional women this 
year with honorary degrees 

thought hammond would be a better speaker than Patten would have been. 
“originally the speaker, christopher Patten, sounded cool but entirely not relat­able to a good portion of our student body,” smith said. “he was a wealthy, catholic, british man who had a spar­kly resume of success and power, but was also very old and past his prime. 
“When the news came out, no one really cared. however, when they announced the new speaker, ray hammond, there was a shift in campus-wide support.” 
smith said hammond’s experience using his “bril­liance” to graduate at a young age from harvard and serv­ing his community through hands-on work would allow be a fantastic replacement,” Finan said. “As an incredibly accomplished man—both a medical doctor and a preach­er, he is an inspiration to our rising generation. 

“I hope that rev. dr. hammond will discuss what drove him to such revolu­tionary ideals, as well as offering some level of ad­vice on what remains to be accomplished.” 
senior Antoinette Pusateri, a biology and theology dou­ble major, said hammond’s experience between medi­cine and faith-based min­istry particularly interested her. 
“As a doctor-to-be my­self, I am excited to hear dr. hammond speak of how his medical career, but more­over, his christian faith, in­
“[Hammond] recognizes the importance of the dignity of each human person, and I think our class could use and would love to hear and be inspired by that sort of spirit before we go out into 
the real world.” 
Lucy Smith senior 
him to speak about issues relevant and significant to the graduating class. 
“he has done work with the people of boston to end gang violence,” she said. “That’s pretty darn cool, and appli­cable to many people in our class. 
“While Lord Patten is accomplished, reverend hammond is doing the work of God in the streets. he ac­tively goes into the streets and tries to help people in need, people who are avoid­ed by most. 
“he recognizes the im­portance of the dignity of each human person, and I forms the way he lives his life,” she said. “but surely his advice will transcend all majors, and remind us of our mission as notre dame alumni to heal, unify, and enlighten the world around us according to our abilities.” 

The University announced in march that hammond will receive an honorary de­gree in humane letters at this year’s commencement ceremony. Patten canceled his speech at notre dame, as well as several other en­gagements, for health rea­sons, vice president for public affairs and communi­cations Paul browne told The know he will provide our graduates with a powerful address.” 
browne said Jenkins’ per­sonal interactions with hammond played a role in the decision. 
“Fr. John had met [hammond] personally and was impressed with his spiri­tual demeanor as well as his life’s accomplishments and thought he would deliver a powerful message to the stu­dents,” browne said. 
hammond worked as a doctor before turning to ministry in 1976 and earned a master of Arts degree in the study of religion (christian and medical ethics) at harvard Graduate school of Arts and sciences in 1982, the release said. 
hammond served as the former chair of the boston Foundation and founder and chairman of the Ten Point coalition, which the release described as “an ecumenical group of christian clergy and lay leaders behind boston’s successful efforts to quell gang violence in the 1990s.” 
he also has served as ex­ecutive director of bethel’s Generation excel program, executive committee mem­ber of the black ministerial Alliance, chair of the boston opportunity Agenda and a member of the strategy Team for the Greater boston Interfaith organization, the release said. beyond that, he is a trustee of the Yawkey Foundation, the Isabella stewart Gardner museum, the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation and the math and Technology charter high school. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson lsteven1@nd.edu and Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
from saint mary’s college,” saint mary’s college President carol Ann mooney said. “Their backgrounds and achievements fit perfectly with our dreams for our graduates.” 
“Judith mayotte is an in­
“Judith Ann Mayotte has demonstrated a life of unstinting excellence in service to the marginalized of the world.” 
Jerome McElroy 
professor of economics 
ternationally recognized hu­manitarian who has spent her life working to affect positive change for refugees and others. helen murray Free’s discover­ies in the field of chemistry im­proved health monitoring for people with diabetes and other conditions. I look forward to meeting them both and learn­ing more about their extraordi­nary lives.” 
Jerome mcelroy, saint mary’s economics professor and close friend of mayotte, praised mayotte for exemplifying a life of dedicated service. 
“From her midwest roots in Wichita, Kan., through her re­markable career from convent, to Tv journalism, academia and cape Town, south Africa, Judith Ann mayotte has demonstrated a life of unstinting excellence in service to the marginalized of the world,” mcelroy said. 
In the 1960s, mayotte taught in the inner cities of Los Angeles, Kansas city and milwaukee as a sister of charity of the blessed virgin mary, mcelroy said. 
In the next two decades, mayotte worked as a televi­sion producer in chicago and won an emmy award for writing and producing the “Washington” segment of Turner broadcasting’s emmy said. This work documented the lives and constrained socio­economic conditions of count­less people displaced by ethnic conflict and war and culmi­nated in the book “displaced People? The Plight of refugees,” now considered the classic in its field. 
Through the years, mayotte has lectured and written ex­tensively on refugee and de­velopment issues. she served as special Advisor on refu­gee issues and policy at the department of state in the first clinton Administration and as senior Fellow of the refugee Policy Group in Washington, mcelroy said. 
Prior to working under the first clinton Administration in 1994, mayotte was chairwoman of the Women’s commission for refugee Women and children, and served on the board of refugees International, mcelroy said. 
“both are well-known advo­cacy organizations that took mayotte to the field to assess refugee crisis and repatriation issues,” mcelroy said. 
she has also held a number of academic posts including Women’s chair in humanistic studies at marquette University, adjunct professor at John hopkins nitze school of Advanced International studies and co-director of seattle University’s International development Internship Program, mcelroy said. 
In 2010, she was named the first desmond Tutu distinguished chair in Global Understanding for the University of virginia’s semester at sea, mcelroy said. 
“[she] is, indeed, a woman of the world whose faith, purpose and determination have made a great difference in the world,” mcelroy said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Notre Dame honors biologist with Laetare Medal 
By JACK ROONEY 
Associate news editor 
dr. Kenneth miller, a professor of biology at brown University, will join the prestigious lin­eage of Laetare medal win­ners at notre dame’s 169th commencement ceremony sunday. 

miller, who works as a cell biologist with a research fo­cus on “the structure and function of biological mem­branes and membrane pro­teins,” said he was humbled to receive the award, which has honored American catholics since 1883. he joins the company of past winners that include actor martin sheen, supreme court Justice William J. brennan, found­er of the catholic Worker movement dorothy day and President John F. Kennedy. 
“When you look at the list of people who have re­ceived this award … there are very few scientists on that list,” miller said. “most of the people on that list are national political figures, individuals who have been involved in social action … 
“To have someone step forward in his position in the scientific community and come out with this message and say that he is a devout Catholic is remarkable, and it seems fit that he is being honored with this prestigious award.” 
Andrew Varone 
Brown Medical School student 
and when I initially got a phone call from one of the deans at notre dame, I … just couldn’t believe it. I still pinch myself.” 
miller said in thinking about what he will say in his acceptance speech at the commencement ceremony, he continuously returned to the idea of humility. 
“The one line I keep coming to again and again is a line from the old Latin mass: ‘domine non sum dignus,’ … ‘Lord I am not worthy,’” he said. 
Though miller’s primary research concentration has led him to explore the struc­ture of chloroplasts in plant cells and the connections between plant cells, he said he has also worked in evolu­tionary biology, specifically in defense of evolution from a religious perspective. he said this aspect of his career began in 1981, when he was challenged to debate against a “scientific creationist” in his first year as a professor at brown. 
“As I did research on [cre­ationist] points of view, there are two things that moti­vated me,” he said. “The first one was the number of dis­tortions and outright false­hoods that these critics were saying about biology and about science in general, and as a scientist that really bothered me. 
“And then the second thing that really bothered me was their contention that sci­ence itself … [was] inher­ently anti-religious and that evolution was anti-christian and that any person who wanted to remain true to the christian faith had to re­ject evolution. I was raised a catholic and I am a prac­ticing catholic, and I think catholics are christians, and I was very insulted by that, and that motivated me quite strongly.” 
miller said his positions on evolution are evident in the textbook he and former student Joseph Levine wrote together, entitled “biology.” originally published in 1990, the book and its subsequent editions have become “the most widely-used biology textbook in high schools all across the United states,” miller said. 
“our book has a very strong treatment of evolution,” he said. “I would argue that it’s the best one available at the high school level, and that has made our book the target of critics of evolution.” 
miller’s defense of evolu­tion also drew him to testify in several federal court cas­es regarding the teaching of evolution and creationism in public schools, including the highly-publicized Kitzmiller 
v. dover case that banned the teaching of intelligent design in public schools. 
miller said his attitude through the trials and his career has been that reli­gion and science are not irreconcilable. 
“Throughout this, what I have maintained is that evo­lution is not inherently anti-religious, that one can indeed be a person of faith and de­fend evolution, and I’ve tried to do this from a very general point of view, but of course I have also done it specifically varone said. “… To have someone step forward in his position in the scientific community and come out with this message and say that he is a devout catholic is remarkable, and it seems fit that he is being honored with this prestigious award.” 
miller said he ultimately hopes his work has led to a greater appreciation of sci­ence and a realization that science and faith can com­plement one other. 
“What I hope I’ve done throughout my life, because I’ve been a researcher and a teacher and a writer, is to spread an appreciation and an affection and an em­brace of science and for sci­ence among my students and among those that I worked with, and certainly among the people who’ve read my books,” he said. 
“To the extent possible, I think I’ve also worked to try to fit the scientific view of life into my faith in a way that makes it very clear that science and faith are not op­posites … that religious faith can inform and can validate the practice of science,” he said. “If I’ve done that well, then I’m very grateful for all the people who have helped me to do it.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
from a catholic point of view, as well,” he said. 
miller said he typically teaches two classes per year at brown, an upper-level cell biology course in the fall and an introductory biology course of 300 to 400 students in the spring. After 34 years at brown, miller estimated his religious beliefs into the classroom, but was always open to discuss his views outside of class. 
“In the lecture hall, it is not his job to be commenting on religion or his own personal beliefs but rather teaching scientific facts supported by data,” varone said. “outside 

“To the extent possible, I think I’ve also worked to try to fit the scientific view of life into my faith in a way that makes it very clear that science and faith are not opposites … that religious faith can inform and can validate the practice of science. If I’ve done that well, then I’m very grateful for all the people who have 
helped me to do it.” 
Dr. Kenneth Miller Laetare Medal recipient 
he has taught over 15,000 students, some of whom have continued to esteemed ca­reers in science. In 2006, one of miller’s former students, dr. craig mello, shared the nobel Prize in Physiology or medicine for the discovery of rnA interference. 
Andrew varone, a 2012 brown graduate and current first-year medical student at brown medical school, took miller’s introductory class and worked as a teach­ing assistant for miller. he said miller did not bring of class, he was very ap­proachable and always will­ing to discuss and explain his own beliefs and exchange ideas.” 
varone said miller’s books on evolution, including “Finding darwin’s God” and “only a Theory,” carry a mes­sage of the compatibility of religion and science. 
“In his books, the main message he is trying to con­vey is that evolution and the existence of a higher power are not mutually exclusive at this point in our existence,” 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





smc, nd confer commencement awards 
College recognizes humanitarian, chemist, alumna 
exceptional women this year with 
Observer Staff Report 

honorary degrees from saint mary’s Editor’s Note: A version of this report college,” mooney said in the release. appeared in the March 6 edition of The “Their backgrounds and achievements Observer. fit perfectly with our dreams for our 
graduates.” 

commencement day at saint mary’s Free and her late husband, biochem­celebrates more than just the graduat-ist Alfred Free, worked in medical diag­ing class of 2014 — this year, the college nostics. Together, they researched and will honor several alumnae and other developed the first dip-and-read diag­women who have made a difference nostic test strips that quantify glucose around the world. levels in urine, the press release stated. 
Judith mayotte will deliver the Free has obtained seven patents and commencement address, according to has received awards ranging from the a college press release. The humani-1980 American chemical society’s tarian, professor, author and emmy Garvan medal to the 2010 national Award-winning producer will receive medal of Technology and Innovation an honorary doctor of humanities de-and the American chemical society’s gree at the ceremony. 66th national historic chemical 
“Judith mayotte is an internation-Landmark designation in 2010, accord-ally recognized humanitarian who has ing to the press release. spent her life working to affect posi-sara belanger, a 1971 alumna, tive change for refugees and others,” will receive the President’s medal at college President carol Ann mooney commencement, which “is presented said in a statement. rarely and exclusively to those who 
mayotte has served on several hu-have offered exceptional contributions man rights-activist boards, including to the life of the college and the com-refugees International, the Women’s munity,” the release stated. belanger refugee commission as chair, the served on the saint mary’s board of desmond Tutu Peace Foundation, Trustees and the Alumnae Association the International rescue committee, board of directors. visionaries and the Global ethics and “sarah has demonstrated her de­religion Forum, the press release votion to and love for saint mary’s stated. college throughout the many years 
The clinton administration ap-she has served the college as a val-pointed mayotte in 1994 to the U.s. ued member of the board of Trustees department of state’s bureau of and the Alumnae Association board of Population, refugees and migration directors,” mooney said. as a special adviser on refugee is-earley is one of three chairs directing sues and policy. she has earned rec-the college’s $80 million “Faith Always, ognition from the nuclear Age Peace Action now” capital campaign. she Foundation, which honored her with and her husband, notre dame alumnus the Foundation’s World citizenship Tony earley, agreed to match $1 million Award in 2009, according to the press in the fundraising to renovate and ex-release. pand Angela Athletic Facility. 
chemist helen murray Free will “The gift has been a catalyst for ad-also receive an honorary doctorate at ditional gifts toward what will be commencement. Free conducted re-called the Angela Athletic & Wellness search on diagnostic testing that re-complex, a facility that will be a cen­sulted in improvements for products in tral gathering spot that provides space laboratory and home settings, accord-for fitness and wellness, classes, varsity ing to the press release. teams, intramurals and the Women’s 
“I am delighted to recognize two health center,” the press release stated. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
University names six honorary degree recipients 
A professor of applied physics and 

By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor electrical engineering at harvard 
University, hu researches nanoscale 

notre dame will honor six leaders electronic and photonic devices, ac-in the fields of business, the church, cording to the press release. she has community outreach, education, en-developed products from her re­gineering and the arts as recipients of search by co-directing the california honorary degrees from the University nanosystems Institute and co-found­at its 169th commencement ceremo-ing cambrios and siluria, two startup ny may 18, according to a University companies that develop novel materi­press release. als for electronic devices. 
retired oil executive W. douglas mason, the 20th president of the Ford and harvard University profes-University of Iowa, researches devel­sor evelyn hu will receive honor-opmental biology, genetics and bio­ary doctor of engineering degrees, chemistry of pigment cells. she has and biologist and higher education supported sustainability initiatives leader sally mason and cardinal and fought to increase enrollment sean Patrick o’malley, archbishop of and retention at Iowa, the release boston, will receive doctor of laws de-stated. grees, the release stated. dedicating his pastoral outreach 
notre dame will also honor choreog-to Latino and haitian immigrants, rapher Judith Jamison with an honor-o’malley, the archbishop of boston, ary doctorate of fine arts and surgeon founded the centro catolico hispano and activist ray hammond with a de-in Washington d.c. he currently gree in humane letters, according to serves on a council of eight cardinals the press release. hammond will also appointed by Pope Francis to assist deliver the commencement address. with church governance and this 
“notre dame seeks to honor people year joins the inaugural Pontifical who have made significant contribu-commission for the Protection of tions to society,” University spokes-minors, according to the press release. man dennis brown told The observer. Artistic director emerita of the “They are not selected on the basis of Alvin Ailey American dance Theater, celebrity. some are more well-known Jamison led the company for 21 years, than others, but all of them are ex-starred in a broadway musical and traordinarily accomplished in their founded her own dance company. she fields. succeeded Ailey as the director of his 
“We also try to honor individuals company and established the group’s who come from a variety of fields — permanent home and international law, the arts, entertainment, litera-tour circuit, the press release stated. ture, education, the church, politics, hammond, “a harvard-trained sur­business, the sciences, engineering, geon and urban community leader,” the media and other areas.” founded bethel African methodist 
Ford, a retired executive in the oil episcopal church in boston, where industry and member of the notre he serves as pastor, the press release dame class of 1966, worked as chief stated. hammond has held leader-executive of refining and market-ship positions with outreach groups ing for british Petroleum (bP) and in boston and written papers and provided the funds to establish the articles focusing on social concerns, Ford Family Program in human including academic achievement and development studies and solidarity violence prevention. at notre dame, according to the press release. he currently serves on notre Contact Lesley Stevenson at dame’s board of Trustees. lsteven1@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 



University prioritizes sexual assault prevention 


continued reports of sexual as-attempted rape. After the third notre dame’s student govern-colleges and strategies to increase sault on the notre dame campus email of the semester, student gov-ment implemented a door-to-door public awareness. prompted policy changes and dis-ernment initiated prayer services awareness campaign called “one The Indiana coalition Against cussion among the University ad-at the Grotto following every cam-Is Too many” in January 2014. sexual Assault (IncAsA) awarded ministration, student government pus-wide email. The campus Life volunteers asked students in their the saint mary’s belles Against and the student body as a whole, council (cLc) formalized these residence halls to commit to sex-violence office (bAvo) and the reflecting increased national atten-prayer services with a unanimous ual assault prevention by signing office of student Involvement and tion to sexual assault prevention. resolution march 24, 2014. and hanging pledges outside their multicultural services (sIms) a 
notre dame student body vice president of campus safety rooms. $10,000 grant. As one of the first president emeritus Alex coccia mike seamon said the amount of The initiative began just before recipients of the grant, bAvo and said a “sense of urgency” seized sexual assaults reported in early President barack obama’s an-sIms intend to use the money to both campuses at the beginning 2013 conformed to national trends. nouncement Jan. 22 of a newly-continue to educate saint mary’s of the 2013 school year following “one is too many, no matter launched White house Task Force students on sexual violence pre­two campus-wide emails in one what. one reported sexual assault to develop sexual assault preven-vention, director of media relations weekend reporting a rape and an is too many,” seamon said. tion and response suggestions for Gwen o’brien, said. 
Nine ND, SMC students lost in four years 
Two students died in unre-team. Zhang died oct. 18, 2012 from avid climber. biomolecular engineering and lated cases in 2010. elizabeth sophomore sean valero died injuries sustained in a car-bicy-connor sorensen, a notre served as co-president of the “Lizzy” seeburg, committed in April 2011. Friends described cle accident outside the college dame student who graduated Indian Association of notre suicide sept. 10. Friends said valero as easygoing and a dedi-entrance at state route 933. she early from the University, suc-dame during the 2012-13 aca­seeburg, a first year student cated student. was a dual-degree student ma-cumbed to lung disease dec. demic year. at saint mary’s, always had a Fifth-year student and former joring in mathematics at saint 20, 2013. Friends said sorensen, Former saint mary’s first year smile on her face. Zahm house resident Xavier mary’s and taking engineering a biochemistry major, demon-madelyn stephenson died Jan. 
Junior declan sullivan died murphy died after a short ba-classes at notre dame. strated selflessness despite the 3, 2014 from injuries sustained oct. 27 after the scissor lift from tle with leukemia in oct. 2011. First-year master’s degree difficulty he faced in his illness. in an automobile accident. her which he was filming football Zahm residents honored him student michael Thigpen Akash sharma, a graduate teachers from the college re-practice fell. sullivan, a Fisher with their “raise an X for X” passed away at his off-campus student from India, died Jan. member her as a quiet, friendly hall resident, was a student campaign. residence nov. 13, 2012. he was 1, 2014. he was a third-year student with a passion for the videographer for the football saint mary’s sophomore Ziqi a professional musician and an Ph.d. student in chemical and sciences. 
IoshA investigates,  notre dame initiates  University recognizes  
fines notre dame  suit over hhs mandate  LGbTQ student group  
March 15, 2011  August 24, 2012  December 6, 2012  

the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
Volume 44 : Issue 105 Tuesday, March 22, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com 
IOSHA finds six Notre Dame violations 

The Indiana oc­cupational health and safety Administration (IoshA) found notre dame guilty of six vio­lations after an investi­gation into the october 2010 death of declan sullivan. The citations resulted in fines totaling $77,500. 
notre dame entered discussions with IoshA to review the investiga­tion’s results. 

on may 21, 2012, notre dame filed a law­suit to challenge the constitutionality of the department of health and human servivces (hhs) mandate that requires employers to provide contraceptive services in their mini­mum health insurance plans. 
since then, notre dame’s two appeals for relief have been denied. 

In a dec. 2012 press release, notre dame an­nounced the results of a “comprehensive re­view” of support servic­es for LGbTQ students. University president Fr. John Jenkins accepted the suggestion by the office of student Affairs to form a University-recognized student organization. 
In August 2013, the group voted to name it­self “Prismnd” 

Student remembers quake experience 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
A 9.0 magnitude earth­quake hit with an epicenter 81 miles off the coast of Japan, sending tsunami waves up to 33 feet high to the island country, on Friday, March 11. The Japanese National Police Agency officially confirmed 8,805 deaths, 2,628 injured and 12,664 people missing as of Monday. Three nuclear power plants have suffered explosions in the aftermath. 

abroad at Nanzan University 
in Nagoya, she was located 
far from the epicenter when 
the disaster struck.
University President Fr. 
John Jenkins released a “I was in the computer labstatement following the dis­aster, expressing condo-waiting for my friends’ class 
to get out. I thought I waslences for those affected by having vertigo but then Ithe earthquake and realized everyone else in theannouncing a Mass for the room was freaking out too,” she said. “The earthquake people of Japan. 
“My prayers are with those was felt down here, it was about a five on the Richter
from our University who have been directly affected, 
AP
scale here, but it didn’t cause any damage. It went 
as well as with the Japanese Top: Smoke rises from a tsunami-stricken power plant in people as a whole,” he said. Japan Monday. 
Luckily for junior Massiel Bottom: A woman crosses over a tsunami-hit railway track Gutierrez, currently studying see JAPAN/page 6 in Japan Monday. 
Former employee charged with attempted voyeurism 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER RAs selected page 3 ˜ Pop music’s campaign for individuality page 12 ˜ Women’s basketball advances page 24 ˜ Viewpoint page 10 
WR Floyd suspended after arrest 
Observer Staff Report 
Irish coach Brian Kelly sus­pended junior receiver Michael Floyd Monday in the wake of the team captain’s arrest for operating while intoxicated 
early Sunday morning. Floyd was stopped early Sunday morning for allegedly operating a motor vehi­

cle with an Floyd alcohol 
concentration of 0.15 or more, according to a St. Joseph County Police report. 
“In light of what happened this past weekend, I let [Floyd] know that he has been suspended indefinitely from football team-related activities,” Kelly said. “Football needs to take a backseat at the moment while Michael gets his life in order, and while I don’t know when Michael will be rein­stated, it will not happen until Michael demonstrates he has successfully modified his behavior and the legal and university disciplinary matters have run their respective courses.” 
Floyd was pulled over by Notre Dame Security Police at the intersection of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue for running a stop sign. Floyd failed three sobri­
see FLOYD/page 5 

students abroad witness papal election 
March 19, 2013 

After Pope emeritus benedict XvI resigned Feb. 28, 2013, Pope Francis was elected as the 266th pontiff  march 
13. notre dame stu­dents abroad in europe witnessed the historic turnover from st. Peter’s square. 
Pope Francis is no­table as the first Latin American pope and the first Jesuit to hold the office. 
University unveils campus crossroads 
January 29, 2014 


The University re­vealed plans Jan. 29, 2014 for its largest construction project yet: a $400 million expansion of notre dame stadium. The 33-month project will add three eight-story buildings totaling 750,000 square feet on the east, west and south sides of the stadium, University President Fr. John Jenkins said. 
mendoza ranks no. 1 for fifth consecutive year April 9, 2014 For the fifth year in a row, the mendoza college of business ranked  no. 1 among un­dergraduate business schools by bloomberg buisnessweek. mendoza dean roger huang said the con­tinued success speaks to the mendoza’s com­mitment to equipping graduates to “view business as a force for good in society.” 







NotrE DAME FILED a lawsuit May 21, 2012, challenging the constitutionality of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) mandate that requires employers to provide contraceptive services in their minimum health insurance packages. 
the lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana.  U.S. District Court Judge robert Miller Jr. ruled Dec. 31, 2012, that the lawsuit should be dismissed because, at the time, the University’s claim was not yet “ripe,” meaning that it was not ready to be litigated. 
In the summer of 2013, the federal government announced revisions to the mandate that enable religious nonprofit organizations to shift the cost for contraceptives to the government or to a third-party health care administrator by submitting an opt-out form. 
Notre Dame re-filed its lawsuit on Dec. 3, 2013, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, arguing that the HHS mandate violates the First Amendment, the religious Freedom restoration Act and other laws. 
on the same day the lawsuit was filed, University President Fr. John Jenkins told the observer that the issue at stake was “the fundamental right of religious organizations to be exempt from government interference in their religious practice.” 
“really, for me, it’s not about the contraceptive services or any particular thing,” he said. ”It’s about that larger issue of the fundamental right of any religious organization, whatever the religion, to live out its mission without government interference.” 
on Dec. 23, 2013, this second request for relief was denied. the University filed a request for emergency appeal, but that was denied Dec. 30, 2013, by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit. 

IN CoMPLIANCE with the mandate, Notre Dame began providing contraceptive coverage through Meritain Health, its third-party health care administrator, as of Jan. 1. Hours before the mandate was set to take effect, Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor temporarily blocked enforcement of the mandate against an order of nuns, the Little Sisters of the Poor, and certain other Catholic nonprofit groups. 
Because of this, the University filed a motion for appeal in January, stating that “there is no legitimate basis upon which an injunction could be granted to the Little Sisters of the Poor but denied to Notre Dame.” on Jan. 14, three female students who want Notre Dame health care plans to cover birth control intervened in the lawsuit. 
Americans United for Separation of Church and State is representing the students, and their director of communications rob Boston said they believe that “if Notre Dame is allowed to deny contraceptives, it could negatively affect students, faculty and staff at the institution.” 
on Feb. 21, the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit upheld the ruling that the University must comply with the mandate in a split 2-1 decision. on April 4, lawyers representing Notre Dame filed a petition in the same court seeking a rehearing in front of the whole court instead of a panel of three judges. 
the petition, submitted by attorney Matthew Kairis, argues that the Feb. 21 opinion contradicts Supreme Court precedent and legal standards. Paul Browne, Notre Dame’s vice president for public affairs and communications, told the observer on April 7 that “at its core, this is a religious liberty issue.” 
on May 7, the panel judges in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit voted against a new hearing. None of the other active judges on the court requested a vote. 
WHEN tHE CLoCK StrUCK MIDNIgHt on oct. 1, 2013, and Congress had not yet passed a budget for the new fiscal year, the U.S. federal government shut down for the first time since 1995. For more than two full weeks, 800,000 federal employees were placed on furlough while legislators worked towards a new spending bill. Essential government agencies and services, including the military, Postal Service and Federal reserve, remained open throughout the shutdown. the government officially reopened oct. 16, 2013, after Congress came to a compromise on a new federal budget. 


tHE UNIVErSIty rEVEALED plans Jan. 14 for its largest construction project yet: a $400 million expansion of Notre Dame Stadium, titled the Campus Crossroads Project. 
the Notre Dame Board of trustees endorsed the University moving forward with the project, Notre Dame spokesperson Dennis Brown said. the 33-month project will add three eight-story buildings, totaling 750,000 square feet on the east, west and south sides of the Stadium, University President Fr. John Jenkins said. the construction will also add more than 3,000 open-air club seats to the existing structure, he said. 
Pending approval from the Facility Committee of the Board and sufficient funds, the project may commence as early as after the 2014 football season, Jenkins said. 
“It’s the most ambitious building project in the history of the University,” Jenkins told the observer. 
the west side of the Stadium will feature a new student center, and the south will hold music department offices, library and practice spaces. the east side will include a digital media studio and the anthropology and psychology departments, Jenkins said. He said the administration logged 3,000 hours consulting faculty on their departments’ needs. 

WItH ItS FootWEAr and apparel contract with adidas set to expire after the 2013-14 academic year, Notre Dame announced its decision to switch to Under Armour on Jan. 19. 
Under Armour CEo Kevin Plank and Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick officially announced Under Armour as the future outfitter of Irish athletics at a press conference.
 “We couldn’t be more excited about this opportunity, and by any measure, it’s the largest deal of its kind in the history of collegiate athletics,” Swarbrick said. 
the 10-year deal was the largest in collegiate athletics in terms of both cash and merchandise, Swarbrick said. 
the deal will become effective July 1, Swarbrick said, with Under Armour replacing adidas as Notre Dame’s apparel supplier for all 26 varsity sports. 
Notre Dame’s agreement with adidas expired at the end of the 2013-2014 school year. the Irish had been with adidas since 1997-98 and signed a 10-year agreement with the german company in 2005. Swarbrick said adidas was a great partner to the Irish. 






SAINt MAry’S CoLLEgE PLANS to institute a new graduate degree program offering a Professional Science Master’s (PSM) beginning in the fall of 2015 or 2016 after receiving a $1 million grant from Lilly Endowment Inc. 
Saint Mary’s was one of 39 institutions that received a total of $62.7 million dollars to enhance career opportunities for college graduates. 
“For more than a decade … the Endowment has awarded grants to Indiana colleges and universities to pursue activities that improve the job prospects of college graduates in the state,” Lilly Endowment’s Dec. 5 press release said. 
Steven Broad, assistant professor of Mathematics and Computer Science, said local Indiana partnerships are a major component of Lilly Endowment’s goals for the grant. 
“this is certainly a focus for our development of the program,” Broad said. “We are 
working to identify a range of Indiana business, non-profit and education partners.” 

AS tHE PoLAr VortEx SWEPt through South Bend and temperatures plunged well below zero, Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s closed due to inclement weather Monday, Jan. 27 and reopened the next evening. 
St. Joseph County authorities declared a weather emergency, which prompted the University’s closure. the weather emergency declaration included a driving ban after 7 p.m., which meant those on the road without an emergency reason would be ticketed and fined. 
Both the University and the College returned to a regular class schedule the next day. 

For tWo WEEKS in February, the resort town of Sochi, russia, played host to the 22nd olympic Winter games. Nearly 3,000 athletes from 88 countries came together to compete in 98 different winter sports events amidst international protests against russia’s treatment of the LgBtQ community. the final medal count saw the host country leading the way with 33 medals, 13 of them gold, followed by the United States and Norway with 28 and 26 medals, respectively. More than 3.5 billion people tuned in to watch the games on television while more than 1 million fans from 126 countries traveled to russia for the competitions. 


tHE NINtH ANNUAL Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference (DSLC), “rethinking Leadership and Diversity,” took place on the Saint Mary’s campus Mar. 25 and 26. the 16 workshops spread out over two days made it the largest event of the year hosted by the Student Diversity Board (SDB) and the largest student-led conference at Saint Mary’s. 
“After months of planning, our hard work is finally on display, and our hope is that [students] find everything to be insightful, challenging but most of all enjoyable,” senior Lucy Macfarlane, DSLC chair and SDB vice president, said at the beginning of the conference. “We hope [students] are inspired to make change where [they] see change is necessary — even if that’s within [themselves].” 
the two keynote speakers, activists Faisal Alam and Kevin Powell, were chosen to help students realize their own potential as leaders and rethink their previous understanding of what diversity means, Macfarlane said. 
“I think the keynotes actually had a lot in common,” she said. “[the speakers’] breadth and variety of life experiences demonstrated to them the necessity of self-actualization. When you know yourself and accept all facets of your identity, you are more capable of accepting and including others in positive change. 
“Leadership is not categorized into one thing — like a man in a dark suit — but rather the creation of a safe space that allows others to voice their opinions and experiences.” 

CoNSErVAtIVE PoLItICAL PUNDIt Ann Coulter addressed a standing-room-only crowd at the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library on April 10 as part of Notre Dame College republicans’ Lincoln Day event in a speech centered on health care reform, gun control and immigration. 
Coulter’s past comments on issues relating to abortion, illegal immigration, terrorism and Notre Dame’s decision to invite President Barack obama to speak at the 2009 Commencement ceremony and give him an honorary degree sparked debate among several student groups. 
Junior Mark gianfalla, president of College republicans, said he chose Coulter to speak at the group’s largest event of the year because her views on political and social issues closely align with the points College republicans has advocated this year. (Editor’s Note: gianfalla is a former columnist for the observer). 
“We’re a chapter at a Catholic university, and we think issues of abortion and gay marriage are just as important as a balanced budget, so we’ve really been focusing on drawing attention to those aspects of conservatism that also don’t get as much attention on campus or from campus groups that are here,” gianfalla said. “… I think she brought the most attention to what our club is focusing on.” 
Junior tyler Bowen, vice president of Notre Dame College Democrats, said Coulter is “someone who makes a career of … inciting controversy through inflammatory opinions.” 
“It’s not that you don’t have the right to bring her here, but in bringing her here, we believe you’re bringing in someone that definitely does not represent what we view as Catholic values, particularly pertaining to social justice and poverty issues,” Bowen said. 


A SAINt MAry’S EMPLoyEE was arrested for voyeurism April 15 after he admitted to allegations of observing students in a restroom in Le Mans Hall, according to director of media relations gwen o’Brien. 
Seventy-three-year-old David Summerfield was terminated from his position after a co­worker reported suspicious behavior in a bathroom on the fourth floor of Le Mans Hall the previous afternoon, according to an email from College President Carol Ann Mooney. 
“Home feels a little less like home today,” junior tess Siver said tuesday after the report of voyeuristic privacy violation on the Saint Mary’s campus. 
According to an email to Saint Mary’s students April 17, the prosecutor’s office formally charged Summerfield with voyeurism and theft for stealing students’ clothing from a laundry room. 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
There’s no doubt the third and final installment of “Toy Story” was 
meant for the high school class of 2010 just as much as it was for children. Woody and friends get packed away as Andy gets ready to move on to college, making the 
6

film a perfect sendoff for graduating seniors getting ready to take on the world. 
It’s almost hard to think of a time before the photo-sharing app, but Instagram did indeed have a beginning. Launched in late 2010, the app took off in the following year, merged with Facebook in 2012 and changed the days of the week as we know them to “throwback Thursdays” and “selfie Saturdays.” 
2 
Though Adele wasn’t a new figure in music in 2012, the British singer became a household name after taking home six Grammy awards and breaking a slew of records in record sales for her album “21.” She’s also the artist responsible for the crying anthem of the decade, “Someone Like You.” 
5 
3 
4 

Korean po Psy’s infect “Gangnam St global sensatio of its outrageou accompanying danc not only topped c viral music vide first on YouTu billion 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
IT’S HARD TO THINK that just four years ago, the class of 2014 was starting to prepare for their first year as undergraduates. As they entered their freshmen year in August 2010, the world was talking about WikiLeaks, the World Cup and Lady Gaga’s meat-dress. The leading literary lady on screen was Bella Swan instead of Katniss Everdeen. Justin Bieber was just an innocent young teenager with funny hair. “Jersey Shore” was relevant. 
11 
In 2013, pop culture writers 
began mentioning the new “Golden Age of Television,” referring to the emergence of the surge of excellent television shows, especially dramas. There’s no doubt that AMC’s “Breaking Bad,” created and produced by Vince Gilligan, played one of the largest roles in this television renaissance. After five seasons of critical and popular success, the world said goodbye to Walter White and Jessie Pinkman in a finale that pulled a reported 10.3 million viewers, leaving no doubt that “Breaking Bad,” will be remembered as one of the best television dramas of all time. 
12 
With the release of “Tangled” and “Brave” in recent years, “Frozen” continued Disney’s streak of princess movies with powerful female protagonists. The animated film followed 
sister princesses Elsa and Anna, voiced by Idina Menzel and Kristen Bell, respectively, in a tale of sisterly love. The film broke the record for highest 
grossing animated film and won two Academy Awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song, and its soundtrack became inescapable by early 2014. 
10 

op singer ious single yle” became a on with the help s music video and ce moves. The song d charts, but the eo became the be to reach a  views. 
As freshmen, the class of 2014 couldn’t Instagram the Dome, Snapchat their friends or find an SYR date on Tinder. Now, they can take a “selfie” and share it to 15 apps in about three seconds flat. Like the students who first arrived on campus in August 2010, pop culture has changed significantly in the last four years, but it’s okay to turn on some Adele, shed a few tears and take a look back. 
8 
13 

The release of rapper Kanye West’s “Yeezus” was more than just the debut of a new album, but also a reminder that Kanye was still one of the most important figures in hip-hop. The LP not only was a critical success, but also gifted to the world the brilliant “Yeezus” tour, the controversial “Bound 2” music video and the Jimmy Kimmel vs. Kanye showdown.  
9 

14 
The 2014 Winter Olympics, or the XXII Olympic Winter Games, were hosted in 
Sochi, Russia, and the world didn’t quite know what to expect from the event’s host city — Russia included. The Winter Games saw plenty of controversy and complaints, including cost overruns, unready facilities (deemed #SochiProblems by journalists on Twitter) and protests for LGBTQ rights in Russia. 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 




I feel like I’ve been here before. but at the same time, I really don’t. I’ve worn a cap and gown before, but never like this. With this shake of the hand and a smile, my days as a graduate will end. 
Just like that, 16 years of school will end. but the greatest thing I’ve learned during this time is that my education is not limited to school. I will continue to learn every day, every hour and every minute. 
I will get the chance to learn new things about myself in ways that I have never experienced before. every day will bring new experiences and different re­actions, and I will use that to grow and make the next day better. 
I will get the chance to learn new things about the world around me in ways that I have never experienced before. Until I walk off the edge of the map, there will always be something new to discover, a new place to see and a path to walk. 
Graduation is every day. There will always be a new hand to shake, a new op­portunity to smile and, most importantly, a new moment to learn. If I do one of these, usually the others will follow. 
A c+ grade doesn’t say that I didn’t learn, maybe just that I didn’t smile enough. An A- grade doesn’t say that I didn’t smile enough, maybe just that I didn’t challenge myself to learn enough. And deleting my Facebook (which also happened to be one of the better college decisions for procrastination purposes) doesn’t say that I didn’t make enough new friends, just that I met the right ones who made me smile. 
Graduation doesn’t make me more happy than sad, or throw bittersweet feel­ings my way. If anything, it only makes me want to move on. Graduation is about progress, about growth. And that’s exact­ly what I plan to do every day for the rest of my life. I will move on with these great memories and my education, and gradu­ate every day. 
And more than anything, I will go to bed every night asking myself what I learned today, how I grew and look for­ward to the next opportunity to do so. Personally, I feel like I have become the person I will be for the rest of my life, but that doesn’t mean I cannot grow. 
I am ready to move on. I am ready to grow. I am ready to learn. 
Why let that stop at graduation? 
Andrew Gastelum is graduating with a degree in Film, Television and Theatre, as well as minors in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and Italian. He would like to thank his sponsors Yoo-hoo chocolate drink, Barilla pasta, Dominos 5-5-5 deal and the Howard Street Food Mart. Andrew can be reached via post because he is pretty bad at answering his phone and pen-pals are kinda sick, dude. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Meghan Thomassen 
managing editor emeritus 
I’m glad I can’t capture what these past four years have meant to me in one column. but I can at least start to thank the people who have changed my life for the better. here’s to you and all those who looked outside themselves to help me grow at notre dame. 
Thank you to Jen, my freshman room­mate and my first friend at notre dame. 
Thank you to my first year advisor, whose name I cannot for the life of me re­call, but who told me to read voraciously, an order I obeyed gladly. 
Thank you to meghan, nicole, Iris, nicole and Lissa. You taught me how to be a better roommate, a better woman and a better friend. I expect each and every one of you to keep doing that forever. Kthanks. 
Thank you to Will and denver, my Frisbee buddies and eventual best friends. We will always have Florida and coffee and Knott hall mass. 
Thank you to bill, for philosophical and not-so-philosophical discussions. 
Thank you to marisa, for talking to me about our faith. We are the most awk­ward, and it’s wonderful. 
Thank you to Allan and emily, my ab­sentee notre dame parents. I owe you all the Jeni’s in the world. 
Thank you to each and every member of Wild Flat: maria, maria, margaret, catie, cat, Katie, hope, Gina, Tate, Laura and michelle. Paradise will be you, me and afternoon tea. 
Thank you to Anre venter, who gave me permission to pick and choose majors in order to take the classes I wanted. 
Thank you to deb de st. Jean, the life­blood and biggest fan of The observer. Josh — you rock. 
Thank you to Tyler, for tolerating my annoying questions and for going on that cruise with us. oh, and thanks for that cigar. 
Thank you to brad Gregory. I couldn’t ask for a better mentor or a better friend. 
Thank you to hanabusa-sensei, for teaching me all three Japanese alphabets and feeding me Pocky. 
Thank you to Andrew, whose leader­ship at this paper brought everyone to­gether, not just as a team, but as a family. 
Thank you to my dad, class of 1978, and your ability to challenge me to be the best version of myself. 
Thank you to matt. Thanks to you, I am a more honest, zombie-loving person. 
Thank you to nate, Amber, natalie and Jen for choosing seattle as your post-grad city, too. Game watches at my place? 
Thank you to Adam for baking up a storm in Keough every Thursday night. 
Thank you to susan Youens for expos­ing me to mozart — I had a new lease on life after your class. 
Thank you to dan and Gabriela, who have seriously taken viewpoint to the next level this past year. bravo. 
Thank you to Joe stanfiel for taking an interest in my mind, our friendship and my future. 
Thank you to Leo and Andrew for ri­diculous Glee club memories. 
Thank you to Kerry, John, carol, Tara, Julie and Kerry for a delicious semester at notre dame magazine. 
Thank you to Lissa and Anita and ev­eryone at the career center who miracu­lously taught me how to be a professional. Thank you to Tori for making me your 
sister for a summer — Westfield will al­ways hold a special place in my heart. 
Thank you to Jeff for traipsing around europe with me and helping me get lost in it all. 
Thank you to Katie and ray for an awe­some summer playing in chicago and for kicking my butt into almost-runner’s shape. 
Thank you to erin, ma soeur, who will experience and change this place in ways I cannot even predict. 
Thank you to david o’connor, without whom I never would have met Wallace stevens, the poet of my heart. 
Thank you to mc for strolling through versailles and enjoying the romance of life with me. 
Thank you to Fred rush for almost not letting me take your class — it made me appreciate it every day. 
Thank you to dan for our God-filled road trip to michigan. I can’t wait to go to your wedding this summer. 
Thank you to Anthony, for your love and support, your poetry, for our cheese­cakes, our crack-ups and our trips to chicago. You’re a good man, and I am truly blessed to have you in my life. 
Finally, thank you to my mom. You made all of this possible. I love you, and you inspire me every single day. 
Meghan Thomassen is graduating with a degree in English, as well as a minor in Philosophy and Literature. She would like to thank her roommates and coffee for a wonderful four years. Meghan can be reached at meghanthomassen@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A new, welcome introduction 


Steph Wulz 
Graphics editor emeritus 
“hi, my name is steph Wulz and I am a senior visual communication design bFA from ramsey, new Jersey.” 
A notre dame introduction is one thing that every student quickly becomes well versed in within the first week of college. It’s the line that identified who you were, where you were from and what your studies were along your unique college journey. 
every time I think about my introduc­tion, it makes me think about the varia­tions on my introduction that greatly shaped my four-year journey. 
The word “transfer” used to domi­nate the sentence when I first arrived to campus as a sophomore. having spent my first year at villanova University, transferring played a large part in shap­ing my experience and identity at notre dame. I’ve had the opportunity to share in the cultures of two different schools and learn to appreciate all that my soon-to-be alma mater has done for my fellow students and myself. With that, I gained a network of friends who became an im­mediate family, all who carried out their dream to attend this University. 
And since we had made it here, we knew to make the most of it. 
my college switch fell out of my intro­duction because I lost the feeling of hav­ing to include it. notre dame is a place that became home so quickly. I no longer felt like a new student, nor needed to share that I hadn’t experienced Frosh-o and the dome dance like many students around me. 
my past was what got me here and what allowed me to branch out and ab­sorb all the opportunities that one could. Whether spending two years with the band of the Fighting Irish or spending my nights working as the Graphics editor of The observer, I lived to make my mark on notre dame. And she gave me the oppor­tunity to do so. 
during my senior year, my introduc­tion included that I was a resident as­sistant in Walsh hall, a position that I would do again in a heartbeat. There are few positions where you are given the unique opportunity to be a foundation in people’s lives and a resident’s assistant was one such position. having the chance to give my advice from my college path throughout the years allowed me to real­ize the choices I had made and how they brought me to this very moment. 
now that my time at notre dame has come to an end, my introduction changes into the past tense. Finally, it seems to capture the entirety of my experience through college. 
saying I am a graduate of notre dame holds the understanding that I have ex­perienced one of the most memorable and life changing events in one’s young life in a setting that strives to make every­one live up to their full potential. I have studied, learned, traveled, prayed and laughed with thousands of people who have directly impacted my life. I have met others and learned their story while shar­ing mine along the way. And because of all of this, I am a better person. 
I cannot help but smile endlessly when graduating with my friends and family beside me. I cannot help but be glad for the opportunity that God has given me to be accepted here after a lot of hard work. And I cannot help but be so happy to introduce myself as a graduate of our Lady’s University, in a few days and for the rest of my life. 
Steph Wulz is graduating with a Bachelor’s of Fine Arts in Visual Communication Design. She loves to talk and hopes to work as a talk show host one day. Steph can be reached at swulz@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Nicole Michels 

Assistant managing editor emeritus 
Graduation is upon us at last. soon, we won’t go to classes in debart monday through Thursday and some­times Friday. We won’t reconvene after a night out in the dining hall, or at The mark, or at the Pancake house. We won’t sway in the student section at football games; we won’t run around the lakes. The “we” that exists now, won’t exist anymore — we’re scattering across the coun­try and across the world. 
It’s now goodbye, but it doesn’t feel like farewell. 
my time at notre dame has shown me all around the map of student life — I started as a member of the var­sity rowing team and finished as a Writing center Tutor as well as Assistant managing editor at The observer. 
What connects that freshman nicole who was dropped off at cavanaugh hall four years ago and the senior nicole who soon will be leaving my home of the past four years is simple: excitement. 
I am excited for what lies ahead of me, even though I will miss what stays behind at notre dame. but really, I don’t buy that college is the best four years of your life. If it is, I feel like that means I haven’t been living life quite right. 
Let’s face it, we all made it to notre dame because we’re smart and we work hard; we set goals and we reach because we successfully navigated college: completing classes, working jobs and most importantly, nurturing friendships that shaped the people we are today. 
now we’re ready for the “real” world, whatever that means. We’re ready to pursue an advanced degree, to start a new job, to move to a new city, to meet new peo­ple and to know new places. 
We’re ready. still, it’s not going to be easy. 
seeing our friends maybe a few times a year instead of every day or a few times a week will be hard. Working throughout the year, with no month-long christmas break, will be hard. Paying for everything by ourselves will be hard. 
Figuring all of that out is important. but for me, for all of us, my only hope is that we find ways to be excited. 
I want to engage with the world, to always be explor­ing. I want to work hard and do things that matter, to serve a purpose higher than myself. I want to spend my time with people I care about, loving and learning as we grow together. 
moving on from notre dame definitely will require a leap of faith — leaving behind the University and the people who have been our home for the past four years is scary, especially when it’s not clear where and how we will land after we jump. 
but I have to believe that when we do jump, we will land on our feet. And a big part of what will help us is 
I’ve felt the notre dame spirit as it extends beyond the notre dame campus while interning in Washington for the past two summers and visiting friends who gradu­ated before me. I’ve seen it in the offices of the six mem­bers of congress who made time to speak with me last summer, a random student from their alma mater who wanted to write about them for the newspaper. I’ve seen it in the guy wearing a bookstore basketball shirt walk­ing down connecticut Avenue in d.c. who was (almost) as excited as I was to find another notre dame graduate halfway across the country. And I’ve seen it in the gradu­ated friends who return for football games, who share stories about their new endeavors in various parts of the world. 
The notre dame family stretches around the world, and no matter where we go or what we do after this, that will stay constant. 
And our hearts forever, Love Thee notre dame. 
Nicole Michels is graduating with a degree in political science and English. She would like to thank her dad for being the best editor a thesis-writing girl could ask for, as well as G-chat, ABP hazelnut coffee and the other night owls on campus for getting her to this point. Nicole can be reached at nicolemmichels@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

It’s about the people 

Grant Tobin 
Photo editor emeritus 

I’ve had a bit of a difficult time writing this reflection. And that’s not because I’ve wrecked three keyboards and two boxes of Kleenex getting to the point where I can see my screen clearly enough to type. 
I jest. but think about any graduation speech you’ve ever attended. can you distinctly perceive any single one? I remember Jobs’ speech in 2005. but I wasn’t there. I’d be surprised if you had an answer. hell, many of you may have even orated an address and couldn’t remem­ber it. 
but it’s not about remembering everything. And that’s the difficulty; the topics of classes you attend and the time you spent studying is soon forgotten. The time you spend dealing with the winters and sweating in the summers, again, is forgotten. It’s about the people I’ve encountered in my time here, that’s what you remember and that’s this reflection. 
To my teammates: from the first days on the ergs to our final races next week in Gainesville, Fla., we’ve been brothers. And there’s nothing in the world that can pull people together than embracing that kind of suffering together. I can’t wait to see what we’ve got left in the tank. 
To my study abroad class: from not really understand­ing what we’re ordering to teaching American partying norms to different cultures, I thank you. There’s no­where better to get out of your own environment than by actually physically removing yourself from your own environment. And then, of course, getting lost and sleeping only God-knows-where in shanghai; that kinda helps too. 
To my mentors Jim and Phil: your guidance has shaped my experience here and my maturation in both my vocational and extracurricular pursuits. For that, there are no words. 
And to my deepest friends: my experience has been crafted entirely by you guys. And that’s truly incredible to think about. 
my difficulty in writing this reflection stems not from a lack of ideas or a lack of experiences, for those are mul­titudinous, but from an intense and scary realization that my time here has come to a close. 
Would I kill for the chance to come back and do it all again? 
Absolutely. 
That’s not my case though. 
People always get caught up in the small stuff and ask questions like would I have changed anything or what mistakes I had made. The flipside of that coin is that there aren’t any, and my experience wouldn’t be the same if I had. 
cheers, nd. And thanks for the memories. 
Grant Tobin is graduating with a degree in finance and Mandarin Chinese. Assuming he survives three months backpacking through rural Asia this summer, he can be reached at gctobin@live.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Finding my legacy 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor emeritus 

notre dame loves to talk about legacy, and it’s got me wondering what mine might be, if I were to have one here. 
If left to my own choice, it would be obvious — one of the least successful student body president candidates in the history of notre dame, student government, de­mocracy and perhaps human history. After four years, I still stand by the key planks of my platform: hangover hours in the dining hall, a student parking lot this side of the mississippi river and, of course, a giant magical dome to protect us from the weather. I don’t know why these didn’t catch on. 
maybe it could be my work at The observer, as a part of team of superbly talented journalists, photog­raphers, graphic designers and generally intelligent people that did their jobs excellently while I fumbled around writing thousands of words on Paris hilton’s newest single. 
hopefully it’s not just my class work. my almost com­ical list of academic underachievements is epitomized in the first final I ever took at notre dame, for micro­economics with Professor david ruccio. I got a solid 50 percent. F. Failure. If I took that test today I would probably still fail it, but the hour or so I spent chatting with Professor ruccio on just about everything imagin­able except for how poorly I’d done, was my first experi­ence with just how amazing the people of notre dame can be when you take the time to pick their brains. 
I guess Zahm would have to be in there. People that say the dorm pride here gets a little out of hand consid­ering how it’s a totally randomized system, and they probably have a point and I know that I’ve done some things I regret because of the idea of dorm loyalty, but I can also say that I’ve met some of the best friends I’ll ever have in my life through that dorm system, and so I’m grateful for it, flaws and all. 
I guess it could be a million things, hopefully some of them good, but the more important thing that I realize is how lucky I am to have had the opportunity to take part in any of this. From high school teachers that wouldn’t let me settle for a b- in english or a just-good­enough story in journalism, to advisors and professors at notre dame who helped me through frantic late night emails with whatever crisis of conscience I was having at that moment, to classmates who put up with me despite my tendency to land my foot in my mouth every once in a while, I’ve been extraordinarily privi­leged to get this far. 
but most of all, I want to thank my parents and my family for supporting me at every turn, no matter how ridiculous and always having faith in me. no matter what legacy I create for myself as I go forward in the world, I only hope it makes you proud, because that’s good enough for me. 
Kevin Noonan is graduating. One may contact Kevin through smoke signals or  knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Dan Brombach 
viewpoint editor emeritus 

After taking the last final of my undergraduate ca­reer, I found myself sitting with my housemates on top of our garage. between sips of du Lac-approved beverages and silently praying the roof wouldn’t collapse beneath me, I began to zone out. I began to commit the crime I had earlier promised myself I would avoid. I began to have a cliché, end of college, sappy, “Jesus christ, I’m supposed to be a real hu­man being soon,” moment of reflection on my four years at notre dame. 
my college career was a bipolar collection of the highest highs and the lowest lows. Like many kids that come to notre dame, I got a steady Iv drip of humility my freshman year. I was just as pale and awkward as I was in high school, but after my first few chemistry exams took me out behind the shed, I felt like a tiny pale fish in a lake filled with fish that had already cured cancer and saved a small African nation from civil war. The bright side is that all this did was motivate me. 
Getting academically bushwhacked my first semester pushed me to work harder, to not skip early morning lectures, to get involved outside the classroom and prove to myself that I belonged at a University filled with so many impressive kids. my failures early on helped pave the way for later suc­cess. And to be honest, that may be the overriding theme of my college career. 
“dan,” you might say, “Your message sounds like a two-bit rip off of that one darius rucker song.” Well, that’s hurtful. You sound like my stepdad after a few mike’s hard Lemonades. 
The first semester of my sophomore year was hands down the lowest point of my life. I learned how to make new friends but painfully experienced how easily existing friendships can be damaged. I bounced back and forth between anger and sad­ness, burying myself in work because I didn’t know what else to do. I’m not sure if I ever could have gone through with it, and I’m not sure if it’s something I told anyone, but I even began having thoughts about transferring out of nd. Then one day, I got an email. 
The email was from the office of housing, alert­ing students of the upcoming deadline for switch­ing residence halls. more important than the email itself, I began receiving text messages from friends I had made in another dorm, including my clos­est friend from back home. “did you see the email? What do you think?” 
I ultimately did transfer out, but not out of notre dame. Instead, I was taken in by a community that definitively shaped the rest of my time in college. 
The men of Zahm took me in when I was at my lowest point, and these men and their commu­nity became one of my greatest high points. I have trouble imagining what my time here would have looked like without the friends I made during my stay in Zahm. In fact, as I reflected on these things, five of them were sitting up on the roof with me as my housemates. 
“dear mr. brombach, We received a wide variety of talented applicants for the position this year, and after careful review, we have decided not to further pursue your candidacy.” 
I’m sure I don’t need to tell anyone this twice, but receiving your first cookie-cutter, delightfully passive-aggressive internship rejection email stings like little else can. 
It’s a severe disappointment, like your stepdad chaz forgetting to pick you up from soccer practice for the third time in a week. I entered my junior year with a grand vision. despite being a history major, I would be an investment-banking intern in chicago or new York. It would be tough work and terrible hours. I would be the intern equivalent of a malaysian sweat shop worker, if sweat shop work­ers spent their days proofreading pitch books and getting yelled at about hot keys. but even this didn’t deter me. 
What did deter me was a nice little string of rejec­tion emails. 
What this rejection did was deny me the non-crit­ical route. It made me think hard about what I truly was interested in. 
I didn’t wind up at Goldman sachs, but I did find myself studying and traveling in Jerusalem, meet­ing new friends while rediscovering my passion for history and foreign policy. If I hadn’t failed, if I had worked 14-hour days behind a desk in chicago, I would have missed out on one of the greatest experi­ences of my life. The interviewing practice it gave me also helped me lock down a job this year, which is nice, because I wasn’t looking forward to living in a dumpster behind the hilton doubleTree after graduation. 
my college career had more than its share of low points. but if it weren’t for these low points, I don’t know if I would have experienced the high ones. I’m sure I have a lot more failing to do in life, and that’s exciting. 
not because I’m a masochist, but because I can’t wait to see what comes of it. 
Dan Brombach is graduating with a degree in history, as well as a minor in business economics. He would like to thank Ronald Reagan and Breaking Bad for helping him become the man he is today. He can be reached at dbrombac@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

my notre dame story 

Marisa Iati 

Assistant managing editor emeritus 
I’ve written a lot of words on these pages in the past four years. I’ve told many stories, most of which belonged to other people. I now have 800 words left, with which I’m going to tell you just one more story, because my Fundamentals of Journalism professor drilled into our heads that stories matter. And, be­sides, my time here has been nothing if not a good story. 
For me, notre dame began as a story that other people told. It was a story of a football-crazed uni­versity in some state that I knew next to nothing about. A story of alumni who were in love with their alma mater. A story of autumns infused by school spirit, winters illuminated by christmas lights and springs framed by tulips and long-anticipated sunshine. 
When I arrived at notre dame as a student, I cre­ated my own story here. 
It’s a story of hugging my freshman-year room­mate the day before move-in. of walking to domerfest with a guy who I never saw again. of building an igloo in the ryan hall courtyard on our first snow day. of tailgates and football games in sub-freezing temperatures. of more trips to the Grotto than I could possibly count. 
It’s a story of a center for social concerns semi­nar in new York city. of shipping up to boston. of climbing sand dunes in michigan. of a trip to chicago to run a race, but mostly to see an old friend. of teaching at a summer program in Utah. of camping in Yellowstone national Park and learning that the state of Wyoming does, in fact, exist. of a pilgrimage to montreal. 
It’s a story of moving 4,000 miles away to Toledo, spain, for four months and being pushed far out of my comfort zone. A story of cobblestone streets. of bonding with my traveling companions over the ri­diculousness of washing our hair in an airport sink. of an almost daily journey to La Italiana for choco­late gelato with the girl who would later become my roommate and one of my closest friends. 
It’s a story of being rejected by an employer — three separate times. of learning that I cannot accomplish everything at once. That sometimes, things fall apart. That the story doesn’t always end how you want it to, and you have to keep going in spite of it. 
It’s a story of weekly lunches with michelle, who always got me through it — whatever “it” was that particular week. of camping out in main street coffee house with shannon and e. of lingering in the chapel after dorm mass with marissa. of meet­ing up with Kaitlyn in new York during breaks. of people who somehow managed to love me anyway. 
It’s a story of 4 a.m. nights in the observer office. of almost burning down south dining hall while trying to make easy mac that one time (sorry, ev­eryone). of my coworker covering for me when that happened (thanks, matt). of coming to care about each one of the quirky people in that office far more than I could have predicted. 
It’s a story of building my own identity around telling other people’s stories. of meeting incredible human beings who, for some reason, let me help them to convey their experiences. of trying to touch others through my words. of coming to understand that the majority of the time, those words impact me most of all. 
It’s a story of almost running the holy half. Twice. of not actually accomplishing it. of coming to terms with the fact that there are many things that I’m good at, but running 13.1 miles at a time is not one of them. of eventually being able to laugh about it. of learning that what matters is finding, in every ex­perience, a way to grow, to improve and to change. 
It’s a story of sitting on denise’s couch on one of our last study days, watching “The vow” when we were supposed to be preparing for finals. of feeling absolutely no shame about it. of lying on another friend’s floor and giggling like a 13-year-old about some guy or another because some days, life just needs a little comic relief. 
It’s a story of learning that people will open their doors to you if and when you are willing to knock. of realizing that people who help you to tear down your walls are worth keeping around. That the most unexpected people will worm their way into your heart and that you should let them. That all relation­ships are risks, but that those risks are worth taking. 
It’s a story of all the little moments that could not possibly fit into this column and of all the ad­ventures that have yet to come, the ones that notre dame has made possible. 
most of all, though, it’s a story of thankfulness for each decision, each familial sacrifice and each twist of fate that will enable me to walk across the stage sunday as a more confident, compassionate and open-minded person than the one who first arrived on campus four years ago. 
It’s a story of gratitude, because I have been blessed. over and over again. 
Marisa Iati is graduating with a degree in American Studies and in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She would like to thank her family for putting up with her and Rory Gilmore for serving as her fictional role model. Marisa can be reached at miati@alumni. nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Matthew DeFranks 

Assistant managing editor emeritus 
What are tears? 

Are they water? Are they salt? Are they salt water? 
Are they from the eyes? Are they from the heart? Are they from the soul? 
Are they emotions? Are they feelings? Are they memories? 
They are all of the above. They are notre dame. 
Tears are when I got accepted. They are when I hugged my sister, Amanda, and cried on her shoulder as I told her I could be going to south bend. They are when I flipped a coin 100 times, and the Irish won. They are “Welcome home.” 
Tears are when I left my house in August 2010. They are the drive to the airport. They are the nights at the marriott. They are the unknown. They are what I was afraid of, which turned out to be nothing. They are leaving home. 
Tears are when my parents left notre dame the sunday after domerfest. They are trying to remem­ber song lyrics during my 18th birthday. They are serenades. They are the long walk to d2, and they are kisses goodbye. They are moving home. 
Tears are switching majors. They are what you feel, what you do. They are uncertainty. 
Tears are the end of freshman year. They are saying goodbyes and packing for home. They are maxing out flex points and minimizing shipping costs. They are saying hello to the miami summer and saying good­bye to my best friends. They are leaving home. 
Tears are “Welcome back,”s. They are the “how are you doing?”s, and they are orange sunsets at 9 p.m. They are the return to the dining hall, and they are the first class introductions. They are moving home. 
Tears are the end of sophomore year. They are when I said bye to my best friends for 15 months. They are walks around the lakes. They are when we knew the best reunion would be under the Golden dome. They are patience. 
Tears are airport pickups from your own city. They are when your friends — wait, family — stay with you and love every minute of it. They are playing with the family dog (hi, bentley) and eating the family food (sauce can never go wrong). They are moving home. 
Tears are 12-1. They are the imperfect perfect sea­son. They are eddie Lacy, and they are a postgame beer at the house. They are picking up confetti from the field, and they are writing a game story. They are disappointment, and they are encouragement. 
Tears are when I left Fremantle. They are when I left beaches and cliffs and adventures and people behind. They are when I ditched kangaroos and koalas and sunshine. They are leaving home. 
Tears are when I left Australia. They are when I trad­ed hostels for home. They are when time in eastern Australia and new Zealand ran short. They are when things were never the same again. They are coming home. 
Tears are notre dame’s win over bYU in november. 
snow and wind and not being able to feel your fin­gers. They are my last alma mater. They are walking out through the tunnel. They are “Love Thee notre dame.” 
Tears are meeting new friends too late. They are wondering why three years went by without saying a word. They are adjusting and adapting and loving. 
Tears are in the future. They are when I cross the stage. They are when I hug my parents. They are when a degree is in hand. They are emotional. 
but tears are also the terrible jokes I laughed too hard at. They are when I was too happy for my body to handle. They are when I smiled too much at my friends. They are when you know it is real. 
Tears are writing this. They are the reminiscing and the remembering. They are the regretting and the forgetting. They are everything you wanted to say but could not. 
Tears are what make everything worth it. 
Thank you for the tears, notre dame. 
You deserve it. 
Matthew DeFranks is graduating with a degree in finance, as well as a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He is one of the few people who actually enjoy humidity, and he loves a good interview even more. If you have any tips on seafood, sports or hair, email him at matthew.defranks@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SENIOR GUEST COLUMN 

Let the light of Notre Dame lead you 
Alexander Coccia 

notre dame student body President emeritus 
dr. Tom dooley, a notre dame student in the 1940s who worked as a doctor in southeast Asia, wrote a letter to Father hesburgh, who had it engraved and placed by the Grotto. dooley wrote, “notre dame is twice on my mind . . . and always in my heart. That Grotto is the rock to which my life is anchored.  do the students ever appreciate what they have, while they have it?” 
of course, it is nearly impossible to gauge the full impact of a notre dame education and the experi­ence of the last four years. I imagine that it is an impact we may never truly appreciate until our fi­nal moments — recognizing the spark of a lifelong journey of formation. For all of the walks around the lakes, the moments spent with friends and the time engulfed in studies and extracurricular activity, it is hard to enumerate or even begin to outline the mani­fold experiences. 
but perhaps this is best. because the student expe­rience at notre dame is sacred. The relationships we have formed over the last four years are sacred. And the mission and drive to be a powerful force for good in the world is sacred. experiences, relationships and purpose are the flames of our existence at notre dame. 
At its best, notre dame is a reflection of the other-oriented lens that fulfills a goal of the University’s mission statement: “The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” It is ultimately an other-oriented lens through which we must address our actions in life, a lens to be enhanced by the sacred and profound, not blinded by their radiance. It is a vision of religion as a path to God and in service to God through service to other human beings, not in spite of other human be­ings. The necessary vision must be that “the least of these” refers to each of us at one time or another. 
my four years have taught me that students will fight for their fellow students. I’ve learned here that change comes when students say enough. We don’t believe that Fr. sorin’s pledge to be the greatest force for good was simply lofty language or mythical rhetoric. We believe that the notre dame experience should not be based on characteristics such as race, sexual orientation and gender identity, documenta­tion or socioeconomic status. We believe in notre dame because notre dame houses a student body that cares and because its mission goes further than preparing individuals simply for modern conceptions of success beyond campus. 
“no man is an island,” proclaimed John donne. At least, none should be — not in our successes, our failures, our joys or our agonies. As human beings, we do have our moments of solitary experience. but the island paradise we seek is found in other human be­ings. And it can be found at notre dame. 
The candle was lit at notre dame, but we should let it burn deeply and brightly throughout our lives. It is a light of purpose and sacredness, a light whose flicker only indicates the lingering desire to act and to put faith into action. The flames of these experiences may continue on as we stay in touch and reminisce. but forever, we will have lit the candle at notre dame. 
As reinhold neibuhr wrote, “nothing that is worth doing can be achieved in our lifetime; therefore, we must be saved by hope. nothing which is true or beautiful or good makes complete sense in any im­mediate context of history; therefore, we must be saved by faith. nothing we do, however virtuous, can be accomplished alone; therefore, we must be saved by love.” In the next chapter of our lives, we must con­tinue to seek every opportunity to affirm our belief and faith in our fellow human beings, to hope and to love. 
The last four years at notre dame won’t be the best of our lives. They will simply be.  They are a set of experiences that deserve no qualifications. Any at­tempt to quantify or qualify the experiences of the past four years will diminish their significance. some things are best left unsaid, because they were best lived. They’ll be memories that last as long as we can keep them. And as we move on to the next chapter, no experience in the last four years can be touched. The last four years were ours, class of 2014. here’s to the next experience. 
Alex Coccia is graduating with a degree in Africana Studies and Peace Studies and a minor in the Glynn Family Honors Program. He would like to thank the community that has made this last four years such a beautiful set of experiences. He can be contacted at acoccia7@wideopenwest.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Warm pink lights: A call to remember 
If you drive around my suburban, north chicago neighbor­hood around christmastime, you see a wonderful assortment of lights and decorations. You get the icicles, the beautiful wreaths, the big, bright colored bulbs, but then every few houses or so you see something different. Warm pink lights, wrapped around a bush or two, contrast the typical reds and greens of the seasons and piqued my curiosity back in 2010 when they first began to appear. I asked my mom why all these houses had pink lights, to which she solemnly responded, “They’re for Lizzy.” 
I write this article due to the recent statements by Prince shembo, a former linebacker for notre dame, claiming himself innocent of the alleged sexual battery of a saint mary’s student named Lizzy seeberg in fall of 2010. Ten days after the events, she committed suicide. Lizzy lived and grew up in my hometown of northbrook, Ill., which is why I heard the story in the first place. I never knew Lizzy, but I did know some of her relatives through my school and my community. 
The death of this young woman and following inquiry into the events left my community devastated and heartbroken. I’m sure some were wondering how this could’ve happened, why notre dame was being portrayed in such a bad light, what texts like, “messing with notre dame football is a bad idea” mean in the context of a girl’s life. 
And here’s the truth: I don’t know. I don’t know the details. I can’t and won’t pass judgment on shembo, on how notre dame should have handled the issue, what the culture of football at this University means, who said what, what the big story is. All I really know is that Lizzy is gone, and this tragic fact is the only thing that matters in the end. 
but the reason why I’m really concerned is this: I was talking with a few friends the other day, and someone in conversation said something along the lines of, “oh, did you hear that they found out more about the football player involved in the sexual assault a few years ago?” I responded with an “oh, really?,” didn’t give it a second thought, and moved on with my day. only later when I found out that this was Lizzy seeberg in question did I care to give it a second glance. 
Am I that quick to forget? I clearly remember the details as they occurred back in 2010, I remember how distraught the commu­nity was and I remember thinking about how close to home the whole situation felt, despite my obvious distance from the events. I heard what my friend said about a football player and threw it away like it was nothing. I strongly feel  this is not something our community as a whole can simply forget, but I didn’t care until it directly related to me. but what about people who this didn’t relate to? Is our community as a whole so numb to alleged forms of violence such as this? 
I’m referring not just to athletes and the football program, but the campus as a whole after several sexual assault incidents this year. I would hope that for the amount we talk about the notre dame family we actually support this claim when people’s lives and dignity are at stake; this suicide is not something we should forget. The “one is Too many” movement is an excellent start and is something that I fully put my weight behind. but it doesn’t change the fact that any kind of disregard for these events is a crime against the victim and her family, and is something of which I myself am guilty. 
no, I never knew Lizzy seeberg or Prince shembo, and maybe this article is just a useless reminder of a terrible tragedy from which notre dame and the seeberg family would like to move on. but right after reading shembo’s statement, I remembered the pink lights that I saw this year and that I will see every time I return home during christmas. I have a reminder of Lizzy. What will it take for notre dame to remember as well? 
Danny Martin 
freshman Knott hall Feb. 26, 2014 

Thank you, declan sullivan 
I have, from time to time, lost faith in my notre dame community. I have loved this school for my entire life, so take the former statement as all the more profound. I have felt that our campus is divided against itself in 80 different ways. I have felt that our campus is at war with itself. I have felt that the people on this campus care more about the lack of success that plagues our football team than they do about issues of humanity that affect the world every day. I feel that we are slowly slipping away from the ideals that notre dame was built upon, survived on and currently promotes as the true spirit of our student body. 
Two hours ago, all of that changed. Two hours ago, the memorial service for mr. declan sullivan commenced. As the entire campus knows, the student body flooded the basilica, overflowed into the Lafun ballroom and even had to listen outside. others, like myself, watched the memorial service from the live feed online. For an hour, the entire campus stood still as we all came together to celebrate the life of declan sullivan and to help his family and friends begin the mourning process. 
I never had the privilege to meet declan, but I have spent the last several hours thanking God for this soul that could be so inspiring. For though I never met this man, he restored my faith in this University. Though I never knew him, I found myself crying through his service as if I had known him my entire life. I found my heart was aching for his family, and as I scanned the faces in the crowd that filled the basilica, I knew that the entire group felt the same way. I felt the power of the entire student body spreading their prayers over his family, his friends and his dorm mates. 
For the first time in a long time, I felt this community united. on this day, we didn’t belong to a race. We had no political stand­ing. We were not gay or straight. We were not A-students or the “c’s get degrees” crowd. We weren’t pro-life or pro-choice. We weren’t pro­brian Kelly or anti-brian Kelly. We just were. For a brief moment, we were undivided. We were the notre dame community that I so long to be a part of. I challenge the student body to remain that way in honor of the man who had a soul so strong to call us back to who we are. remember that we must support one another, not tear each other down as we are so often tempted to do. remember that we are united through all, and that our minor disagreements should never be allowed to prevent us from standing together as one community. And when one of our community falls, remember that they are always one of our own. We feel the pain of a family’s loss because we have indeed lost a family member. 
remember declan sullivan, whose influ­ence is so strong that an entire community of 8,000-plus people came together to celebrate his life. For this, he is truly the embodiment of the notre dame spirit. 
To his family: thank you for sharing such an amazing person with the notre dame family. my prayers and the prayers of the entire com­munity are with you. 
To declan: Thank you. Thank you for restor­ing my faith in my notre dame family. Thank you for reminding us of who we are. 
For at the end of the day, we are but one simple thing: We are nd — united in the memory of one of our faithfully fallen. 
Jim Ropa 
sophomore siegfried hall oct. 29, 2010 

Let’s act on GLbTQ issues 
As a recent alumnus and member of the 2006-07 student senate, it is disheartening to witness the actions — or, rather, inaction on the part of this administration — taking place on our Lady’s campus. 
The student senate passed a resolution in march 2007 requesting the University add “sexual orientation” to its non-discrim­ination clause. While I do not personally identify as GLbTQ, I remember strongly supporting the social concerns commit­tee chair during senate proceedings. I was shocked such wording did not already exist. And I remember being a part of the 25-1-1 majority that voted to pass the resolution.
 This publication, The observer, reported at the time that both the student senate and Faculty senate had passed similar language in 1998. Two holy cross schools, King’s college in Pa. and holy cross college in Ind., already included the language at the time. I recall students on campus having civilized and intelligent debate regarding the issue.
 Yet, three years later, we have not pro­gressed. students, faculty and alumni continue to support measures to be more inclusive with regard to our GLbTQ broth­ers and sisters, but nothing is done. It is not news that the administration can be se­lectively deaf regarding student issues, but 12 years of repetitive voices and increasing volume must have an effect. 
notre dame, it is time to act. Alumni, students and faculty have done all they can. now, it is up to this administration to stop dismissing the issue and step up to the plate. Take bold steps to live your “spirit of Inclusion” in word and deed. Include “sexual orientation” in the University’s non­discrimination clause. Allow the student Union board to recognize groups of gay students on campus as legitimate student groups. And if you won’t, you at least owe 12 years of the notre dame community an explanation of your reasoning. refusing to address the issue — hoping that ignoring it will make it go away — will not cut it any longer. 
Chris Beesley 
alumnus class of 2008 Jan. 29, 2010 

no regrets, one request 
We have no regrets. We booked our hotels after the Pittsburgh game. We booked our flights after Usc. We prayed we would win tickets in the lottery. 99 percent of us didn’t. We appealed to our spouses and better sensibilities that this was a once in a lifetime event. They submitted. And then we paid way too much for tickets. We begged our parents to take the grandkids for a few days. They couldn’t say no. We had used up our fun tickets for the year by Jan. 7. We flew from places like r.I., s.d., Idaho and Texas. We arrived in south Florida to eternal sun and op­timism. We may have had a cocktail (or two). We saw dear friends we haven’t seen in 10, 15 or 20 years. We felt an energy, a passion and a part of something that we haven’t felt in a long, long time. It felt like home. We tailgated like champions. The blues and greens outnumbered the reds at least three-to-one. of the 55,000 domers in the stadium, we were the 40,000 who stayed until the clock hit 0:00. We have no regrets. We would do it all over again, even if we already knew the ending. We thank you. 
We have one request. At one of the greatest games in our history, we failed to acknowledge maybe our greatest tradition, and that is standing together as one family and singing our praise to our beloved Lady of the Lake. our feeling of emptiness in the stands grew ever deeper when we could not acknowledge the good fight and send off our team properly for having one of the greatest seasons we can remember, and for giving all of us alumni the opportunity to experi­ence what we did. maybe it was the overwhelming grief of the moment. maybe it was the bu­reaucracy of the orange bowl committee and their stages and ensuing presentations. but I ask you, next time, make it happen. Give us the opportunity to thank the team for a tremendous season, and show us a little love for the sacrifices we all made to be there in support. misery loves company, and we all could have used a little family love around about 0:00. We are nd. 
Andrew Nachman 
alumnus class of 1997 Jan. 16, 2013 




Drum majors lead marching band to excellence 
“In terms of the professional 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

news editor product that we put out on the field, on this big stage, we nailed 
After three short whistle blasts, it. We did really, really well.” six white-gloved hands flash Talking about performing through the air, transforming the for 80,000 fans in notre dame organized chaos of a 380-mem-stadium left the band leaders at a ber band practice into a harmo-loss for words. nious swell of chromatic scales. “It is really indescribable,” 
These are the same white mcmillan said. “It’s exhilarating; gloves that twirl thick, elon-it’s a rush. ... I feel very lucky to get gated batons called maces and to experience that.” conduct the nation’s oldest uni-The drum majors reflected on versity marching band through their time at notre dame and daily practice, weekly marches their tenures leading the band and gameday performances. through a season that includ-They belong to the drum majors, ed six weeks of performances three seasoned band veterans in a row, as well as trips to the who bridge the gap between its University of michigan, AT&T directors and members. stadium in Arlington, Texas and 
senior Leo mironovich, former Yankee stadium for the Pinstripe head drum major of the band bowl. FitzGerald said proving of the Fighting Irish, and senior that she and the band had enough assistant drum majors betsy stamina to perform stood out as a made me so happy to see the new and burn.” for myself. FitzGerald and nicole mcmillan highlight of this season. members transform and perform The drum majors said their “It was incredible to see how spoke to The observer about “We all had a really tough first so well just one week after start-main role is to facilitate dialogue. much I was able to accomplish their journeys through high seven weeks of school without ing college.” “We kind of serve as communi-when I was doing those things school and college band and the a break,” she said. “… I was so The drum majors said their cators between directors and the for the band. I love every single responsibilities and challenges of proud of the entire band having responsibilities demand much rest of the students,” FitzGerald member so much, and I hope I serving a group under so much that much energy and excitement more than performing in the said. “We facilitate rehearsal. We was able to show them how much public scrutiny, especially at the for six straight weeks, and being traditional spectacle at football don’t run the rehearsal, we just I loved them by giving them as bcs national championship able to keep up that energy and games. kind of pull it all together.” much as I could.” Game in January 2013. focus myself,” she said. “A lot of times people only see mironovich served as an as-mironovich said the experi­
“The national championship mcmillan said the freshman the glamorous aspects of drum sistant drum major in 2012-2013 ence of leading several hundred experience was surreal,” band members particularly stood majors, especially on game day,” but assumed the lead role for the students in front of crowds num­mironovich said. “We were abso-out in those first seven weeks of mironovich said. “It’s such a 2013 football season. FitzGerald bering over 80,000 and serving as lutely ready for it; we had some of practices and six weeks of half-humbling position and such a and mcmillan joined him for a representative of the University the best rehearsals of the year. We time performances. powerless position. You’re com-their first time as assistant drum helped him grow as a leader. had the best morning of rehears-“It was exciting to see the new pletely reliant on the respect of majors. All three endured a four-“Personally, I accomplished al pretty much in [director dr. members make the band and the band members. month audition process in 2012, so much,” he said. “I achieved Kenneth] dye’s history at notre perform on the football field four “If they don’t view you as their which tested their marching, a dream, and lived it. I faced dame. And we put on a fantastic days later,” she said. “This is no leader, if they don’t want to work twirling and conducting skills. many fears, and felt what it was halftime show. small accomplishment and it for you, the band is going to crash “It’s like waiting for your college like tackling them head-on. I’ve 
acceptance letters,” mcmillan survived and learned from nu-PAId AdverTIsemenT 
said of the process. merous failures and have experi­
mironovich said auditioning enced euphoric successes.” for a second time and for the lead “I am most proud of represent-role was a personal journey. ing the greatest student organi­
“The second time around, it zation on the campus of notre was extra nerve-wracking be-dame,” mironovich said. “on cause I felt a great deal more many occasions, especially away pressure,” mironovich said. “I games, I considered myself an felt I had to show how much I had ambassador of the University, grown. ... I had to prove I could and people looked to me as an ex-take it to the next level, go to the ample to how notre dame should next step to be the head drum act and/or react in certain situa­major.” tions. I was very proud of this, and 
FitzGerald and mcmillan said always strove to represent notre their motivation for auditioning dame to the best of my ability, in sprung from a deep love for and a way that would be pleasing to commitment to the band of the all of those who came before me.” Fighting Irish. The three seniors said they 
“being able to serve our 380 missed playing their instruments best friends is such a privilege,” with the band, but mironovich FitzGerald said. “deciding to said he had found his niche with make that journey, deciding to the drum majors. he said he say, ‘Yes, I want to hold myself learned to focus on the “mission” up to a higher standard because of the group, which included giv-I love band, because I love all the ing selfless attention to the band’s people I get to meet. ... I want to newest members. be the one to put in all that extra “I found the right spot for me time and show how much I really within the band,” he said. “… I’ve deeply care about these people.’” learned to be bold, be courageous 
selfless leadership was a skill and to be yourself. FitzGerald said she strengthened “It is so difficult being in such most through her work with the a highly-exposed leadership po­band. sition. everyone looks to you for 
“It was so rewarding to see advice, for a role model, for some­how much my friends could ac-one to compare themselves to. … complish when they were all All in all, I guess I’ve learned what working together,” she said. “For to focus on and what to work for every moment of the season that in a high leadership position, was hard, and for every moment and I am so glad to have had that when all I wanted to do was give experience.” up and complain, it was incred­ible to know that everything I was Contact Lesley Stevenson at doing was for the band, not just lsteven1@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


ND honors student leaders 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news Writer 
Editor’s Note: A version of this article appeared in the April 10 edition of The Observer. 
notre dame’s division of student Affairs presented awards to seven students at the annual student Leadership Awards banquet on April 1, according to a University press release. 
senior Jenna Ahn received the blessed basil moreau, c.s.c., Leadership Award for her work with campus ministry and the center for social concerns (csc). she has served as a leader in ef­forts to unite students working with both offices, the press re­lease stated. 
“I think it’s essential that campus ministry work together with the csc because the two, faith and justice, are deeply con­nected,” Ahn said. “collaborating between campus ministry and csc reminds us to always be con­templatives in action  where what we contemplate will be put into action and where our actions will become forms of contemplation.” 
Ahn said she became involved with the csc’s summer service Learning Program (ssLP) and the International summer service Learning Program (IssLP), through which she traveled to Kolkata, India. 
“I decided to get involved with the ssLP after my freshman year because I was interested in continuing to ask the difficult questions about structural sin, poverty and suffering,” she said. “I left with more questions than answers. 
“I participated in the IssLP in Kolkata because I wanted to experience and walk in the foot­steps of mother Teresa. I wanted to learn to love more radically, not for my own benefits and sense of ‘feel-good,’ but to love the other as to will only their good.” 
senior elizabeth Tucker, a four-year member of the varsity wom­en’s soccer team and two-time captain, won the ray siegfried Award for Leadership excellence, the press release stated. Tucker has combined community ser­vice with her athletics, having her team adopt a patient from the lo­cal hospital and organizing tutor­ing at a local elementary school, she said. 
“my junior year … I decided that it would be really cool to get involved with the Fighting Irish Fight for Life program, because it was a way [the soccer team] could adopt a little sister and bring someone in and bring so much happiness,” Tucker said. “It’s been really fun for me because I’ve got­ten to know her very well.” 
senior Julia steiner, former editor-in-chief of the scholastic magazine, won the denny moore Award for excellence in Journalism. The magazine has devoted more attention to the topic of diversity under her lead­ership, the press release said. 
“I think it’s really interesting to not only understand the dif­ferences that we all share on the outside, but to strike up these con­versations and to begin to under­stand how we all think differently, how we see the world differently,” steiner said. “… We did not have an outward push for diversity; it was kind of a thread that seemed to weave in throughout the year.” 

steiner said she also credits the magazine’s success to its staff. 
“I accepted [the award] individ­ually, and I am proud of the work that I’ve done, but at the same time, it was really a group effort,” she said. “That’s probably what I’m most proud of; scholastic won news magazine of the Year for the second year in a row in the state of Indiana.” 
senior edithstein cho re­ceived the inaugural diversity and Inclusion Award for her role as co-founder and producer of “show some skin,” a student pro­duction that aims to shed light on students’ stories about difference and identity, according to the press release. 
“I saw minority students on our campus talked amongst themselves and did a lot of prob­lem identification on race issues, which is articulating what is in­sensitive or racist,” cho said. “To go beyond problem identification and to engage and change how people engaged race, the three of us [cho, senior hien Luu and Jeeseun choi, class of 2012] want­ed to hear deeper narratives. 
“The monologues [in ‘show some skin’] show that the writ­ers are human beings who have flaws and prejudices of their own, alongside having their own bag­gage that determines how they orient themselves. We named our production, ‘show some skin,’ in order to challenge our com­munity to dig deeper into their identity and experiences to cre­ate a starting point for dialogue. ‘show some skin’ is a form of art for social justice.” 
Karen Antonio, a doctoral student in the department of biochemistry and chemistry, won the sister Jean Lenz, o.s.F., Leadership Award for her contri­butions in promoting women in science, technology, engineer­ing and mathematics (sTem) fields through her organization of monthly lunch meetings for women to present and hear re­search presentations, the press release stated. 
“You have this informal, com­fort way of talking to faculty and staff,” Antonio said. “You get a different side of professors; you’re eating lunch, talking about what you do, your family, your pets, whatever you want, and it’s not that constricting, professional box that you are usually in. 
“As far as women in science go, you’re able to unite people in a very comfortable way that prob­ably would not have been avail­able otherwise.” 
senior Alex coccia, student body president emeritus, won the rev. A. Leonard collins Award, which is given to a senior who has made large strides toward advancing the interests of notre dame students, according to the student Affairs website. 
coccia worked to improve the campus climate for LGbTQ stu­dents, undocumented students and students affected by sexual violence, the press release said. 
“I want to ensure that all stu­dents feel welcome at notre dame, and breaking the silence on issues that create oppressive environments is the first step towards that goal,” coccia said. “Ultimately, the student experi­ence is sacred, and we must en­sure that we as students do all we can to create a welcoming envi­ronment for all.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kumullen2@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

smc Alumnae Association selects outstanding senior 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news Writer 
The Alumnae Association board of directors presented the outstanding senior Award to malea schulte, an art major and mathematics minor. 
The award recognizes a member of the senior class who exemplifies the spirit and val­ues of the college, president of the Alumnae Association board of directors Karen mcnamara Weaver said. 
“Tradition dictates that the recipient be someone who car­ries out the beliefs of her faith in daily living and is distinguished by scholarship, leadership and outstanding dedication to saint mary’s — as demonstrated through participation in both curricular and extracurricular activities,” Weaver said. 
schulte was nominated by saint mary’s art professor Julie Tourtillotte. Tourtillotte said she nominated schulte for her exceptional academic record and exemplary service and leadership. 
“Whether working on an am­bitious senior comprehensive project in painting, serving as the student representative on our board of Trustees and an administrative resident advisor, earning a certificate in intercultural leadership or leading bella cappella, malea schulte embraces every op­portunity, works tirelessly and 
does  everything  very  well,”  
Tourtillotte said.  
mollie  valencia,  a  senior  

member of the Alumnae Association board of directors, 
said schulte has earned a posi­tive reputation around campus. 
“she stands out as a leader through her various extracur­ricular activities,” valencia said. “In everything she does, she puts her whole heart into it. 
“Whenever my committee needed any volunteers, she would be the first one to step. she is truly a person who em­bodies what it means to be a saint mary’s belle.” 
senior Landess Kearns said she believes her classmate ex­emplifies the ideal qualities of a saint mary’s student. 
“her intellect, passion and character are second to none,” Kearns said. “This community means so much to her and she gives so much of herself to the college every single day.” 
schulte will travel to rwanda with a service organization this summer, Tourtillotte said. 
“[schulte] has been an im­pressive and generous leader on our campus and has also embraced community service opportunities in Kansas city and Indianapolis,” she said. “In the fall she will begin an mFA program in community arts at The maryland Institute college of Art in baltimore.” 
schulte received the award may 12 at the Alumnae senior brunch, Weaver said. 
“As the valedictorian repre­sents the mind and the Lumen christi Award recipient re­flects the soul, the outstanding senior embodies the heart of saint mary’s,” Weaver said. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 




ROTC graduates commissioned as officers 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news Writer 
notre dame’s three reserve officer Training corps (roTc) programs will celebrate the commissioning of their gradu­ates in a special Tri-military commissioning ceremony on saturday, captain mark Williams, assistant professor of aerospace studies and operations flight com­mander of the Air Force roTc pro­gram, said. 
Williams said he feels his pro­gram’s nine graduating cadets are ready to take the next step in their lives within the Air Force. 
“I feel that our cadets are ready to go on and do great things for our nation and the United states Air Force,” he said. “They completed a tough program and have excelled while doing so. I’m extremely proud to have witnessed them grow as individuals and as leaders.” 
Lieutenant colonel and pro­fessor of military science John Polhamus said graduating mem­bers of the Army roTc program will work in various roles after commencement. 
“eight of the graduates will enter service on active duty, while five will serve in the national Guard, and two will serve in the Army reserves,” Polhamus said. “one graduate will go directly to medical school and will eventually serve as an army doctor. 
“our graduates will serve in a variety of different Army branches, including military intelligence, en­gineering, field artillery, infantry, aviation, ordinance, transporta­tion corps and signal corps.” 
Polhamus called this year’s grad­uating class “exceptional.” 
“I’ve had the honor to watch them grow and mature as a class for the past three years,” he said. “I have no doubt that they are pre­pared to enter the Army and serve with distinction as true leaders of character.” 
senior and former tri-military commander Tyler Thomas said he will attend nuclear power school to begin his training to serve aboard submarines. 
“All of the U.s. [Army] subma­rines are powered by nuclear re­actors, so it is important officers are technically competent enough to ensure the safe operation and maintenance of nuclear reactors,” Thomas said. “during my one and half years of additional school, I will study a variety of topics in­cluding calculus, thermodynam­ics and physics. After school, I will be stationed aboard a submarine for at least another three and a half years.” 
Thomas said notre dame’s Thomas said. “The unit has done a great job providing opportuni­ties for the midshipmen to strive as leaders.” 

senior maggie Armstrong said she will serve as a personnelist in the United states Air Force. 
“Personnelists perform a wide range of duties, included but not limited to performing and ad­ministering personnel programs, professional development classifi­cation, assignments, promotions, separations, personnel support for contingency operations and per­sonal affairs,” she said. “I’m excited to be moving to a new part of the country and start my life as an Air Force officer.” 
Armstrong said her experience in roTc has been “top-notch.” 
“In roTc, not only have I had the opportunity to come into my own and grow individually as a leader and follower, but I’ve also seen my fellow cadets grow into capable and confident leaders and stu­dents,” she said. “Without a doubt, Air Force roTc has been one of the defining pieces of my notre dame experience.” 
senior chris Lillie said he will stay on campus this summer to be the recruiter for notre dame’s Army roTc program. 
“I will be coordinating with the incoming freshmen that have ei­ther earned scholarships or have expressed interest in the program,” Lillie said. “After that, since I got the corps of engineering as my branch, I will be going down to Fort Leonard Wood, missouri, for engineering basic officer Leaders course for just under 20 weeks. I will learn everything there is to know about being an officer in gen­eral, and specifically how to be an engineering officer.” 
Lillie said his roTc experience has been invaluable to his academ­ic and professional experience at notre dame. 
“We have an extremely good pro­gram here, and we all feel extreme­ly prepared to enter the Army,” Lillie said. “not only have I learned so much here, but I also have devel­oped great relationships with the people around me in the program.” 
Polhamus said he has the ut­most confidence in the 2014 roTc graduates. 
“They will make themselves and notre dame very proud as they lead America’s sons and daughters.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
support of the campus naval roTc program was instrumental in his development. 
“The University has shown the utmost support of its roTc units, which has contributed greatly to my professional development,” 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Coccia, Joyce reflect on time in office, bid farewell 
By JACK ROONEY 
Associate news editor 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story originally appeared in the April 1 edition of The Observer. 
When their term in office came to an end April 1, student body president emeritus Alex coccia and vice president emeritus nancy Joyce said they only wish they had more time. 
Although his term as president is over, coccia said he believes current student body president Lauren vidal and vice president matthew devine will pick up right where his administration left off. 
“We just really wish he had more time to continue working on things, but Lauren and matt have been very gracious in look­ing at some of the projects that we have still been developing and that they’ll want to continue,” coccia said. 
Joyce said she felt her and coccia’s administration started important initiatives that will continue after they leave office. 
“I think the only regret would be that we really can’t see some of [our projects] all the way through,” she said. “I think we’ve laid the groundwork and have set it up for next year.” 
coccia said one such issue he wanted to progress more is medi­cal amnesty for students, par­ticularly with regard to alcohol consumption. 
“I think issue-wise … I wish we could have pushed [the discus­sion on medical amnesty] a little bit further, but we are happy to see where the conversation has progressed,” he said. “When we look at medical amnesty, I think in the past there has been a hesi­tancy to think about a specific policy because we don’t want to make it seem as if we’re condon­ing underage drinking, which is illegal. 
“however, where we’re coming from as representatives of the stu­dent body is that our first priority, regardless of what circumstanc­es happen in a night, is student safety and students getting the medical attention that they need if they so need it. so I think what we’ve been able to do is refocus the conversation on that aspect, and to show the need for some sort of explicit policy.” 
Joyce said in a more general sense, she felt her and coccia’s administration made student government more accessible and pertinent to student life. 
“I think generally speaking, I would say I’m really proud of the fact that this year’s student gov­ernment felt relevant,” she said. “And maybe that’s because we were in the office, but I think we did a lot this year where people who wouldn’t normally interact with student government did, and I’m really proud of that.” 
This past year student govern­ment achieved smaller, more con­crete goals, coccia said, but they also confronted problems more directly concerning all students, most notably the issue of sexual violence. 
“There’s obviously the tangible successes like the coffee cart in debartolo,” he said. “We’re proud of that one, but I think we also realize that student government could address larger student life issues than just something like the coffee cart. 
“I think before that maybe it wasn’t student government’s role to take the lead on something like sexual violence, but ultimate­ly students were the ones that pushed that and we developed the one is Too many campaign, which was a success in raising awareness about the issue, and framing things like the prayer services and bystander interven­tion training, which will be part of Frosh-o now.” 
coccia said the one is Too many campaign, a student government initiative aimed at sexual assault prevention and healing, mobilized the student body and brought the issue to the forefront of student discussion. 
“I think the one is Too many campaign was important be­cause not only did it raise the level of awareness and dialogue, but it touched, very directly, at least over 3,000 people,” he said. “We recognize that the pledge itself is not enough, but our hope was that it would raise the level of aware­ness and dialogue about the issue of sexual violence and about what our role in prevention is.” 
overall, Joyce said she thought the administration treated the office with professionalism, with the end result being a productive and effective term. 
“I think one thing we re­ally hoped to do, and I think we were largely successful at, was bringing a level of professional­ism to the office,” she said. “We approached it like a job and in­teracted with administrators on the same level.” 
conversely, Joyce said the pro­fessionalism the office requires can separate the administration from the students, something she said she believed her and coccia largely avoided. 
“At the same time, you have to realize that it’s a balancing act. If you allow yourself to get caught up in the full-time job aspect of it, that’s where the distance between you and the students you’re representing comes,” she said. “I think we’ve done a pretty good job of walking that line, but it’s a very fine line of having a respect for the office and the professionalism that’s neces­sary, and then also recognizing the need to be normal college students.” 
both coccia and Joyce said they will live and work in Washington following graduation, coccia working with the department of health and human services through the Truman scholarship program, and Joyce with defense consulting firm Avascent Group. 
Joyce said she wanted to ex­tend her personal thanks to the student body for their sup­port, engagement and feedback throughout the past year. 
“It’s really been a pleasure,” she said. “Personally, I have enjoyed this experience and the opportu­nity to represent some of the best and the brightest in the country. It has been pretty incredible to really see what notre dame stu­dents are all about.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 



Class of 2014 utilizes career planning resources 
Saint Mary’s Career Crossings Office aids seniors in their hunt for post-graduation employment 
at my disposal at the british Library,” 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 

Associate saint mary’s editor burkhardt said. “King’s also offers in­
ternships as a part of their grad stud-
director of the career crossings ies at places like the Globe Theater and office (cco) stacie Jeffirs said ac-british museum, so I will be looking to cording to the collegiate employment participate in a more well-rounded ex-research Institute (cerI), hiring of perience in that way. bachelor’s level college graduates is up “I also think living abroad teaches seven percent this year over the last you a type of independence that can year. only come from being abroad.” 
“Although the increase is slight, the Jeffirs said the liberal arts education job outlook for college graduates has saint mary’s provides gives students been making a steady and gradual the necessary tools to be competitive comeback since the recession hit in and relevant in today’s economy. 2008 and 2009,” Jeffirs said. “The college prepares students to 
Jeffirs said the college’s graduate be global citizens and to be able to re-destination survey showed that ap-spond to the ever-changing workforce proximately 73 percent of the class of not only through classroom experienc­2014 intends to pursue employment es, but also experiential activities and opportunities while almost 40 percent campus leadership opportunities,” she intend to pursue graduate or profes-said. sional school or other studies. A little burkhardt said her saint mary’s ed-more than 12 percent intend to pursue ucation has made all the difference internships or externships and 6.8 per-in allowing her to craft and follow her cent intend to pursue post-graduate dreams. service or volunteer opportunities. “I think my english professors as 
The survey results overlap in some well as the saint mary’s study abroad categories, as some graduates intend program have prepared me so well for to pursue graduate or professional the next part of my journey,” she said. school or other studies in addition to “my professors have given me the tools employment or other activities, Jeffirs that are necessary to create thought-said. ful and scholarly insights on literature 
senior Gianna burkhardt will attend and how to stand on my own in class King’s college in London after gradu-discussion.” ation to work towards a masters in Jeffirs said cco has been a valuable english literature with a focus in lit-resource for many seniors this year, erature from the 1850s-present. providing students with education and 
After studying abroad in rome dur-resources to aid those looking for a job. ing her sophomore year, burkhardt “We assist students in the entire job said she knew she wanted to travel search process including network­post-graduation. ing strategies, connecting students 
“Prior to studying in rome, I thought to alumnae through our Alumnae I was bound to the United states, but resource network and LinkedIn, re-after, I have discovered a whole new searching employers and options, world waiting for me to explore it,” she writing resumes and cover letters and said. “If it hadn’t been for my educa-honing interviewing skills,” Jeffirs tion and experience at saint mary’s, said. “We teach students the job I’m not sure if I would have the cour-searching and decision making skills age to follow my passion.” they can use throughout their entire 
burkhardt said she hopes to devel-life.” op her love for english literature in a Jeffirs said cco will be open all place so rooted in its history while us-summer. ing the skills she developed during her “our office offers lifetime services to time at saint mary’s. alumnae and is here to help graduates 
“I will be studying english litera-even after commencement,” she said. ture, which I think will be a richer experience because I’ll have many of Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at the documents I will be studying right hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Notre Dame Career Center reports increased hiring rate across all majors 
alumni in their ranks, Flanagan said. 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
news Writer “We are extremely blessed to have 
the kind of dedicated alumni commu-

Graduating seniors of all majors saw nity that we do here at notre dame,” an increased hiring rate in multiple she said. “The extended notre dame sectors, especially in entry-level posi-family goes out of its way to help stu­tions, hilary Flanagan, director of the dents who are seeking information career center, said. on various career paths, employers, 
“If entering the job market was graduate programs, geographic areas, something you wanted to do, there et cetera. were employers from a wide variety of “many of those participating in on-industries and of all sizes looking for campus recruiting at career fairs or students across all majors,” Flanagan through interviews, posting positions said. “on-campus recruiting numbers in Go Irish or sharing their experienc­are still on the incline, and entry-level es at information sessions throughout hiring across sectors was up from the the year are nd alumni. Fortunately, previous five years.” our current nd students continue to 
The office of strategic Planning and meet and exceed their expectations.” Institutional research collects most of The fact that so many graduates find the quantitative data about the class great jobs immediately out of college of 2014, and a full report will not be available until next spring, Flanagan 
“The extended Notre 

said. still, she said the career center 
Dame family goes 

could predict certain trends in the class of 2014’s future plans. 
out of its way to help 

“Typically, we have about 60 percent 
students who are 

of students who enter the world of 
seeking information 

work after graduation, with just under 
on various career 

a third of the class headed off to grad­uate school,” Flanagan said. “notre 
paths, employers, 

dame typically has nine to 10 percent 
graduate programs, 

of the student body commit to a year 
geographic areas, et 

or more of service upon graduation.” 
cetera.” 

some of the most popular careers include financial analyst, account 
Hilary Flanagan 

manager, marketing assistant, re­
director 

search assistant, teacher, field engi-
Career Center 

neer, actuarial assistant, technical analyst and medical scribe, Flanagan correlates directly to the quality of said. careers as consultants are in-the students’ notre dame educations, creasing as a popular choice, she said. Flanagan said. 
“We do see more students from all “notre dame students have an ex-majors heading into the consulting cellent track record of finding fan-field,” Flanagan said. “This trend ap-tastic first destinations immediately pears to be gathering momentum, as after graduation,” she said. “even bet-our students are more highly sought ter, our graduates go on to have life-after for consulting work across in-long career success, truly making a dustry sectors.” positive impact while sharing their 
The office of strategic Planning unique talents with the world. and Institutional research also gath-“It is a pleasure for me to work ers data on geographical spread and with my team in the career center, publishes its findings next spring, but as well as our campus partners and Flanagan said notre dame graduates alumni, to foster the positive succes­tend to distribute themselves very sion of each graduate’s lifetime career widely across the country and the transitions.” globe. many in the class of 2014 will also move into careers with compa-Contact Kayla Mullen at nies that include other notre dame kmullen2@nd.edu 
smc switches to eco-friendly graduation gowns 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news Writer 
In 2010, a commencement speech by marine biologist sylvia earle inspired the use of environmentally-friendly graduation caps and gowns. more eco-friendly adjust­ments will be incorporated into this year’s saint mary’s class regalia, executive as­sistant to the president susan dampeer said. 
“We are very pleased with the new robes and hoods — they are both environmen­tally friendly and beautiful,” dampeer said. 
This will be the first time balfour has provided caps and gowns for the college, although the the two have had a partnership for 50 years, balfour representative edward o’neil said. balfour and partner oak hall cap & Gown also supply gowns for notre dame and holy cross college, o’neil said. 
“Previous gowns were made from unfriendly ac­etate, which is not recycled nor recyclable,” he said. “even rentals have a large carbon footprint because of much higher transportation costs, plus the toxicity of dry cleaning fluid.” 
According to the oak hall website, both carbon dioxide gas emissions and petroleum usage are reduced by more than 50 percent through the manufacturing process. The process begins when pro­cessed plastic bottles are broken into flakes and chips to be melted down and re­formed into a filament yarn, which is then dyed and used to weave the GreenWeaver gowns, the website said. 
The plastic bags and boxes which transport the gowns are also made from recycled cardboard, the website said. 
Unwanted gowns can be turned in to be recycled af­ter graduation, o’neil said. 
“GreenWeaver gowns are manufactured from recov­ered water bottles, approxi­mately 23 per gown, and can be again recycled after­ward,” o’neil said. 
more than 41 million wa­ter bottles have been re­cycled as a result of the GreenWeaver gowns, o’neil said. Using recycled water bottles provides not only a “green” gown alternative but also gives a gown a more luxurious feel and look than in the past, o’neil said. 
“Isn’t it all of our respon­sibilities to keep the earth more as God created it and maintain a small carbon footprint, while at the same time recognizing and cel­ebrating human achieve­ment?” o’neil said. 
dampeer said the college is committed indefinitely to using environmentally-friendly regalia for future commencements. 
more information about the new gowns can be found at www.oakhalli.com 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Graduates to serve in under-resourced schools 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news Writer 
With senior year at a close, students are combining final celebrations with preparations for upcoming employment, graduate schools and volunteer positions. This year, 95 recent college graduates will venture to more than 35 cities across the nation to take on full-time teaching positions through the Alliance for catholic education (Ace). 
According to Ace co-found­er Fr. sean mcGraw, 48 notre dame graduates will begin the Ace program, a two-year ser­vice assignment combined with a masters in education, aimed at assisting under-resourced catholic schools across the nation. 
“The mission of Ace is to strengthen and sustain catholic schools and transform catholic schools throughout the United states,” he said. 
mcGraw said the program in­vites recent college graduates to explore teaching as a potential vocation and serve as teachers in areas in need of energetic, faith-filled educators ready to use their talents to help young children discover their own gifts. 
“We want talented, smart, generous, adventuresome students who are willing to do whatever it takes to help kids learn,” he said. “I think there are a lot of unknowns in terms of you don’t know where you’re going to get sent, and you’ve never taught before.” 
The first year of teaching is one of the biggest challenges for an educator, and mcGraw said it in some ways requires students to take a leap of faith in using their gifts to teach. 
senior matt Jewell said he decided he wanted to pursue a teaching career at the end of his freshman year at notre dame. After his advisor suggested Ace as a potential graduate pro­gram, Jewell said the more he looked into it, the more inter­ested he became. 
“I remember how much of a difference having great teachers made to me, and I’m thankful for the opportunities that I’ve had to get to where I am in life now,” he said. “I already knew I wanted to teach, so it’s nice to be giving back while also doing what I love. It’s a win-win.” 
Jewell said he was randomly assigned to a school in south-central Los Angeles and will teach every subject in his fourth grade classroom. 
“I’m just excited to get into a classroom and get started with teaching,” he said. “I also can’t wait to get to know the other Ace members in Los Angeles.” 
senior Kelsie corriston will also serve in the Los Angeles area later this year teaching third graders at our Lady of victory elementary school in compton, calif. she said she applied to Ace because she has always had an interest in education. 
“I’m an [education, schooling and society] minor here and so I figured that I wanted to teach after college, but I also wanted to do service, and I also want­ed to get my masters, so the program was a perfect fit,” she said. 


corriston said she heard about Ace during the spring of her first year through her First Year of studies adviser. After taking a one-credit course, “Giving back through education,” she said she knew she wanted to both teach and serve. 
“I’ve always felt like my best self and my most useful self when I’ve done service,” she said. “I’ve done a lot through the [center for social concerns] … I did a [summer service Learning Program] and an [International summer service Learning Program] this past summer. 
“on a personal level I feel like our education and everything else that we get from notre dame and other places aren’t really worth it until you take what you’ve learned and apply it to the world, and in my case that’s been through service … that’s where I’ve felt the most joy in my life.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

Seniors continue journey toward religious vows 
religious life,” he said. 
By MARGARET HYNDS 

news Writer A new York native, Guzman­
dominguez said he wanted to 

After graduation, as many of be a priest since his sophomore their classmates start new ca-year of high school. reers, attend graduate school “I think my calling is in some or begin post-graduate service, way to be an intellectual,” he a handful of seniors will begin said. “I was attracted to orders the process of entering religious that had a strong intellectual el-life. ement to their vocation, which 
Joshua bathon, vincent means not only that they are nguyen and Alfredo Guzman-academics, but that study in­dominguez will all begin a year forms the way they approach at their orders’ respective novi-their faith and they way they tiates in late summer. approach their life. … caring 
Joshua bathon and vincent about things like literature and nguyen, both graduates of the art and beauty is almost a staple old college undergraduate sem-of the dominicans.” inary program at notre dame, While he does not know ex-will spend the next year at the actly what work he will do in the congregation of holy cross’s future, Guzman-dominguez novitiate beginning in August. said he plans to keep his options bathon, a history and philoso-open. phy major from south carolina, “I would probably choose to described the novitiate experi-work in a university,” he said. to do,” he said. “… of course, I’ll future … starting to think about “I’ve learned all of those ence as “a long retreat, essen-“I don’t know if I would choose go wherever I end up. I’d love to making colleges work together,” things people tend to worry tially,” which includes “a lot of to go for further studies and to go to France and visit the priest he said. “I went to a wedding about — not having money, not prayer and silence.” become a professor … I think I in charge of creating the shrine and in the vows they said, “I getting married — they’re sacri-
At the novitiate in colorado, would like that — I would love of basil moreau.” give myself to you unreserv-fices made out of love. I’m giving bathon and nguyen will receive to teach Italian and dante — When bathon entered old edly,” and I realized I couldn’t myself up. my entire life will be their habits and take vows of but I would really like to work college, he said he still was not say that because there was this focused on every single person, poverty, chastity and obedi-with students and their lives sure about whether or not he question in my head. That’s and giving my life to them. ence. After that year, they will personally, so maybe some-wanted to enter religious life. when I started reconsidering “I’ve found a beauty in that in return to notre dame to receive thing like campus ministry. he said he had entertained the putting myself in the seminary, the last four years. I want [my their masters of divinity. That’s a place where I think you idea throughout high school, not because I knew I wanted to friends] to know that yes, I am 
Guzman-dominguez, who can make Jesus present almost but he was unsure if entering be a priest, but because I need-going to be alright; it’s going to lived in morrissey manor, will more directly.” seminary right away would be ed to figure it out.” be a beautiful life, and I’m so ex-enter the dominican order after nguyen, an economics and the right decision. bathon said his experience cited to be a part of it.” graduation and move to their philosophy major, said he could “but my senior year of high in the undergraduate seminary novitiate in st. Louis. see himself becoming a pastor. school I was dating a girl, and has made him feel prepared for Contact Margaret Hynds at 
“It’s like boot camp for “That’s just what I feel called I was starting to think about a the vocation to the priesthood. mhynds@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

nd advances to Final Four again 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
At the start of the season in november, the question on ev­eryone’s mind was: how will notre dame transition to its new era in the Acc, especially with­out All-American guard skylar diggins? 
The Irish seemed to have found their answer, running the table to win the Acc regular season and tournament championships and extending their undefeated streak to 37 games before falling to connecticut in the national championship game. 
As a result of the confidence notre dame (37-1, 16-0 Acc) displayed on the court and the dominant victories it picked up, winning all but two games by 10 points or more, even Irish coach muffet mcGraw said her team’s results were better than she an­ticipated in november. 
“This season way exceeded our expectations,” she said. “We really overachieved, I thought, and exceeded all expectations. 
To go undefeated, to go into the Final Four and Acc undefeated, to win the [Acc] tournament, I don’t think we really expected that.” 
much of that success resulted from the play of the so-called “big Three” — senior guard Kayla mcbride, senior forward natalie Achonwa and sopho­more guard Jewell Loyd — who combined to average 51.1 points, 
19.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game for the Irish. 
All three earned AP All-American accolades, with mcbride on the first team, Loyd on the second and Achonwa on the third. mcbride and Loyd were also chosen as members of the 10-player WbcA coaches’ All-American team, with mcbride’s selection the second of her col­lege career. 
“We definitely expected that those three were going to play a major role,” mcGraw said. “Kayla was All-American [in 2013], and we kind of knew coming in that 
see W bAsKeTbALL PAGE 28 
FOOTBALL 

Irish finish season 9-4 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 

standing in front of the media following his team’s Pinstripe bowl victory, Irish head coach brian Kelly was asked how he would remember the 2013 season. 
“A good year that could have been a great year,” Kelly said. 
Kelly pointed to strong wins, like a gritty victory over Usc in mid-october, but, in the end, the Irish finished 9-4, suffer­ing losses against michigan, oklahoma, Pittsburgh and stanford. 
“I would say a couple of missed opportunities in some games where we very easily could have been a team that’s looking at double-digit wins,” Kelly said. “And that’s where we want to be every year.” 
Following an undefeated regular season and a trip to the bcs national championship in 2012, expectations were high for the Irish in 2013. notre dame, however, was tasked with re­placing a host of departed se­niors, most notably linebacker and heisman Trophy runner-up manti Te’o. before the Irish even began summer workouts ahead of the 2013 campaign, they were without their other no. 5 . junior quarterback everett Golson, who was suspended for the fall semester for academic reasons. 
senior Tommy rees took over as the starter, and the veteran quarterbacked the Irish offense to 27.2 points per game, slot­ting notre dame at 74th in the nation. The defense took a step 


OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 
Once-quiet seniors become stars 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant managing editor 
Three senior captains were chosen to lead the Irish in 2013; two were vo­cal defenders who, side by side, formed the heart of a staunch Irish defense, but the other captain was a silent forward who led the team by example. 
senior harrison shipp did not say much, but That’s who he is.” 

A man of few words, shipp preferred to allow his play to lead the team, and it did, as he led the Irish to their first national championship. shipp was named the 2013 college cup co-most outstanding Player, alongside the na­tion’s leading scorer, maryland’s senior forward Patrick mullins. 
“I think those two [de-back from the unit that finished second in the nation in scoring defense in 2012, yet notre dame still ended the season ranked 27th, allowing 22.4 points per game. 
The defense was stout in the season opener against Temple, as the Irish surrendered just one touchdown en route to a 
see FooTbALL PAGE 27 
her game and worked her way into the starting rotation alongside diggins and three seniors. she averaged 11.6 points per game and appeared in ev­ery game for the Irish. she recorded her first career double-double against archrival connecticut, in addition to sinking the game-winning basket in overtime. In the national title game, which the Irish lost to baylor, mcbride was notre dame’s second-leading scorer behind diggins and tied for the team lead in assists. 
“she probably made more of a trans­formation than anybody because she transformed her body,” Irish coach muffet mcGraw said. “she really, re­ally worked hard on her diet and in the weight room. 
“she always worked hard on her game. I knew that was not going to be an issue. but she just got better every single year. her confidence grew. she got a little bit of a swagger to her game. she worked so hard on both ends of the floor, and she always just wanted to get better. she loved a challenge . she never wanted you to say, ‘You’re doing really good, so stay right there.’” 
That swagger became even more apparent in mcbride’s junior season. she scored in double figures 32 times and became notre dame’s go-to scorer as opponents swarmed diggins with double teams. At the end of the regular 
see mcbrIde PAGE 26 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

McBride 
conTInUed From PAGe 25 
season, mcbride scored a then-career-high 26 points against connecticut to help the Irish secure a triple-overtime victory. 
In the postseason, she was more dominant than ever, av­eraging over 20 points in her last 11 games, and mcbride was named the big east tour­nament’s most outstanding Player. At the end of the year, she was honored as an All-American by the AP and Women’s basketball coaches Association (WbcA). 
Kayla mcbride was not al­ways a national player of the year candidate. 
“she wanted to be the best, and she was just so fun to coach,” mcGraw said. “her im­provement from high school, where she wasn’t ranked that high coming out, maybe some­where in the high 20s or 30s, and then to be the national player of the year candidate, that was a pretty amazing story.” 
When skylar diggins gradu­ated in 2013, most commen­tators did not think the Irish could return to the Final Four for a fourth straight season, a feat only five other schools had ever accomplished. despite the return of mcbride and three other starters, the Irish fell to no. 7 nationally in the pre­season polls. 
At notre dame, howev­er, both the players and the coaches saw diggins’ absence as a chance to employ a more balanced attack. mcbride was the team’s highest returning scorer, but she said she felt no pressure to fill in completely for diggins. 
“I think [my goal this year] was just to do a little more,” mcbride said. “more rebound­ing, more scoring, just more. When we lost sky, she did ev­erything, so it was up to a cou­ple of us to pick up the slack. It wasn’t just going to come from one person, so I tried to do a lit­tle bit of everything, and then we had [senior forward natalie Achonwa] doing more, [sopho­more Jewell Loyd] doing more, so it wasn’t just about me; it was about the team.” 
As one of notre dame’s senior leaders alongside Achonwa and forward Ariel braker, mcbride set new career highs in points, rebounds and assists per game. In notre dame’s first year in the Acc, mcbride was voted Acc Player of the Year by the league’s coaches and led the Irish to the conference title. 
Throughout the season, mcGraw consistently referred to mcbride as one of the best players in the country. she was named to the Wooden Award midseason watch list, along with Loyd and Achonwa, and was one of four finalists for the AP Player of the Year award. 
Although mcbride lost out to stanford forward chiney ogwumike for the Wooden award and to connecticut sophomore forward breanna stewart for the AP honor, mcbride said she was satisfied with how her season played out. 
“breanna stewart is a great player,” mcbride said. “At the end of the day, she won the award and I didn’t, so that’s all I really have to say about it.” 
Kayla mcbride was not al­ways a leader. 
“my thing was always that I didn’t like to talk,” mcbride said. “I wasn’t very vocal, and I think that with [Achonwa] and [braker], they were more enforcers, and they were able to use their voice a lot more. so that’s something that I had to grow in and be confident in the things I would say to my team­mates on the court. so I think that was the biggest thing . that I grew as a leader. I think I had great leaders around me too. coach mcGraw, [Achonwa], having those sorts of people around starts to rub off on you.” 
mcbride’s quiet leadership was put to the test this season, first filling in for diggins and then again when Achonwa, the team’s vocal leader, went down with a torn AcL in the elite eight. Without its lead­ing rebounder and loudest presence on the court, notre dame faced a tough matchup in the Final Four against no. 4 maryland and senior forward Alyssa Thomas, who ranked second in the nation with 28 double-doubles. 
With one last chance for a national championship, mcbride took over against the Terrapins, taking 21 shots from the field and leading all scor­ers with 28 points to preserve notre dame’s unbeaten run in an 87-61 win. 
mcbride did not let up in notre dame’s 79-58 loss to connecticut in the champion­ship game, leading the Irish with 21 points. At the end of the year, she was named to the all-tournament team and rec­ognized as a unanimous All-American selection. 
Kayla mcbride was not al­ways a top-three draft pick. 
After entering college ranked 20th in her class by esPn, mcbride left school by follow­ing in skylar diggins’ foot­steps. mcbride was taken by the san Antonio stars with the third pick in the WnbA draft April 14. she and Achonwa, who was selected ninth over­all, are the fourth and fifth for­mer Irish players to be chosen in the top 10. 
“It’s amazing,” mcGraw said. “I think it says so much for the recruiting that we’re doing, the development of the play­ers. It’s really been amazing that we’ve been able to sustain our success, despite losing so many good players. It’s an op­portunity for kids to come in at a young age and contribute as freshmen and know that they’re going to get better and that the WnbA is a reality for them.” 
on may 2, mcbride made her preseason debut for the stars and logged 18 minutes against diggins and the Tulsa shock. The shock blew out the stars, 82-59, and mcbride scored only three points. In a rematch four days later, however, mcbride and diggins led their respec­tive teams in scoring. 
When asked what she ex­pects to see from mcbride in her pro career, mcGraw said she had high expectations. 
“Great things, just great things,” she said. “she has a really good pro body and pro game. I think she’s going to be really successful at the next level.” 
As mcbride begins her WnbA career, she leaves an impressive mark in notre dame’s record book. she ranks first in career free-throw percentage, fifth in points and sixth in games played. mcbride is also one of only five players to score 1,800 points and grab 600 rebounds. but her biggest legacy with the Irish will be in the people she leaves behind, she said. 
“[I’ll miss] just being with my teammates and my coaches,” mcbride said. “That’s the main reason I came here, coach mcGraw and the assistant coaches and the teammates who I consider sisters. I think that’s the thing that I’m going to miss the most. That’s the thing that I’m most emotional about having to leave them be­cause we’re so close. We do ev­erything together. I’m ready to see how they grow.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
Shipp 
conTInUed From PAGe 25 
in the first round of the 2013 mLs superdraft, which left shipp as the anchor of the team’s new of­fensive attack in 2013.
 “one thing we wanted to fo­cus on [in 2013] was not replac­ing those two guys, because they were two great players who are doing well in the pros now,” shipp said. “so we implemented a new style where we’re more fluid and everyone in the attack interchanges. 
“I think it really helped play­ing the first few years with dillon [Powers] and ryan [Finley]; they showed me what it took to be really successful,” shipp said. “our team chemis­try [in 2013] really contributed to my success ... everyone un­derstood where to get the ball and to find the right spots, ev­eryone around me put me in a spot to succeed.” 
In four seasons, shipp did not miss a game. he said his consis­tency, dedication and competi­tiveness did not go unnoticed by his teammates. 
“I like to compete,” shipp said. “I’ve had a lot of small inju­ries. I’ve been fortunate enough to not have any significant inju­ries. We’ve had some guys tear their AcLs and stuff, which is always incredibly sad. I think just not ever wanting to miss a game, it shows teammates that I do want to play every game, no matter how hurt or sore I am.” 
shipp collected numerous accolades over his career, in­cluding third team All-big east, second team All-Great Lakes region, Academic All-American, and scholar All-American hon­ors in 2012. In 2013, shipp was named a mAc hermann Trophy finalist, co-most outstanding Player, first-team All-American honors, first-team All-Acc, Acc offensive Player of the Year, scholar All-American, Acc scholar-Athlete of the Year, to name a few. 
shipp, a native of Lake Forest, Ill., was signed to the chicago Fire as a homegrown player and has made an instant impact, notching four assists and three goals in eight games, including a hat trick against the new York red bulls on saturday. 
At the beginning of the sea­son, shipp said he wanted to see the Irish be the top team in the country, and since then, he helped them accomplished this goal. 
“The legacy of the senior class will be the first class to lead notre dame to a national cham­pionship and look back and see that this class started the tran­sition to become a winning na­tional program and a threat for future national titles,” he said. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 





Football 
“We were really, really close but not good enough, not good 
conTInUed From PAGe 25 
enough,” Kelly mused. 

The next week against Purdue, 28-6 victory at home. The offense notre dame picked up a 31-24 surged out of the gates too, scor-win to move to 2-1 before heading ing on its first two drives in just home to host michigan state. three plays each. rees threw for The Irish eked out a 17-13 win 346 yards and three touchdowns. over the spartans (13-1, 8-0 big 
“obviously a lot of questions Ten), who would not lose for the coming in is ‘could we push the rest of the season, which culmi­ball down the field?’” Kelly said nated in a rose bowl win. after the win. “I think we an-michigan state committed 10 swered a lot of those questions penalties for 115 yards against right away.” the Irish. A pair of defensive pass 
The receiving corps set the interference penalties on the tone, as senior receiver TJ Jones spartans extended two notre notched six receptions for 138 dame drives, both of which end-yards, junior receiver davaris ed in touchdowns. daniels tallied two touchdown but notre dame couldn’t carry receptions and junior tight end the momentum from the tight Troy niklas posted one of his win into the following week own. against oklahoma (11-2, 7-2 big mustered only 32 total yards in of the way. his career by making his 52nd 
but in Week 2 against michigan XII). rees threw interceptions on the third quarter. “I tried to get momentum from consecutive start, a school record. (7-6, 3-5 big Ten), it was the the first two Irish possessions, “Usc is a great team, a great, it, get guys going, but losing Tuitt martin is just one of 18 two-time Wolverines’ passing game that and oklahoma led 14-0 just 2:45 powerful team,” junior defensive to the defense is a big difference,” captains in program history, and torched the Irish. Playing under into the game. The contest was end stephon Tuitt said. “They’re Irish senior cornerback and tri-the 6-foot-4, 308-pounder was the lights in Ann Arbor, mich., essentially even from there, and our rivals, so they’re going to captain bennett Jackson said. “It’s named notre dame’s top lineman before an ncAA-record crowd of the sooners prevailed, 35-21. come and play hard. For us to stop a big hole to fill. And we just tried in each of his last four seasons. 115,109, michigan jumped out to “They were kind of freak inter-them was awesome. It was a great to come together as a defense and martin’s fellow captain, Jones, a 27-13 halftime lead and held on ceptions, not normal intercep-team effort and a great defensive continue to pull it out.” led the squad with 70 recep­down the stretch to earn the win tions,” Jones said after the game. effort as a whole.” rees completed just 18 of 39 tions for 1,108 yards and 11 total in the rivalry game, 41-30. “I think it was oklahoma just Tuitt, after a slow start to the passes and tossed two intercep-touchdowns. 
Wolverines redshirt junior catching a little bit of luck and re-season, looked like his 2012 self tions, and Jones fumbled inside defensively, Tuitt and senior quarterback devin Gardner ally capitalizing off our mistakes.” in the game. The defensive end Pittsburgh’s 10-yard line. The Louis nix manned the line, threw for four touchdowns and The Irish, though, then em-racked up seven tackles and two Irish committed five penalties though both battled injuries added 82 yards and a score on the barked on a four-game winning sacks, including a momentous and failed to scoop up a live ball at opposite ends of the season. ground. Wolverines redshirt se-streak, beginning with a 37-34 takedown on fourth down in the — believing the play to be dead Freshman linebacker Jaylon nior receiver Jeremy Gallon sliced victory over Arizona state in the final minutes of the game. — fumbled by Panthers redshirt smith emerged as a solid starter through the Irish secondary to shamrock series in Arlington, After wins over Air Force and senior quarterback Tom savage in from day one, and the rookie fin-the tune of 184 yards and three Texas. Two weeks later, notre navy, the Irish slipped up against the fourth quarter. ished third on the team with 67 touchdowns. dame rode a stifling defense and Pittsburgh (7-6, 3-5 Acc) on nov. “The execution on offense was tackles. 
“This was one of those games defeated Usc (10-4, 6-3 Pac 12), 9, effectively ending any hope awful,” Kelly said. “defensively, notre dame was hit with in-that our offense needed to carry 14-10, under the lights at notre for a bcs bowl appearance. Tuitt we kept drives alive . pass-interfer-juries throughout the season, the day for us,” Kelly said after-dame stadium. was ejected in the first quarter for ence penalties, personal fouls. We especially on the offensive and ward. “And we just came up short The Irish didn’t allow a point in targeting, and the Panthers out-weren’t alert enough to get on the defensive lines. With freshman on a couple of key plays for us.” the second half, and the Trojans scored notre dame, 28-14, the rest ball for the fumble. … It’s on ev-safety max redfield earning his 
erybody. You can’t single out one first career start in the Pinstripe PAId AdverTIsemenT 
thing. To a large degree, though, bowl, he became the 19th differ-the execution was very poor.” ent player to start a game on de-
The loss dropped notre dame fense during the season. to 7-3, and, following a win over still, injuries aside, Kelly said brigham Young and a loss to no. the season came down to missed 8 stanford (11-3, 7-0 Pac 12) to opportunities for the Irish. finish the regular season, the “A good year, but it’s not enough Irish accepted an invitation to for us,” he said. “9-4 is a good year the Pinstripe bowl at Yankee for notre dame. It’s not what we stadium in new York. notre sign up for every year. dame downed the rutgers, 29-16, “We wanted a little bit more out to finish 9-4. of this year.” 
Irish graduate student left tack­le Zack martin, who was named Contact Mike Monaco at mvP of the Pinstripe bowl, closed jmonaco@nd.edu 






the majority of the game, the completed their trio of road tests W Basketball cavaliers cut their deficit to with a contest against then-no. 
conTInUed From PAGe 25 

two points with less than four 3 duke, who was voted to finish 
minutes remaining. backed by first in the Acc in the preseason she was going to be a player-of-Achonwa’s career-high 29 points coaches’ poll, in durham, n.c. the-year candidate. Jewell had and 16 rebounds, notre dame While there was much pre­a phenomenal freshman year, fought for its first of two single-game hype about the matchup so we expected she was going to digit wins, 79-72. between two top-three teams, have a pretty good year. natalie eight days later, the squad notre dame cruised to a blow-was playing the best basketball began a difficult stretch of road out 88-67 win, leading from start of her career, too. so it was great games with a come-from-be-to finish against the blue devils. to see the three of them contin-hind win over no. 12 Tennessee, Loyd said the mid-winter ue to improve and to be talked 86-70. The Irish trailed by 12 stretch of road games proved the about quite a lot on the national points to the Lady vols at one Irish were a force to be reckoned scene.” point in the first half and en-with. 
mcbride, who started all 38 tered halftime down four, but “It was very key,” she said. games and averaged 29.4 min-they responded in the second “It tested how tough we were utes of play in those contests, half to claim the win, as five and how deep our bench was. was named the Acc Player of players scored in double figures, definitely in that game against the Year and a finalist for the including mcbride, junior guard Tennessee, our bench play was naismith Trophy and the Wade madison cable and sophomore very clutch, so it just showed Trophy, which honor the top guard michaela mabrey, all of how tough we were.” player in the country. whom hit three 3-pointers. After that span, notre dame 
For her part in guiding notre mcbride said the deep group closed out its unbeaten regular dame to success that many of reserve players, including season with eight more wins pundits did not think the team mabrey, cable and freshman over Acc foes, including a sec-would achieve, mcGraw swept forward Taya reimer, was the ond victory over duke, to earn national coach-of-the-year hon-key to battling through the chal-the conference title. ors for the third time in her ca-lenging season. The squad then headed to reer, earning the AP, UsbWA, “That was the reason we were Greensboro, n.c., for its first Acc naismith and Pat summitt (for-so successful this year, because tournament, in which it beat merly WbcA) awards. of our bench,” mcbride said. Florida state, north carolina 
“my staff does such a phenom-“I think michaela mabrey was state and duke for the tourna­enal job, and when you have a the best sixth man on the year. ment crown, marking the second team play as well as we did, I Taya reimer came off and did year in a row it picked up a con-think it’s a reward for the staff, big things. It was a collabora-ference tournament title. The and it’s a team award for us,” tive effort, and I think that’s why Irish bested connecticut in 2013 in the first two rounds in Toledo, roles, but they just have fun and mcGraw said. were so successful because even for the big east championship. ohio. do their game.” 
en route to collecting those when we went to our bench, we “I think [the Acc is] probably The Irish then headed home The win set up a highly-an­accolades, the Irish battled didn’t lose anything — we actu-the best league in women’s bas-for two regional games at Purcell ticipated matchup with former through the nation’s second-ally gained something.” ketball,” mcGraw said. “so to go Pavilion against oklahoma big east rival connecticut on toughest schedule to pick up 14 A week later, notre dame through that and to do it in back-state and baylor, who defeated April 8, the first time in ncAA wins against ranked opponents, snuck away from no. 6 maryland to-back years, in the big east and notre dame in the 2012 national tournament history that two eight of those against top-10 with a close 87-83 victory in into the Acc … I think this team championship. undefeated teams faced off for foes. college Park, md., on Jan. 27. continues to step up to any chal-In the elite eight matchup the championship. While the 
After breezing through non-Loyd posted a career-high 31 lenge that’s given to them.” against the bears, notre dame two teams had met at least once conference play, notre dame points in a game that saw her With that championship, faced its first challenge of the in the regular season every year faced its first real test of the sea-team squander a 22-point lead, notre dame earned an outright tournament when Achonwa tore since 1995, scheduling did not son Jan. 12 in its third Acc game, only to scramble for the four-berth and a no. 1 seed in its 19th-her left AcL with less than five allow them to play until the during a visit to charlottesville, point win against a resilient consecutive ncAA tournament, minutes remaining. Though she ncAA tournament this season. va., to take on virginia. Terrapins squad. where it took on robert morris had to be helped off the floor, “It’s just a good game for 
Though the Irish led for six days after that, the Irish and Arizona state, respectively, the senior captain delivered a fi-women’s basketball in general,” ery motivational pep talk to her mcbride said of the matchup team, who responded by collect-with the huskies. “It would ing an 88-69 win to advance to have sucked if people didn’t get its fourth-straight Final Four. to see that rivalry, because it’s 
mcGraw said the team con-such an intense game and so tinually counted on its three competitive.” seniors — Achonwa, mcbride Though the Irish were able and forward Ariel braker — to to keep the first half relatively carry it through challenges like close, entering halftime in a sev­Achonwa’s injury. en-point deficit after being down 
“We had great leadership,” she as many as 14, the huskies came said. “our senior class was phe-out on top in the end, 79-58. nomenal, and really everyone The loss was the final game in contributed.” the collegiate careers of braker, 
In nashville, Tenn., for the mcbride and Achonwa — the Final Four, the Irish faced latter two of whom were se­maryland again, but this time, lected April 14 in the first round they did not have trouble retain-of the WnbA draft by the san ing their lead, running away Antonio stars and Indiana Fever, from the Terrapins with an 87-61 respectively. victory to put them in the na-With the season’s only defeat tional championship game for on their minds, the returning the third time in four years. Irish have an opportunity to re-
once again, contributions take the series momentum when from the bench helped notre the rivals renew their competi­dame in the national semifinal, tion dec. 6 at Purcell Pavilion in with junior forward markisha the Jimmy v Women’s classic. Wright — who averaged nine “That was a really tough loss minutes per game on the season for us,” mcGraw said. “That defi­
— chipping in 12 points and nine nitely is going to take some time rebounds in 23 minutes on the to get over. I don’t think winning court to make up for Achonwa’s in the regular season is going to absence in the paint. make us feel any better, so we 
“They’re the reason that we just have to work our way back got to the Final Four,” Loyd said and hope we get the chance to of the Irish reserves. “our bench get back to the Final Four again.” is very committed to coming in and doing what they need to do. Contact Mary Green at They don’t try to go outside their mgreen@nd.edu 





MEN’S SOCCER 

nd claims first national title in program history 


By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant managing editor 
With a new year and new conference came a brand new college cup. 
After being eliminated in the third round of the 2012 ncAA tournament by eventu­al champion Indiana, the Irish had an empty feeling. They had won the big east tourna­ment, they were ranked no. 1 overall going into the tourna­ment and they had the talent to win, but things did not turn out that way. 
“We got knocked out ... last year, and they thought they had underachieved,” Irish coach bobby clark said. “I thought we came back with a terrific thunder in 2013. We were ready, and it was our first year in the Acc, so a lot of things came together to make them a very hungry team.” 
The 2013 season was dif­ferent. The Irish are national champions. 
 “I think the [2012] team was equally good [as the 2013 squad],” clark said. “The team was capable of winning it both years. In the [ncAA] tournament though, you al­ways need that little bit of luck to take you through, and the nice thing was this year we got that.” 
The Irish (17-1-6, 7-1-3 Acc) defeated new mexico in the ncAA semifinals, 2-0, and then went on to defeat maryland, 2-1, in the na­forward vince cicciarelli’s shot which hit the cross bar. 
seniors carried the team in the title match. notre dame went down early, 1-0, as maryland’s leading scorer, se­nior forward Patrick mullins, hammered in a follow-up shot. The Irish came back to knot the game on a goal from 

“I thought we came back with a terrific thunder in 2013. We were ready, and it was our first year in the ACC, so a lot of things came together to make them a very 
hungry team.” 
Bobby Clark Irish head coach 
tional championship game in chester, Pa. 
sophomore midfielder Patrick hodan shone in the semifinal game with a two-goal performance. 
hodan’s first goal came in the seventh minute on an as­sist from senior forward and captain harrison shipp, and the second came in the 64th minute when hodan head­ed a rebound in off of junior senior forward Leon brown in the 40th minute. brown en­tered the game as a substitute, as he did much of the season, and snuck the game-tying goal near post. 
senior defender and cap­tain Andrew o’malley headed in the winning goal on a cross from shipp, who was named the college cup co-most outstanding Player alongside mullins. 
“It meant the world to me to score the [game-win­ning] goal,” o’malley said. “Winning the national cham­pionship was special not just for the program but this group of seniors.” 
everything came together for the Irish in 2013. 
“It was a good culmination of my time at notre dame,” shipp said. “When I first came to nd, notre dame had been consistently good but had never broken through to win a national title. To be part of the team that won was special, but the seasons leading up to it really laid the foundation.” 
Irish senior defender and captain Grant van de casteele said the team grew immense­ly in 2013. 
“You could see the team building and growing throughout the course of the season,” van de casteele said. “It was ... great to see the growth and maturity in tournament play, we really learned from our mistakes from the past.” 
The Irish did not win the Acc, like they had won the big east in 2012, but were knocked out in the semfinals by virginia, who had handed them their only regular-sea­son loss as well. 
“The reaction when we lost in the Acc semis was a key moment because there were a few unlucky things that hap­pened and that loss happened right before the ncAA tourna­ment,” van de casteele said. “The ability to bounce back quickly from that was key.” 
The college cup victory is clark’s first national title in his 27 years of coaching col­legiate soccer, 13 of them at notre dame. 
The squad graduated six seniors — shipp, who was signed by the chicago Fire as a homegrown player, van de casteele, who was drafted no. 19 overall by the colorado rapids, goalkeeper Adam LaPlaca, defender connor miller, midfielder Kyle craft and forward Alex Priede. o’malley, brown, defender Luke mishu and goalkeeper Patrick Wall will return for fifth years. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 




HOCKEY 

seniors power Irish on late surge to ncAA berth 
nationally with a goals-against-
By ALEX CARSON and CASEY 
average of 2.04. summerhays 
KARNES 
also set a new Irish career record with 13 shutouts and finished 

After a rocky start to notre with 57 total victories, second­dame’s inaugural season in the most in program history. hockey east, the 11-man senior When the Irish struggled this class led the Irish on a late-sea-season, Irish coach Jeff Jackson son hot streak that landed them said the seniors stepped up and back in the ncAA tournament took responsibility for mak­where they fell, 4-3, in overtime ing sure they ended their notre to st. cloud state. dame careers on their own 
After experiencing the move terms. to compton Family Ice Arena, “When in the second half we a conference switch and even a had a little bit of a struggle in Frozen Four, notre dame’s se-January, they were the guys to niors utilized their final year in get us out of it, rescue the sea-blue-and-gold uniforms to add son and put us in position … to even more accolades to their get into the ncAA tournament,” legacy. Jackson said. “It was primar­
on offense, senior center T.J. ily guys like summerhays and Tynan and right wing bryan three of our senior defensemen rust spearheaded the Irish at-and … our senior forwards. tack, leading the team with 30 They were the guys who really assists and 17 goals, respec-made sure that they finished tively. chipping in with 13 goals their careers on a more positive and nine assists of his own, note.” along with leadership on and A final trip to the ncAA tour-off the ice, was senior captain nament for the seniors seemed and left wing Jeff costello. unlikely as late as Feb. 7, when 
The Irish (23-15-2, 9-9-2 a 2-1 loss to maine dropped the hockey east) also relied on se-Irish to 15-12-1 overall and just niors on defense. defensemen 4-9-1 in hockey east play. stephen Johns, shayne Taker however, that would be the and Kevin Lind provided notre last loss for the Irish until the team’s performance toward the crop of recruits will build on finished second on the team in dame with a big, bruising back hockey east tournament, as end of the season, particularly the team’s progress this season a scoring category — Lucia with line that held opponents to an notre dame went on a 7-0-1 against boston college, made despite the first-round loss. 16 goals and hinostroza with average of just 2.22 goals per tear before finally losing, 4-2, him believe notre dame had “It was a positive year in 24 assists — and Lucia said the game. at boston college on march championship-level talent. many ways,” Jackson said. “We pair was able to draw off each 
The notre dame monogram 15 in the hockey east tourna-“That was our best hockey of just want to get over that hump other’s strengths. club’s most valuable Player ment quarterfinals, a series the the year in February,” Jackson and take that next step to win “We really meshed together award for the 2013-14 season Irish still won, 2-1. notre dame said. “We had that … unbeat-a championship. I think that’s well,” Lucia said. “he brings went to the senior residing handed boston college (28-8-en stretch and went against our focal point now. I think we speed and the passing ability, in the net. Goaltender steven 4, 16-2-2) three of its eight total [boston college] and beat them had a good year getting back to and I bring the finishing and the summerhays stood out in his losses during the season. three out of four times … at the the ncAA tournament … and ability to score. We had played second full season as a starter, Although the Irish lost in time when they were the sec-now we have a bunch of young together a couple of years ago leading the ncAA with seven the hockey east semifinals to ond-ranked team in the coun-kids coming in here, so we get to [on the UsA under-19 nation-shutouts and finishing sixth Umass-Lowell, Jackson said his try. And doing that was special; start all over again.” al team at the World Junior A 
it was probably the highlight of In a year full of changes for challenge in 2011] prior com-our season, unfortunately. I re-Irish athletic teams due to the ing into notre dame, and we ally felt like, after winning that move to the Acc, the hockey were able to get that chemistry [hockey east playoffs] series program had to adjust after its back pretty quickly. I’m looking against boston college, that we transition to hockey east, re-forward to playing with him for may have had a chance to win a garded by many as one of the the next couple of years.” championship.” nation’s top college hockey The Irish will lose a consid­
neither a hockey east nor an conferences. erable amount of production ncAA title was meant to be for The Irish received a blunt from their graduating players, notre dame. consecutive de-introduction from the hockey but Jackson said the sophomore feats saw the Irish bow out of east, as they did not sweep a class should help bridge the both tournaments right after series until a matchup against gap. the series win over the eagles. boston University on the penul-“The sophomore class had a 
The Irish suffered a 4-0 defeat timate weekend of the season. huge year for us,” Jackson said. at the hands of Umass-Lowell After posting a 2-1-1 record in “many of them like Lucia and in the hockey east semifinal to its first four conference games, [center steven] Fogarty really eliminate any outside chance of notre dame went 2-8-0 in its came on in the latter stages of earning one of four no. 1 seeds next 10 hockey east contests. the season and so did [center in the ncAA tournament. The sophomore left wing mario Thomas] diPauli and [left wing team’s ultimate no. 2 seed set Lucia said there was a lot to sam] herr. The sophomore class up a rematch from the 2013 learn in the new conference, is the class that I expect to step tournament against st. cloud but he did not excuse the team’s up in a big way next season.” state (22-11-5, 15-6-3 nchc). slow start. With the record-setting 
despite outshooting the “When you’re playing new summerhays departing the huskies in regulation, 36-12, teams, learning their style program, notre dame must fill notre dame never held a lead makes a big difference,” Lucia a hole at goaltender, with in-but sent the game to overtime. said. “Just getting acclimated coming freshman cal Petersen 
In the overtime period, and to the new teams, the new en-and current freshman chad after 17 minutes and 15 shots vironments and the travel was Katunar competing for the role. without a goal, the huskies the big thing — but then again, Katunar started three games broke through. huskies se-hockey is hockey, and you’ve got and appeared in five, posting nior forward and hobey baker to go out and play.” a 2-1-0 record and a 2.36 goals Award nominee nic dowd beat responding to these chal-against average. summerhays top shelf to send lenges, frequent linemates Lucia notre dame home early for the and freshman center vince Contact Alex Carson at second straight year. hinostroza provided a spark acarson1@nd.edu and Casey 
Jackson said he hopes a new for the offense. both players Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
sports Writers 




The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

CAMPUS CROSSROADS 

University announces Stadium construction 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing editor emeritus 
Editor’s Note: The original version of this article was published in the Jan. 30 edition. 
With the approval of a new con­struction project around notre dame stadium, the Irish basket­ball teams will soon have a practice facility. 
“The rolfs sports recreation center will become the practice home for the men’s and women’s varsity basketball teams,” a release from the University said. 
The notre dame board of Trustees approved a $400 million construction project that would add three buildings to the stadium and 3,000 to 4,000 premium club seats to its current 80,795-seat capacity. 
The plans for the “campus crossroads Project” also include adding a student center, which will include a student recreation cen­ter, on the west side of notre dame stadium. 
In a december interview with The observer, notre dame director of Athletics Jack swarbrick said if a student recreation cen­ter were added to notre dame stadium, rolfs sports recreation center could be used as a basket­ball practice facility. 
“As the idea of ‘does it make sense to move recreation into the ccPd’ came along, then the ques­tion was raised, ‘Well, if you do that, what do you do with rolfs?’ That’s how we got there,” swarbrick said in december. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins, in an interview with The observer, said that was still the plan. 
however, Jenkins said the con­struction surrounding the stadium was contingent on raising the nec­essary funds. 
Video board and FieldTurf? 
While the rest of the stadium could be getting a facelift, Jenkins said no decisions have been made regarding the potential addition of a video board. 
“I think we are always talking about the fan experience, and if [a Jumbotron] enhanced it, then that would be part of it, but I want to make it clear that I’m not saying it will be part of this,” Jenkins said. 
Initial and more recent render­ings of the project depict notre dame stadium without any visible video boards. A new scoreboard, however, will be added on the south side of the stadium. 
“some of that will be addressed through enhanced broadband connectivity and some by the intro­duction of video, though the shape that will take has not yet been final­ized,” the release said. “however, to the extent the University provides video, whether in the concourse or in the stadium itself similar to the philosophy in Purcell Pavilion and the compton Family Ice Arena, there will be no commercial sig­nage or advertising.” 
At the blue-Gold Game on April 12, swarbrick announced seating to notre dame stadium’s FieldTurf would be installed at 80,795-seat current capacity. The notre dame stadium following club seating will be located on commencement Weekend, to be both the east and west sides of completed by Aug. 15, in time for the stadium, according to the the start of the 2014 football season. University release. 

“We were spending a lot of time The addition of new premium trying to find a grass answer,” seating will not affect the basic swarbrick said after the game. “If seating configuration for both the we could — if we could have fig-lower and upper bowls. The gold ured out a way where we knew seats on both sides of the field will with commencement, with the remain the same. construction that’s going to go on Few changes would be made here for three years, could we get to notre dame’s locker room, but ourselves to a position where we some of the surrounding areas would have a high-quality grass will be improved to better serve field week in and week out, and we the football team on game day. just couldn’t get ourselves there.” notre dame plans to upgrade 
both WiFi and cellular service as New improvements part of this project. 
The University will add 3,000 to 4,000 premium seats Jenkins Contact Matthew DeFranks at described as club level outside mdefrank@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame ‘saga’ ends without tourney berth 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 
After bowing out in the first round of the Acc tournament with a 12-point loss to 12th-seed­ed Wake Forest, Irish head coach mike brey made things clear. 
rather than pursue a trip to the college basketball Invitational (cbI), brey and the Irish (15-17, 6-12 Acc) closed the books on the program’s first losing season since 1998-99. 
“It’s probably good we end this saga,” brey told reporters in Greensboro, n.c. 
In its first season in the Acc, notre dame battled injuries, in­consistency and personnel losses from start to finish. 
brey and sophomore forward cam biedscheid announced in early november that the former four-star recruit would redshirt. Two months later, news broke that biedscheid would transfer to missouri. 
The biedscheid announcement came on the heels of senior guard Jerian Grant’s departure. The day after notre dame lost to then-no. 3 ohio state, Grant released a statement that he was no longer a part of the basketball program and would not be enrolled at the university for the remainder of the 2013-14 school year due to “an aca­demic matter that I did not handle properly.” 
“I take full responsibility for my lack of good judgment and the poor decision that I made,” Grant said in the statement. “I have no one to blame but myself for the situation. I know and understand the expectations that go with be­ing a student at notre dame, and I did not live up to those standards.” 
In the 12 games before the an­nouncement, Grant led the team with 19.0 points and 6.2 assists per game. Grant, who was one of just five players on the preseason all-Acc team, declared his intention to return to notre dame and the team as soon as possible following the spring semester. 
The final game of Grant’s short­ened season was the loss to ohio state (25-10, 10-8 big Ten) on dec. 
22. The Irish led by eight points with a minute remaining in regu­lation, but they committed four turnovers in the final 58 seconds, and ohio state ended the game on a 14-3 run. 
“They really turned the heat up on us and flustered us,” brey told reporters afterward. “We had a hard time doing anything right.” 



The loss dropped notre dame to 8-4. The Irish also lost non-confer­ence games against Indiana state, Iowa and north dakota state. 
After the loss to the buckeyes, notre dame returned home eight days later to host canisius and close out their non-conference slate. Golden Griffins senior guard billy baron, an eventual AP All-American honorable mention, poured in 33 points — including a three-point play down the stretch 
— as canisius (21-13, 14-6 mAAc) scored the final five points in reg­ulation to force overtime. 
but Irish senior guard eric Atkins matched baron with a ca-reer-high 30 points of his own to lift notre dame to the 87-81 win in its first game without Grant. 
“I am not surprised because this kid can score,” brey said of Atkins. “he has had nights like this before when we needed it, and now we re­ally need it. I think he was excited to go back into that [scoring] role.” 
The Irish then began their in­augural Acc campaign by wel­coming conference powerhouse duke to Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 4. Trailing 60-50 with 11:35 remain­ing in the second half, notre dame surged on a 20-4 run over the next seven minutes. The blue devils (26-9, 13-5 Acc) pulled within one on three separate occasions, but the Irish held on for their biggest victory of the year over the then-no. 7 team in the nation. Atkins paced the squad with 19 points and 11 assists. 
“our group, this team of guys, has been through some tough stuff since the ohio state game, and for us to come together and win a game like this after being down 10, I am very proud of us,” brey said after the win. “I think it all starts with our senior captain who — eric Atkins — never lets us think that it’s going to be a tough night. 
“It’s a historic day for us. our first Acc game — and to beat a program like duke’s will always be a great memory for us starting off in Atlantic coast conference play.” 
Whatever momentum the Irish built from the victory was soon sapped as they lost their next three games, the first being a seven-point loss at home to north carolina state three days later. 
notre dame never led in the second half against the Wolfpack (22-14, 9-9), and brey said he rec­ognized the difficulty in bouncing back from the duke game. 
“I was worried about it,” brey said. “We invested a lot. I’d be ly­ing if I said there wasn’t a little re­sidual fighting through that. even though I thought in the second half we started to find it a little bit when they started missing, we just couldn’t get two or three offensive possessions in a row that looked like us. 
“Then you get a little tight, and you feel the weight of the world, and you aren’t as loose when you are lining up those shots.” 
Including the loss to north carolina state, notre dame lost six of its next seven, culminating with a 68-53 defeat at the hands of virginia on Jan. 28. The cavaliers deployed their swarming defense and forced 20 Irish turnovers, 13 of which came in the first half. virginia led by as many as 24. 
“We just got to give it to them,” Irish sophomore forward Zach Auguste said afterward. “They definitely gave us a beating.” 
The win improved then-un­ranked virginia’s Acc record to 7-1. The cavaliers went on to win the Acc regular-season title and postseason tournament. 
“Let’s give them a lot of credit,” brey said following the loss. “I think that’s the best team in the league [and the] most confident team in the league. They thor­oughly beat us down tonight.” 
The Irish picked up four league wins over their final 10 games, but they won back-to-back conference games only once. 
notre dame concluded the reg­ular season with a 63-61 loss to no. 14 north carolina but limited the Tar heels to just 22 points in the second half. 
The defeat was notre dame’s seventh loss by five points or few­er. The squad’s 12 Acc losses were by an average deficit of 7.9 points per game. 
While the defense was stifling against north carolina, notre dame’s defense and rebounding were inconsistent all season long and were some of brey’s major emphases heading into the Acc tournament. 
but the defense struggled mightily against the demon deacons, who shot 61 percent from the floor. Wake Forest out-rebounded notre dame, 33-23, en route to the 81-69 win. 
In addition to the inconsistent play on the boards and the defen­sive end, notre dame dealt with injuries throughout the year. 
senior center Garrick sherman chipped his right pinkie finger Feb. 11 against clemson and played through the pain during the final month. sherman aver­aged 13.5 points and 7.3 rebounds per game, essentially doubling his per-game averages from the 2012­13 season. 

sophomore forward Austin burgett (irregular heartbeat) and graduate student forward Tom Knight (ankle, illness) missed a combined eight games. In total, notre dame trotted out 12 differ­ent starting lineups. 
“never a dull moment,” brey joked about the injuries before the Acc tournament. 
With all the injuries, brey relied heavily on junior guard/forward Pat connaughton, who averaged 
37.2 minutes, 13.8 points and 7.1 rebounds per game for the Irish. connaughton was an honorable mention all-Acc selection by the league’s coaches. 
Freshman guard demetrius Jackson, a mcdonald’s All-American coming out of high school, started 15 games and av­eraged 22.2 minutes, 6.0 points and 1.8 assists per contest. Jackson missed two games in mid-Feb­ruary. brey said the freshman needed to improve his “academic habits.” Jackson returned after the two-game hiatus and scored a sea­son-high 17 points against miami, but he posted just 18 points in the final five games, indicative of the growing pains and up-and-down nature of the season for notre dame in the Acc. 
“I think at times it was a year of adjustment for us on a lot of fronts, some personnel losses and kind of new preparation, new scouting, new venues, all of those things,” brey said after the postseason loss to Wake Forest. “I would hope we’ll be better at it next year in year two.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



SEPT. 7 Football loses to No. 17 Michigan, 41-30, before an NCAA-record crowd of 115,109 at Michigan Stadium. 
SEPT. 8 Women’s golf begins its season with the IU Fall Kickoff. The Irish play without Lindsey Weaver — who, in 2013, became just the second Irish golfer to be named an NGCA All-American — who transferred to Arizona. 
SEPT. 12 Women’s soccer tops North Carolina State, 3-1, and becomes the first Irish squad to earn a victory in the ACC. 
SEPT. 13 With new coach Ryan Sachire at the helm, men’s tennis begins season at the OFCC Invitational. 
OCT. 19 Football tops USC, 14-10, under the lights at Notre Dame Stadium, as the Irish don’t allow a second-half point in their first home win over USC since 2001. 
NOV. 10 Football loses to Pittsburgh, 28-21, effectively ending any chance of a BCS bowl appearance. 
NOV. 11 Men’s swimming and diving coach Tim Welsh announces he will retire following the season after 29 years with the Irish. 
NOV. 23 The men’s and women’s cross country teams finish 23rd and 29th, respective­ly, of 31 teams at the NCAA Championships. Senior Martin Grady earns All-American honors, becoming the first Irish All-American runner (either male or female) since 2008 to do so. 
NOV. 30 Volleyball loses to Syracuse, 3-1, and finishes the season 13-18 (7-13 ACC). 
DEC. 7 For the first time in program history, men’s soccer advances to the College Cup with a 2-1 win over Michigan State in the NCAA quarterfinals. 
DEC. 12 Men’s soccer senior forward Harry Shipp is named one of three finalists for the MAC Hermann Trophy, the top individual honor in college soccer. 
DEC. 15 Men’s soccer wins the national championship with a 2-1 win over Maryland for the program’s first national title. 
DEC. 17 Men’s soccer head coach Bobby Clark is named the NSCAA Division I Coach of the Year. 
DEC. 20 Jack Swarbrick announces the 2014, 2015 and 2016 football schedules, high­lighted by a Shamrock Series game in 2015 against Boston College at Fenway Park. 
DEC. 21 Men’s basketball blows an eight-point lead in the final minute against No. 3 Ohio State and loses 64-61. 
DEC. 22 Men’s basketball senior guard and leading scorer Jerian Grant announces he is no longer part of the basketball program and will not be enrolled at Notre Dame for the remainder of the 2013-14 school year. 
JAN. 3 Two-time women’s soccer national coach of the year Randy Waldrum, who led the Irish to national championships in 2004 and 2010, resigns to pursue a head-coaching job with the Houston Dash of the National Women’s Soccer League. 
JAN. 4 Men’s basketball upsets No. 7 Duke, 79-77, at Purcell Pavilion in its ACC debut. 
JAN. 19 Former men’s basketball coach Digger Phelps is inducted into the program’s Ring of Honor on the 40th anniversary of Notre Dame’s win over UCLA, which snapped the Bruins’ record 88-game win streak. 
JAN. 21 Notre Dame and Under Armour announce their 10-year footwear, apparel and equipment partnership. 
JAN. 27 Women’s basketball defeats No. 8 Maryland, 87-83 — Notre Dame’s tightest win of the season — behind 31 points from sophomore guard Jewell Loyd. 
JAN. 29 Notre Dame announces the $400 million Campus Crossroads Project, headlined by more than 750,000 square feet of construc­tion in three new buildings attached to the sides of Notre Dame Stadium. 
FEB. 23 Senior guard Kayla McBride pours in a career-high 31 points as women’s basket­ball defeats No. 7 Duke, 81-70, to clinch the ACC regular-season title. 
MARCH 1 Despite setting 15 program records, men’s swimming finishes 6th out of 11 teams at the ACC championship. 
MARCH 3 Men’s tennis senior Matt Dooley writes a story on Outsports.com describing his life as a gay student-athlete at Notre Dame. 
MARCH 4 Women’s lacrosse upsets No. 4 Northwestern, 9-8, earning its first win over the powerhouse Wildcats since 2003. 
MARCH 12 Men’s basketball loses in the first round of the ACC tournament, capping the program’s first losing season since 1998-99. 
MARCH 18 Twelve track and field athletes earn All-American honors at the Indoor NCAA championship. 
MARCH 19 Theresa Romagnolo is named the new women’s soccer coach, replacing Waldrum. 
MARCH 21–23 Fencers sophomore Lee Kiefer (women’s foil) and senior Gerek Mein­hardt (men’s foil) and women’s swimmer junior Emma Reaney (200-yard breaststroke) win NCAA individual championships. 
MARCH 30 Hockey loses to St. Cloud State, 4-3, in overtime of the NCAA West Regional. The Irish went unbeaten in their final six regular-season games and advanced to the Hockey East semifinals en route to their sixth NCAA appearance since 2007. 
MARCH 31 Women’s basketball stars Kayla McBride and Jewell Loyd named USBWA All-Americans, marking the first time Notre Dame placed two players on the 10-player team. 
MARCH 31 Women’s basketball senior for­ward Natalie Achonwa tears the ACL in her left knee during Notre Dame’s Elite Eight win over Baylor. Achonwa would miss the remainder of the NCAA Tournament. 
APRIL 8 Women’s basketball falls to Con­necticut, 79-58, in the national championship game in Nashville, Tenn., after advancing to its fourth consecutive Final Four. 
APRIL 12 Notre Dame announces it will in stall synthetic FieldTurf at Notre Dame Stadium, anticipating completion in time for the 2014 football season opener. 
APRIL 13 Softball comes back to down No. 7 Florida State, 8-5, in its first home ACC series. The Irish defeat their highest-ranked op­ponent since 2002. 
APRIL 25 Men’s lacrosse defeats No. 5 Maryland, 6-5, in the ACC semifinals on a game-winning goal by sophomore attack Matt Kavanagh with seven seconds remaining. 
APRIL 27 Men’s golf finishes seventh in the ACC championship tournament. Men’s lacrosse wins the ACC championship with a 15-14 win over No. 4 Syracuse. 
APRIL 29 Rowing’s first varsity eight named the ACC Rowing Crew of the Week. No. 10 Notre Dame is participating in the ACC Rowing championship on Friday and Saturday. 
MAY 5 Men’s golf senior tri-captain Niall Platt becomes the second golfer in program history to be selected as an individual competitor for an NCAA Regional. Platt is competing in the 54-hole regional tournament Thursday through Saturday. 
MAY 9 Baseball plays its first game on the new FieldTurf at Frank Eck Stadium after bad weather delayed the installation process, forc­ing the Irish to play “home” games around the Midwest. 
MAY 10 Women’s golf finishes 18th of 24 teams at the NCAA West Regional. After earning its 19th consecutive NCAA appear­ance, women’s tennis upsets Northwestern to advance to the round of 16 for the first time since 2010. 
MAY 11 Women’s lacrosse loses to Duke in the second round of the NCAA tournament. Softball receives at-large bid to NCAA tourna­ment in the Los Angeles Regional. Men’s Tennis beats Mississippi to advance to Sweet 16 in NCAA Tournament. 








Following a dis­appointing NCAA tournament in 2012, Notre Dame advanced to the College Cup the next season and bested Maryland in the final, 2-1, to win its first NCAA cham­pionship. The victory also marked the first national title for Irish coach Bobby Clark in his 27th season as a college coach. 
Notre Dame ac­cepted an invitation to join the the Atlan­tic Coast Conference in all sports except football, after being a member of the Big East since 1995. 
Notre Dame agreed to play five games annually against ACC oppo­nents in football starting in 2014. 


After a standout season, senior middle linebacker Manti Te’o finished second in the Heisman Trophy vot­ing behind Texas A&M redshirt freshman QB Johnny Manziel. 
Te’o ended with 321 first-place votes and Manziel received 474. Te’o tied for second-most interceptions in the NCAA with seven and tallied 113 tackles. 


Irish undefeated in regular season; streak ends Jan. 7, 2013 
In Irish coach Brian Kelly’s first two years, Notre Dame turned in a pair of 8-5 seasons. 
Despite losing players to the NFL, the Irish were more suc­cessful in Kelly’s third season, going undefeated against their regular season schedule. 
Regular season highlights in­cluded a rout of Navy in Dublin, a 20-3 upset of Michigan State, an emotional 13-6 victory over Mich­igan, an overtime goal-line stand against Stanford, a road victory over Oklahoma and a come-from­behind three-overtime win over Pittsburgh. 
The Irish reached No. 1 in the polls after a Senior Day victory over Wake Forest and sealed a berth in the BCS National Cham­pionship game with a 22-13 vic­tory over USC on Nov. 24. 
Traveling to Miami to face off against Alabama in the national championship game, the Irish struggled to contain the Crimson Tide’s offense, as Alabama rolled out to a 28-0 lead at halftime. 
In the end, Notre Dame fell to the Crimson Tide, 42-14, ending the program’s first national title run since 1988. 



After tournament runs that culminat­ed with title game losses in 2011 and 2012 and a semi­final loss in 2013, the Irish made their fourth straight Final Four before losing to Connecticut. 
The team’s 37­game win streak was the longest of any Notre Dame sport since World War II. 

After firing head coach Charlie Weis on Nov. 30, 2009, Notre Dame hired Brian Kelly on Dec. 11, 2009. Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick named Kelly as the 29th head coach of Notre Dame football. 
Kelly brought in Bob Diaco as defensive co­ordinator and Charley Molnar as offensive coordinator. 





As part of the largest building project in Notre Dame history, Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick announced Rolfs Sports Recreation Center would be converted into a prac­tice facility for the bas­ketball teams. 
On April 12, Swarbrick announced Notre Dame Stadium would install FieldTurf for the 2014 football season. 
The Irish reached the first Frozen Four in program history in 2008. The fresh­men on that squad were seniors on the 
team  that  reached  
the  2011  Frozen  
Four;  the  seniors  
shepherded  an  ex­ 
ceptionally  young  

team (loaded with 12 freshmen) to another Frozen Four berth in St. Paul, Minn. 


After four consecu­tive trips to the College Cup without a title, the Irish finally broke through with a 1-0 victory over previously undefeated Stanford. 
Notre Dame re­ceived strong efforts from its freshmen, who scored the last four goals of the season and helped shut down Her­mann Trophy winner Christen Press. 
Thanks to a $15 mil­lion donation from the Compton family, the Irish hockey program had a new place to call home — the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Notre Dame had played all of its hockey games in the Joyce Center before moving to the new facility. The Irish opened the build­ing with a 5-2 win over RPI. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

notre dame takes Acc crown in first year 
Irish dropped a heartbreak-and was named tournament 
By GREG HADLEY 

Associate sports editor er to syracuse (11-5, 2-3 mvP after scoring four more 
Acc), 11-10, and never led goals in the championship one game at a time. during a 15-7 loss to duke against syracuse. It may be cliché, but it on April 5, putting them Kavanagh led the Irish 
was a particularly apt phi-at 4-4 on the year. With its in goals and assists this losophy for Irish coach streak of consecutive ncAA year and was the key to an Kevin corrigan and no. 5 tournament appearances in Irish offense that averaged notre dame this season, jeopardy, notre dame be-11.86 goals per game, notre as the Irish (10-5, 2-3 Acc) gan to pick up steam at the dame’s best mark since faced one of the tough-end of the season, winning 2008. The Irish also ranked est schedules in the nation five of its last six games. In 13th in the country in scor­and emerged on the other the midst of those five wins, ing offense and second in side with a berth into their the Irish upset then-no. man-up offense. ninth-straight ncAA tour-6 maryland, 6-5, and the “We have some terrific of­nament as the no. 6 seed in orange, 15-14, in the Acc fensive guys,” corrigan said. the country. tournament. “our attack has been very 
“I don’t go into a sea-“If you have to point at strong, and we’ve got some son with expectations,” one [particularly important midfielders who can play corrigan said. “I go into a game], you have to point at the middle of the field and season worried about the maryland in the first round create transition opportu­first game. And then after of the Acc tournament,” nities for us. … Increasingly the first game, I worry about corrigan said. “I don’t know through the year, we’ve the second game.” if it was must-win, but it found our identity offen-
In their first year in the certainly was must-win if sively to do what we need to Acc, the Irish claimed the we wanted to go into the do to be successful.” conference tournament end of the year with the cer-on defense, the Irish, tra­crown despite ending the tainty that we were going to ditionally recognized as one regular season with a los-the ncAA tournament. If we of the strongest programs in ing conference record. don’t win that game, it’s go-the country, surrendered overall, notre dame played ing to get dicey from there.” 9.79 goals per game this 10 teams ranked in the top The win against the season, their highest total 20 this year, stumbling early Terrapins (12-3, 4-1 Acc) since 1996. That mark puts against then-no. 2 denver came less than a week af-them at 23rd in the country. and then-no. 4 syracuse on ter the Irish dropped a 12-8 With the loss of former All-the road. decision to maryland at American goalkeeper John 
After an 18-9 win over home. sophomore attack Kemp, corrigan alternated then-no. 7 virginia on matt Kavanagh scored the between junior conor Kelly gaining the last five starts. one goal on seven man-up march 16 and a 13-7 victory game-winning goal for the and freshman shane doss “I hope we’re always rec-advantages. over rival ohio state, the Irish in the Acc semifinals in the crease, with Kelly ognized as a team that harvard outshot notre 
cares and works very hard dame, both overall, 35-33, at playing good defense be-and in shots on goal, 22-18. cause I think that defense is Kelly, however, recorded really important,” corrigan a career-high 17 saves, in-said. “but at the same time, cluding seven in the second you build your team around quarter alone. the team you have, not the notre dame aims to con-team that you want to have. tinue its postseason run in We’ve just tried to take its second-round match-advantage of the things up with no. 15 Albany on this team does have. …We saturday, with a berth in knew we’re losing a three-the Final Four on the line. time All-American [in John The Irish have advanced to Kemp], so we weren’t sure the Final Four three times if we were going to get the in program history, most re-level of goalkeeping that we cently in 2012. have had, but we had con-The Great danes (12-5, 5-0 fidence in conor, and right American east) advanced to from the beginning, shane the second round after up-showed us he was ready setting no. 3-seed Loyola on to compete at the highest the road, 13-6, part of a four-level.” upset opening weekend that 
With the Acc tourna-also saw notre dame’s Acc ment title, the Irish gained rival syracuse fall. Albany an automatic berth into leads the nation in scor­their ninth-straight ncAA ing offense but is 48th out tournament, where they de-of 67 programs in scoring feated then-no. 11 harvard, defense. 13-5, at Arlotta stadium The Great danes are in the first round may 10. led by senior attack miles notre dame sprinted out to Thompson, who averages a 7-0 lead just over halfway 4.65 goals per game, nearly through the second quar-a goal and a half more than ter and cruised to the win, the next highest scorer in outscoring the crimson (10-the country. 7, 5-1 Ivy) 5-1 in the fourth Albany and notre dame quarter. meet in hempstead, n.Y., 
The Irish were led on of-on saturday at 2:30 p.m. to fense by senior attack John play for a Final Four berth. scioscia, who chipped in If the Irish advance, the four goals, including the semifinal round takes place first two scores of the game. in baltimore, md., on may on man-up opportuni-24. ties, notre dame convert­ed three of eight chances, Contact Greg Hadley at            while holding harvard to ghadley@nd.edu 






ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Talented underclassmen impact squad 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports Writer 
behind a young offensive core, no. 14 notre dame battled through a tough schedule and a rough start to its new Acc mem­bership to earn its third straight ncAA tournament berth. 
The Irish (10-9, 2-5 Acc)  had their worst record since miss­ing the ncAA tournament in 2011, the season before christine halfpenny took over as notre dame’s coach. despite that, the Irish were able to regain their top­10 ranking and secure the right to host the first two rounds of the ncAA tournament at Arlotta stadium, mostly due to their strength of schedule, which was the second toughest in the nation. The Irish played 12 games against top-25 opponents in 2014, includ­ing matchups against no. 6 boston college, no. 5 northwestern, no. 3 north carolina, no. 2 maryland and two matchups against no. 1 syracuse. 
This constant stream of qual­ity opponents may have dam­aged notre dame’s record, but halfpenny said it also made the Irish a better team in the long run. 
“Playing one of the hardest schedules game-in and game-out really …  increased our IQ,” halfpenny said. “our ability to grow quickly, mature quickly and to rise to the occasion were the main benefits of playing the best schedule in the country. We’re re­ally excited about how battle-test­ed we are and how we came out of that gauntlet.” 
The Acc gave the Irish a chal­lenge in their inaugural season, as over half of notre dame’s losses came in conference play. The addi­tion of notre dame and syracuse from the big east gave the Acc seven out of the top 15 teams in the country, including the Irish. 
Going against top teams ev­ery week was an adjustment, halfpenny said, but the transition was made easier thanks to notre dame’s fast-paced style of play. 
“It was a brand new year for us, a brand new conference” halfpenny said. “I think that, for­tunately, our style of play was very similar to most of the Acc teams already. Playing a fast, aggressive style of lacrosse was absolutely something that was very similar to the style in the Acc. We’ve been working that style of play since I got here, so … that was already something we didn’t have to worry about.” 
notre dame’s aggression was apparent in its turnover statistics, as the team led the Acc in turn­overs caused per game with 9.76, yet it also fared worst in the con­ference with 14.88 turnovers of its own per game. 
This season, the Irish relied heavily on freshmen and sopho­mores to drive their offense. Four of their top five scorers were first or second-year players, including leading scorer freshman midfield­er cortney Fortunato. Fortunato, along with fellow freshman mid­fielders casey Pearsall and Alex dalton, started every game in her debut season for the Irish. Another freshman, goalkeeper Liz o’sullivan, stepped up late in the season, taking over as starting goalkeeper after original starter junior Allie murray struggled in an 18-10 loss to syracuse on April 19. 
several sophomores also improved upon their freshman campaigns. Attacks rachel sexton and Kiera mcmullan contributed to the offensive attack with 33 and 26 goals, respectively, good for third- and fourth-most on the squad. 
halfpenny said the level of con­fidence her young players exhibit­ed throughout the season showed they wanted to leave an instant mark on the program. 
“our sophomores were able to really take what they learned last year and put that into practice,” halfpenny said. “[The freshmen] brought a winning mentality and winning pedigree with them, and so their game plan was that we’re not waiting until our senior year to realize our potential. I’ve been incredibly impressed with the freshmen’s ability to step in, to shoulder a lot of the work during the game for 60 minutes and also how well they meshed with [the upperclassmen].” 
Fortunato’s impact was im­mediately tangible on the field, as she led the Irish in goals with 46, ahead of junior midfielder caitlin Gargan’s second-place total of 
30. Gargan also paced the Irish in assists with 16, one fewer than Fortunato’s 17, and gave the Irish some much-needed experience as a returning starter. 
halfpenny said the impact of notre dame’s one-two punch went well beyond the numbers, because its greatest asset is its abil­ity to improve and inspire the rest of the team. 
[Fortunato] was massive [for our offense],” halfpenny said. “The biggest thing is her field vision … and her creativity. obviously you can see what she’s done in her stats, but what you might not see is the nice competition she brought to the table. her willingness to go for it, to try new things really pushed a lot of other players into a new level of their game. [Gargan] has had a breakout junior year for us. With a very young offense out there, caitlin was able to …  estab­lish herself as one of our veteran leaders of the offense and get the job done.” 
Although the season ended with a 10-8 loss to duke in the second round of the ncAA tournament, the Irish will return their top-six scorers and both goalies next year and will add seven incom­ing freshmen. halfpenny said the team is unified in its drive to con­tinue improving until it reaches the pinnacle of the sport. 

“our main goal is always going to be to compete for conference and national titles,” halfpenny said. “That’s why our players choose to come to notre dame; it’s why I chose to come to notre dame. The biggest expectation I have is that we have the ability to come out here and use our God-given gifts … to establish ourselves as a premier lacrosse program that can compete for Acc and ncAA titles.” 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Wester, Winter pace nd to Acc title game 
The team participated in four strength to have.” with 22, and Winter became the tournaments early in the sea-The Irish ranked among the program’s all-time leader in wins son, earning perfect records conference’s best in hitting statis-and strikeouts. she was also se­in the Jacksonville University tics. Freshman outfielder Karley lected seventh overall in the 2014 Tournament and diamond 9 Wester led the Acc with a .461 bat-national Pro Fastpitch draft by the citrus classic. ting average. Wester stepped up Akron racers. 
The season wrapped up with 10 to the plate 154 times for the Irish, Wester said the Irish looked 
consecutive home games, includ-and she said focus was the key to to Winter for leadership and 
ing a win over Acc rival maryland her success. reliability. 
to clinch the conference tourna-“I just take a deep breath, try to “Laura has been a solid force on 
ment’s no. 2 seed. clear my head, put the ball on the the mound for us,” Wester said. 
headed into the Acc tourna-ground and get on base,” Wester “basically every time she’s out 
ment riding a seven-game win said. there, we have full trust in her, and 
streak, the Irish bested boston With this technique, Wester be-. . . we know good things are going 
college in the opening round, 3-0. came notre dame’s first-ever Acc to happen.” 
In the semifinals, notre dame Player of the Week in February. Winter is one of four seniors on 
bounced back from a five-run defi-Wester was also named Acc the team. Gumpf said the seniors, 
cit to pick up a come-from-behind, Freshman of the Year on may 8. including captain and infielder 
9-6 victory over virginia Tech, but Four other members of the chloe saganowich and outfielders 
in the championship matchup, no. Irish earned all-Acc recogni-Lauren stuhr and monica Torres, 
1-seeded Florida state defeated the tions. senior pitcher Laura Winter were crucial to the team’s quick ad-
Irish, 3-1. and sophomore infielder micaela justment to the Acc. 
reflecting on the transition from Arizmendi were named to the all-“I feel like the group of them, as the big east to the Acc, Irish coach Acc first team. Junior outfielder a four, really complete everything The Irish (38-10, 16-5 Acc) deanna Gumpf said the Acc has emilee Koerner and junior catcher you want in a senior class,” Gumpf 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 

sports Writer kicked off the season with a 19-7 re-more hitting power. cassidy Whidden made second said. “I’m really proud of them, and cord on an extended, 26-game road “There’s a lot of good teams on and third team, respectively. I think that they’re everything to In their first Acc season, the Irish swing before returning to melissa top [of the conference], and the These all-conference players set the program.” 
finished second in the conference cook stadium. In the home open-Acc can really hit,” Gumpf said. new program records during the 
tournament and earned six confer-er march 26, the Irish took down “That’s a strength of the con-season. Koerner broke the team Contact Christina Kochanski 
ence player of the week awards. eastern michigan, 12-2. ference, and I think it’s a great record for single-season doubles at ckochans@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish return top talent after up-and-down season 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Senior midfielder Mandy Laddish traps the ball in Notre Dame’s 3-0 win against Pittsburgh on Sept. 29 at Alumni Stadium. Laddish  scored a goal and tallied five shots in the match, which brought Notre Dame’s record to 9-1. Laddish, a third-team all-ACC selection, was chosen by FC Kansas City in the NWSL Draft on Jan. 17. 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
It was a year of transitions for notre dame. 
on the field, the Irish (13­8-1, 7-5-1 Acc) faced many ups and downs in their in­augural season in a confer­ence that sent eight of its 14 teams to the ncAA tourna­ment, concluding their sea­son with a loss in the third round of the tournament. 
off the field, notre dame faced its first coaching change in 15 years, as for­mer coach randy Waldrum resigned in January to helm the houston dash of the national Women’s soccer League (nWsL). The Irish named his replacement on march 19, as former dartmouth coach Theresa romagnolo was selected to be the fourth coach in the history of the notre dame program. 
“[notre dame] is an in­credible program with a lot of tradition that has attract­ed a lot of talent,” romagnolo said. “I think there’s really exciting players to work with on this team, and there’s a great buy-in in terms of ev­eryone coming here because they want to be the best in the country.” 
romagnolo will inherit a team that is projected to re­turn seven starters and 22 players from a squad that got off to a 9-1 start last season. 
notre dame only fell to eventual national champion UcLA in its nonconference schedule. The Irish won their first five Acc games, which included a 1-0 vic­tory over then-no. 1 north carolina on sept. 15. 
“I would say one of their strengths is that they had a very strong defensive unit, especially their back four and goalkeeper,” romagnolo said of last year’s Irish squad. “I think, being the first year that the team was in the Acc, there was obvi­ously some adjustment to that … I think they did solid, and it gave them some per­spective on what it’s going to take to win the Acc next year.” 
After a strong start, notre dame faced some growing pains in its new conference, losing five of its final eight conference games, three of them in double overtime. The team’s struggles in extra time carried over to the Acc championships, where it fell to virginia Tech, 2-1, in dou­ble overtime. 
romagnolo said a change in mentality is necessary to ensure that the Irish find success in overtime in the future. 
“It’s just making sure that we’re staying focused in critical parts of the game, that we’re taking risks when we need to take risks, so having an understanding of the game management side a little bit and then bringing a mentality of, ‘We’re going to find a way to get it done,’” she said. “being fit [is also important], because a lot of times when you go into extra time, that team that’s more fit is mentally and physically stronger.” 
despite its late season slide, notre dame earned a bid to the ncAA cham­pionships and won its first two matches, beating Iowa, 4-1, in the first round and Western michigan, 1-0, in the second round. The team’s season came to an end with a 1-0 loss to michigan in the tournament’s third round. 
despite losing all-Acc third team selection mandy Laddish and tri-captain elizabeth Tucker to gradua­tion, notre dame will return two of its top contribu­tors from last season: Acc Freshman of the Year mid­fielder morgan Andrews and all-Acc first team selection sophomore forward cari roccaro. Andrews tied for first on the team with seven goals, while roccaro added five goals on the season. 
“It’s exciting [to have Andrews and roccaro], as they’re very talented, and I’m excited to see them step into leadership roles as they get older,” romagnolo said. 
The Irish also return sophomore defender Katie naughton, who served as one of the team’s tri-cap­tains last season. 
“Katie’s definitely a natu­ral leader, and she dem­onstrates the work ethic, motivation and a very posi­tive attitude when she’s on the field,” romagnolo said. “she’s definitely going to be someone who remains a strong presence and leader within our program.” 
The Irish won four of their six matches in the spring season, earning victories over the haitian national team and mexican under-20 national team. romagnolo said she has seen her team make great strides since she was hired in mid-march. 
“I think from where we started, to where we fin­ished, we started to get a good idea of what we were trying to accomplish on the field,” she said. “I really love the attacking mentality we’re starting to have on the field. I feel like we’re recog­nizing times to play simple, times when we need to be more creative … I feel like we’ve really started to come together and play the type of system that I want us to be playing.” 
romagnolo admitted that following Waldrum, who won two national champion­ships and led notre dame to eight ncAA Women’s college cup appearances, would be going to change,” she said. a difficult task, but she said “We’re going to try to find the expectations for the pro-the best players out there gram remain the same. and produce national cham­
“I think the expectation pionship-caliber teams.” for the program is always to compete for the national Contact Brian Hartnett at championship, so that’s not bhartnet@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





MEN’S TENNIS 

Entire team contributes to Notre Dame success 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish rebound to turn around season 


By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports Writer 
The Irish finished the regular season at no. 14 in ncAA rankings and fourth in the Acc standings, boast­ing an overall record of 21-9 (7-4 Acc). 
Irish coach ryan sachire said he was pleased with the season overall, especially considering the potential growing pains from transfer­ring into the Acc and having few seniors on the team. 
“We had a good year,” sachire said. “It was cer­tainly a transition year, be­ing the first year in the Acc for us, and there was a lot that we learned. We had a lot of younger guys, so it was also kind of a transition from a veteran team we had last year to a younger team this year.” 
The team faced a chal­lenging schedule in which it played 12 teams currently ranked in the nation’s top 30. 
“The schedule this year was really tough; obviously it prepares a team in that every day is important, and every match is a big match,” sachire said. “The motiva­tion that you get from always having a big match around the corner makes you prac­tice really hard.” 
notre dame got its first taste of upsetting a highly-ranked opponent against Kentucky in January, when it took down the then-no.8 Wildcats, 4-3. 
“The first time we beat Kentucky at their place was huge,” sachire said. “That was our first win over a top­10 opponent, and it let us in to the [ITA national Indoor championships]. It gave our guys the idea that they can win against teams like that on a regular basis and that really spring-boarded us into having the season that we had.” 
sophomore Quentin monaghan said he attributes many of the victories the Irish had this season to the mindset the team was able to establish. 
“I think the team just real­ized what it took to be suc­cessful,” monaghan said. “every practice, you could see people working hard and committing to the process. sticking to what it takes to be good, regardless of the fail­ures or obstacles, shows a lot of character, which is some­thing we have had all year as a group.” 
sachire highlighted sev­eral players who he believed stepped up this season, pointing specifically to freshmen eddy covalschi and Josh hagar and senior ryan bandy. 
“You never know how fresh­men are going to respond to a college environment, and both of our two freshmen did an amazing job stepping up and acclimating to the level of college play and succeed­ing,” sachire said. “Then as a senior, [bandy] elevated himself from playing [as a no. 6] last year to now play­ing as a no. 2 in the ncAA tournament. It really shows how hard he’s worked and how dedicated he’s been.” 
senior Greg Andrews achieved a ranking of no. 24 nationally in singles, and the pair of Andrews and sopho­more Alex Lawson reached a ranking of no. 18 nationally in doubles. 
Andrews served as team captain and was vital to the team dynamic, monaghan said. 
“I really think our captain, Greg Andrews, has done a phenomenal job as a leader,” monaghan said. “he leads by example better than anyone I know, and he continued to become more vocal when we needed him to be.” 
despite the graduation of Andrews and notre dame’s other seniors, sachire said he looks forward to next sea­son and the continuation of the team’s improvement process. 
“Graduation happens ev­ery year, and the cool thing about college is that there’s always someone to fill the roles,” sachire said. “We’re confident in the players we have and the freshmen we’ve got coming in, and even though the makeup of the team will be different next year, I’m sure we’ll be suc­cessful again.” 
Contact Renee Griffin at                 rgriffi6@nd.edu 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports Writer 
The transition from one conference to another can cause a team to sink into a slide. 
however, that did not happen to no. 28 notre dame, who qualified for the ncAA Tournament for the 19th season in a row af­ter making the jump from the big east to the Acc. 
According to Irish coach Jay Louderback, his team was more than ready to meet the challenges of the transition. 
“The thing that’s been good with our kids all year is that they’ve all come out and played hard in every match,” Louderback said. “so I feel good about the end of the year.” 
As a testament to notre dame’s confidence, the Irish (16-9, 8-6 Acc) ripped off a seven-match winning streak to close out the reg­ular season, including six straight victories against Acc teams. 
This streak was a far cry from the beginning of the conference season for the Irish, when they dropped four straight matches to ranked Acc rivals no. 19 Georgia Tech, no. 12 miami, no. 5 duke and no. 14 clemson. 
Louderback said he was pleased with how well the team handled a difficult conference schedule. 
“I feel like we were put into a tough situation right off because we played so many of the top Acc teams,” Louderback said. “We played the top six Acc teams in our first seven conference matches. For us, it was very hard to play those teams, and [half] of the matches were on the road, so it was a tough start.” 
“I thought we handled it well, and by the middle of the year and towards the end of the season, the matches we should’ve and needed to win in the Acc we did. And that’s always tough, knowing that you need to win those matches. but we did.” 
Louderback said the team’s win against oklahoma state on Jan. 26 stood out as particularly impressive, as the Irish knocked off the then-no. 29 cowgirls (16-9, 7-2 big XII) by a score of 4-0. In partic­ular, Louderback noted the way the team bounced back from a recent loss to secure the win. 
Louderback also said he was pleased with the num­ber of players who stepped up this season, in particu­lar the freshman trio of mary closs, Jane Fennelly and monica robinson. 
“We’ve had a lot of them,” Louderback said. “our three freshmen I think have done a good job. college tennis is so different from juniors, and by the end of the year and even halfway through the season, you could tell that they weren’t fresh­men anymore. You knew that they’d been around, and they were great with travel.” 
In addition, Louderback praised the play of the se­niors and the veteran lead­ership they provided. 
“I feel like our seniors have really done a good job taking on a leadership role this year,” Louderback said. “We got a lot out of them this year. [on] our top two doubles teams this year, three of [the players] are seniors, and I feel that this group’s done a really good job.” 
senior britney sanders anchored the veteran corps for notre dame, playing 23 matches in the no. 1 spot and earning third team all-conference honors. 
Louderback said he views the season as a success overall as he looks to the future. 
“I think the biggest thing is our kids getting the feel of the Acc,” Louderback said. “We were thrown in with a tough first-year schedule where we’d play at home one on Friday and one away on sunday, just crazy travel. I think next year our schedule is much better on terms of travel. And I think that’s going to make things easier.” 
The Irish have main­tained their momentum from the end of the season into the ncAA tournament. 
despite entering the tour­nament unseeded, notre dame advanced to the round of 16 after beating dePaul in the first round and then upsetting no. 16 northwestern on its home court, 4-3. sophomore Julie vrabel clinched the win against northwestern (20­7, 10-1 big Ten) at the no. 6 singles spot. 
With the win over the Wildcats, notre dame ad­vances to the sweet 16 in Athens, Ga., where they will play Alabama on may 15. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BASEBALL 

Irish struggle in inaugural Acc campaign 

By MARY GREEN 
sports Writer 
It was a year of many changes for the Irish in 2014: a new power­house conference, a new identity as a team and several new stadi­ums to call home throughout the season. 
Although notre dame (19-31, 6-21 Acc) finished as runner-up in last year’s big east tournament and barely missed out on a trip to the ncAA tournament, the tran­sition to the Acc did not guar­antee the team would have the same kind of conference success this year. 
“We knew certainly that we were going to go into a conference that, up and down, is extremely competitive and filled with great teams,” Irish coach mik Aoki said. 
Additionally, the Irish lost two of their top offensive powers from the previous season — third baseman eric Jagielo, now with the Yankees organization, and first baseman Trey mancini, now with the orioles organization —and their closer, dan slania, currently with the Giants orga­nization, while ace right-hander Adam norton also graduated. 
To fill the holes left by those departures, Aoki said several players have stepped up, such as junior first baseman blaise Lezynski, who leads the team with his .299 average and 29 rbIs and is the only player to start ev­ery game this season. 
Junior outfielder mac hudgins, a key reserve the past two years, noticeably improved as well, earning 26 starts and batting .288, as did senior right-hander sean Fitzgerald, who leads the rotation with a 2.29 erA and 48 strikeouts. 
“I’ve been very gratified to see kids like blaise Lezynski and mac hudgins and sean Fitzgerald, having gone through everything, and the number of kids having good seasons, having seasons where they’ve shown a great deal of improvement and devel­opment, so from an individual standpoint, I’d point to things like that,” Aoki said. 
however, the Irish struggled in their new conference, not pick­ing up an Acc win until march 21 against virginia Tech and not winning a series until mid-April against boston college. 
Aoki said he saw notre dame’s 7-4 victory at then-no. 11 miami (Fla.) on April 20 and the team’s 13-10 nonconference record as highlights of the season. 
Additionally, the Irish were not able to take their home field at Frank eck stadium until may 9 because of cold-weather issues that delayed the installment of new FieldTurf. As a result, they were forced to play their home games in various stadiums throughout the area, including Four Winds Field in downtown south bend, U.s. steel Yard in Gary, Ind., and csU baseball stadium in chicago. 
“As a coach and for me as an individual, you hate to sit there and make excuses at things like that, but it certainly didn’t make a year that was so full of transi­tions, both from losing some of those players to joining a new conference to having a lot of new guys in different roles, and then to add the fact that old man win­ter didn’t cooperate with us very much in terms of allowing our field to get done,” Aoki said. “It was difficult.” 
despite these struggles on the diamond, Aoki said his play­ers impressed him with their non-baseball work, noting their “head-shaving escapade,” bene­fitting the bald and the beautiful at the meet-the-team dinner Feb. 
25 and their active participation with daniel Alexander, a 12-year­old pediatric brain tumor patient whom the team adopted as its no. 1 fan through the Friends of Jaclyn Foundation. 
“You look at some of the stuff off the field — the visit to Walter reed hospital [on may 2] was great,” Aoki said. “The involve­ment with daniel Alexander, who’s suffering from a brain tu­mor, that we’ve adopted — the relationship he has with our team and in particular a handful of guys like [sophomore outfielder] Kyle richardson, [sophomore outfielder] Zak Kutsulis and [ju­nior infielder] Phil mosey, who have really done a really good of leading that. so those are the things that I think sort of stand out.” 
The team will only lose three players to graduation after this season — Fitzgerald, catcher Forrest Johnson and right-hander donnie hissa — and Aoki said he is excited the trio will be able to celebrate its senior day at Frank eck stadium. 
“I’m thrilled for our program, but in particular, for those three kids,” he said of the seniors. “They’ve been the backbone for our program for a couple of years now, just great kids, so I’m thrilled as can be for those three guys in particular.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Welsh retires after 29th season as coach 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports Writer 
notre dame’s 2013-2014 cam­paign was defined by transition and adjustment, as the Irish en­tered the Acc and longtime head coach Tim Welsh announced his retirement after 29 years at the helm. 
“I think this season was an emotional roller coaster ride from november through march,” Welsh said. “We were very suc­cessful, both on an individual level in terms of [senior] Frank dyer becoming our first swim­mer to earn All-American status, and on a team level, in terms of this group always remaining focused and swimming well all year long.” 
dyer, who holds the program record in all freestyle events, fin­ished fifth in the 200-yard free­style at the ncAA championships and was named an All-American. As a team, the Irish took 30th place at the national champion­ships, in addition to a sixth place finish at the Acc championships and a 5-4 record in dual meets. 
overall, only one of the pro­gram’s records went unbroken this season. 
“Just based off the numbers, this is the fastest team to date, but what really distinguished this team was the our strength from top to bottom in terms of stellar senior leadership joined with en­ergetic freshmen who were able to contribute right away,” Welsh said. 
Freshman Joe cuomos also enjoyed a breakout season, be­coming the first notre dame diver to qualify for the national championships in all three div­ing events. 
“We were very proud about what Joe was able to do for us in his first season,” Welsh said. “It is remarkable to have a freshman be able to come in and compete at such a high level.” 
As new members of the Acc, the Irish faced tough competi­tion at the conference champi­onships. Although they broke 15 program records over the course of the four-day meet and were in third place after the first day of competition, the Irish faded to sixth place in their conference debut. 
“This year was absolutely a gi­ant step forward for us in terms of redefining our position on the national level and through our new conference competition,” Welsh said. “swimming in the Acc is a giant step. The confer­ence is simply faster, deeper, and more intense than anything we had seen before.” 
Three weeks later at the ncAA championships in Austin, Texas, notre dame earned 14 team points, the second-best finish in the program’s history. 
Welsh, in his final season, con­tinued to increase the number of Irish swimmers competing in the national championships. 20 of the 23 national-qualifying swim­mers during Welsh’s tenure have qualified in the past four years. 
“This season in particular has been about clarity,” Welsh said. “on a practical level we need to train faster and race faster go­ing forward. but as far as identity goes, this season taught us what advancing on the national level means from top to bottom.” 
his career as head coach com­pleted, Welsh is slated to receive the national collegiate and scholastic swimming Trophy, the highest honor the college swimming coaches Association of America can bestow, at the as­sociation’s banquet on may 22. Welsh retires from notre dame with 22 conference titles and a record of 326-179-1 in dual meets over 29 seasons. matt Tallman, Welsh’s longtime assistant,  will matt embodies the vision for succeed the storied coach. what we want this program to 

“stepping aside is what is best achieve going forward.” for this team at this time,” Welsh said. “I plan to remain active in Contact Henry Hilliard at the program and I know that rhillia1@nd.edu 




WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Reaney sets American record, wins title for ND 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports Writer 
A tie for 16th place at the ncAA championships and the program’s first individ­ual national championship highlighted notre dame’s inaugural season in the Acc. 
“[The season] went very well,” Irish coach brian barnes said. “It was a good year, and I had a lot of fun coaching these girls. We had an incredibly successful year, and it was fun to coach. I definitely grew as a coach, and my swimmers grew as well. I learned a lot about them, and they certainly learned a lot about me. You can look up the stats and the records, but out of the pool, it was great to watch or women, we’ve never of the way,” barnes said. the team come together. We had an individual nation-“obviously, she’s a fantastic finished this year with the al champion. It’s great for swimmer, but I really saw her same result as last year, but the University; it’s great grow in terms of confidence the team dynamic was very for emma; it’s great for the and attitude. As a coach, I al­different.” whole sport of women’s ways say consistency is your 

The biggest storyline con-swimming. now when emma best friend, and with emma, cluded on the final day of the steps onto the platform, ev-I felt like I knew before every season when junior emma eryone knows who she is.” race what I was going to get reaney won notre dame’s The Lawrenceville, Kan., out of her.” first-ever individual nation-native was named Acc The successful season al championship, setting swimmer of the Week five initially did not appear to an American record in the times, won three Acc titles be so promising. The Irish process of securing the 200-on her way to being named struggled out of the gate, yard breaststroke title. In Acc Women’s most valuable dropping their first three winning the national cham-swimmer, was named Acc dual meets. despite the poor pionship, reaney broke her Women’s swimmer of the start, barnes said he was own record, set just a few Year and earned three more never worried about the di­weeks earlier at the Acc All-American honors, bring-rection of the season. championships. ing her career total to 10. “A lot of people focus on 
“no one’s ever done that “It was special to get to the record and the win-loss, at notre dame, so it’s very coach her all year and watch and that’s fine, but that’s special,” barnes said. “men her dominate every step not how I look at it,” barnes 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

said. “our focus is not at the beginning of the year; it’s at the end. I love winning dual meets, and I was upset with the way we lost a couple of those races. We could’ve been 2-1. but was I wor­ried? no. In the beginning, we lost to teams we fin­ished ahead of at [the ncAA championships].” 
After losing the first three, the Irish went on a five-meet winning streak to close the fall season, capped off by a first-place finish at the hawkeye Invitational in december. 
notre dame then used that momentum as a springboard into its first Acc champi­onship, where the Irish fin­ished sixth. 
“We finished sixth at the Acc championships, and sixth is nothing to pat your­self on the back for, but I still liked what I saw from the girls,” barnes said. “The poise they carried them­selves with, the confidence they had being the new kids on the block, I was very im­pressed with that.” 
After the conference championships, notre dame qualified eight swimmers for the ncAA championships. The team of reaney, seniors Kelly ryan and christen mcdonough, juniors bridget casey, courtney Whyte and suzanne bessire and freshmen Katie miller and catherine mulquin took 16th place in minnesota. 
despite tying last year’s team with the program’s highest finish ever at the ncAA championships, barnes said he believes his team still can do better. 
“As a coach, 16th is not something I strive for,” barnes said. “I’m not going to pat myself on the back for a 16th-place finish. I’d like to see us be a little higher, and I think the potential is there for us to improve.” 
notre dame will say good­bye to five seniors: ryan, mcdonough, sarah dotzel, mikelle masciantonio and Lauren stauder. barnes praised the group for the leadership and contin­ued improvement the class showed since first stepping on campus in 2010. 
“They are a very good class,” barnes said. “each year is really defined by the senior class. In terms of leadership, you really go as far as your senior class takes you. each senior finished their career with their best times, and as a coach, I’m really proud of that. These girls grew so much and went out at the top.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame falters in stronger new conference 
FENCING 
Irish collect two individual titles 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Assistant managing editor 
notre dame’s biggest vic­tory came relatively early in its challenging inaugural Acc schedule when the Irish upset miami on oct. 18 at Purcell Pavilion. 
The first season in the Acc was a rough one for the Irish (13-18, 7-13 Acc), but they seem ready to use this past year as the foundation for more matches like the miami win. 
Irish coach debbie brown expressed this hope. 
“Absolutely, we have to build off this season,” brown said. “We want to turn it around completely. We want to have a much more suc­cessful season in terms of wins, and we really believe that we’ll be able to do that.” 
The home win against the hurricanes was the second straight for notre dame af­ter an 0-5 start to Acc play. 
“It was a good win against miami at home,” brown said. “It was an upset. The team played well; we were really focused, so that was prob­ably our strongest match of the Acc schedule.” 
After the upset, the wins came sporadically, as the move to a new conference challenged the Irish to pre­pare for matches against unfamiliar teams. 
“I think it was more just a matter of getting to know the teams and the coaches and the systems that they run, so I don’t think it’s re­ally us adjusting as much as knowing what to expect from them,” brown said. 
The Irish also had to ad­just to the talent level of the Acc, which is stronger over­all than the big east, brown said. 
“It’s definitely stronger top to bottom,” brown said. “so I think the top teams are really comparable with the top teams in the big east, but the bottom teams were much stronger than the bot­tom teams in the big east, so I think it was much more challenging night-in and night-out.” 
notre dame claimed an­other back-to-back set of victories nov. 1 and 3 against maryland and Pittsburgh, respectively, and then de­feated boston college twice and virginia Tech spread out over the course of the season. 
Although the Irish bested their opponents in total solo blocks over the course of the season, their opponents held the edge in kills, as­sists, service aces and digs. 
“I think [one of the biggest takeaways was] probably just that it was a growing and learning year,” brown said. “It wasn’t one that we achieved well, but I think that we learned a lot from it, and I think that the team returning is very hungry and focused and ready for the challenge for the next season.” 
The Irish ended their sea­son with a loss but won two of their final four games, and set themselves up to have a better edge for next season, brown said. notre dame will welcome a large class of six freshmen but now has one season in the Acc under its belt. 
“I think it’ll help a lot, certainly seeing each of the teams at least once, and some of them we saw twice,” brown said. “Additionally, I hired craig bere as our as­sistant, and he’s been at Georgia Tech for the past five years, so he has five years of experience … in the Acc, which will be a huge help to us as well, so definitely the familiarity is an important aspect of the preparation.” 
Four seniors will leave the Irish: setter maggie brindock, right side/de­fensive specialist sammie brown, libero/outside hit­ter Andrea mchugh and middle blocker Andie olsen. outside hitter nicole smith will stay on as a graduate student. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
After falling just short of an ncAA championship last year, finishing as runner-up to Princeton, the Irish ended their 2014 season with two national champions and a sixth-place finish at the ncAA championships. 
notre dame started the year with dominating performances at nYU and st. John’s at the two-day new York duals on Jan. 25­
26. At nYU, the Irish won nine of 12 matches, and the next day at st. John’s, the men captured second, while the women took third. 
The Irish then travelled to evanston, Ill., to take on some of the top schools in the country at the northwestern duals on Feb. 
1. There, the men went 5-2, even without top senior foilist Gerek meinhardt. The women posted a 4-3 team record behind strong perfomrances in epee and foil. 
The foil squad, consisting of sophomores nicole mcKee and sarah Followill and se­nior Adriana camacho, posted a perfect 9-0 record against stanford in a 20-7 Irish vic­tory at the dual meet. The epee squad ¾ sophomore catherine Lee and juniors nicole Ameli and Ashley severson ¾ also re­corded an undefeated 9-0 mark, theirs coming in a 22-5 win over Uc san diego. 
next on the docket for the Irish was the decicco duals, a home meet for the Irish at the castellan Family Fencing center on Feb. 8-9. There, the Irish set a home attendance re­cord of 698 for their bout with Penn state, which came down to the wire, with the women pulling out a 14-13 win. The Irish won 15 of 16 matches over the weekend, including an un­defeated 8-0 mark from the women. 
After a three-week break, the Irish returned to the castellan Family Fencing center for the midwestern Fencing conference championships on march 1-2. on the first day of action, senior Ariel desmet and sophomore Lee Kiefer took individual titles in men’s and women’s foil, respectively. 
The Irish and ohio state hov­ered near the top of the stand­ings throughout the two-day meet for, and the conference title came down to the final match between the women’s epee squads. With the score tied, freshman eva niklinska took on buckeyes sophomore becca rutan in a winner-take­all match. rutan controlled the match and clinched the title for the buckeyes, 1,590-1,550. 
After qualifying 10 of the max­imum 12 fencers for the ncAA championships on march 20-23, the Irish travelled to columbus, ohio, in hopes of raising their fifth ncAA championship ban­ner since the ncAA combined men’s and women’s champion­ships in 1990. however, the Irish struggled as a team, falling to fifth after the first two days of competition and sliding to sixth by the end of the four-day meet. 
The meet was not without its positives, though, as Kiefer be­came a repeat ncAA champion in women’s foil, facing Irish ju­nior madison Zeiss for the title. meinhardt, too, became a two-time ncAA champion, capping his notre dame career with the men’s foil crown, in addition to being named the no. 1 foilist in the world. 




TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish women place second, men third, in Acc 
By MATT GARCIA 
sports Writer 
While the school year may be over for some, notre dame’s season will not con­clude until late July. With twelve top-five finishes in meets between the men and women, the team’s suc­cess in the 2013-2014 season has already been secured. Among these finishes, the Irish placed in second for the women and third for the men at the Acc outdoor champi­onships, while both the men and women finished in third at the indoor conference championship. 
Two of notre dame’s top sprinters, senior Pat Feeney and junior chris Giesting, were key to the men’s high finish, combining to score 28 points in two individual events and two relays. both have already qualified for the ncAA regional meet in Jacksonville, Fla., with the chance to repeat as All-Americans in the 400-meter dash. 
“Pat and chris have a shot at once again placing at na­tionals, which would be huge for the team,” freshman sprinter harvey smith said. 
In addition to Feeney and Giesting, smith was quick to note the impact that gradu­ate student distance runner nick happe has made on the team this year. happe has run the fastest 5000-meter race on the team this season and dipped below the four-minute barrier in the mile during the indoor season. 
“coming over from [Arizona state], nick was able to get a lot of points for us this year,” smith said. “hopefully, he makes it to nationals and does well there like he has all season.” 
When happe ran below four minutes in the meyo mile at the meyo Invitational on Feb. 8, he finished in third, just behind the winner, law student Jeremy rae, who has been in the spotlight for most of the season. rae’s time of 
3:57.25 set a school record and was the fastest mile in the country at the time. 
“Jeremy has been a huge part of the team, both in competition and at practice,” smith said. 
notre dame has had an equally successful season on the women’s side as well. competing in the Acc out­door championships for the first time, the women placed second overall, led by ju­nior Jade barber’s season-best time in the 100-meter hurdles. 
The performance of both barber and senior michelle brown throughout the in­door and outdoor seasons were a key component of the team. barber was named an All-American after finishing in seventh in the 60-meter hurdles at the indoor cham­pionships. brown cut her personal best in the 200-me­ter dash by over a quarter of a second, a significant improvement. 
“michelle was another one who had a breakout-type year, for her it was in the 200-meter race,” smith said. “And Jade was clearly one of the biggest stars of the team.” 
The Irish will continue their outdoor season with the ncAA regional meet in Jacksonville, Fla., on may 29-31, followed by the ncAA 
outdoor  championships  
in  eugene,  ore.,  from  June  
11-14.  

Contact Matt Garcia at mgarci5@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame plagued by inconsistency 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 
The Irish capped an up-and-down season that in­cluded handful of strong individual performances with a successful show­ing in their inaugural Acc championship. 
notre dame struggled with consistency, especial­ly during the fall, when it earned just two top-10 fin­ishes in five tournaments. The team’s best performance during the season was third place at the mary Fossum Invitational in east Lansing, mich., in september. In that tournament, junior Ashley Armstrong closed with a final-round score of 69 to put her at a total of four-over, which put her in a tie for second in the individual competition.  Armstrong’s success in the tournament was aided by the support of her teammates, one of the defining characteristics of this year’s team, Irish coach susan holt said.“We really haven’t had that one play­er this year that has really stood out,” holt said. “It re­ally has brought [the team members] a lot closer, and they have made a strong support system among themselves.” 
The depth on the Irish was key during the season, holt said. When it came to scor­ing averages, the team had four players within a stroke of each other — Armstrong, senior Kristina nhim, fresh­man Jordan Ferreira and sophomore Talia campbell. 
“It’s been good from a standpoint that they all re­alize that they have to con­tribute,” holt said. “[They realize] that they’re critical pieces to the puzzle for us to play well. There’s a lot of mutual respect that I think has been great to watch de­velop the whole season.” 
notre dame had its most complete performance of the year in march, when it took second at the clover cup, an event the team hosted during spring break. nhim won the individu­al competition tourna­ment, held in mesa, Ariz., for her first collegiate vic­tory. her final score was a three-under-par 213 (68-72­73).“[nhim] has had a nice career here and that was re­ally nice for her to pick up a victory in her senior year,” holt said. “For the five play­ers we have [entering next season], three of them have won collegiate events. not many teams can say that. We have a lot of depth and a really good chance of show­ing that [moving forward].” 
The Irish, however, struggled in their next two tournaments, the LsU Golf classic and the rebel Intercollegiate, where they finished 11th and tied for 13th, respectively. They be­gan postseason play with a tie for 5th at their first Acc championship, beating three top-25 teams and ty­ing another. 
The Irish closed their sea­son with an 18th-place fin­ish at the ncAA regionals on may 10 at the Tumble creek club at suncadia resort in cle elum, Wash. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at  bplamond@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

ND places in top 30 at NCAAs 

Observer Staff Report 
Four top-five finishes for both the men and women and an All-American individual perfor­mance for the first time since 2008 highlighted notre dame’s season, which culminated in both teams qualifying for the ncAA championship in Terre haute, Ind. 
The Irish started their season at the crusader open, as they have every year since 2003. running without most of their regular var­sity squads, both the men’s and women’s teams finished in the top two, with the women winning the meet for the first time since 2010. 
Individually, sophomore sydni meunier and senior Patrick Lesiewicz led the Irish, crossing the finish line first in the women’s and men’s races, respectively. It was the first varsity win in each runner’s collegiate career. notre dame placed at least three run­ners in the top five of both races. 
The varsity squad made its unofficial debut two weeks later at the national catholic championships at notre dame Golf course. Facing top catholic schools such as marquette and Xavier, the Irish rolled to a sweep of the men’s and women’s team ti­tles, including a 1-2-3 finish in the women’s race from seniors Kelly curran and Alexa Aragon and ju­nior emily Frydrych. 
on the men’s side, notre dame lost the individual crown to Loyola junior sam Penzenstadler but swept in after him, claiming the next six spots for a decisive team victory. 
Two weeks later, the Irish re­turned to the notre dame Golf course for the notre dame Invitational. however, they were unable to repeat their previous domination, with the men finish­ing in sixth and the women plac­ing seventh. 
At their next meet, the Wisconsin adidas Invitational, both the men’s and women’s teams managed to place in the top fifteen against an elite field, despite battling injuries and illnesses. 
Graduate student Jeremy rae, returning from an injury which derailed his previous season, led the Irish in both races, placing fifth and 45th, respectively. 
In the postseason, the Irish men placed third and the women fourth in both the Acc cham­pionships and the ncAA Great Lakes regional. rae, curran, ju­nior hannah eckstein and senior martin Grady each earned all-Acc honors, while rae, Grady and curran all finished in the top 10 at the regional meet. 
At the national championship, the women performed below ex­pectations, finishing 29th in a field of 31 teams, while the men placed 23rd. Grady led the Irish, claiming 35th place and All-American ac­colades, while the women’s squad was led once again by curran, who placed 94th. 
MEN’S GOLF 

Platt leads Irish to sixth at ACCs, qualifies for regionals 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 

Like a golfer hitting a strong drive down the fairway to open a round, notre dame kicked off a solid 2014 campaign in its de­but season as the newest mem­bers of the Acc. 
The Irish found themselves not only in a new conference, but also with only one senior in their regular starting line­up. For a younger team in a new field of competition, notre dame’s seventh-place finish in the Acc speaks volumes for the team’s performance this sea­son, Irish coach James Kubinski said. 
despite not making the cut for the ncAA championship, Kubinski said he was pleased the team stayed competitive. 
“While we’ll miss ncAAs by 20 spots or so in the rank­ings, our spring play was in line with ncAA teams,” Kubinski said. “I think that fact can be attributed to both our senior leadership and the growth our younger players experienced. We showed we can play with top teams.” 
senior co-captain niall Platt placed in the top five consis­tently for the Irish and anchored the team’s veteran leadership. Platt became notre dame’s all-time leading scorer after he posted a second-place finish at the Irish creek collegiate on April 6. 
After notre dame’s season ended, Platt earned an indi­vidual bid to the 2014 ncAA championship and will make his third career ncAA regional start. Platt is slated to com­pete at the ncAA sugar Grove regional at rich harvest Farms in sugar Grove, Ill., on may 15-17. 
With his 71.85 scoring aver­age, Platt is only the second golfer in program history to be chosen as an individual com­petitor for an ncAA regional, joining 2010 graduate Josh sandman. 
“niall has been the most consistent player I’ve ever been around, in score, approach and technique,” Kubinski said. “he finished second in his very first tournament at [notre dame] and has never let up. niall played every single tournament for us over his four years, which is a rarity in itself. 
“he’s also the first player I know of who counted in the team score 100 percent of the rounds played [33 of 33 this year]. It’s a testament to not only his ability, but also his emotional maturity, focus and competitiveness.” 
For Platt, being able to take on the responsibility of a team cap­tain while continuing to per­form at an elite level stemmed from his ability to control his mentality on the course, he said. 
“This year I was better pre­pared mentally to lead the team,” Platt said. “Last year, I put too much pressure on my­self thinking I had to be the guy to carry the team, but this year, I took away that pressure and was able to perform to the best of my ability. Personally, I’m most proud of the way I grew men­tally this year, which was some­thing I really needed to improve moving forward.” 
In addition to Platt, junior Patrick Grahek provided consis­tency on the course throughout the spring. Grahek improved as the season went on, lowering his scoring average to 74, second best on the team. 
“Patrick has come as far these last 12 months as any player we’ve had in that type of time period,” Kubinski said. “he has made enormous gains in both his physical skills and mental toughness. The exciting thing is that he can still grow some more. his confidence is as high as it has ever been, which is so important.” 
Grahek peaked at notre dame’s inaugural Acc cham­pionships with a top-ten finish. Following a career-low score of 67 in the final round, Grahek tied for ninth place with a com­bined score of seven-under-par. 
“It was very exciting to finish my season off the way I did,” Grahek said. “I had been waiting for that breakout performance all year. my final round [of] 67 at the Acc championship was one of the most fun rounds of golf I have ever played. To em­brace the circumstances and the environment and play some incredible golf was a really fun experience.” 
Kubinski, Platt and Grahek all agreed that the combined talent in the rising upperclassmen and the team’s increasing familiar­ity with the new conference in­dicate the Irish can build off this past season. 
“I think we all saw it in our­selves and as a team that we have the potential to be a con­tender for the national title ev­ery year if we put our best effort into our golf,” Grahek said. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 



ROWING 

ND enters ACC championship with first win of year 
1 brown, no. 4 stanford and 
By JOSH DULANY 

sports Writer no. 8 Usc. Following that showing, notre dame failed 
After its first victory of the to win a race in the Acc-big season at the dale england Ten challenge in belleville, cup, no. 10 notre dame mich., against no. 3 ohio heads to the Acc champion-state and no. 9 michigan. ships on may 16-17, in order despite these struggles, to potentially qualify for the Irish not only took the the ncAA championships in win in the dale england cup, Indianapolis, from may 30 but they head to the Acc 
-June 1. The Irish enter the championship with the con­season’s final stretch riding ference’s fastest varsity eight the momentum of the vic-lineup. The crew of senior tory at the cup, which was coxswain christina dines, hosted by no. 13 Indiana. senior Teresa rubinger, 
“The win really helped freshman hilary shinnick, us gain some confidence,” junior Anna Kottkamp, ju-Irish coach martin stone nior Ailish sheehan, junior said. “We were coming off a erin boxberger, freshman tough couple of weeks where molly bruggeman, senior we had faced something courtney Gaberino and “It’s hard to pinpoint one who is also the defend-we’ve got to ramp things up like five top-ten teams and sophomore Joanna mulvey or two team members that ing conference champions. and compete.” Indiana was no. 13, so get-posted the time of 6:17.90 at stand out because each per-stone said the team’s goals The Acc champion-ting the win just kind of told the dale england cup in a son brings something differ-going into the tournament ships get underway at Lake us, ‘hey, we’re doing what race against the hoosiers. ent,” stone said. “everyone are very clear. hartwell in clemson, s.c., we’re doing and we just got That varsity eight squad brings something unique “We want to win,” stone on may 16 -17 and will con-to keep doing it.’” will be one of notre dame’s on and off the water and we said. “obviously that’s what sist of 17 events.. If the Irish 
notre dame’s season has three varsity eight entries need everyone if we are go-the expectations are. We qualify for the 22-team featured competition with at the Acc championships, ing to reach the level we want want to compete hard at the ncAA field, they will com-six top-ten squads. At the along with its one varsity to be at and get the wins we Accs and qualify for ncAAs. pete in Indianapolis, Ind., Lake natoma Invitational in four entry. stone said the are capable of.” I think we are more than from may 30 to June 1. Folsom, calif., on April 12-Irish will need a strong ef-The Irish are the second-capable. We’ve taken some 13, the Irish finished fifth fort from the entire team to highest ranked team in the time to recover, we’ve fi-Contact Josh Dulany at behind no. 2 california, no. reach their full potential. Acc, behind no. 5 virginia, nalized the teams and now jdulany@nd.edu 

SMC: Year in Review 
Cross Country records highest conference finish in program history; Soccer wins 10 games for third season in a row 
Basketball 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s had its highs and lows throughout the season, but as belles coach Jenn henley will be sure to tell you, her team never gave up. 
“That is what I will remember this team for the most,” she said. “They never quit.” 
The belles (7-18, 5-11 mIAA) opened their season in mid-no­vember with tournaments at st. norbert in Green bay, Wis., and Wheaton in Wheaton, Ill. Although they went 1-3 at the tournaments, the belles blew past northland, 83­33, for their first win of the season. 
despite three three-game losing streaks of three games during the season, henley said she remained confident in her team, even after a 90-89 loss on dec. 7 to north central on a buzzer-beater. 
“The game against north central was a good one for us,” she said. “even though we lost, we main­tained such an intense pace of play against a team who runs the [fast­paced] Grinnell system.” 
The belles carried that intensity into their next game, against Trine. saint mary’s secured a 60-42 victory for saint mary’s, its first conference win of the year. 
henley also highlighted confer­ence wins over Alma and Albion in January as high points in the season. 
Against Alma (0-25, 0-16), the belles trailed by 10 with 8:51 to play, but a 13-0 run gave them a 70-67 win over the scots. senior guard shanlynn bias, who led the team this season with 14.7 points per game and 2.68 assists per game, had a game-high 20 points. 
After a stretch of three tough loss­es, a back-and-forth game against Albion (9-16, 5-11) ended knotted at 55-55. henley said the belles once again demonstrated their resiliency, which she saw in her team, missing just one shot in overtime to secure a 67-64 win. 
Although the belles struggled to­wards the end of the year, dropping five of their last six, they defeated Alma 72-61 on senior day and fin­ished with a 7-18 record overall, an improvement over their 5-20 record in 2012-13. 
henley said she is looking for­ward to seeing how her young team will continue to progress next sea­son without two important leaders, graduating seniors bias and for­ward Katherine Wabler. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
Cross Country 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s hit the ground running from the start and never looked back over the course of the 2013 campaign. The belles matched their highest conference finish to date, won the manchester Invitational and finished in 14th place at their ncAA regional, the best finish in progras history. 
“In my mind, this past season was one of our best seasons to date,” belles coach Jacqueline bauters said. “entering the season, I was both anxious and nervous about the season due to such a large number of first-years, as well as new upperclass-women. I was very proud of how they came together as a group.” 
With five first-years and eight un­derclassmen running for the belles, senior captain Jessica biek set the tone throughout the season, lead­ing the young team in every race for the second consecutive year. 
At the mIAA championships, biek finished in ninth place in a personal-best time of 22:46, which earned her All-mIAA honors. Two weeks later, she reset her personal record at the Great Lakes regional and was named to the All-region squad. biek as the sixth runner in program history to earn All-mIAA honors and only the third belle to receive all-conference and all-re­gion accolades in the same season. 
“Individually, I’m proud that I pushed myself faster every single race to eventually get down to a 22:35 time for the 3.7-mile race, [but] the biggest takeaway from this season [for me] has been the im­portance of having a group of sup­portive people around while trying to accomplish a goal,” biek said. “I don’t think our team would have been as motivated and successful without our positive team culture.” 
As a team, saint mary’s enjoyed one of its most successful seasons in program history. The belles posted their best finish in a con­ference event since 2010 with a fourth-place showing at the mIAA Jamboree on sept. 23. on nov. 2, the belles beat out Alma by two points to claim third place at the mIAA championship, which earned them third place overall in the league, matching the team’s best-ever finish. 
“our conference championship stands out as one of the most memo­rable days,” bauters said. “While we had a decent amount of consistency in our top five to seven, the places were interchanging frequently, and everyone did their job that day to ensure a third-place finish.” 
moving forward, The belles will enter their 2014 campaign with five of their top seven runners back to lead the way once again. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
Lacrosse 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports Writer 
After three long months of close games and near-victories, saint mary’s ended its inaugural varsity season with an overall record of 2-13 and a 1-7 mark in the mIAA. 
The belles kicked off their first season by travelling to rhodes college in memphis, Tenn., to take on hendrix, millsaps, defiance and rhodes over four days. Although saint mary’s lost all four games, it progressively narrowed the scoring margin in each contest. 
The belles’ first win in program history came in their first home game on April 5 against Illinois Tech. The belles jumped out to an early lead and never looked back, taking the victory, 16-4. The belles’ lone conference victory of the sea­son came against Trine on April 
18. First-year midfielder Aubrey Golembieski, who led the team with 39 goals, scored the game-winning goal in overtime to propel saint mary’s to a 9-8 win. 
The belles closed out their season with a 24-6 loss to Alma at home on April 26. despite concluding the season with a losing record overall and in mIAA play, belles coach Amy Long said her players kept their heads up and focused on strength­ening the team’s foundation. 
“I am so incredibly proud that our players kept a positive attitude in our final games of the season and continued to play with pride,” Long said. “I’m sure it is frustrating 
for the girls to lose so many games in a season, so to see them still give their all and play in high spirits is just wonderful.” 
As the program looks ahead to 
see smc YeAr PAGE 46 



SMC Year 
conTInUed From PAGe 45 
next season, Long said she believes the team’s positive camaraderie will help the belles progress.
 “I am looking forward to having a larger team next season,” Long said. “We will have eight to 10 in­coming freshman on the team, and I know that our players are looking forward to the growth of our program. It will be great to have [substitutes] for our games and have our players push each other even more next season. overall, I am incredibly optimistic that we will be able to have a winning sea­son next year.” 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at 
rrogalsk@nd.edu 
Softball 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports Writer 
After four years as saint mary’s go-to starting pitcher, senior callie selner’s career came to an end, as she split her last two starts against Alma. 
The belles (16-16, 6-10 mIAA) did not qualify for the ncAA cham­pionships, but three juniors, eight sophomores and three freshmen return for next season. 
selner, the squad’s lone senior, was second on the team in batting average with .333, tied for second in rbIs with 14 and second in home runs with four. 
Pitching, selner also finished third in the mIAA with 97 strike­outs, and led the team with a 3.19 erA. 
selner ranks third in program history for career doubles with 31 and for career rbIs with 101. she has been one of the best pitchers in saint mary’s history, setting school records for most wins in a single season with 17, most career wins with 46 and most career strikeouts with 373. 
“Those records mean that all my hard work and dedication over the years have really paid off,” selner said. “I think my main goal was to go out with a bang my senior year, and that helped drive my work eth­ic this winter. I give credit to all my coaches for pushing me and help­ing me get to where I am today.” 
selner is not the only current belles player in the record books. sophomore catcher and first base­man Jillian busfield established herself this season as one of the best hitters in belles’ history. busfield already had broken the program’s single-season record for home runs, with 11, and credits selner for pushing her to become a better player. 
“she is very similar to me in personality, so when I’m down, it’s very easy for her to pick me up or vise versa,” busfield said. “It’s a quality I have always looked up to in her. … she is a great hitter. I feed off of her strong energy and use her image on the field as a reminder that I too can do as she does.” 
For the first time since 2009, the belles failed to finish among the top four in the mIAA, but selner said she remains optimistic about the future. 
“The future of saint mary’s soft­ball is in good hands, and I think coach Zache will start to leave a legacy in years to come” selner said. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
Golf 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s enjoyed an im­pressive fall season in coach Kim moore’s inaugural year, followed by a frustrating spring cam­paign, as the belles fell just short of qualifying for the ncAA div. III championship.
 The team started off the fall strong, with a fifth-place fin­ish in its own o’brien national Invitational, then went through three weeks of near-misses, finish­ing in second place in the next four mIAA meets. 
one of the brightest spots in this stretch for the belles was the performance of freshman Ali mahoney and senior Paige Pollak at Trine on oct. 5. mahoney and Pollack both scored in the 70s, the first time saint mary’s has had two golfers shoot under 80 in the same round in four years. 
however, the belles’ best in­dividual performance of the fall came in the last match of the sea­son at the mIAA end-of-season Jamboree at olivet, mich., where junior Janice heffernan shot a 75, the fifth-lowest score in a con­ference competition in program history. 
In the spring season, saint mary’s started off slow, failing to crack the top-five in its first two invitationals. however, the belles bounced back with a solid fourth-place finish at the ohio Wesleyan Laura bump Invite in ostrander, ohio. heffernan once again led the belles, shooting a 78 on the second day to finish ninth overall, while sophomore sammie Averill fin­ished 11th. 
With this momentum, the belles entered the three mIAA ncAA qualifiers. The belles finished second in each meet, but failed to qualify for the tournament, fin­ishing 50 strokes behind olivet. 


AUG. 31 Under new golf coach Kim Moore, the Belles begin their season at the Olivet Labor Day Tee-Off. 
OCT.6 Soccer wins 1-0 against Trine on a pen­alty kick by senior midfelder Mollie Valencia in the 103rd minute. The match was the ffth overtime affair for the Belles, a program high. 
OCT.7 Freshman forward Rosie Biehl and junior defender Kerry Green are named the MIAA Offensive and Defensive Player of the Week, respectively, in soccer. 
NOV.1 Volleyball tops Adrian, 3-2, to clinch a spot in the four-team MIAA tournament for the frst time since 2008. 
NOV.2 Cross country fnishes third at the MIAA 
despite this disappointment, moore was pleased with her team’s season. 
“obviously our goal every year is to play our way into ncAA national championship, so I guess we fell short in that sense,” moore said. “however, with such a young team comprised of just three underclass­men, I felt we more than held our own in the conference” 
Looking ahead, moore said she is incredibly excited about next year’s prospects, thanks to the strong performances of the team’s young­er players. 
“I saw an immense amount of improvement amongst the team throughout the year,” moore said. 
As the belles move forward, they will do so without seniors Alexi brown and Paige Pollak, both of whom have had a massive impact on the team, moore said. 
“both girls were incredibly con­sistent for us this year, both in the spring and the fall season,” moore said. “Their leadership will be very difficult to replace, but I am proud to have had them as members of this team” 
Contact Cornelius McGrath at cmcgrat2@nd.edu 
Volleyball 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports Writer 
Led by three all-conference play­ers, the belles had one of their best seasons ever. 
The team’s main goal for the year was to qualify for the mIAA tour­nament at the end of the season by finishing in the conference’s top four, belles coach Toni elyea said. saint mary’s (12-15, 8-8 mIAA) ac­complished this goal with a regular season-finale win over rival Adrian in five sets, 3-2. The match also helped the belles avenge an earlier loss in the season to Adrian on oct. 1. 
even though saint mary’s was knocked out in the first match of mIAA tournament by eventual national champion calvin, elyea said she was pleased by her team’s season. 
“To have a fourth place finish in one of the top d-III conferences in the country, where the no. 1 and no. 2 teams in the conference are also the no. 1 and no. 2 teams in the nation, is not an easy task,” elyea said. “I could not be more proud of their accomplishments this year.” 
statistically, saint mary’s im­proved in many different catego­ries from the 2012 season. With all-mIAA selections juniors Kati schneider and melanie Kuczek and sophomore Katie hecklinski leading the charge, saint mary’s 
championships with a team score of 102. 

NOV.9 Junior outside hitter Kati Schneider (frst team) and sophomore outside hitter Katie Hecklinski (second) both receive All-MIAA honors in volleyball. 
NOV.12 Three soccer players — juniors goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum and defenders Mary Kate Hussey and Green — are named to the All-MIAA frst team, marking the frst time in program history Saint Mary’s has landed three players on the squad. 

NOV.16 Cross country senior Jessica Biek earns All-Region honors as the Belles fnish 14th at the NCAA Great Lakes Regional. 
DEC. 4 Green earns a spot on the NCAA Divi­
combined for more than 1,200 kills as a team, something it had not ac­complished since 2008. Freshman claire mcmillan’s 922 assists were a team high, and junior meredith mersits led the team with 436 digs. 
elyea added that the belles also performed well in the classroom, as the team combined for a GPA of 
3.5 during the season. 
“I felt like we had so much suc­cess on and off the court this year,” elyea said. 
elyea said that that the strength in the classroom is something saint mary’s has always prided itself on, as the program has won a combined 11 mIAA Team GPA awards in its history. 
Without a senior on the roster, the full belles’ squad will return next year. Although the team qual­ified for the season-ending tourna­ment, elyea said saint mary’s still has room to improve. “We were not at all satisfied with how many close matches we lost last year,” elyea said. “next fall, we will have a very talented group of young ladies that are determined to finish out their four years at the top of the mIAA conference.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Soccer 
Observer Staff Report 
The combination of a prolific freshman goal-scorer and a strong finish pushed the belles to a third consecutive season with at least 10 wins. 
saint mary’s (10-7-3, 8-5-3 mIAA) started the season with losses in four of its first six matches and dropped its first two conference matches. Then, after three straight ties, the belles rebounded to post an 8-3-3 record down the stretch and secure a 10-win season. 
The belles finished fifth in the mIAA and had three players named to the all-conference first team. 
Goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum and defenders Kerry Green and mary Kate hussey, all juniors, were honored. The belles recorded seven shutouts on the season and conceded 23 scores in 20 matches. 
Freshman forward rosie biehl led the saint mary’s offense with eight total goals, and 11 other play­ers scored at least once. no other player besides biehl tallied more than three goals. 
After their slow start, the belles put together a seven-match un­beaten streak in september and october, grabbing four wins and three draws. 
The streak started off with three consecutive draws in conference play — 0-0 against calvin, 1-1 against hope, and 2-2 against Albion — before the squad reeled off four straight wins. 
saint mary’s defeated Trine and Kalamazoo with overtime goals in back-to-back matches during the winning streak. 
The belles then dropped three straight matches before closing the season strong by recording anoth­er four-match win streak. 
saint mary’s defeated Adrian, 3-2, in double overtime in its pen­ultimate match before dispatching Trine, 5-0, in the season finale. 
Tennis 
Observer Staff Report 
After missing out on the mIAA’s four-team conference tournament via a tiebreaker in 2013, the belles focused on staking their claim to a top-four spot in 2014. saint mary’s succeeded in snagging the fourth seed in the tournament and end­ed the year with a 5-3 conference record. 
Led at no. 1 singles by senior co-captain mary catherine Faller, the belles (11-8, 5-3 mIAA) posted a record of 11-8 and improved their finish in the conference standings for the third consecutive season. 
saint mary’s finished sixth in 2012 and fifth after the tiebreaker was applied last season. This year, the belles finally broke into the league’s top four. 
After starting the year slowly at 1-2, the belles quickly righted the ship, rattling off five wins in their next six games to establish a win­ning record that they would not re­linquish for the rest of the season. 
sophomore Andrea Fetters made an immediate impact in her first season with the team, mov­ing her way up from no. 6 to no. 4 singles en route to a 12-3 record in singles matches during the spring season. 
Fetters was key to the belles’ victory over calvin on April 23. she won her singles match at the no. 5 spot and her doubles match with sophomore margaret Faller. With the victory over the Knights (6-11, 4-4), the belles clinched a playoff berth and secured a ninth consecutive season of 10 or more victories. 
In the mIAA tournament, the belles lost to top-seeded Kalamazoo, who went on to lose to hope in the conference title match, 5-1. 
The belles picked up a victory at no. 1 doubles, and when the no. 2 doubles match went to a tiebreak­er, saint mary’s had an opportuni­ty to grab its first lead of the match. but Kalamazoo took the win and then won three singles matches in a row to secure the team victory. 
sion III All-Central Region team for soccer. smashed back-to-back home runs on three sepa­
rate occasions during softball’s doubleheader FEB. 22 Basketball loses its season fnale 77-sweep of Manchester. 65 to Albion and fnishes the season 7-18 (5-11 in MIAA play). APRIL 26 Softball splits with Alma and fn­
ishes the season 16-16 (6-10 in the MIAA). MARCH 4 Senior basketball guard Shanlynn Bias earns a spot on the All-MIAA second team. APRIL 28 Golf concludes its season with Bias fnished fourth in the conference in scoring a second-place fnish in the third MIAA NCAA with an average of 15.8 points per game. qualifying round. 
MARCH 9 Lacrosse makes its varsity program MAY 1Tennis loses to top-seeded Kalamazoo in debut with a loss to Hendrix. the MIAA semifnals. 
APRIL 5 Lacrosse earns the program’s frst MAY 2 Tennis senior Mary Catherine Faller win, a 16-4 domination of Illinois Tech wins the MIAA Sportsmanship Award and is 
named to the All-MIAA second team. APRIL 25 Sophomore frst baseman Jillian May 8 Busfeld is named to the All-MIAA frst Busfeld and senior pitcher Callie Selner team for the second consecutive season. 




CROSSWORD | WILL shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrIsToPher brUcKer SUDOKU | The mePhAm GroUP 
HOROSCOPE | eUGenIA LAsT 
Happy Birthday: being secretive will add to your charm and protect you from nosy individuals eager to use personal information against you. sticking to a structured routine and refraining from any sort of indulgence will ensure that you bypass adversity, leaving more time to focus on your goals and your future. Take your time and choose your battles wisely. Your numbers are 4, 9, 18, 23, 34, 41, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): moderation will be required to avoid mishaps. You can say “no” once in a while and still maintain your status quo. don’t let an argument drive a wedge between you and someone you love. compromise more and criticize less. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): show everyone what you have to offer. dependability and determination are your strengths and can carry you to and beyond your destination. explore new possibilities and stabilize important partnerships. deal with red tape concisely and avoid being red-flagged. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Assisting people is fine, but do so for the right reason. having motives behind your do-good attitude will backfire if you aren’t honest and upfront about what you are hoping to get in return. Love is in the stars. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Live a little. Participate in networking events or social activities. You’ll discover someone you have a lot in common with and share some interesting ideas and plans that will help you reach your personal or professional objectives. strive for equality. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): engage in conversations that will bring you knowledge or information that can help you make a good decision and an appropriate move. don’t let hype or trends cost you or lead you into an excessive situation. channel your energy into romance. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): short trips, attending an exhibit or networking with colleagues will all lead to valuable information and the courage to make some positive changes to the way you live. someone respected in your community will offer expert advice. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) don’t succumb to demands or forceful action at home or at work. stand up for your beliefs, but be prepared to make changes as a result of your actions. Weed out what isn’t working in your life and make your move. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): check out different lifestyles, beliefs and organizations. expanding your interests will bring you in touch with someone you click with creatively. do something unusual to your home that will add to your pleasure and attract unusual visitors. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You’ll have to dig deep if you want to get all the information you need to make a good decision. Take the initiative and make domestic changes that will improve your life and your relationships, but don’t overspend. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): offer a helping hand or well-thought-out suggestion, but step back if someone wants you to pay for or do the work on his or her behalf. strive for equality in all your dealings. don’t take on a losing battle. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen carefully and make decisions based on the information you discover. A money deal looks good and a gift, loan or offering is heading in your direction. Love is highlighted and a promise can be made, along with a positive domestic change. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look over documents and important personal papers. Present your plans to someone who is in a position to help you. A new venture looks promising and can open the door to some fascinating connections. expand your outlook and your interests. 

Birthday Baby: You are unpredictable, interesting and adventuresome. You are excessive and generous. 
JUMBLE | dAvId hoYT And JeFF KnUreK 





make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
P.o. box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 




