The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 39 | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Same-sex couples to receive benefits 
ND, SMC will extend benefits to married same-sex couples in compliance with state law 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
notre dame and saint mary’s will extend benefits to all legally married spouses of employees, including same-sex spouses, ac­cording to an e-mail sent by the office of human resources on oct. 8. 
“on monday [oct. 6], the u.s. supreme court declined to hear appeals from decisions striking down bans on same-sex mar­riage in several states, including indiana. This means that the law in indiana now recognizes same-sex marriages and the university will extend benefits to all legally married spouses, including same-sex spouses,” the e-mail stated. “notre dame is a catholic university and en­dorses a catholic view of mar­riage. however, it will follow the relevant civil law and be­gin to implement this change immediately.” 
saint mary’s also sent out an email to its faculty and staff oct. 9, announcing that it will make changes. 
“saint mary’s college’s in­terpretation is that, as an em­ployer in indiana, the college must abide by the law and en­roll legally married, same-sex spouses of faculty and staff in its insurance benefits if requested by a college employee,” richard nugent, director of human re­sources and college counsel at saint mary’s, said. 
The cost of providing health insurance to employees at both institutions will increase, but the number of new persons that will be covered by the institutions remains to be seen, nugent said. 
paul J. browne, vice president of public affairs and commu­nications for notre dame, said prior to the extension of benefits last week, approximately 2,700 spouses of notre dame employ­ees were covered. 
“it’s unknown right now how many will be added as a result of the extension of ben­efits,” browne said. “it will be­come clearer as newly covered 
see beneFiTs PaGe 5 



SMC students stand up to cancer 
cancer research. 
“This organization is unique because it gives 100 percent of donations to the best and brightest scien­tists in order to accelerate the pace of groundbreak­ing research that can save lives,” hutch said. “This is an important issue now more than ever since gov­ernment funding for can­cer research is diminished, and yet cancer takes one person’s life every minute.” 
hutch said the club brings students of saint mary’s 
see sTand up PaGe 4 
grad student wins award 

By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
abigail weaver, a chemis­try graduate student at notre dame, received the 2014 baxter young investigator award for her work aimed at analyzing and identify­ing counterfeit drugs. her winning research project was titled, “new analytical Tools for Qualitative 

pharmaceutical analysis in Field settings.” 
weaver completed her un­dergraduate education at anderson university and earned her master’s degree at purdue university. she is currently in her fifth year as a graduate student at notre 
see award PaGe 5 



By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
last week, the saint mary’s stand up to cancer club sold T-shirts as a fun­draiser for the national organization “stand up to cancer” as the first of many events the club will host throughout the year to reach their fundraising goal. 
senior and club presi­dent christine hutch said the club’s mission is to host events that will raise awareness and funds for 


nd club of Tallahassee prepares for game 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
with the promise of fall break, college gameday and a much-hyped football game to look forward to, it is safe to say many notre dame stu­dents are excited about the upcoming weekend. 
The notre dame club of Tallahassee, in collaboration with other organizations, is busy working to make the weekend a success for vis­iting students, alumni and fans alike. 
“downtown Tallahassee is a great area, and we’re excited to share it with the nd crowd,” Joe hurd, a mem­ber of the class of 1982 and chairperson for the notre dame club of Tallahassee, said. “we’re collaborating with the notre dame clubs in miami and Jacksonville, as well as the local st. Thomas more catholic church to make the weekend a great ex­perience for everyone.” 

The club will begin its cele­bration Friday evening with a social gathering and pep ral­ly near Tallahassee’s adams street commons. early on-line registration is encour­aged to secure tickets. 

The commons also will be the site of Tallahassee’s downtown get down, fea­turing a performance from a local band, food vendors and a block party atmosphere, ac­cording to the event website. 
“There will be students and visitors not just from all over Florida, but from all over the country,” hurd said. “There will be plenty of opportuni­ties for networking and fun.” 
The college gameday broadcast will begin saturday at 9 a.m. on the langford green, located 
see Florida PaGe 5 SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 

news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 6 scene PaGe 9 hocKey PaGe 16 waKing The echoes PaGe 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Who do you think has the best facial hair in TV or film history? 


Courtney Davis 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“ron swanson.” 

Josh Dempsey 
junior 
duncan hall 
“Tom selleck as richard from ‘Friends.’” 

Dan Lopes 
sophomore 
o’neil hall 
“Jon hamm.” 


Anthony Murphy 
junior 
off-campus 

“Jake gyllenhaal, nicely trimmed.” 

Elizabeth Tafesse 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 

“Johnny depp’s signature ‘pirates of the caribbean’ beard.” 

Amber Watson 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“brad pitt.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kelly Konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com margaret hynds manny deJesus emilie Kefalas mike monaco 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
sam coughlin erin mcauliffe 

Photo Viewpoint 

Valerie Mejer Volleyball STEM Run Mass at the Basilica Fall Mid-Term Break 
michael yu mary Kate luft 
Reading Purcell Pavilion Hesburgh Library Basilica of the Sacred Campus-wide Hammes Notre Dame 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Heart All day Bookstore Notre Dame vs. Includes Pi K and Mole 11:45 a.m. - 12:45 p.m. No classes in session. 


Corrections 

7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Clemson. K Runs. Music by the Notre 
The observer regards itself as Reading and reflection Dame Folk Choir. a professional publication and 
on poems. 

strives for the highest standards 
ISI Fellowship Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass Volleyball Senior Thesis Camp 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Purcell Pavilion Hesburgh Library 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Arena Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Boston No charge, meals and 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Faith and fellowship for Notre Dame vs. Lake Music by the Women’s College. snacks included. 
we can correct our error. 

all Christian faiths. Superior State. Liturgical Choir. 




Poet Valerie Mejer to visit campus for poetry reading 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
mexican-born poet and painter valerie mejer will make an appearance on cam­pus Friday to read from her works. 
The notre dame cre­ative writing program and department of english will sponsor the event. 
mejer’s works “explore con­tainment and fragility, layer­ing loss and possibility over a once-familiar landscape,” ac­cording to the creative writing program’s website. 
her works include po­etry collections “rain of the Future” (2013), “de la ola, el atajo” (2009), “geografías de niebla” (2008), “esta novela azul” (2004), and “ante el ojo de cíclope” (1999), as well as the novel “de elefante a elefante” (1997). 
her artwork has appeared in raúl Zurita’s “los boteros de la noche”(2010),Forrestgander’s “ligaduras/ligatures” (2012), and antonio prete’s “menhir” (2007) and “l’imperfection de la lune” (2007). 
mejer said she chooses her topics of poetry or art “the same way you choose what is going to happen the next hour or day. a mix between intu­ition and destiny. a lot comes from the past, voices, pains. like charles wright said, ‘all forms of landscape are autobiographical.’” 

Joyelle mcsweeney, direc­tor of the creative writing pro­gram and associate professor of english, said mejer’s work is contemporary, graceful, force­ful and memorable. 
“as a mexican poet and painter, she carries the tra­ditions of both the latin american surrealism asso­ciated with Frida Kahlo and the intimate, personal lyric of american poetry,” mcsweeney said. “hers is a poetry for every member of the notre dame and south bend community.” 
mcsweeney also said she believes mejer’s dual roles of painter and poet complement each other. 
“her ‘painter’s eye’ shows in her poetry, in that her po­ems are full of images at once dreamlike and forceful,” mcsweeney said. “at the same time, her poetry is breathtak­ing for the fluid way each im­age gives way to the next. a poem elapses in time, while a painting is fixed in time.” 
mejer’s visit comes in the wake of the publication of her first english-language trans­lation of “rain of the Future.” The work was published by in­dependent press action books, 
paid adverTisemenT 
which is run by mcsweeney and fellow associate pro­fessor of english Johannes göransson. 
“[The translation is] a trib­ute to mejer’s brilliance, but it is also the product of many hands working together,” including american poets cd wright, Forrest gander, sarah denaci and alexandra Zelman-doring, mcsweeney said. in addition, the collec­tion includes a preface from argentine poet raul Zurita. 
“[The creative writing pro­gram hopes] students and faculty in many disciplines 
— creative writing, litera­ture, visual arts, students of spanish-language literature and culture, students of global affairs — will benefit from the chance to interact with this exquisitely talented poet and painter,” mcsweeney said. 
mcsweeney said she hopes mejer’s work will show notre dame students the impor­tance of the arts in interna­tional exchange. 
The event is open to the pub­lic and will take place at 7:30 
p.m. Friday in the hammes bookstore. a question-and-an­swer session will follow mejer’s reading. 


Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 

saint mary’s prepares second status of girls report 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
Their voices were absent from the first status of girls (sgi) in indiana report, but girls living in indiana will tell their own stories in in­terviews as saint mary’s pre­pares a second study. 
last fall, saint mary’s re­leased the first sgi report, a comprehensive statistical study on the health and well­being of indiana girls ages 10-19, according to a saint mary’s press release. 
The report, compiled by six members of the saint mary’s faculty and 60 students, pro­vided a detailed summary of what girls’ lives in indiana were like and served as a resource for scholars, non­profit leaders and policy­makers. at the time, saint mary’s was the fifth all­women’s college in the na­tion to release such a report, per a press release. 
noticeably absent from the report, however, were the voices of young girls. Terri 
l. russ, associate professor of communication studies, and marne austin, assistant professor of communication studies, have since designed the current phase of the on­going project to fill this void for the second sgi report by collecting oral histories from girls in indiana ages 10-19. 
russ and austin hope to generate a deeper under­standing of the lives of girls while encouraging the sur­rounding community to take part in this important re­search project and talk about the things important to them, austin said. 
“in order to understand girls and their lives, we must invite and attend to their voices and the things they feel are important to them,” austin said. 
as faculty and students work on a second sgi report, additional professors are col­lecting oral histories from girls from around the state, russ said. 
“The hope is that by com­bining statistical data with narrative accounts, we can come to a deeper under­standing of what the lives of girls in indiana are like,” russ said. “what do they care and worry about most? what do they wish adults knew about their lives? additionally, we hope to create a searchable digital archive of these oral histories that can serve as an additional resource for other researchers, educators and agencies working with young girls.” 

in order to fully understand the lives of girls, it’s impor­tant to take the time to talk to them about their lives and the things important to them, russ said. 
“In order to understand girls and their lives, we must invite and attend to their voices and the things they feel are important to them.” 
Terri Russ 
Associate professor of 
communication studies 

“while this might seem like common sense, surprisingly few researchers actually take the time to do so,” russ said. “we are not those research­ers, and in fact, we argue that any research about young girls without talking to them has little true value.” 
The professors want to hear the voices of their com­munities and add it to their research to ensure they are compiling a fuller overview of indiana girls’ lives, austin said. 
“we are looking for girls from all demographic back­grounds,” austin said. “in other words, it doesn’t matter what your race, ethnicity, re­ligion, income or sexual ori­entation is.” 
The procedures and meth­ods for this project have been reviewed by the saint mary’s institutional review board to ensure that all phases of the project adhere to standard academic ethical guidelines. These guidelines dictate that project participants will not be harmed during the re­search process and that con­fidentiality of all participants will be maintained, accord­ing to a press release. 
russ and austin hope their research contributes to the building a greater under­standing of girls’ lives in indiana, russ said. 
“The only requirement is that you be between the ages of 10 and 19 and live in indiana,” russ said. “participation will only take about an hour of your time, but the results will be long-lasting and significantly important.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



stand up 
conTinued From page 1 
and community members together, united behind a single and very important cause with hopes to find a cure. 
“[our] events, fundrais­


“We are able to raise funds and awareness through this awesome organization. Everyone knows someone who has been affected by cancer, and that is who we’ll be dancing for. We are excited to share this experience with the community again this year.” 
Christine Hutch 
president, SMC Stand Up to 
Cancer club 
ers and projects each year ... have been very successful so far,” she said. “all of the money we raise is sent di­rectly to stand up to cancer at the end of each year.” 
The club volunteers at memorial hospital in south bend and holds an annual dinner-dance specifically for cancer patients and sur­vivors in the community, she said. 
hutch said last year the club dedicated a ribbon tree in the student center for stu­dents and guests to tie a col­ored ribbon in remembrance of or support for someone who has had cancer. 
The club’s t-shirt sales this past week were in prepara­tion for one of their biggest fundraisers, the third annu­al smc stands up to cancer pink party Zumbathon, she said. 
“we are able to raise funds and awareness for all types of cancer through this awe­some organization,” hutch said. “everyone knows someone who has been af­fected by cancer, and that is who we’ll be dancing for. we are excited to share this experience with the commu­nity again this year. 
“This event unites stu­dents with community members from south bend, mishawaka and granger to dance for a cure.” 
hutch said student dance groups, including the smc dance Team, Troop nd, p Fresh and the irish dance Team, as well as the student a capella group, bellacapella, will perform. 

The event will feature more than 20 local Zumba instructors who will take turns teaching, according to a press release. 
nursing major and sopho­more megan Tobin said she is going to attend the event to support people she knows who have battled cancer and her fellow belles who have been affected by the disease. 
“i have witnessed fam­ily members as well as close friends battle cancer, so i want to do anything i can to support them,” Tobin said. 
“not only are we able to be there for those battling, but we get to have fun and get a great workout out of it. i think it also gives people incentive to go. before the event they think it’s just go­ing to be a fun dance class, but after, they realize they were a part of something much bigger than that.” 
sophomore Katherine Kingsbury said it’s impor­tant for the saint mary’s community to be aware and involved in the south bend community, especially be­cause it’s sometimes the small things that make the 
paid adverTisemenT 


biggest impact in someone’s life. 
“i’m excited that i can sup­port my community in such a fun and engaging way,” Kingsbury said. 
The Zumbathon will take place nov. 1 from 5:30­
8:30 p.m. in angela athletic Facility. The public is in­vited to take part and no prior Zumba experience is necessary. Those attending are encouraged to wear pink and dance. 

Tickets can be purchased ahead of time through par­ticipating Zumba instruc­tors or at Tu sei bella Fitness studio in Toscana park in granger. all profits will ben­efit stand up to cancer in support of cancer research. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 




Florida 
conTinued From page 1 
just outside doak campbell stadium. 
“The rivalry will be fierce, and i am excited to be there to help cheer the irish on to victory,” sophomore maura boston, who will be travel­ing to the game with the notre dame marching band, said. 
on game day, the notre dame clubs of Tallahassee and miami will sponsor an all-day tailgating event at the Tallahassee civic center. The event will in­clude a cash bar, games, raf­fles, a putting green event and more. at 4 p.m., a pre­game mass will be held at the local st. Thomas more catholic church. The bish­op of pensacola-Tallahassee will preside. 
“it was very important for us to include a liturgical as­pect in the day,” hurd said. “and the mass counts for your sunday obligation.” 
hurd said there will be many viewing options avail­able for those who do not have tickets. 
“nearly every tavern and restaurant around will have the game on, and we’re host­ing an official watch party in the bar at the local Four points hotel,” he said. 

some students attending the game are planning to ex­tend the trip into fall break, renting houses and staying in Florida for the week. 
“on sunday after the game, my friends and i are 

“The rivalry will be fierce, and I am excited to be there to help cheer the Irish on to victory.” 
Maura Boston 
sophomore 

driving to a little quaint beachside town a few hours away,” senior alison leddy said. “we’ll be there for the rest of the break, relaxing and eating and soaking up the sun before the south bend winter hits.” 
hurd recommended a number of visitors’ sites in­cluding the Tallahassee cap­itol buildings, the beaches at st. george island located two hours to the south and Tallahassee’s midtown and college Town areas. 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 

award 
conTinued From page 1 
dame. 

“The aim of the baxter young investigator award is to reward research in the devel­opment of therapies and med­ical products,” weaver said. 
The prestigious award is awarded by baxter international inc., a global healthcare company head­quartered in deerfield, illinois. it is open to graduate and post-doctoral students in the midwest and includes four different scientific cat­egories, such as life sciences, medical device engineering and pharmaceutical sciences. weaver won the prize in the company’s instrumental and analytical science division. 
The introduction of weaver’s research project states statistical information regarding the pharmaceutical supply chain’s modern com­plexity. according to weaver, the u.s. imports 40 percent of finished medications, as well as 80 percent of active ingredients. 
weaver said her project was aimed at overcoming the problem imposed by the counterfeit pharmaceutical industry. she helped devel­op a chromatography paper that tests the contents of any pharmaceutical drug swiped across it. 
“The problem is poor qual­ity drugs,” weaver said. “The test card makes a profile and screens the pharmaceuticals, so that you can see if there’s a variation in the active ingredients. 
“you get a color bar code of the pharmaceutical that can be compared with the pattern of colors the authentic drug gives. we can identify differ­ences between the two drugs based on the color bar code.” 
weaver said the guidance of marya lieberman, notre dame associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry and the efforts of undergrad­uate students, helped make this project possible. 
“marya lieberman had started the project and was working with undergradu­ates,” weaver said. “i’ve been working with her for four­and-a-half years.” 
weaver said her paper-based test minimizes the gap between the scientist’s lab and the real world by acting as an inexpensive way to check for quality pharmaceuticals. additionally, she has already completed some work with the Fda and has used the test in several developing countries, such as haiti and Kenya. 

“i had done a little bit of research already with lieberman,” weaver said. “we 

“I would like to see organizations using this test to screen pharmaceuticals.” 
Abigail Weaver 
graduate student 

were working with the haiti program to find a low-tech method for quantifying medi­cation in salt for lymphatic fil­ariasis. That work was taken down to haiti and was imple­mented in a salt plant [there].” 
despite her extensive re­search and accomplishments, weaver said she is not finished yet. she continues to work to­wards promoting scientific technologies that aim to im­prove the standard of living in developing countries. 
“i would like to see orga­nizations using this test to screen pharmaceuticals,” weaver said. “i would also like to see it inspire other people to develop technologies that work in developing countries.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

benefits 
conTinued From page 1 
employees sign up for benefits.” 

reactions from the notre dame community to the extension of benefits have been mixed. 
“This decision makes me feel respected and valued by the university. especially now that the benefits of marriage have been extended to gay couples in indiana, notre dame’s proactiv­ity is welcomed and appreciated,” aaron nichols, audience devel­opment program manager for shakespeare at notre dame and an out staff member, said. 
The decision, while having very important symbolic meaning, also has very important practi­cal implications, dr. maureen lafferty, assistant director of the university counseling center and an out staff member, said. 
“This decision has very impor­tant practical benefits for glbTQ families who may breathe easier due to access to medical insur­ance coverage — it’s a wonderful way to support families,” lafferty said. “respect for diversity is also a core value for the kind of institu­tion that notre dame strives to be 
— a top-tier institution in a global marketplace. 
“notre dame describes its com­mitment to diversity as a ‘moral and intellectual necessity’ and calls us to cultivate a diverse com­munity,” she said. “This action feels consistent with those values.” 
lafferty said that she believes this decision will help notre dame become a more inclusive place. 
“glbTQ faculty and staff members and their families will no doubt feel a greater sense of support and belonging, which is always a good thing,” she said. “Faculty and staff may also feel safer to be ‘out’ on campus, which enables them to provide valued mentoring for diverse students. 
“This decision can also com­municate to the world at large that respect for diversity is a core university value, which can be very attractive to potential faculty, staff and students,” lafferty said. 
nichols said he hopes this deci­sion on the part of the university will help gain acceptance for members of the lgbT community. 
“There is, and will continue to be, people of faith who believe my sexual orientation is a per­sonal choice that god condemns,” nichols said. “i hope these indi­viduals will see their lgbT broth­ers and sisters through the lens of our university’s loving and empa­thetic stance.” 
other members of the notre dame community, however, are not pleased with the university’s extension of health insurance benefits to same-sex spouses. 
“This is a very sad development for notre dame. The haste with which it was done and its being announced without serious con­sideration of the legal implica­tions is not only deeply troubling but also revelatory of the direc­tion of the current notre dame administration,” Father bill miscamble, professor of history, said. “notre dame has made no effort to stand for the truth about marriage but has supinely con­formed to a deeply flawed under­standing of the crucial institution of marriage.” 
bishop Kevin c. rhoades of the Fort wayne-south bend diocese issued a statement on the mat­ter Tuesday, voicing the need for notre dame to follow catholic teaching. 

“in announcing its decision to extend benefits to ‘same-sex spouses,’ i am glad that notre dame affirmed that as a catholic university, it ‘endorses a catholic view of marriage,’ though i would say that catholic teaching on the heterosexual nature of marriage is more than ‘a view,’” rhoades said. “The heterosexual nature of mar­riage is an objective truth known by right reason and revelation. 
“as a catholic university, it is important that notre dame continues to affirm its fidelity to catholic teaching on the true na­ture of marriage as a union of one man and one woman.” 
The mission of the university, however, is one of inclusion and love, and this decision furthers notre dame toward better carry­ing out that goal, university presi­dent Fr. John Jenkins said. 
“apart from these questions and any legal obligations, howev­er, we recognize an urgent call to welcome, support and cherish gay and lesbian brothers and sisters, who have been too often margin­alized and even ostracized, and many of whom bear the scars of such treatment,” Jenkins said. “at notre dame, we have undertaken initiatives to provide support and welcome gay and lesbian mem­bers of our community. These ef­forts must not and will not flag. 
“our abiding goal, rather, is to learn better how to love one an­other and together build a less im­perfect community of love. That is the mission of notre dame, and we remain committed to it.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 


whom am i serving? 
Susan Zhu 
graphic designer 

i remember in high school there was a two-week summer period dur­ing which it seemed every person and his twice-removed grandma went on a service trip to (insert central american country here). i remember count­less instagram and Facebook posts of people lovingly holding orphans in their arms or smiling at sweet, old in­digenous women and men. i remember not being able to decide whether it was okay to cringe at these picture because i couldn’t decide if they were tasteless or thoughtful. 
it wasn’t as if those people were try­ing to be tasteless; it was more likely that they were thrilled about the time they had spent in that country, and they wanted to share it with the rest of the world. 
i couldn’t shake the uneasy feeling that lingered, however. it wasn’t that i felt service shouldn’t be publicized, but i thought it was inappropriate when it seemed all about gaining attention. 
it makes me question my own inten­tions before i leave for the immersion part of my appalachia seminar over fall break. Through the center for social concerns, i will be traveling to vanceburg, Kentucky, to serve at glenmary Farms. 
on one hand, i have never been more excited to travel to the appalachia re­gion, which i have been learning about for the past five weeks; on the other hand, i am apprehensive. i am appre­hensive because i don’t know my true intentions for going on this trip. of course, i want to do service, which is why i applied in the first place. 
but i can’t help but wonder: who am i really serving? am i serving the people of the region, or am i serving myself? am i serving myself because doing service gives me a feeling of self-satis­faction? am i serving others to the best of my ability to be truly selfless? 
or does selflessness in service not matter as much as it seems to? 
i don’t know the answer yet; i prob­ably still will not know the answer when i return, as a week is an incred­ibly short amount of time when do­ing service. it is not enough time to understand a region. and, without a full understanding of the region, i won’t actually know the impact of my actions. 
it well may be that i spend my entire life trying to figure out the real pur­pose behind the service i take on. it well may be that selflessness in service is a naïve and dated idea and that good service heavily involves the person doing it because of self-reflection and dedication. 
Contact Susan Zhu at      szhu4@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jill Ryan 
Junior in mcglinn 

all this happened, more or less. The parts about the cereal, anyway, are pretty much true. north dining hall really did stop serving the only cereal that con­tains real “froot.” it really did seriously traumatize me when i became conscious of the injustice that had transpired. and so on. 
it’s 9:20 a.m. on a monday. somehow, i had managed to stay awake for the duration of my 8:20 a.m. class in debartolo and am now stumbling my way along the familiar path to north dining hall. haphazardly dumping my backpack near the first empty table i spot, i deftly weave my way into the central food room. i take a quick inventory of the produce options, eager to fulfill my recommended daily fruit intake. bananas. oranges. bananas. some cantaloupe. bananas. rotten athletes taking all of the blasted strawberries in north­east indiana. 
disheartened and looking for any alternative to ba­nanas, i navigate to the lone area of the dining hall that i know will not let me down. The oasis in the desert. The hammer in nintendo 64 super smash bros. The charizard in my pokémon collection, if you will. The cereal bar. 
but then i remember, as a rule of thumb, there will be bowls available only at the farthest point in north dining hall from which i am currently standing. it takes me several minutes to unearth a bowl and reach the promising line of dispensers that i have learned to rely on. i feverishly scan labels, prepared to cram my bowl with heaps of Fruity pebbles that i know will provide me with all (…most?) of the essential nutrients contained in my daily serving of fruit. one lap proves futile. surely i must have missed it. Two laps, still noth­ing. They’re probably just out of Fruity pebbles today. That’s all right. i can go for some Froot loops instead. a few laps later, and i am left staring at the bottom of my empty bowl — the unadulterated, sky-blue plastic mocking me as if i have done something to deserve this assault on all that is good and respectable in this world. 
The u.s. department of agriculture recommends two whole cups of fruit daily for men and women ages 19 to 30. and that’s assuming that you participate in less than 30 minutes per day of “moderate physical ac­tivity.” hell, it takes me 30 minutes just to walk from mcglinn to north dining hall when i want access to chocolate chips from the ice cream bar for my waffle toppings. add in my hike to the far end of north for grab n’ go, and i’ve practically burned off my entire recommended daily calorie intake! how can i be ex­pected to meet such a lofty standard of fruit consump­tion with no fruity cereal options? 
so, please, north dining hall, resurrect Fruity pebbles and Fruit loops, and we promise that we won’t fault you for ditching the grape nuts. 
Jill Ryan can be contacted at Jillian.C.Ryan.254@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIal cartoon 


Quote oF the day 

“The depressing thing about tennis is that no matter how good i get, i’ll never be as good as a wall.” 
Mitch Hedberg comedian 




The observer | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Friendship: the foundation of reason 
Christopher Damien 
ideas of a university 

“i will always consider the possibility that i might be wrong.” so states the commitment to humility in the center for social concerns’ “virtues of discourse” pledge. as one of the seven “virtues” in the pledge, humility means, “when i realize that i have been wrong, i will read­ily acknowledge it.” 
This might bring to mind the humble socrates, who was confounded when the oracle at delphi announced that none was wiser than he. conscious that he was “not at all wise,” socrates thereafter began a search to find a man of greater wisdom. in his search, he discovered that “those with the best reputations seemed … nearly the most defi­cient … while others with more paltry reputations seemed to be … more fit in regard to being wise.” 
in his devotion to the god, the founder of the western philosophic tradition found himself “in ten-thousandfold poverty” after giving up everything in pursuit of wisdom. reading about socrates can be awkward at a nationally ranked university with a $9.8 billion endowment. 
socrates could find no man of true wisdom, and he concluded that perhaps the oracle wished to teach that the wisest man was the man who knew he did not know. Today, the socratic pursuit endures, scattered throughout debartolo, the basilica and occasionally even the dorms. while the politicians, the poets and the artisans were blindly followed in socrates’ time, today students blindly follow the published professor, the laboratory results and the princeton review. 
yet socrates does not condemn the practice of obedient following. when he first heard the words of the oracle, he wondered: “surely he is not saying something false, at least; for that is not sanctioned for him.” Trusting in the oracle, he sought to understand. 
Thus, the philosopher’s search is not the search for facts, but the act of faith seeking understanding. The key is not the right proof, but the right teacher. The core of man’s desire to know is not the desire to know all the workings of heaven and earth, but to find a master who properly will guide our wonderings. The fool will seek the property rights of the Fount of Truth, but the philosopher will go to the Fount and drink. 
we follow so that we can know. Trust is the requisite for knowledge. Faith is the foundation for reason. as students, we come to notre dame because we believe she will have teachers and guides who will be reliable in the pursuit of our future selves. we listen to the mathematics professor because we trust he will teach truthfully. we may not un­derstand every word, but we take his words as true, write them down and do our best to internalize them. 
mary is well versed in this practice. christianity under­stands her as the greatest philosopher and theologian. in the life of Jesus, she exemplifies the philosophic disposi­tion. she “treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart.” she teaches: “do whatever he tells you.” she is called the seat of wisdom. she is the second-highest point on notre dame’s campus after the basilica. 
Through christianity, the philosopher moves his trust from the oracle to christ, who taught: “i am the way and the truth and the life.” This teacher thus becomes our guide and the truest foundation of reason. and he trans­forms our relationship to our guide, saying, “i no longer call you slaves because a slave does not know what his master is doing. i have called you friends because i have told you everything i have heard from my Father.” socrates calls the truth his master, but the christian calls the Truth his friend. 
so the foundation of reason is no longer simple obedi­ence, but friendship. James schall has emphasized the importance of friendship, saying, “Friendship stands at the core of human and, yes, divine reality. no subject stands closer to the heart of a 20-year old student than that of the proper meaning and practice of friendship, of how it is gained and of how it is lost. if we get that issue wrong, we will get life itself wrong. 
when the virtues of discourse ask me to “always con­sider the possibility that i might be wrong,” i am asked to consider two possibilities. either i have misunderstood my guide and friend, or i am mistaken as to whom i should trust. The friend of christ, however, need only consider the former. as st. Jerome teaches, “a friendship that can end was never true.” 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas.word­press.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter to the edItor 

it’s not about where we graduate 
dear class of 2015, going be here supporting me as they have for the past given us over this journey. it’s about laughing and four years. yeah, the Joyce center doesn’t have the crying with our best friends one last time as under-
i agree it’s pretty frustrating that we won’t be able same history or emotional charge around it as the sta-graduates and for the first time as graduates. 
to have our graduation in notre dame stadium for the dium, but you know what does? The grotto. The resi-so, instead of wasting our time and energy on 
sake of “progress.” i was at graduation last year, and dence hall you’ve called home for the last four years. something that isn’t going to change, let’s fo­
there’s something majestic and awe-inspiring about The golden dome. Those are the places i’m going to cus on something we can change, such as mak­
the stadium. it would be unbelievable to be able to remember the most from my time here; not the physi-ing the most of what time we have left here or 
celebrate the greatest accomplishment of our lives cal building i graduated in. getting an awesome commencement speaker. 
there, but we need to face the facts. it’s not going to ultimately though, i think we’re sort of missing the #stephencolbertforcommencement 
happen. no matter how much we complain or protest point of graduation. it’s not about where we graduate. 
or petition, campus crossroads is happening. it’s about where we are graduating from. it’s about Chris Clarke To tell the truth, i don’t think it really matters where celebrating all of our accomplishments over the last senior 
we have our graduation. sure, not all of my loved ones four years. it’s about being surrounded by the ones o’neill hall 
will be able to be at the ceremony, but they’re still all we love and thanking them for all the support they’ve oct. 12 
we should know about off-campus incidents 
you may have heard that a student of holy cross people visiting friends or going to parties on the the administration, controversy certainly does. college was a victim of a recent shooting on notre weekends should know what areas to avoid. even if in the meantime, i think we should ask ourselves: dame ave. you may have heard through news or so-there is no continued threat, we have a right to know are we a university with an administration, or an cial media or your friends. but you most certainly did when one of our own is a victim so that we might administration with a university? not hear from the university or from the notre dame support one another. This is the same disregard for security police. student safety that left us unalerted to an attempted Daniel Sullivan 
This lack of action betrays administrative incom-stabbing in a residence hall a few years ago. senior petence, apathy or both. off-campus students should i suspect we’ll hear from the university soon; st. edward hall know whether or not they can safely return home. although student safety doesn’t seem to motivate oct. 14 

The observer | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 
Fall break is coming. 

There is a frenzy in the air as we dart around, taking tests, writing essays and wondering how — or if — we, never mind our gpas, are going to make it through this week alive. as students, we look forward to the game on saturday and then to a week of relaxation, where we can — hopefully — sleep and forget about whatever craziness has been consuming us. 
scottish indie-rock band we were promised Jetpacks embodies this upcoming feeling of relief on its new album, “unravelling.” The album is slower than the band’s previous work. occasionally, it seems as though the album is about to build up to the hyste­ria evident on the band’s previous lps, but we were promised Jetpacks always bring it back down to a slower, even pace. 
“unravelling” is the third album from we were promised Jetpacks. after its sophomore album, “in the pit of the stomach,” the group added a new member — guitarist, keyboardist and pianist stuart mcgachan. his presence is evident — at times, his playing takes over the band’s traditional sound and drowns it out. 
The calmness of the new work fits the title of the lp. some of the tension evident in the band’s early works 
By Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

in a career about 12 years long, oK go has released a surprisingly small number of albums. 
it has been four years since 2010’s “of the blue colour of the sky.” oK go has held fans over with a spattering of singles and eps, including this year’s “upside out.” “upside out” was a varied effort with little holding it to­gether, as it combined elements from a number of differ­ent genres. 
on its latest album, “hungry ghosts,” oK go narrowed its focus, concentrating on synth-rock while occasion­ally including some disco elements and throwbacks to the band’s classic power-pop sound to keep things fresh. although keyboards have been instrumental to oK go’s sound since the group’s debut, it is rather shocking to hear Tim nordwind totally ditch his bass guitar for the majority of the album. overall, this is a non-issue be­cause when oK go focuses on developing strong lyrics and melody, the songs work well. 
The highlight tracks of the album focus on these ele­ments, and the reward is a variety of awesome songs to jam out to. The opener, “upside down & inside out,” catches the listener by surprise with its massive drums, guitars and crazy synthesizers. The chorus is cranked to the maximum with stuttered distortion on the vocals for almost builds in tracks “safety in numbers” and “peaks and Troughs” — coming to a high in “night Terrors.” but by the 11th track, “ricochet,” these remnants are gone as the band turns instead to a slower, sleepier, hypnotic sound driven by mcgachan’s presence. 
it’s not necessarily a bad change. The guitar riffs on the intro of “a part of it” prove fantastic and the en­tirely instrumental “peace of mind” is an interesting, u2-esque addition to the discography. 
after listening to the entirety of “unravelling,” i felt the need to go back to the band’s first offering, “These Four walls,” to remind myself of its original sound. i wasn’t sure i was listening to the same band. 
older songs like “Quiet little voices” and “it’s Thunder and it’s lightning” lift you up to the band’s energy level — you want to move; you want to sing, and you want to be right in that moment. “unravelling” is more reflective — allowing you to take a step back and rest for moment. 
That’s not to say the dance-vibes aren’t present on this new album. “i Keep it composed” is particularly strong in this way, relying on the backbeats of earlier work over the sounds mcgachan’s talent adds to the band. but that’s not what the album is about. it’s not what we were promised Jetpacks is building to, and it’s certainly not where the band leaves you — my big­gest criticism of the album. 
the latter half of the song. The song surpasses expecta­tions during the two contrast sections in which the vol­ume lessens, and most of the instrumentation drops out to focus on damien Kulash’s vocals and a basic synthe­sizer accompaniment. “The one moment,” with its open piano chords and loud-soft-loud construction, is defi­nitely the climax of the album. 
even when the band sacrifices those loud, fun and catchy choruses for something smaller, slower and qui­eter, oK go still pulls together quality songs. “another set of issues” focuses on Kulash’s strong falsetto and a sim­ple arrangement with synth bass, sporadic chimes and a basic drum beat. The slinky “obsession” nails a sketchy, creepy tone with a conglomeration of distorted, fuzzy guitar, synth tones, a consistent kick drum beat and a dash of latin percussion. Kulash’s near-whispered vocals are unprecedented and successful. 
unfortunately, not all the songs on this album manage to work out in a good way. i may have fallen asleep the first time i heard “i’m not Through,” as the slower, synthier strategy did not work on this track. “i’m not Through” is a funk-style track with classic video game synths mixed in. The song is limited by unmemorable lyrics and a dead falsetto chorus. even with a heavily distorted disco-feel­ing guitar solo, the song lacks the essential passionate, melodic drive that makes an oK go song work. 
similarly weak is “bright as your eyes,” which starts 
There were points when i was happy and impressed. The beginning of the album was especially strong, dealing with conflicted emotions through both lyrics and sound, but by the end, the sound lost all remnants of this conflict and settled on a slow-moving pace. it was a bit of a bummer to end on. 
a lot of what changed in the new album can be at­tributed to the addition of the band’s new, undoubt­edly talented member — and it’s an adjustment i can make. it showcases a change in the we were promised Jetpacks sound, but i hope it’s a little like fall break — just a bit of rest before we dive back into the frenzy, even if it is of a different sort. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at  cmoriari@nd.edu 
“Unravelling” 
We Were Promised Jet Packs 
Label: Fat Cat Records Tracks: “Peaks and Troughs,” “Night Terror” If you like: Frightened Rabbit, We Are Scientists 

with a quirky, oscillating synth drone but rapidly col­lapses into a nauseating, cheesy chorus. and big, empty rocker “Turn up the radio” is definitely receiving my vote for least inspired lyrics of 2014 with “Turn up the radio / Turn out the lights” among other forgettable lyrics. 
These songs feel mediocre and forgettable at best. in spite of these flaws, oK go crafted a decent album. although “hungry ghosts” probably will not be on any­body’s album-of-the-year list, oK go has crafted some­thing fun, exciting and enjoyable to listen to. 
all we can hope for now is a couple more innovative music videos for “hungry ghosts” that we can share with all our cool friends online. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Hungry Ghosts” 
OK Go 

Label: Paracadute 
Tracks: “Upside Down & Inside Out,” “The One Moment” If you like: Weezer, Cake, Kaiser Chiefs 


SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 

The observer | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

i had the pleasure of hearing an early version of south bend musician and notre dame alumnus peter hochstedler’s newest album, “necrobisect,” this spring during a performance at The pool. it wasn’t the first time i had seen or heard peter — he has performed in and around south bend for many years, released an impressive seven solo records and produced albums for many local musicians, including the debut record of current notre dame student Jon schommer and his band, The cute Townies. 
but the artist i’ve followed for years brought some­thing new to the live performance of hochstedler’s “necrobisect.” he began the show by handing out pam­phlets to the entire audience, a packet of printed lyrics and images of, as peter put it, “dead michiganders” to supplement the performance. we listened to and read along with hochstedler’s newest album in its entirety. poring over the words and pictures during hochstedler’s solid solo performance, the anticipation for the release of “necrobisect” began. now, the wait is over. 
“necrobisect,” which hochstedler says is about “death, separation and the american wet dream,” is not only a record, but also an experiment in sound, style and medium. Titled after a word he created, “necrobisect” explores themes of “theft, disparity, hiddenness and il­lusion.” The album originally was recorded reel-to-reel on tape for its vinyl version. performed as i heard it in the spring, with guitar and vocals, the record is inti­mate and at times, wonderfully raw, amplified by the inestimable experience of a freshly pressed lp. 
paralleling the theme of “bisection,” hochstedler has released a separate, digital version of “necrobisect,” which mixes in instrumentals and incorporates digi­tal samples of what hochstedler describes as “found sounds” to create a layered and textured take on the original tape recording. 
The result is a compelling blend of genres, sounds and themes distinct from anything hochstedler has made before. his singer-songwriter, anti-folk sound meets blues and electronica on the digital version to produce a musically rich album that pairs hochstedler’s unique and booming voice with everything from wailing trum­pet to pulsing synthesizers. 
“necrobisect” is just as rich and complex lyrically as it is sonically, exploring themes of death, dissonance, spirituality and sexuality. hochstedler’s lyrics are, at times, confrontational, despondent, violent and dis­turbing, but also cheeky, clever and captivating. as a re­sult, “necrobisect” is corporeal, political and profound. 
The album opens with “party line,” the track most emblematic of the record as a whole. hochstedler com­bines themes of war and capitalism with language of the body and soul, delivering them in entendres that somehow seem to do more than double duty (in fact, i think of hochstedler like i think of artists like Joanna newsom or The decemberists — writing atop a stack of dictionaries and encyclopedias. listening to him makes you want to read). There is no doubt that hochstedler is just as much a philosopher and writer as he is a musician. 
another standout track is “devil got his eye on me,” a song i enjoyed when i heard it live because of its brash vocals and folk-blues guitar. but it is also one of the most successful tracks at occupying both its analog and digi­tal forms. The digital version of the song boasts crash­ing symbols and throbbing electronic samples that create, somehow, both musical depth and dissonance. and while some tracks stand out more in one form of “necrobisect” than the other, the disparity between the two versions speaks to its content in interesting ways. 
hochstedler will be debuting “necrobisect” on saturday at the birdsell mansion. The event is both an album launch for hochstedler as well as a celebration for a notre dame alumna, sade murphy, whose book of poetry, “dream machine,” will be released later this year. 
The birdsell mansion in downtown south bend has been underutilized, but is now in the process of featur­ing site-specific art installations for local artists. The mansion will host the album launch show and book re­lease celebration in the third floor ballroom, a unique space for two talented artists. 

Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: 3rd thursday 
When: 5 p.m. 

Where: the snite museum 
how much: Free 

as part of The snite museum’s “Third Thursday” series, spend some time sketching in the galleries. delve deeper into the 3d works of art in the roaring Twenties exuberance and depression era extravagance and nd alumni: sculptors and professors exhibitions. no previous experience is required and all mate­rials will be provided. 
FRIDAY 

What: “a most Wanted man” When: 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Where: dPac how much: $4 for students 
This 2014 thriller stars philip seymour hoffman, robin wright, rachel mcadams and willem dafoe. The film focuses on the race to dis­cover if a tortured immigrant in hamburg is an “identity-opressed victim or destruction-bent extrem­ist.” it is described as a “tale of in­trigue, love, rivalry and politics that prickles with tension right through to its heart-stopping last scene.” 

SATURDAY 

What: album launch and book party When: 7 p.m. Where: bridsell mansion how much: $4 
local musician peter hochstedler will be having an album launch for “necrobisect” in collaboration with a party for sade murphy’s book of poetry, “dream machine.” both local artists are nd alumni. read allie’s informative article above to read more about hochstedler’s “confrontational, despondent, vio­lent and disturbing, but also cheeky, clever and captivating” stylings. 
SUNDAY 

What: the met opera live: “macbeth” When: 1 p.m. Where: dPac how much: $16 for students 
opera + shakespeare = great op­portunity to get #cultured. go see adrien nobles’ production of verdi’s adaptation of the tragedy to watch “star soprano anna netrebko de­liver her searing portrayal of lady macbeth, the mad and murder­ous mate of Zeljko lucic’s doomed macbeth, for the first time at the met.” 
SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 


sPorts authorIty 

Secretariat’s invincible time 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the fourth in a 10-part series in which our writers debate what is the most unbreakable record in sports. Follow along with the conversation on Twitter using the hashtag #UnbreakableRecord 
There are many records that, in the minds of sports people everywhere, appear and may in fact be unbreakable. For ex­ample, aaron sant-miller gave us a record monday that statistically can never be broken in the 109­yard touchdown. 
yet as is so often the case today, we put too much emphasis on statistics as the only way to de­fine a record. 
yes, as my fellow writers have pointed out already over the first three installments of this series, there are many records out there that statistically could be consid­ered unbreakable. 
but if there are so many statis­tically unbreakable records, what distinguishes the best among them? 
There is more than one way for a record to be unbreakable, folks. sure, something statisti­cally impossible to break sounds cool. but sport is about atmo­sphere and raw athleticism, not just numbers, so it’s only fitting its “most unbreakable” record should reflect that. 
behold, my readers, the athlete who holds my unbreakable re­cord: secretariat. 
“The 1973 Triple-crown­winning horse?” you ask. indeed. many of secretariat’s records are, in my opinion, unbreakable. 
First, to open the narrow minds of statistics-driven people, i present the empirical data of big red’s records. secretariat holds, to this day, the record time at all three american Triple crown events. you could take every winner of the Kentucky derby, preakness stakes and belmont stakes at their current distances and race them in an ultimate Triple crown of sorts, and secretariat would beat them all. 
although i could argue this feat alone is secretariat’s un­breakable record, he has another that is even more impressive. 
The entire world was watching at the 1973 belmont stakes, the final leg of the Triple crown. no horse had won racing’s ultimate prize since citation in 1948, and some believed the feat would never be achieved again. 
many people considered the belmont a match race between secretariat and sham, the great­est race horse to never win a Triple crown race. 
sham was no slouch. while secretariat got all the publicity for breaking the Kentucky derby record, sham’s time also would have broken the old record. he was right there with secretariat at the preakness, the shortest race and what was supposed to be, by breeding, secretariat’s bread-and-butter distance. however, sham was bred for the grueling mile and a half distance of the belmont. some predicted secretariat wouldn’t be able to last that long, especially after the two horses set a blazing pace to start the race and pulled away from the field. 
To say they were wrong would be an understatement. 
secretariat didn’t just win; he won in a fashion that has never been, nor ever will be repeated, not only in thoroughbred rac­ing, but in any sport. he won by 31 lengths, which is roughly equivalent to 279 feet, or just shy of a whole football field. The largest margin of victory to this day in the derby? eight lengths. The preakness? eleven and a half lengths. big red won with a record time of 2:24, over two seconds faster than any other horse to this day has ever run the belmont. 
no record-setting performance has been paired with such a de­struction of the opposition the way secretariat ran that day. his performance led to one of the greatest radio calls of all time, by chic anderson: “he is moving like a tremendous machine!” 
and he was. 
secretariat’s performance that day would be comparable to wilt chamberlain scoring 100 points … if wilt were playing in game 7 of the nba Finals when he did so. if Johnny vander meer had thrown two consecutive no-hit­ters in back-to-back games of the world series. 
secretariat put up an unbreak­able statistical performance in the biggest race of his life, with everybody watching. 
There will be critics who scoff at my anthropomorphic charac­terizations of secretariat as simi­lar to a human athlete. Those who have been around horses know otherwise. 
and by many accounts secretariat was smarter and more human-like than any other horse. he knew what was going on that day in new york, and there is nothing that will con­vince people who watched that race otherwise. 
he knew, and he delivered the most unbreakable record and record-setting performance the world of sports has been fortu­nate enough to witness. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at             zklonsin@nd.edu
      The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nFl 

Jim Irsay returns to Colts after suspension 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — Jim irsay wants to be a better team owner. 
six days after his six-game suspension ended, the 55-year-old colts owner broke his silence by telling a small group of reporters that he’s excited about the season, feel­ing well and is ready to move on. 
“i’ve always said i’ve felt the role of a steward here and that you learn from your mistakes,” irsay said during a 30-minute news confer­ence wednesday. “you move on, think you can be a better person and be better at every­thing you do.” 
For irsay, it was a tough, painful lesson. 
Just days before indianapolis’ season open­er in denver, irsay pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor count of driving while intoxi­cated and acknowledged he was under the influence of the painkillers oxycodone and hydrocodone when he was arrested march 16 near his home in suburban carmel. within hours of his court ap­pearance, nFl commissioner roger goodell handed down the suspension, which pre­vented irsay from having any contact on football matters with the team or media. 
some players contended irsay got off light as his three daughters helped oversee the day-to-day football opera­tions. he didn’t address those concerns, saying only that he accepted the restrictions and followed them to the letter. 
but for a man who had never missed a colts game after his father moved the team from baltimore to indy in 1984, there was nothing easy about the punishment. 
he watched intently as indianapolis (4-2) lost its first two games, the longest los­ing streak of the andrew luck era, then watched gleefully as the colts won four straight to move back into the aFc south lead after Thursday’s win at houston, just in time for his return to the office. 
all the while, irsay watched the games nervously with family and friends, pacing anxiously as he waited to re­turn to owner’s office he’s had since 1997. 
“i missed being there. it was tough not being with the guys before the game and praying with the guys before games. That was tough,” he said, laughing as he acknowledged he talked with his daughters and relied on some of his fa­vorite music to help him get through the tough times. a Jerry garcia guitar was en­cased on the wall behind him. 
“i really made up my mind to be positive about it,” he added. 
The absence taught irsay something else: he has to continue his recovery. 
smc volleyball 

Belles lose conference matchup against Trine 
Observer Staff Report 

saint mary’s lost 3-1 in conference play at Trine on Tuesday and will try to re­bound at calvin on Friday. 
The belles (12-10, 6-6 miaa) rushed out to an ear­ly lead in the opening set, forcing a Trine timeout and building on the momen­tum they established at the elmhurst Tournament the previous weekend. 
The Thunder (19-3, 8-3) rallied to claim a 12-11 lead, but the belles played the Thunder close and ended up winning the set, 25-19. 
Trine continued its strong offensive play in the begin­ning of the second set, scor­ing nine points in a row to put pressure on the belles. saint mary’s was unable to make up the difference and dropped the second frame, 

FOR RENT 

Commencement rental ­next to campus and Eddy Street Commons. Walk to everything. Email for additional details. nd­house @sbcglobal.net 
25-18. 

The belles played catch­up in the third set as well. The Thunder established a 10-3 lead early — a lead they would not relinquish as they earned a 2-1 match advan­tage with a 25-16 set victory. 
a hectic fourth set saw a total of 10 ties and nine lead changes. The Thunder pre­vailed with a score of 25-22, winning the match 3-1. 
The loss evened the belles’ conference record at 6-6, good for fifth place in the miaa. as of wednesday, they are tied in conference wins with alma — though alma (13-14, 6-5 miaa) has one fewer loss. 
in order to advance to the rapidly approaching post­season conference tourna­ment, the belles must climb at least one position in the standings — the top four teams participate in the con­ference tournament. Four of their six remaining matches are in the miaa, giving them the possibility of ascending into the top four. 
Their first obstacle to achieving that goal lies in grand rapids, michigan as saint mary’s travels there to play conference foe calvin (20-3, 10-1 miaa). The Knights won the only meet­ing between the two teams this year in straight sets. 
From there, the belles have conference matches at Kalamazoo and at home against adrian after the calvin game. The belles’ regular-season schedule concludes on senior night against undefeated confer­ence leaders hope on oct. 31. 
The belles take on calvin in grand rapids on Friday at 7 p.m. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Great moments... are born Not tonight. Their time is from great opportunity. And done. It’s over. I’m sick and that’s what you have here tired of hearing about what tonight, boys. That’s what a great hockey team the you’ve earned here tonight. Soviets have. Screw ‘em. One game. If we played ‘em This is your time. Now go ten times, they might win out there and take it.” - Herb nine. But not this game. Brooks from Miracle 

nd Women’s tennIs 

ND heads to regional meet 


a chance to do it,” louderback 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

said. “and we do have a chance. we could well in the singles and notre dame will travel to doubles. we’d love a chance to 
champaign, illinois, to partici-win them. 
pate in the annual usTa/iTa “The next big individual tour­
midwest regional qualifying nament isn’t until the ncaa 
tournament, which starts today [championships in may], so 
and runs through Tuesday. it’s a big one just for a chance to 
The irish will send six ath-qualify.” 
letes to the tournament to on the doubles side, notre 
compete in both the singles dame has three teams that will 
and doubles brackets, with two be competing, with another pair 
others listed as alternates. The currently listed as alternates. 
winner of each bracket earns Junior Quinn gleason and 
a birth in the national indoor sophomore monica robinson 
championships, which will take make up one duo for the irish. 
place nov. 6-9 in new york city, gleason and robinson paired 
and irish coach Jay louderback up earlier this year at the all-
said he believes his team’s play-american invitational in pacific 
ers have a fair chance of making palisades, california, finishing 
it. with a 1-1 record. 
“it’s big for our kids to have sophomore mary closs and 
sports writer 
paid adverTisemenT 

senior molly o’Koniewski will also pair up for the irish. The two played together towards the end of last season, helping notre dame turn around its doubles play in the later match­es of the regular season and through acc and ncaa tour­nament play. 
“They played well at the end of the year for us,” louderback said of the pair. “we’re hoping they keep it up.” 
The third team the irish will field in the doubles draw is that of junior Julie vrabel and fresh­man allison miller. vrabel saw most of her action last year playing out of the no. 6 singles position, but with half of last year’s doubles lineup graduat­ed, the junior will be potentially be called upon to take a leading role. miller, a freshman from norcross, georgia, played well for the irish at the season-open­ing notre dame invitational, going 2-2 in singles play and also pairing up with o’Koniewski in the doubles portion. 
on the singles side, the irish will send four singles play­ers to play in the main draw 
— gleason, robinson, closs and vrabel — and two more in o’Koniewski and miller to play in the qualifying draw. 
while the opportunity to qualify for the national indoor championships is one impor­tant takeaway from the week­end, louderback also said the tournament will give the team valuable experience and exposure. 
“we get to see where we stack up with teams in the region,” louderback said. “it’s mostly big Ten teams that will be there. northwestern and michigan are both top-20 schools. depaul, ohio state and indiana will be there too. 
“we’ll get to see some play­ers and teams that the kids are going to play in the spring too, which is really good.” 
similar to the notre dame invitational,  some of the girls will face competition that would normally be a little higher than them in the lineup, louderback said. 
“it’s still early and kids are just getting matches in, still getting a chance to play,” louderback said. “This is probably the big­gest one of the fall that they play under a little more pres­sure than most of the fall tour­naments just because it is a qualifier for the national indoor [championships]. 
“it’s a little closer to what dual matches are like, so that should help, should be really good for them.” 
The irish will take to the courts today through Tuesday at the midwest regional championships in champaign, illinois.. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

The observer | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

men’s tennIs 

Irish prepare for Midwest Regional 

By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
notre dame travels to ann arbor, michigan, to com­pete in the midwest regional championships on Thursday after a full week of rest. 
a staple on notre dame’s schedule, the regional cham­pionships offer an automatic bid to the national champion­ships for the winners of each bracket. 
last season, notre dame was successful in both singles and doubles competition. Former player greg andrews led the irish to an appearance in the finals of both brackets, pairing with now-junior alex lawson in doubles play. notre dame did not claim a title in either the singles or doubles finals, however, losing both to players from ohio state. 
This year’s team also has players who could advance, junior eric schnurrenberger said. 
“we play the regionals tour­nament every year in the fall; therefore, we are pretty famil­iar with it,” he said. “it is al­ways a lot of fun because the whole team is together and gets to compete in singles and doubles. i think we have a lot of guys who could make the quarterfinals or even farther.” 
at the most recent compe­tition, the iTa all-american championships, junior Quentin monaghan reached the round of 32 in singles play and the no. 27 duo of senior billy pecor and lawson ad­vanced to the semifinals of the doubles draw. 
Junior Kenneth sabacinski and sophomore Josh hagar participated in the championships as well, fin­ishing a combined 2-2 at the tournament. since then, schnurrenberger said coach ryan sachire has pushed the team an extra notch in practice to prepare for the re­gional tournament. 
“i think that every player was able to improve certain areas since the last tourna­ment,” schnurrenberger said. “The intensity of our practices has been higher the last cou­ple days than before, so i am convinced that this will also manifest itself positively in this upcoming tournament.” 
schnurrenberger said sachire wants the irish to con­tinue improving their individ­ual fundamentals before they start their acc schedule at the beginning of next year. 
“coach told us that this is another tournament in our process of becoming the best players we can possibly be, and we should take this tour­nament as an opportunity to get better and to show the re­sults of our hard practice on the court,” schnurrenberger said. “all of our coaches em­phasized high energy and en­thusiasm in practice those last couple of days and weeks, and this kind of positive energy is also what they expect us to bring at regionals.” 
schnurrenberger will en­ter the tournament trying to improve on last year’s perfor­mance when he advanced to the main draw of singles play but lost in the first round. 
monaghan enters the tour­nament on a hot streak, having best three ranked opponents in the fall season. at the all­american championships, he finished with a 4-1 record. last season, he advanced to the quarterfinals of the re­gional championships. 
notre dame aims to con­tinue refining its play at the midwest regional championships. The tourna­ment begins Thursday and runs through oct. 20. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
nd Women’s GolF 

notre dame to face stacked field over weekend 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 

one might think the irish would be riding high head­ing into the mercedes-benz championship in Knoxville, Tennessee, this weekend. 
They won the mary Fossum invitational on sept. 14 and set the notre dame 54­hole scoring record in the schooner Fall classic on oct. 
6. but irish coach susan holt said the team knows it is no­where close to peaking. 
The irish, who were ranked 31st in the golfstat ncaa rankings released wednesday, will play 18 holes each day over the weekend in the 18th edition of the tournament. 
at the schooner Fall classic in norman, oklahoma, notre dame finished tied for eighth place. The six-over-par score of 846 (290-277-279) posted by the irish was enough to set the school record for lowest total team score at a 54-hole tournament. 
Junior Talia campbell was the best individual perform­er, finishing in 13th place with a one-under-par 209 (74-66-69), the second-best individual score in program history. 
even with these successes, the irish can aim higher this weekend, holt said. 
“overall, i think we’ve been playing pretty solid,” she said. “The really positive side is that we’re already competi­tive, and we still have a lot of room to be even better.” 
in the upcoming tourna­ment, the irish will compete in a 17-team field that in­cludes four teams in the top­25 – no. 21 central Florida, no. 13 Tennessee, no. 11 Furman and no. 2 south carolina. notre dame is ranked 31st. 
“There are several teams in this field that are ahead of us, so this is an opportu­nity to improve our ranking,” holt said. “if we can beat the teams head-to-head in this tournament, that would look good for us.” 
a major component fac­tored into the golfstat rank­ings is how teams have performed head-to-head against top-25 teams. 
The field also features top­40 teams Kent state (33), denver (36) and louisville (40). 
“it’s a competitive field all around,” she said. “There are 
paid adverTisemenT 
some teams that are ranked right behind us as well, so we need to make sure we’re stay­ing ahead of them.” 
This season, several play­ers have stepped up at vari­ous tournaments to be notre dame’s top scorer. sophomore Jordan Ferreira and senior Kelli oride have notched sub-70-stroke rounds, and campbell and senior captain ashley armstrong have posted two each. 
holt said the key to a quali­ty finish this weekend will be a strong team performance. 
“we’ve had some really good individual performanc­es, but we just haven’t really put it all together yet,” she said. “if everyone continues to commit individually to the areas they need to be improv­ing, it will be reflected in our team scores.” 
The irish tee off Friday morning at the cherokee country club in Knoxville, Tennessee, to open the mercedes-benz 
championship,  which  
will  run  through  sunday  
afternoon.  

Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 






hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
been focused on the things we want to improve on. it’s not like they’re not working hard, but they’re not working smart. They’ve got to com­bine the two. They’ve got to cover for each other and just get used to each other so they develop some chemistry.” 
Jackson said one major area of emphasis for the irish is on the power play. notre dame struggled tremendously at the ice breaker tournament, failing to score on 11 tries with an extra man. The irish failed to threaten even on the advantage, unleashing only six shots on power plays for the entire weekend. 
“The power play unit cer­tainly needs to do a better job,” Jackson said. “we’ve been spending more time on it, and the personnel is probably right for the most part. i’ve got to see if some chemistry can develop with certain guys. ... it’s more a matter of execution.” 

meanwhile, lake superior state (0-4, 0-2 wcha) is off to its own rough start. The lakers opened the year with consecutive conference losses to michigan Tech be­fore robert morris handed the lakers two more defeats last weekend. The team have been outscored 16-5 on the season. its matchup with notre dame is its last series before 10 consecutive con­ference contests. 
despite the lakers’ defen­sive struggles, Jackson said the irish have to be patient on offense and not feel pres­sured to produce. 
“The guys that expect to score, when it doesn’t happen and they don’t get points, it weighs on them,” Jackson said. “sometimes the way they respond is not good in the fact that they start cheating defensively or taking shortcuts. offense comes from defense for the most part. so we’ve just got to get back and be patient.” 
Jackson said goalie duties again would be split between sophomore chad Katunar and freshman cal petersen. each made 26 saves and sur­rendered three goals in last weekend’s action. 
The irish and lakers open their series Friday at 7:35 
p.m. saturday action gets underway at 6:05 p.m. both games will be at compton Family ice arena and, like all notre dame home games, will air on nbc sports network. 
Contact Josh Dulany at         jdulany@nd.edu 


The observer | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Watson 
conTinued From page 16 
featuring his football team­mates defensive lineman Justin Tuck, quarterback carlyle holiday and safety abram elam. The game, however, followed a full-squad spring football scrimmage. matched up against each other, neither watson nor Tuck, notre dame’s eventual all-time sack leader, could mus­ter much. 
“we were just holding each other down so we wouldn’t run down to the other end of the court because we were so tired,” watson said. 
irish head coach Tyrone willingham had pulled up in his car alongside the court to watch some of the game. The next day, he poked fun at watson and Tuck for how bad they looked on the basketball court. 
at the beginning of his senior season in 2002, watson went to willingham with a proposi­tion. The fourth-year linebacker had just been elected the Zahm hall representative for student senate, but he hadn’t run it by his head coach yet. after all, the whole concept came to­gether suddenly. put up to it by his friends, watson and his makeshift election committee roamed the halls of Zahm with bullhorns on the night of the election. 
“That pretty much fits with 
Zahm  hall,”  watson  said,  
laughing.  
he  won  as a write-in can­ 

didate. when presented with the notion, willingham did his “due diligence” before sign­ing off on the new post. watson had to miss the first 45 minutes of practice — including the be­ginning of that week’s defensive install — on the first day of each new game week to attend the student senate meetings. 
“it started off as a joke but i’m glad that i got into it because there were a lot of things that went on that i had no idea that students had a say in,” watson said. “i had a chance to see a side of notre dame that i would have never been able to experience otherwise and i think i was able to … at least shift some positive thoughts about student-athletes at notre dame.” 
it seemed like watson took so easily to notre dame, but it wasn’t always so straightfor­ward. The sarasota, Florida, na­tive grew up a Florida state fan but was recruited only lightly by the seminoles. notre dame, duke, stanford, michigan, some other big Ten schools and oth­er Florida schools courted the linebacker. watson, who said he originally knew about only notre dame’s gold helmets, not even Touchdown Jesus, when the re­cruiting process began, eventu­ally pledged to the irish. 
“had i been recruited the same way by Florida state as i was by those other schools, it would have been easy,” watson said. “i would have been a seminole without a doubt.” 
so when the no. 6 irish (7-0) traveled to Tallahassee, Florida, in oct. 2002 to face the no. 11 seminoles, everything came “full circle,” watson said. 
“you had that opportunity to show someone the mistakes that they’ve made or whatever,” watson said. “i was given that opportunity to do it in front of my friends and family in the sta­dium that i grew up dreaming of playing in. 
“it was surreal.” 
with roughly 30 friends and family members watching, watson and the irish rolled. on notre dame’s first play from scrimmage, arnaz battle scored on a 65-yard pass from holiday. in the back of the end zone, battle mockingly did the toma­hawk chop. 
“it was one touchdown, but it was like it was two touchdowns for us,” watson said. “at the time, we were having this dream sea­son, and we still were trying to believe in ourselves. and that touchdowns was a huge — huge 
— momentum boost.” 
with the score tied 10-10 in the third quarter, watson intercept­ed seminoles quarterback chris rix. watson remembers looking up in the stands after his inter­ception and seeing family and friends, including one of his high school coaches — coach nick, as they called him — cheering. 
Twelve years after notre dame’s 34-24 victory, notre dame will play its second-ever game at doak campbell stadium on saturday. watson will be there. 
after being selected in the second round of the 2004 nFl draft by the new orleans saints, watson spent two seasons in the nFl. 
at the conclusion of his foot­ball career, watson went back to sarasota. he already had a non-profit organization and a restaurant to keep him busy, and he knew he didn’t want a nine­to-five job. one day, he ran into some high school friends who recently had become firefight­ers. They explained to watson 
— who had never considered the profession — how the training process worked and the require­ments of the job. 
“They sold me on it,” watson said. 
watson’s father then put him in touch with the sarasota fire chief, a family friend. becoming a firefighter appealed to watson as an opportunity to give back to the community and a job that provided flexibility for his other endeavors. 
after finishing firefighting school, watson said it took only about two weeks on the job until he knew he was “hooked.” 
“ever since then, i’ve been gung-ho about it,” watson said. 
in July, watson, 34, celebrated five years on the job. 
“with the exception of prob­ably going to notre dame, it’s probably the best decision i’ve made to go the firefighting route and make a career of it,” watson said. 
Contact Mike Monaco at            jmonaco@nd.edu 
volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 

really need to fine-tune the basics of the game. serving and passing have to be con­sistent as well as strong,” brown said. “we need to be able to put pressure on them [the Tigers] with our serving. conversely, we need to be able to pass well to keep ourselves in system offensively.” 
To compete against a strong opponent like the Tigers, the irish need a tough mentality and focus on every second of every play, brown said. 
“we can’t get by this match without having a strong, competitive drive,” she said. “everything we do is a compe­tition, and we need to contin­ue to strive for success in every drill we do or match we play.” 
last season, notre dame lost to clemson on the road in three straight sets. clemson sophomore outside hitter leah perri totaled 14 kills as the Tigers dispatched the irish, 27-25, 25-22 and 25-21. perri is second in kills this sea­son for the Tigers and will be a significant challenge for notre dame’s blockers, led by senior Jeni houser and freshman sam Fry. houser and Fry are top-three in both kills and hit­ting percentage for the irish. 
notre dame and clemson will take the court Friday night at 7 p.m. in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 



crossWord | will shorTZ 


hIGhly PunlIkely | chrisTopher brucKer 

dome nuts | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | The mepham group 


horoscoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let obstacles slow you down. a fast-paced, energetic approach to how you reach your goals will pay off. put your ideas on display. This is not the year to sit back or to let confusion and uncertainty stand between you and your goals. make whatever changes are required to follow your heart and to achieve your dreams. your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 28, 33, 41, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): listen attentively to the options someone special offers. making a decision to travel or change your location should be considered. love and romance can bring about favorable change that will raise your standard of living and bring you great happiness. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): attending a reunion or getting together with people from your past will cause you to question where you are headed. stick close to home and avoid minor mishaps and delays while traveling. check out the job market and send out your resume. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): use your intelligence and your flirtatious ways to manipulate a situation that intrigues you. a passionate encounter will help you to make an important life-altering decision. expand your interests, awareness and your future prospects. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): someone will have a hidden agenda. Keep your ideas a secret. Take on a project that will help you develop some of your creative skills. an unexpected change will lead to many questions, concerns and confusion. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will regain your self-esteem if you get involved in organizational functions or humanitarian events. your skills and generosity will be acknowledged, resulting in meeting new people and making good connections. Travel, romance and intrigue are highlighted. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): deal with matters that concern your personal finances, legal settlements or medical issues. if you get your papers in order, you will be ready to present a wealth of information that can help you resolve matters that will eventually enhance your bank account. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): check out destinations that look inviting. whether you travel a short or long distance, you will learn something valuable. helping a friend, relative or doing what you can to improve your community will put you in a good position that leads to greater prosperity. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): secretive action will be in your best interest. The less anyone knows about your financial, medical or emotional situation, the better. moderation will be necessary in all aspects of life. a professional opportunity must not be ignored. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):engage in playful action with friends, peers or your lover and you will attract attention and affection. short day trips will lead to answers regarding your background or a cultural interest. a move will bring positive results.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t venture too far from home. refuse to deal with unpredictable individuals trying to take advantage of your insight, influence or your generosity. self-improvement plans or projects you can do alone are your best bet. don’t let a personal relationship get you down. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make a difference if you get involved in a cause or concern you feel strongly about. a contract, investment or means to bring in more cash looks promising. children and home improvement projects will highlight your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t let an emotional setback stop you from pursuing your goals. good fortune will be yours if you follow through with your plans. don’t let changes that others make cause resentment or regrets. Focus on you, not others, and you will do fine. 

Birthday Baby: you are progressive and changeable. you are flippant, charismatic and creative. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | thursday, october 16, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Football | waKing The echoes 
all-american résumé 
Former All-American linebacker and Zahm senator played flag football, Bookstore Basketball 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
Toss a nameless résumé on the table, and it’s difficult — if not im­possible — to know which notre dame student you’re dealing with. 
it’s not uncommon for an irish student to play bookstore basketball and interhall flag foot­ball or serve on student senate. 
it’s just slightly less common for that seemingly standard notre dame student to be an all­american linebacker. 
courtney watson made it clear he wanted to immerse himself fully in notre dame culture and student life. Zahm hall senator? bookstore basketball mainstay? interhall flag football quarterback and safety? watson had an exten­sive and varied résumé. 
The three-year starting mid­dle linebacker, who earned all­american honors in 2002, was exposed to all sides of life at notre dame on his recruiting visit to campus. 
“That actually became a huge part of the reason why i came to notre dame, having an opportunity to meet and be friends with and live with guys who weren’t part of the football program,” watson said recently by phone. 
as a freshman oozing with en­ergy during a season spent red-shirting, watson was raring to go after not doing much in practice. someone convinced him to check out flag football, so he went out to watch a game. 
“screw this, i’m playing,” he thought. 
with no rules prohibiting him from playing — it wasn’t tackle — watson strapped the flags around his waist the next time out. 
“we weren’t very good at all,” he said. 
but there was watson at safety, gunning for interceptions on any passes “more than five yards.” There was watson at quarterback, scrambling around until he found room to run or an open receiver. but other teams caught on to the all-sarasota (Florida) selec­tion. soon it was just underneath routes. soon there were no pass-rushers, just everyone dropping into coverage against watson. so he moved to wide receiver, trying to push the team forward in his lone season on the flag football field. 

“The next year i actually started participating in practice, and i was too tired to do it,” watson said. 
watson tired himself out with bookstore basketball as well. a former two-time all-city selec­tion in basketball who drew some interest from a few small colleges, watson helped his team advance to three Final Fours and won two tournament titles. watson found basketball manageable in his first few years as a underclassman, but piggybacking spring football practices with bookstore games proved exhausting. 
“bookstore basketball was a blessing and a curse at the same time,” watson said. “my last cou­ple years there it just became in­creasingly hard for my body to do all of that.” 
in one particular Final Four showdown, watson’s team — on which he was the only scholar­ship athlete — took on a squad 
see waTson PaGe 14 

Observer File Photo 

Former Irish linebacker Courtney Watson, featured here in the Oct. 18, 2002, edition of “Irish Insider,” served as a senator for Zahm House. 
nd volleyball 

ND to host conference rival Clemson 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
coming off of a road loss to louisville on sunday, notre dame returns home to purcell pavilion this week­end for more acc action, continuing conference play against clemson on Friday. 
The Tigers (13-5, 2-3 acc) ride momentum into Friday’s match after edging virginia Tech, 3-2, on Friday and topping georgia Tech, 3-1, on sunday. This weekend’s match will mark clemson’s first trip to notre dame (4-13, 1-5 acc) with both squads as part of the acc. 
The irish know they need to take command and fix mistakes made in last week­end’s 3-0 loss to louisville (11-7, 3-3), irish head coach debbie brown said. 
“going into the weekend, we’re looking at each op­portunity we have to play,” brown said. “we don’t want to carry over from last sunday’s competition. we had a great practice yesterday where we were able to really focus on clemson, ourselves and the things that we need to do to be successful against them.” 

brown identified left-side hitting and serve-receive passing as weaker areas against louisville. 
“if we want to win games, we can’t continue to struggle in these key areas,” brown said. “These aspects have been our biggest focus in this week’s practice, and i feel like we’ve made some signifi­cant improvements already.” 

in addition to handling hits and passes, brown high­lighted the importance of locking down the fundamen­tals of the game. 
“For us to be successful this weekend and through­out the rest of the season, we 
see volleyball PaGe 14 
hockey 

irish to take on lake superior state 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
after a tough opening weekend, notre dame looks to get back on track at home against lake superior state. The irish will face the lakers on Friday and saturday night. 
notre dame (0-2) is com­ing off a disappointing showing at the ice breaker Tournament where they lost to rensselaer 3-2 and were shut out by minnesota duluth, 3-0. irish coach Jeff Jackson said the team’s abil­ity to bounce back after the poor start begins with him. 
“it’s more about the re­sponse from me,” Jackson said. “i have to make sure that every player is paying attention to detail and the things that we’re trying to improve on. it’s almost like coming in cold, coaching a whole new team. even the older guys are in different roles now, and they don’t know how to respond to it all the time when we get into the games.” 
The irish have 10 newcom­ers on the team, and Jackson said inexperience was a factor during the opening weekend. The key to finding traction, then, is improving as a collective unit. 

“i think it’s the whole team as a group that has to respond,” Jackson said. “regardless of whether we’re young or not, we’re trying to put the guys in position to succeed. we’re focused on just taking care of the puck a bit better, and when we do give it up, we have to have more urgency to get pucks back.” 
The irish have two more weekend doubleheaders be­fore their first conference se­ries against vermont. Jackson said the irish have avoided panicking and are focused on improving every day in practice. he hopes many of the team’s struggles will dis­appear as the team gets more familiar with each other. 
“we got a lot accomplished in practice, which was an im­provement from last week,” Jackson said. “The guys have been good, and we’ve 
see hocKey PaGe 13 





