The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 104 | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Sprint CEO donates to University 
Notre Dame alumnus and wife make endowed gift to ND, Boys & Girls Club 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
sprint ceo and notre dame alumnus daniel hesse and his wife diane made an endowed gift to the university as well as a do­nation to the boys & girls clubs of america to bolster an ongoing partnership between the two or­ganizations, according to a press release issued march 7 by the boys & girls clubs of st. Joseph county (bgcsJc). 
“The two service organizations that i have devoted the lion’s share of my time to for many years are the boys & girls clubs of america and notre dame,” hesse said. “each institution is different, but both have much in common.” hesse said.
 “i believe that each is the best or­ganization of its kind in the world, and both are deeply committed to community service, so it was logical to think about a gift that would involve the two institutions together.” 

The hesses’ total contribu­tion contains two components, 





SMC announces valedictorian 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
senior brianne michaels, a computational mathemat­ics major and economics mi­nor, has been named saint mary’s college valedicto­rian, making her the student with the highest cumulative grade point average in the class of 2014. 

michaels, a native of valparaiso, ind., said she has had a love of math for as long as she can remember. 
“The power of mathemat­ics is so intriguing, and a major in mathematics leads to an endless number of career opportunities,” michaels said. 
michaels said she has found her niche in the math­ematics department at saint mary’s, which has become her “home away from home.” 
as president of indiana epsilon, the college’s chap­ter of the pi mu epsilon (pme) mathematical honors society, michaels raised money to send nine members to the Joint mathematics meeting in baltimore. 
“These sales were record-breaking, and more im­portantly, the number of members we were able to send to the conference was also a new record,” michaels said. “it was very exciting, [and] i have loved serv­ing my term as president of pme.” 
chair of the mathematics department colleen hoover said michaels’ dedication to raising money to send 
see michaels PAGE 5 


Club Fever changes policies 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
club Fever announced sev­eral safety policy changes fol­lowing the march 1 shooting outside the club in downtown south bend, club owner dee davis said last week. 
The shooting occurred near the intersection of michigan and wayne streets as a crowd of people exited club Fever in the early morning hours of march 1, according to a report in the south bend Tribune. 
in response to this inci­dent, club owner dee davis said club Fever will institute new safety and emergency policies. 
“we are playing a [public service announcement] every hour that we are over 50 per­cent capacity that informs pa­trons of exit locations,” davis said. “we are also scrolling that psa text on the video screens.” 
in addition to these safe­ty policies, davis said club Fever plans to crack down on underage drinkers and admittance of intoxicated patrons. 
“we are posting signage at the entrances explaining that presenting a fraudulent id in indiana is a class c misde­meanor and may be punished by fines and a one year sus­pension of driving privileges,” davis said. 
davis said club Fever will enforce an “increased scru­tiny of false ids.” 
“it’s amazing how many notre dame students seem to come from connecticut,” he said. 
club Fever will continue to prevent already-intoxicated patrons from entering , davis said. 
“we are posting signage at the doors advising that it is against state law for us to knowingly admit visibly in­toxicated persons,” he said. “if you want to get in, go easy 
see Fever PAGE 5 

incident reported on campus 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
a female notre dame gradu­ate student was approached by a lone male suspect as she entered her car in the c1 (sta­dium) parking lot between ap­proximately 6:30 and 6:45 p.m. march 10, according to an email sent march 11 from the office of campus safety. 
The email stated that the woman locked her car upon en­tering it, and the male attempt­ed to enter the vehicle. The woman was able to drive safely away without further incident. 
“our concern has been heightened as [notre dame security police] learned this afternoon from our partner law enforcement agencies that similar incidents … have oc­curred over the course of the past several weeks in the south bend area under similar cir­cumstances, including time of day,” the email stated. 
dave chapman, deputy chief for notre dame security police (ndsp), said the incident par­alleled others in the south bend area that have drawn police attention. 
“recently, a subject has been panhandling in parking lots and has been stopped nu­merous times by the police,” chapman said. “we do not know if any of the calls to area law enforcement and notre dame are related.” 
“we want our students, fac­ulty and staff to be aware of this incident that occurred on cam­pus and the possibility of simi­lar actions occurring elsewhere in the area.” 
ndsp regularly patrols all ar­eas of campus. in the email, the office of campus safety said any suspicious activity should be reported immediately to ndsp. 

Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

bgcsJc executive director Jory Fitzgerald kelly said. The larger portion, an endowed gift of an undisclosed amount to notre dame, will support the hiring of a new “full-time community-based learning and volunteer co­ordinator who will act as a liaison 
see hesse PAGE 5 







ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                              peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Where did you go for spring break? 

Carolyn Keef 
senior 
lewis hall 
“lisieux.” 
Eric Thomson 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“France.” 
Jessica Balko 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
“paris, France.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Martin Orjales 
junior 
morissey manor 
“The chartres.” 
Michelle Mowry 
senior 
pasquerilla east hall 
“bayeux.” 
Nicole Acaso 
senior 
pasquerilla east hall 
“normandy with my choir, the liturgical choir.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

katie mccarty mary green Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Jack rooney Zach klonsinski henry gens alex wilcox 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
erin rice erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

TED Live Broadcast Women’s Lacrosse Wham! Bam! Poetry Ten Years Hence Film: “A Shine of 
karla moreno austin Taliaferro 

DeBartolo Performing Arlotta Stadium Slam Lecture Rainbows” Arts Center 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Mendoza College of DeBartolo Performing 
11:30a.m.-4 p.m. The Irish take on 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Business Arts Center 
Corrections 

The 30th annual TED unranked Marquette at Second annual ND 10:40 a.m.-12:10 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:45 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as conference live. home. poetry slam. John Gordon of IBM. Family film series. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Lecture: William Lecture: Rita Colwell Show: Loyal Professors for Lunch Film: “20 Feet From 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

English DeBartolo Hall 101 Daughters & Sons SDH Oak Room Stardom” 
however, recognize that we will make 

Hesburgh Center C103 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Hesburgh Library 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

12:30p.m.-2 p.m. On oceans, climate 9:30  p.m.-11 p.m. Panel discussion on Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

On corruption and change, and cholera Sexuality, gender, and what it means to be a 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

crisis in democracy. paradigms. sexual assault at ND. Catholic university. About backup singers. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | The observer 


SMC selects Emmy winner as commencement speaker 
By EMILY KEFALAS 
news writer 
Judith mayotte, a humani­tarian, professor, author and emmy award-winning televi­sion producer, will deliver the 167th commencement address at saint mary’s college on may 17, according to a press release. 
mayotte and helen murray Free, a pioneering chemist, will receive honorary doctor of humanities degrees from the college at the ceremony. 
“i am delighted to recognize two exceptional women this year with honorary degrees from saint mary’s college,” saint mary’s college president carol ann mooney said. “Their backgrounds and achievements fit perfectly with our dreams for our graduates. 
“Judith mayotte is an in­ternationally-recognized hu­manitarian who has spent her life working to affect positive change for refugees and others. helen murray Free’s discover­ies in the field of chemistry im­proved health monitoring for people with diabetes and other conditions. i look forward to meeting them both and learn­ing more about their extraordi­nary lives.” 
Jerome mcelroy, saint mary’s economics professor and close friend of mayotte, praised 
“I am delighted to recognize two exceptional women this year with honorary degrees from Saint Mary’s College. Their backgrounds and achievements fit perfectly with our dreams for our graduates.” 
Carol Ann Mooney 
Saint Mary’s College presdident 
mayotte for exemplifying a life of dedicated service. 
“From her midwest roots in wichita, kan., through her re­markable career from convent, to Tv journalism, academia and cape Town, south africa, Judith 
paid adverTisemenT 

ann mayotte has demonstrated a life of unstinting excellence in service to the marginalized of the world,” mcelroy said. 
in the 1960s, mayotte taught in the inner cities of los angeles, kansas city and milwaukee as a sister of charity of the blessed virgin mary, mcelroy said. 
in the next two decades, mayotte worked as a televi­sion producer in chicago and won an emmy award for writing and producing the ‘washington’ segment of Turner broadcasting’s emmy and peabody award winning documentary series, “portrait of america,” mcelroy said. 
in 1989, through a grant from the John d. and catherine 
T. macarthur Foundation, mayotte began a three-year research journey that took her to the refugee camps in cambodia, Thailand, eritrea, sudan and pakistan, mcelroy said.  This work documented the lives and constrained socio­economic conditions of count­less people displaced by ethnic conflict and war and culmi­nated in the book “displaced people? The plight of refugees,” now considered the classic in its field. 
Through the years, mayotte has lectured and written ex­tensively on refugee and de­velopment issues. she served as special advisor on refu­gee issues and policy at the department of state in the first clinton administration and as senior Fellow of the refugee policy group in washington, mcelroy said. 
prior to working under the first clinton administration in 1994, mayotte was chairwoman of the women’s commission for refugee women and children, and served on the board of refugees international, mcelroy said. 
“both are well-known advo­cacy organizations that took mayotte to the field to assess refugee crisis and repatriation issues,” mcelroy said. 
she has also held a number of academic posts including women’s chair in humanistic studies at marquette university, adjunct professor at John hopkins nitze school of advanced international studies and co-director of seattle university’s international development internship program, mcelroy said. 
in 2010, she was named the first desmond Tutu distinguished chair in global understanding for the university of virginia’s semester at sea, mcelroy said. 
“[she] is, indeed, a woman of the world whose faith, purpose and determination have made a great difference in the world,” mcelroy said. 
Contact Emily Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
Panel addresses Catholic marriage 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
on monday evening, the Tocqueville program, the institute for church life, the gender relations center and the center for ethics and culture sponsored a panel discus­sion entitled “marriage, the church, and the common good: 
philosophical,  pastoral,  and  
social reflections.”  
The  panel  featured  sherif  

girgis, ryan anderson, ron belgau and Jennifer roback morse, who discussed evolving views on sexuality and challenges people face in modern marriages. 
belgau, founder of the website spiritual Friendship and a gradu­ate student in philosophy at saint louis university said marriage should be defined as a commu­nion of persons. 
“it’s not just a meeting of bod­ies,” belgau said. “it is a com­prehensive bodily and spiritual union, and it’s a profound insight into human nature, and the na­ture of conjugal union to describe it as a way for a husband and wife to ‘know’ each other. human be­ings are rational animals. we are embodied spirits, and so what we do has to address both our ratio­nality and our embodiment, and this is particularly realized in the marital union.” 
belgau said he wants to encour­age a deeper engagement to the catholic church’s teachings on chastity. 
“obviously, if you look at the culture, we tend to have a de­bate that’s very shallow,” he said. “There’s a lot of slogans yelled back and forth, but a real challenge on getting deeper engagement.” 
The virtue of chastity orders sexual desires in accordance with right reason and god’s plan, belgau said. 
“god’s plan, which can be dis­cerned by natural reason, is also revealed to us in scripture and the teaching of the church,” he said. 
girgis, a Jd candidate at yale and a phd candidate in philoso­phy at princeton, said that the church’s theology of marriage is not only a theological principle, but also a vision. 
“it’s something about the hu­man good, and not just a sacra­ment,” girgis said. “beyond an ethic, it’s also a kind of political philosophy. it’s a vision for the hu­man good, but also for the com­mon good.” 
anderson, a william e. simon Fellow in religion and a Free society at The heritage Foundation and phd candi­date in political science at notre dame, said the marriage debate can also be viewed from a public policy perspective. 
“Taken from this perspec­tive, marriage serves as a policy institution to unite a man and a woman as husband and wife, to then be mother and father to any children that union might create,” he said. “it’s based in the anthropological truth that men and women are distinct and complementary, it’s based in the biological fact that the union of a man and a woman can produce a child, and it’s based in the so­cial reality that a child deserves a mother and a father.” 
marriage serves to maximize the likelihood that a father will play a role in raising his children, anderson said. 
“The state is not in the marriage business because it cares about my love life or your love life,” he said. “The reason the government is in the marriage is because that sexual union between a man and a woman can create a child. and that man and woman need to commit to each other and raise that child, or someone else will, frequently at great social cost.” 
morse, who is a founder and president of the ruth institute and has a phd in economics from the university of rochester, said the ideas presented by sexual rev­olution are flawed. 
“First, the sexual revolutionar­ies told that society ought to sep­arate sex and procreation from each other, and ought to separate both from marriage,” morse said. “second, the sexual revolutionar­ies teach that men and women are interchangeable for all so­cially significant purposes. any observable differences between men and women are socially con­structed, and evidence of unwar­ranted discrimination.” 
morse said the “equality” en­couraged by the sexual revolution has led to dissatisfaction. 
“The idea that men and women are identical has led us to pursue a vision of equality that is mak­ing us miserable,” she said. “To take just one example of many i could name, we expect every­one to operate in higher educa­tion and labor markets designed for people who never give birth to babies—that would be men. This form of labor market equal­ity, which disregards obvious and immutable differences between men and women, creates a trap for educated women.” 
morse said the modern world views the person as without in­trinsic value and sexual acts as meaningless. 
“The catholic view of all these matters is quite different,” she said. “we believe that god loved the universe into existence, and that god wishes for us to partici­pate in this love. we believe that marriage between one man and one woman is a symbol of god’s covenant with his people. we be­lieve that every sexual act is deeply meaningful, whether we recog­nize that meaning or not. and we believe the human body is a tem­ple of the holy spirit, not a toy, not a shell, not an empty vessel.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | The observer 




to identify, cultivate, train and place 
Hesse 
students from notre dame within 
conTinued From page 1 
meaningful volunteer opportu­between between the local boys & nities at the boys and girls club,” girls clubs of st. Joseph county and Fitzgerald kelly said. the university,” she said. The second portion of the hesses’ 
“That position will really focus endowed gift, directed at the boys & on working with the center for girls clubs of america (bgca), will social concerns at the university allow the organization to develop 
paid adverTisemenT 
and implement initiatives like a volunteer database to improve the group’s methods of contacting volunteers, checking their back­grounds, placing them with proj­ects and thanking them for their support, Fitzgerald kelly said. 
“what we know about the boys & girls clubs is that what we do best is to form positive relationships with the children that we serve,” she said. “by infusing more volunteers into our sites, we’re able to provide more individualized attention to the children that we serve and in doing so, we’re able to form more meaningful relationships with these children.” 
Fitzgerald kelly said the bgca will measure the success of the hesses’ gift by two markers, which constitute the main goals of the partnership between the organiza­tion and notre dame. 
“The first is increasing the num­ber of children served by what translates to about a 35 percent  in­crease,” she said. “The second met­ric is … within the first 18 months of the partnership, increasing the number of notre dame volunteers to 75 on an annual basis.” 
“Those 75 students will be able to supplant the efforts of staff to keep our adult-to-child ratio low, and we’ll be able to provide the kind of programming that we so proudly provide to children in the community.” 
Fitzgerald kelly said volunteer opportunities within the boys & girls clubs will be “limitless” and, starting this summer, will include eight new internships through the center for social concerns’ summer service learning program. during the academic year, science students will be able to visit one of the bgcsJclocations ev­ery Friday to teach biology classes. 
andrea smith shapell, assistant director of the center for social concerns and director of the summer service learning program and Theological reflection, said the new sslps will be placed in south bend, cincinnati, kansas city and san diego. 
“The hesses’ gift will allow more continuity for students interested in community-based learning, from the academic year into the summer with the bgcsJc,” smith shapell said. “The boys and girls clubs who will partner with the sslp across the country are very grate­ful to have additional college-aged mentors for the children in their summer programs.” 
hesse said his time as a student living in south bend inspired him to make this gift to the university and the bgca. 
“i lived off-campus in the west washington street area my last two years at nd; there were significant campus housing shortages in those days,” hesse said. “i was struck by the gap between affluent notre dame and the city it’s in. i tried to think of a way that notre dame and its students could contribute in a meaningful way to the city of south bend.” 
Fitzgerald kelly said the endowed gift will serve not only the bgca but also the university. 
“[by] forming those partnerships and having that contact within the university, we’re just constantly brainstorming ways and ideas that we can have that relationship be a win-win to the university, the students at notre dame and to the children that we serve,” she said. 
she said students interested in volunteering at the bgcsJc should contact victoria geschke at vge­schke@bgcsjc.org or 574-968-9660. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

Michaels 
conTinued From page 1 
impressive. 
“as a faculty advisor for pi mu epsilon, i can say that i have never witnessed this kind of unfailing dedication to student travel, and we all owe brianne a debt of grati­tude,” hoover said. 
Joanne snow, professor of mathematics, said she got to know michaels better through her work as presi­dent of pme and having michaels in class. 
“Brianne is an 
excellent student. 
She is also very 
conscientious 
and very 
thorough in her 
work.” 
Joanne Snow 
professor of mathematics 
“brianne is an excellent student. she is also very conscientious and very thorough in her work,” snow said. “if she takes on a task, then you know it will be done and done well.” 
snow said michaels has distinguished herself at land o’lakes inc., where she had an internship last summer. michaels was hon­ored with the intern award for her outstanding perfor­mance and leadership, and she will continue there as an information Technology rotational analyst after graduation. 
michaels said she is look­ing forward to her new career and plans to con­tinue to challenge her­self both in her career and academically. 
“i wish to learn as much as possible throughout my life,” michaels said. “i have always viewed a college education as my ticket to a successful future as an in­dependent woman, and this is proving to be true.” 
Friend and classmate megan golden said she had always told michaels she would receive the vale­dictorian award because of her work ethic and the long hours she puts into her schoolwork each day. 
“[brianne] is intrinsically motivated and extremely confident in her abilities, so i know she will be success­ful in achieving her goals in the future,” golden said. “she is the type of person who works very hard but always makes time for her friends.” 
michaels said she owes much of her success at saint mary’s to her supportive friends and family. 
“i have gained life-long friends at saint mary’s, which is just as valuable to me as the outstanding education i have received,” michaels said. “The cam­pus is filled with intelligent, independent women, and i am honored to call myself a saint mary’s student and soon-to-be graduate.” 
“i have made it a prior­ity to perform to the best of my potential in school and to learn as much as i possibly can,” she said. “i strive for excellence in aca­demics, because it is what makes me happy. being de­clared valedictorian is just a bonus.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Fever 
conTinued From page 1 
on the pre-game.” 
davis said these changes will directly affect students for whom the club is a popular destination. 
“The biggest effect on the students will be that we will be more vigilant about admitting intoxicated patrons,” he said. “students tend to want to save a couple of bucks and get blasted before they arrive, and some sneak in their own booze. if we see that, they won’t be admit­ted that evening.” 
davis said the club will also help intoxicated students make their way back home if they are not admitted into the club. 
“we are posting notices at 
“Students tend to want to save a couple of bucks and get blasted before they arrive and some sneak in their own booze. If we see that, they won’t be admitted that evening.” 
Dee Davis 
Club Fever owner 
each bar outlining that it is against the law to knowingly serve intoxicated patrons,” he said. “if an employee deter­mines a patron is intoxicated, we will assist them by calling a cab, but with our multiple bars, we cannot allow them to remain in the club.” 
“we are posting signage at each door with phone numbers for local cab companies.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 
Disneyland don’ts 
Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 
This spring break on my trip to california (do not call it cali ever, that is for the “noobs” according to locals) i spent some time at airport terminals and disneyland. at both, i was required to wait in lines to ride things, pay too much for food and witness some aw­ful fashion decisions. 
some see airports as an extension of their bedrooms, wearing everything from snuggies to Juicy sweatsuits. although, i admit, it is of the utmost importance to be comfortable on the impending flight, there are ways to accomplish this that do not involve bedazzled pink velour. if it were up to me, the Tsa would have a fashion police division. 
besides sloppy clothing choices, there are also the inevitable people carrying pillows or even a pillow pet through the terminal. i understand that it enables a mid-flight nap, but the consequences are dire. 
one of my friends insisted on carrying her moose pillow pet with her on the trip and ran into an interesting situation when we had to visit the restroom. yes, the pillow pet entered the bathroom. it then sat next to an unassuming stranger for four hours. snakes on a plane would have almost been a prefer­able animal encounter. 
on the topic of animals, my trip to visit the animated characters at disneyland also involved interesting stylistic choices. it was as if all the girls i had seen in the airport had shed their sweatsuits for short-shorts. 
i felt a little hesitant about my own outfit choice for the day — i had to wear my run­ning shoes and therefore resembled a mid-western soccer mom prepared to chase her kids around all day — until i stepped out of the car and spotted an older lady in the park­ing lot with a shirt reading “don’t hate my glam.” now i’m all for sending the haters to the back, but wearing that on a shirt is a little too “#Teambold”. also, i’m not sure what glam she was referencing since she had on jean shorts, sneakers and a ponytail — the only “glam” insight was the sequin embel­lishment on her t-shirt. 
From there it only got worse. There was a plethora of girls in sorority shirts, sporting nike shorts and sneakers in juxtaposition with their curled hair and full-on make-up. There were the girls in matching “#sb2k14” shirts reading “Tan lines and good Times.” There were even two girls matching com­pletely and wearing shirts reading “she’s my best Friend.” 
if you’re wearing leather leggings at disneyland, do less, and while you’re at it, get rid of that purple Juicy sweatsuit you inevi­tably wore on the plane ride here. also, just a public service announcement, cutoffs and turkey legs make for an awful combination. 
hopefully those reading this will heed my concerns, but if not, just know that sweat­pants don’t belong on the runway and i find amusement in your park outfits. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Mia Lillis 
we are nd 

“be peaceful, be courteous, obey the law, respect everyone.” malcolm X. 
respect. a word most often associ­ated with aretha Franklin, respect can go by many other names in our society such as politeness, deference, courtesy, etiquette, reverence and obedience, to name a few. respect is by and large considered to be a necessity in most social interactions. even radical revolu­tionaries like malcolm X recognized the importance of the age-old social nicety. 
but where exactly does respect come from? while little academic research exists concerning the broad topic of re­spect, a great deal of theory exists con­cerning politeness. sociologists such as erving goffman, penelope brown and stephen levinson have identified politeness as a social ritual practiced by society in order to preserve each other’s “faces” or public identities. 
when we enter the public, sociolo­gists claim that we attempt to preserve our self-esteem and our sense of inde­pendence in action. Thus, politeness is a way to circumvent any threats to these qualities. For example, in order to avoid threatening a peer’s sense of independence in action, i may ask them to “please help me out with the group’s prezi, if it’s not too much of a burden?” rather than demanding that they “should make the group’s prezi.” in the latter case, the threat to independence in action is completely bare, while in the former, the threat to independence is masked by social niceties. 
if we are to believe politeness theory, then this raises an inevitable question: why is it that humans are so affronted by a threat to their independence in action that they have created an entire (arguably time-wasting) linguistic sys­tem hiding these threats? politeness theory would answer that such masking is necessary in order to ensure that all parties in a social interaction feel af­firmed. additionally, one could argue that masked threats to independence are necessary for preserving a sense of equality in interactions. This explana­tion becomes more interesting when one examines various contexts in which our society requires respectful behavior. 
For example, the timeless adage, “respect your elders.” several articles have already been written concerning the various problems with this proverb, such as its inherent ageism, arbitrari­ness and its unjustifiability (after all, when was the last time you were told to respect your elders only once they have earned your respect?). This cultural precept requires politeness on the part of the youth, but in no way requires an equal politeness from the elder. in this case, politeness and respect are being used to enforce a social hierarchy — and as a result, it is impossible for the primary actor deferring respect to re­motely believe the social interaction to be an equal one. 
The same can be said for another common social ritual: respect for au­thority. as early as the first days of class, children are taught that they must al­ways show respect to figures of author­ity and as children grow into adults, they pass the same message onto their own children. our society runs on an eternal cycle of inherited, unquestioned and unjustified rules of conduct. 
perhaps it is in part due to this cycle that americans tend to react so negatively to political activists that engage in protests or criticize figures of authority (even when justifiably so). even edward snowden, a man who risked his life in order to expose govern­mental authority figures as significantly lacking in respectability due to human rights violations, has been widely criti­cized for failing to respect authority — and why? why is it that americans value preservation of an unjustified social nicety even at the expense of their own basic human rights? 
perhaps our society, which claims to value the equality of human beings, would benefit from an adjustment to current social behavior that arbitrarily reinforces a hierarchy. perhaps, if hu­mans truly need politeness to protect their own sense of independence, then citizens, employees, the youth, etc., are equally deserving of the respect that they are socially expected to show their government figures, bosses, elders, etc. if this is too much to ask of figures of authority, then perhaps, in the name of equality, we ought to be questioning, rather than blindly respecting author­ity. anyone who demands your respect at the expense of your sense of self or basic human rights is clearly failing to treat you as an equal or as you deserve to be treated. in the wise words of malcolm X, 
“be peaceful, be courteous, obey the law, respect everyone, but if someone puts his hand on you, send him to the cemetery.” 
Mia Lillis is a senior living in Cavanaugh Hall. She can be reached at mlillis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Excellence on and off the court 
Russell King 
guest columnist 
coach muffet mcgraw is the rea­son for this season’s success and i got to witness it first hand last week as part of the band. 
undefeated, acc champions and 32 wins including only two games with a margin of victory in the single digits. notre dame women’s bas­ketball has been dominant for so long that we have grown to expect it as students. obviously we cycle in tremendous athletes who come to notre dame ready to immediately compete so that we do not have any “rebuilding” years. 
however, the secret is in the coach. we all know what she has done for this university and her re­cord speaks loud and clear that she is one of the best in the game. The reason i felt compelled to write this piece was because it is important to share that coach mcgraw does not have a false façade. she is an all-around coach and demonstrates in­tegrity and excellence even when the spotlight is not on her. 
over spring break, i had the privilege of travelling down to greensboro, n. c., for both the men’s and women’s acc basketball tour­naments, playing in the band. our first night down there it snowed, but slowly warmed up over the weekend as the team got hot. 

as a drum major and clarinet, i have been able to travel all over to play with the band at different sporting events. it is always fun to spend time with my fellow band members and the cheerleaders re­gardless of where we go. however, greensboro is not an ideal destina­tion compared to other places we have been. so what made this one of the best trips i have been on? coach mcgraw’s leadership. 
after the championship, the bal­loons fell, confetti shot up in the air and it was another notre dame win. i have been to other big wins before. i was there at the ccha championship last year, at the pinstripe bowl and at the men’s soc­cer team won their playoff home games. so what made this one so special? For once i felt truly appreci­ated, all due to coach mcgraw. 
The confetti was still falling at the end of the championship game and we were confined to the pen at the end of the basketball court. The entire team came over to celebrate with us. Then, in an unprecedented move, muffet mcgraw walked over and told the band to come out on the court with them along with an invi­tation to cut down the net. she even asked for a picture with us. we in the band are accustomed to fans ask­ing for pictures or autographs, but for the coach to want to celebrate by taking a picture with us was incred­ible. it exhibited that she truly cares and appreciates what we do. 
cutting down the net was an experience i will never forget. apparently, stuff like that does not happen at other schools. we have a special coach who has set herself ahead of the pack, both in wins and in graciousness. as a good leader, she takes the blame when we lose and spreads the wealth when we win. 
on the chartered flight home, she immediately dropped her stuff at her seat and ran through the plane high fiving the band and cheerleaders while thanking us for the support. over the three games, i witnessed a passion in my fellow band members that is more than i have ever seen. They were truly invested in the game and helping the team win. it is all because of the coach and the ap­preciation the team shows us. They truly want us there and we will work hard to help them. 
now, most of the time you do not need the band and cheerleaders be­cause of your dominance. however, the next time you find yourself tied with a team like duke at half, we will do everything in our power to swing the momentum and atmo­sphere of the arena back to our side. The Fighting irish are strong this year and it truly is a special team with an outstanding coach. you have six more games and believe me, we will be with you every step of the way, playing louder than ever. i think i speak on behalf of the band and cheerleaders in saying that we feel a connection with this team and will scream and play until we run out of breath to help you get the ul­timate goal, a championship. coach mcgraw deserves another one. 
Russell King is a junior studying Science-Business and Economics from Keenan Hall. He can be reached at rking7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

It’s March, so let the madness begin 
Griffin Adams 
university of utah 
it’s that time of year again and i’m already starting to feel the effects. The brackets are out, the regions are set and every college basketball fan’s mind is now racing. There is a reason this season has become known as march madness. it is absolute pandemonium. between the upsets, buzzer beaters and cinderella stories, the ncaa Tournament has become the most entertaining event in basketball and, quite frankly, in all of sports. 
before you start to fill out your brackets, here are some tips to keep in mind. 
The most important rule to remember while putting together your bracket is that your “real” or “serious” bracket will always suck. That’s just the way the college basketball gods like to have it. 
all the top teams are top teams for a reason and should make their way to the sweet sixteen, elite eight or Final Four, right? False. There has only been one time in the history of the Tournament, when kansas won the title in 2008, in which all the no. 1 seeds made it to the Final Four. That said, there have only been two times in history in which no no. 1 seeds made the Final Four. yeah, i’m confused, too. 

personally, i hate the top teams and will always cheer for the underdogs. is that necessarily the smartest thing to do when filling out a bracket? no, but don’t count out some of the lower seeds or mid-majors. in the past two seasons, a no. 15 seed has upset a no. 2 seed three times. some may remember Florida gulf coast and its magical run to the sweet sixteen last season as a 15 seed, but the thing is, there is a team like that every year. 
That’s the tricky part of picking a bracket — who will be this year’s cinderella? it’s easy to pick the top teams against inferior opponents, but picking the one team that will upset supposedly superior talent is the real challenge. 
remember, when picking a cinderella team, look at experience. it is hard enough for a team with the most highly touted freshmen to make a deep run in the Tournament, but now imagine a mid-major team trying to do it. They need to have some experienced players and good coaching. 
another tip that may prove helpful is looking at the last 10 games of the regular season, includ­ing a team’s respective conference tournament. Teams that play well at the end of the season tend to carry that momentum into the tournament, which could ultimately lead to an upset or cham­pionship run. 
will any of these tips work? There’s a good chance everything i have told you will be ex­tremely wrong and your bracket will be the worst in your pool. That’s the beauty of march madness, though. Truthfully, no matter how dumb a bracket may look, everyone has a shot. 
a few years back, i had a friend who knows nothing about basketball and picked the en­tire bracket solely based off the team’s colors. her eventual champion was Florida, and guess who won the championship that year? yup, the gators. 
whether you choose statistically, analytically or just by a team’s mascot, it truly does not mat­ter. Fill out a bracket or two or 10, because chanc­es are that no matter how smart you think you are, your bracket will still have a ton of red on it, and you will lose a lot of money. 
This column was originally posted on March 17 for The Daily Utah Chronicle, the student news organization for the University of Utah. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 
abnormally green colored food is generally a sign that it must be spoiled and inedible. however, there is one day a year when green food is intentionally served and celebrated: st. patrick’s day. 
once, my mom decided to get in the st. patrick’s day spirit and make us an entirely green breakfast. she add­ed green food dye to our milk and served green eggs with green pancakes. although it tasted the same, there is something about green food, especially in the morning, that left me unsure of how to feel about what i had just ingested. 
i may be irresolute in my feelings toward dyed green foods – part of me wants to be spirited but the other part is saying, “i do not like green eggs and ham. i do not like them, sam-i-am” – however, there are a few green things in this world that i am completely sure of my stance on. 
elphaba: perhaps the most misunderstood, cruelly represented character in modern times, elphaba, the young version of the green wicked witch of the west in the “wizard of oz,” had me shedding tears during “wicked.” she was a free spirit who dealt with glittery narcissistic glinda even though she had no interest in being “pop-uuu-lar.” she is later framed and made to look evil in the musical, so she defies gravity on her broom and leaves oz. she is such a strong female lead who doesn’t let the haters get her down. 

edamame: This wonder-bean provides me with the protein i need when the grilled chicken in the dining hall is inedible. it tastes great salted and it is so fun to pop the beans straight out of the pod. 
money: “cash rules everything around me” – wu Tang clan 
The green light: one of the first times i saw a deeper meaning in a literary work, the green light in “The great gatsby” comes to represent hope, specifically gatsby’s hope to carry out his dream of reliving his past with daisy. (not to mention, green lights on the road are rath­er great.) i also just loved this book and have since tried to emulate daisy whenever applicable. For example, i cut my hair into a pixie and own too many embellished, flapper-inspired dresses. 
kermit: okay, i know kermit thinks, “it’s not easy being green;” however, he ultimately accepts and enjoys it. he comes to realize, “i am green, and it’ll do fine. it’s beauti­ful, and i think it’s what i want to be.” kermit is adorable and manages to put up with miss piggy’s pursuit of him. 
The wicked witch of The west: she filled my childhood with green nightmares. her cackle and herd of flying monkeys succeeded in terrifying me. when she set the scarecrow on fire, it was the last straw. 
peas: ew. They’re mushy and hard to eat. They are too small to pierce but also roll off forks. i can’t eat them without spilling half on the floor. 
money: “it’s like the more money we come across the more problems we see” – The notorious b.i.g. 
algae: i avoid this stuff when swimming in the lake and yet it manages to get stuck under my swim cap. also, they sometimes sneak it into smoothies and juices, which is questionable. algae overall is pretty putrid. 
unripe bananas: also, ripe bananas. i hate bananas. They are the grossest texture and they stink, literally. The smell infiltrates any food around them. in grade school, my friends and i would trade lunch food. grace sometimes had bananas in her lunch, and one time i traded her my chips for her goldfish and all the goldfish tasted like bananas. The incident was a tragedy and i never traded with grace again. 
i hope your st. patrick’s day was filled with the former green things and devoid of the latter. especially unripe bananas. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 
march 9 marked the beginning of a new “cosmos,” a continuation of or sequel to carl sagan’s beloved 13­part series, which premiered in 1980. This time around, “cosmos: a personal voyage” is retitled “cosmos: a spacetime odyssey” and features the beloved astro­physicist and science spokesperson neil degrasse Tyson as its host. like the original “cosmos,” the series features a modern version of sagan’s “spaceship of the imagination,” this time with Tyson traversing the uni­verse with, of course, some seriously updated animation and information. 
The show’s pilot updated sagan’s spaceship and was a nod to the original “cosmos” in many ways. discussing the history of the universe, Tyson employed the “cosmic calendar” seen in the original program, scaling the time of the big bang to today in just one calendar year. 
along with our knowledge about the universe and life on earth, other things have changed between the origi­nal and new “cosmos.” while the original series featured compositions from greek composer vangeles, expos­ing him to an american audience, the new series em­ploys an already-familiar composer. scored exclusively by alan silvestri (“Forrest gump” and “polar express”), the soundtrack to “a spacetime odyssey” is a beautiful 
ERIN RICE | THE OBSERVER 

accompaniment to the breathtaking animation of the spaceship of imagination soaring through the solar system. 
but not all changes were as welcomed. rather than live-action historical reenactments or basic descriptions of science history, the new show’s pilot featured artistic animation (think “The Tale of the Three brothers” from the seventh harry potter movie) to tell the story of 16th century italian giordano bruno’s vision of universe. This part ended up a little more distracting than informative, and due to its heavy criticism of the church, received plenty of criticism itself. 
The animation style works slightly better in the show’s second episode, where it is used to describe speciation and evolution in a scene with animated bears, and over­all, the show so far has managed to blend old elements of sagan’s original series with new science and technology rather impressively. 
The pilot closed on a heartwarming note, with Tyson walking along a beach and speaking to the camera about the origins of life just as sagan did three decades ago. Tyson not only gives a glimpse into earth’s history but also discloses his history with sagan himself and his ori­gins as a scientist. Tyson tells the story of meeting sagan as a young boy, explaining that he was not only an inspi­ration to the young, aspiring scientist, but a mentor and friend. with that, “cosmos” doesn’t just revamp a classic, but pays homage to the scientist who convinced 600 mil­lion viewers around the world to tune in and learn about the universe in 1980. 
it will be interesting to see how “cosmos” tackles the variety of scientific topics sagan covered in his origi­nal program and whether the show will draw and keep viewers in a time when seeing images of outer space isn’t as novel as it once was. in a recent interview with parade, Tyson cited the popularity of scientific series, like “csi” and movies like “gravity” as evidence that an american audience is interested in something like “cosmos.” however, the show’s executive producer seth macFarlane (yes, that seth macFarlane) has mentioned in recent interviews that trusting an audience to watch such a science-heavy series every week is risky. 
however risky, both host and producer have stressed the importance of opening the eyes of audiences to not just the wonders of the world but the importance of sci­entific thinking, and for that “cosmos” should be com­mended. and with two excellent episodes under their belt and a pilot that racked up a reported 17.5 million viewers, it looks like mcFarland and Tyson have nothing to worry about. 
“cosmos: a spacetime odyssey” airs sundays at 9 p.m. on Fox or can be viewed online at www.cosmosontv.com 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
The adult swim animated series “rick and morty,” created by Justin roiland and dan harmon of channel 101, began its first season in early december of last year. after a break during the winter olympics, the show re­turned on march 10th to finish up the back half of its first season run. only a few weeks into its airing, adult swim renewed the series for a second season, and high ratings in its timeslot ensure that the show will contin­ue to be around for a while. 
“rick and morty” centers around a crackpot scien­tist, rick, and the outlandish, technology-influenced misadventures of he and his unsure, nervous grand­son, morty, have. The concept comes from roiland’s disturbing animated short positing what “back to the Future” might have been like if doc brown were a child molester. scaling back from that crude, one-note par­ody and steering away from the movie series in gen­eral, roiland and harmon developed the show for an interested adult swim. Together, they combine the for­mer’s familiarity with weird fantasy from his work on “adventure Time” with the latter’s penchant for somber heart in wacky comedies, showcased throughout his live action sitcom “community.” 
The duo’s unique backgrounds and expertise have aligned immediately, given the strength of the first seven episodes.  “rick and morty” tends to tackle some fairly deep ethical and moral dilemmas concerning highly advanced, perhaps manipulative, sciences.  The 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 
last year, r&b singer, recording artist and hip-hop, electro and pop producer pharrell came back into the spotlight with guest appearances on the tracks “lose yourself to dance” and “get lucky” on daft punk’s album “random access memories.” while his vocal performance relied completely on an underwhelming use of his charming falsetto, he undoubtedly deserves thanks for helping the French duo bring funk back into the pop music scene. after a hit year filled with albums pushing this same disco-esque agenda, pharrell has tried his hand at recording his own work again with “girl,” released march 3. while pharrell does a won­derful job bringing back the appeal of slower, dance-paced pop songs led by click drums, clean guitar and synth progressions, he has failed at moving the genre forward. 
his first track, “marilyn monroe,” is a different fore­ground put to the same scenery as daft punk’s album opener, “give life back to music.” and just as daft punk utilized pharrell’s signature falsetto on their lead single, his own “gust of wind” uses the violin movement and talk-box vocals that have now become synonymous with daft punk. 
however, pharrell does not owe his sexy, sweet and sour synth symphony to daft punk, who purposefully tried to move away from analog on their latest album. 

show has already dealt with hyper hyper-intelligent pet dogs overtaking their owners, a controlling, fully matriarchal society, an all-consuming love potion and the extorting extortion of a homeless person’s internal body for a profitable amusement park, just to name a few. 
in one of the best episodes so far, rick introduces his family — each member already well- developed and three three-dimensional — to a being that can be cre­ated to complete any simple command, after which it seizes ceases to exist. when one of these beings — called a meeseeks — cannot help morty’s father bet­ter his golf game, the meeseeks creates another one to help out; this quickly escalates and a group of meeseeks have an existential crisis about their existences. The writers raise unsettling complications in most of the stories involving these distant, sci-fi inventions, going further than simply offering them up as comical ideas. 
still, the show is not only smart, but it is also uproari­ously funny.  even better, the humor does not solely come from the wit regarding the imagination and ex­ecution of the scientific premises. The main characters are being fleshed out, contributing to laughs as a result of understanding the tendencies and history of rick, morty and the rest of the household.  Furthermore, in the vein of any adult swim series, the writers mix the low-brow humor of rick burping consistently while speaking, with such high-ingenuity concepts as multi-tiered simulations run by aliens attempting to dupe the titular characters — aliens that, still, have an absolute fear of nakedness, resulting in the duo running around 
“marilyn monroe” and its follow up, “brand new,” reek strongly of Justin Timberlake’s intriguing and saucy beats developed on his massive, two-part masterpiece, “The 20/20 experience” (albeit, Timberlake duets with pharrell on “brand new”). Timberlake’s uplifting strings, falsetto accompaniment and head-bobbing drum tracks blatantly appear here and throughout the album (see “it girl”). on tracks such as “hunter” and “come get it bae,” pharrell’s easygoing, repetitive tenor guitar strumming calls to mind “dance apocalyptic,” one of the lead singles off of Janelle monae’s 2013 release “The electric lady.” 
pharrell’s use of techniques and themes which were resurrected in the mainstream pop music scene in 2013 nonetheless gives this album a groovy, easygoing and fun-lovin’ sound, but although this album showcases his knowledge of pop appeal, it strikes the listener as simply lazy song writing. while all of the aforemen­tioned albums showcased layers of production, added gloss and intense precision, every song on “girl” falls short of the campy shimmer pop music consumers have come to expect from an album with the disco sound. all throughout the album, pharrell has presented songs with a single riff, a single vocal trail and a decidedly un­finished sound. “hunter,” “lost Queen” and “it girl” are all easy examples for songs which lack musical depth or any sense of exploration. 
The rise of electronic music distribution has enabled artists to return to the “singles” mentality popular in in the nude for much of the episode. 
rather demented and crude, the show still manages to display its heart when necessary. in fact, it does so in a stark manner often not seen in any television se­ries, let alone a ridiculous, animated show for adults. particularly, this realistic melancholy comes from the relationships between the show’s five family members. morty’s parents have their issues as husband and wife, and rick’s ongoing endeavors surrounding their family only act to exacerbate them.  with all the sci-fi notions, these character beats and conflicts remain believable due to strong voice acting, animation and writing, and they help to ground even the most absurd moments in bitter reality. 
each episode that has aired thus far has featured at least two or three major talking points to explore, both within the context of harder science and social human­ity. This speaks volumes to the strength of the series, ably melding the two while staying supremely funny in such a short amount of time.  expectations remain extremely high for the final few episodes of the first sea­son, as well as the already confirmed second season. 
adult swim and the show’s staff have done very well with making the episodes available freely for free on-line, whether on youTube, the adult swim website, or even releasing an episode early via 15-second videos on social media site instagram. catch-up through these services and watch monday’s at 10:30 pm p.m. on adult swim. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcaho7@nd.edu 
the 1970s when pop music was consumed by dJs look­ing to spin vinyl hits for clubs full of people hungry to dance. because of this, 2013 was a year of electro-pop explosion. in the 12 months preceding the release of “girl,” all of the aforementioned artists, as well as groups like disclosure, holy ghost! and broken bells, released albums that pay homage to the disco music of our parents. even within the genre of hip-hop, artists like drake, Flo-rida and kanye west have been incor­porating danceable, funkier beats into their songs – and this supply intonates that musical demand is thirsty for dance music. pharrell, while obliging our ears and giv­ing us an excellent dance album, has failed to contrib­ute anything new to the trend of pop music. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
“GIRL” 
Pharrell 
Label: i am OTHER & Columbia Records 
Tracks: “Happy” 
If you like: Justin Timberlake, Janelle Monae 

ERIN RICE | THE OBSERVER 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 
The perfect imperfection 

By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
going up against one of the most dominant pro­grams of the last decade, no. 8 notre dame was swept away by no. 4 usc on Friday in los angeles, los­ing 7-0 and dropping every point for the first time this season. 
“usc is a great team,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “They’ve won four of the last five national cham­pionships, and they’ve been a consistent presence in the top five for the last decade or so. so we knew going in that it would be a tough match for us to win. but at the same time, we did not perform at the level that we’ve played at in other matches this year.” 
The Trojans (15-2) feature five ranked singles players, including two in the coun­try’s topn15, and rolled past the irish (11-5, 1-2 acc), not losing a set in singles play. sachire said some of his squad’s poor play could be blamed on the outdoor playing surface. 
“part of [the problem] was due to that we were play­ing our first outdoor match of the year,” sachire said. “The style of tennis that wins outdoors compared to the style that wins indoors is a little bit different. it’s a little slower, you have to be more patient and make bet­ter decisions. … From my experience, the first match outdoors is always a little bit difficult because you’re adjusting to that particular style of play.” 
in doubles, the eighth-ranked Trojan duo of senior ray sarmiento and junior yannick hanfmann downed sophomore alex lawson and senior greg andrews, who entered the match ranked 18th in the nation, 8-5. sarmiento, the no. 3 singles player in the coun­try, defeated andrews in singles play as well, 7-5, 6-3. 
“usc did a great job of making us earn everything that we got,” sachire said. “in certain circumstances, we tried to be a little too of­fensive. we tried to pull the trigger too early and go for winners when they weren’t there. … i think we need­ed this, and it was a great learning experience for us.” 
with the loss, the irish have dropped two straight matches against top 10 competition and have yet to record a victory in march. sachire said some of the team’s struggles have come from the middle of the lineup. 
“The middle has been so successful all season long, in particular [freshman] eddy covalschi and [senior] ryan bandy,” he said. “but they both lost fairly lopsided matches. it wasn’t because they were doing anything egregiously wrong. it just came down to shot selection and point construction. 
“greg andrews and [soph­omore] Quentin monaghan did a good job of adjusting to the conditions, but eddy and ryan were still playing indoor tennis. so we’ve talk­ed about it and done some drills in practice. They’re going to learn from it.” despite the loss, sachire said he hoped that the irish would play the Trojans again this season. 
“we got beat by a team that was better than us on that particular day,” he said. “we’re making a very concerted effort to not buy into that notion if we play them again, we can’t win. we can beat them, and we just need to work and play better.” 
The irish take the court and look to rebound on the road Friday against clemson at 2:30 p.m. in clemson, s.c. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
i once had a classmate ask me if i fill out my ncaa bracket by picking the teams with the prettiest uniforms. it remains, to this day, the most offensive thing anyone has ever asked me. part of my indignation stemmed from the implication that a girl could not possibly watch enough basketball to intelligently fill out her own bracket. The rest came from the fact that i actually do fill out my brackets us­ing completely arbitrary and unreasonable criteria, but i like to think my own meth­ods are much more creative and entertaining than pick­ing pretty colors. 
let’s be honest about bracketology: even the ex­perts aren’t very good at it. like cubs fans at spring training, at this point in the game we are all filled with an inordinate amount of optimism. we take a fond look at our still-unsmirched bracket, completely sure that michigan state is to­tally making it to the Final Four. but two weeks and four or five upsets from now, Jay bilas’s sheet may or may not be looking bet­ter than your little cousin Timmy’s. This is an activity where nate silver (the econ­omist/fortune teller) admits that there is an 85 percent chance he picked the wrong national champion (his money’s on louisville.) 
my advice? unless you’ve got something important on the line, like money or personal pride, have fun with it. here are some of my favorite completely un­scientific ways to fill out a bracket. They may or may not be as effective as pick­ing the team that actually has the best record or the most talent: 
Battle of the Mascots 
This one is easy, and best if you intend for this to be a group activity. if the mas­cots from the two compet­ing schools were to fight, which would win? This ac­tivity lends itself to endless and amusing debates. who would win, a wolverine or a bear? a cavalier or a wild­cat? could a cyclone destroy a cardinal (as in the tree)? problems with this method: aside from the fact that it has absolutely nothing to do with the success of the team, you run into trouble with the crimson and the orange. also, you need to find out what manhattan’s mascot is (the Jaspers, for those of you wondering). 
Personal Preference 
let’s face it: if you really, really, really dislike a school or a coach, it is no fun to pick that team to win it all (even when you know they have the best chance). so let you own prejudices make your decisions for you. i can’t stand duke, so every year i have it losing by the second round (mercer, the pressure’s on you). my fond­ness for uconn means i give the huskies one more win than anyone would reason­ably expect, and i always give the benefit of the doubt to small, midwestern, pri­vate schools that no one has ever heard of in any other context. problems with this method: when duke does win, i’m doubly angry. 
Impossible Names 
The only thing better than awesome names? hearing over-excited basketball announcers stumble over “arcidiacono” when calling a villanova game. problems with this method: no, louisville, “russdiculous” does not count. 
Prettiest Uniforms 
okay, i’ve already said i don’t approve of strat­egy. but let’s look at the numbers: ucla and north carolina, both known for their particularly attractive blue uniforms, have won a combined 16 national cham­pionships since 1920. Those are pretty good odds. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MEN’S TENNIS | usc 7, nd 0 
irish fall outdoors to Trojans 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Ivy Quad rental available June 2014 Oh the good ol’ hockey game, FOR RENT for 1 year. 3BR 2Ba. 1 car garage. Is the best game you can name, 
washer/dryer. Walk to campus. Call And the best game you can name, Commencement Rental available -215-913-9191 Is the good ol’ hockey game. next to Eddy Street Commons. Walk      Go Irish! Beat River Hawks! to everything. Call 574-360-6910 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND MEN’S GOLF | Talis park challenge 

Irish place fifth in Naples 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish held on to finish fifth at the Talis park challenge at the Talis park golf club in naples, Fla., on sunday and monday 
notre dame took fifth out of 14 teams after three rounds in the two-day tournament with a score of 908 (299-295-314). The irish sat in third place over­all after the tournament’s first two rounds, which took place sunday. 
“as a team we definitely played better day one of the tournament,” senior captain niall platt said. “we were in de­cent position to make a move [monday], but we had to count a couple of really high scores, which made it impossible to move up the leaderboard.” 
Two notre dame golfers — platt and junior patrick grahek 
— notched top-10 individual finishes, platt in a tie for third and grahek in a tie for seventh. 
platt’s six birdies in his sec­ond round highlighted his overall one-over-par finish at 
217. “i was happy with the way i played individually,” platt said. “definitely gave away some shots when i didn›t need to, but i fought hard considering i didn’t have my best stuff. i gave myself a chance to win, which is always my goal. 
“i wasn’t quite able to get the job done but i can’t complain with a T-3 finish.” 
grahek also completed his best 18 holes in his even second round and compiled an overall 4-over 220. 
Though the team secured a top-five finish, grahek said the irish did not play the course the best that they could have. 
“as a team, we were right there going into the final round [monday],” grahek said. “unfortunately, we couldn’t fin­ish on the strong note we want­ed to, but we are only beginning our spring and have a long way to go. 
“i felt as though we had as much potential as the players on vanderbilt who ended up winning the tournament. we’re close, and we’ll get there soon.” 
grahek said the course itself also posed challenges for the irish. 
“The greens were incredibly fast and difficult to putt on with the high winds,” grahek said. “mentally, it was challenging as well trying to grind for so many shots.” 
with this tournament be­hind them and the spring sea­son coming into full swing, the irish said they will take the les­sons learned from the greens of Talis park as they move forward in the season. 
“[going forward,] we just need to play better,” platt said. “at this point it’s going to be tough to make it in to ncaas as an at large bid, so we just need to keep building momen­tum leading up to the acc championship.” 
The irish next play in the lone star invitational in san antonio at golf club at briggs ranch on monday. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF | clover cup 

Nhim medalist in Arizona 
Observer Staff Report 
Just one stroke separated notre dame from the top of the leaderboard at the clover cup as it came in second place to louisville over the weekend. 
The competition — hosted by notre dame at longbow golf club in mesa, ariz. — saw 15 teams from across the na­tion compete Friday through sunday. The irish carded an 889 over the three days, good for 25-over-par over the three rounds of golf. 
irish senior kristina nhim took home medalist honors as she picked up her first career victory by shooting a 3-under­par 213 for the weekend, includ­ing a tournament-best, 4-under 68 on the tournament’s opening day. 
notre dame sat in third place through two days of play but used a pair of even-par, 72-stroke rounds from junior ashley armstrong and fresh­man Jordan Ferreira to edge out colorado, mississippi and michigan, who filled out the rest of the tournament’s top five. 
however, it was a single stroke that kept the irish from com­pleting a six-stroke, final-day comeback on leader louisville. The cardinals shot an 11-over 299 on the final day but held on to card a 24-over 888 for the tournament. 
notre dame is back in action Friday when it travels to The university club in baton rouge, la., to take part in the lsu golf classic. 
TRACK AND FIELD 
nd concludes indoor season 

Observer Staff Report 
The notre dame men’s and women’s track and field teams fin­ished 17th and 29th respectively at the ncaa indoor championship in albuquerque, n.m. conclud­ing sunday. each irish athlete that participated in a preliminary event qualified for finals as the irish competed in their final meet of the indoor season. 
both the men’s and women’s sides qualified a team for the dis­tance medley relay event that took place saturday. graduate student 
J.p. malette, seniors patrick Feeney and nick happe and freshman Jacob dumford finished in 9:41.90 to take fourth place in and earn the team five points. on the wom­en’s side, seniors kelly curran, alexa aragon and michelle brown and sophomore danielle aragon posted a third-place time of 
11:11.54 to earn six points. 
graduate student Jeremy rae, who finished in 3:57.25 in the meyo mile earlier in the season to post a new school record, posted a time of 4:04.37 on saturday to finish fourth in the preliminary stage and qualify for the final. on sunday, he finished in a time of 
4:05.07 to finish ninth nationally. 
Junior Jade barber competed in the 60-meter hurdles. her pre­liminary time of 8.13 seconds on saturday ranked eighth and qual­ified her for the final on sunday. she bettered that time in the final, finishing in 8.10 seconds to fin­ish in seventh place and earn two points for the women’s side. 
on sunday, the irish men had two athletes running in the 400-meter dash, patrick Feeney and fellow all-american and ju­nior chris giesting. Feeney put the finishing touches on an ac­complished indoor career with a time of 46.19 seconds to finish in seventh place, and giesting finished two spots ahead in fifth place with a time of 45.74 sec­onds. These results earned the irish men two and four points respectively. 
giesting and Feeney also ran in the 4x400-meter relay on sunday along with seniors harvey smith and Jarrod buchanon. That unit, anchored by Feeney, finished in eighth place with a time of 3:08.51, earning the irish a single point. 
The dominant oregon pro­gram claimed a national title for both genders. The men finished with 62 points, and the total of 12 for the irish tied them for 17th place with nebraska and usc. The ducks’ women’s team scored 44 points to edge Texas by a half-point; the notre dame women tied a trio of pac-12 programs in usc, ucla, and arizona state in 29th place with eight. 
notre dame now turns its at­tention to outdoor season begin­ning late this month. The irish are back in action march 26th in austin, Texas for the Texas relays. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | The observer 




ND SOFTBALL | vT 5, nd 4; vT 3, nd 2; nd 9, vT 5 

irish drop road series to virginia Tech 
Observer Staff Report 
after falling to host virginia Tech in a doubleheader saturday, the no. 22 irish pulled out a win over the hokies on sunday at Tech softball park in blacksburg, va., to save the weekend. 
The irish (19-7, 3-3 acc) and the hokies (13-12, 4-4) have faced each other 15 times in program history, with the irish winning 11 of those matchups. The hokies decreased this gap over the weekend, starting with a 5-4 victory in saturday’s first game. 
notre dame took the lead at the top of the first inning when junior outfielder emilee koerner hit a home run, her team-leading sixth. The irish and the hokies traded scores until the hokies took the game with two home runs in the bot­tom of the sixth inning. 
senior laura winter pitched all six innings for the irish, striking out five batters and al­lowing nine hits in the loss. 
The irish came out fast again in saturday’s second game against the hokies, with sophomore allie rhodes lead­ing the team from the circle. sophomore infielder micaela arizmendi scored to give the irish a one-run lead in the second inning, but however, virginia Tech clawed its way back into the game to take the 
paid adverTisemenT 

3-2 victory with a run in the sixth inning. 
rhodes gave up all three runs, allowed eight hits and struck out three batters before leaving the game in the sixth for freshman rachel nasland to pick up the final two outs. 
in sunday’s game, the irish did not take the initial lead, but they did come out with a 9-5 victory to prevent the hokies from sweeping the series. after irish junior catcher cassidy whidden scored and tied up the game at one in the second inning, the hokies did not take the lead for the rest of the game. 
The win featured runs from koerner, whidden, junior infielders Jenna simon and katey haus, senior outfielder monica Torres, senior infielder chloe saganowich and sopho­more outfielder megan sorlie. winter and rhodes teamed up to limit virginia Tech to five runs, earning a combined eight series against pittsburgh. The strikeouts. irish will take on the panthers 

notre dame hosts its first at 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. saturday home games of the season and again sunday at 12 p.m. at this weekend in a three-game melissa cook stadium. 



paid adverdsemenT The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
into the second period on the power play to give notre dame a lead it never relinquished, and sophomore forward mario lucia provided some breathing room midway through the second peri­od with his 16th goal of the season. 
The floodgates opened in the third as irish junior forward peter schneider scored twice and senior forward bryan rust and sopho­more forward Thomas dipauli also found the back of the net to make the margin 7-1 before the eagles added a late goal. 
The irish entered the series off a 3-2 win over ninth-seeded boston university in the opening round of the hockey east playoffs march 8 at compton Family ice arena. The eagles earned a bye and last played march 1 in a 2-1 overtime loss to notre dame. irish coach Jeff Jackson said the long break may have impacted boston college on Friday. 
“we forced them into some turn­overs, and we capitalized,” Jackson said. “our guys played really well, and i think that the bye week — that hurt bc. They weren’t as sharp as i expected them to be.” 
after Friday’s shellacking, the eagles responded strongly saturday. rust gave the irish a 1-0 lead just 39 seconds into the game, but boston college scored the game’s next four goals — two in the first period and two in the third. eagles junior forward Johnny gaudreau — the top pointscorer in the country and runaway favor­ite to win this year’s hobey baker award as the best player in the na­tion — tallied two goals and two assists in the victory. 
it was notre dame’s first defeat since a 2-1 loss to maine on Feb. 7 and snapped an irish eight-game unbeaten streak and six-game winning streak. 
boston college continued the momentum early into sunday’s game as eagles senior forward kevin hayes scored less than five minutes into the game. but Johns scored his third goal of the series later in the first to knot the score. irish sophomore forward sam herr gave notre dame a brief advantage early in the second period with his 14th goal of the year before boston college senior forward patrick brown made the game even again less than four minutes later. 
rust, however, gave the irish a 3-2 lead with less than five seconds remaining in the second period, and irish senior captain and for­ward Jeff costello put the game away with a goal in the game’s final two minutes. 
irish senior goaltender steven summerhays stopped 30 shots in the win. gaudreau had recorded a point in 31 straight games enter­ing sunday but was held off the scoresheet for just the second time this season. 
“it was three games in three days, which college kids aren’t ac­customed to, but that applies to both teams, and i think the tempo of the game wasn’t quite as high as Friday or saturday, which prob­ably favored us,” Jackson said. “so overall, i think our guys did a good job defending. i thought we transi­tioned well from that defense — we scored a couple of really nice goals 
off transition.”  
with  the  win,  notre  dame  
prevented  boston  college  from  
appearing in the  hockey  east  

semifinals for the first time since 2004. The series victory also helps notre dame’s chances to clinch a spot in the ncaa tournament. The irish currently sit eighth in the pairwise rankings. The six confer­ence tournament champions and the top 10 teams in the pairwise that do not win a conference tour­nament make up the 16-team tour­nament field. 
up next for the irish is a meet­ing Friday with umass-lowell in Td garden in boston at 5 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
man-down [situations]. we got goals in about every way, and that allowed for a lot of people to get in and share the wealth.” 
Junior midfielder nick ossello added three goals for his first career hat trick and freshman midfielder sergio perkovic scored his first two even-strength goals of the season on seven shots. The irish outshot the cavaliers, 40-26, collected more groundballs, 34-21, and converted on both of their man-up opportunities while hold­ing virginia to one goal on five man-up chances. 
senior midfielder liam o’connor turned in a season-best performance on face-offs, winning 19 of 24 matchups to bring his season win percentage up to 70.1 percent, good for first in the nation. o’connor also scored once and added an as­sist, his first of the season. 
“liam dominated in the mid­field and on face-offs, so we were playing make it, take it for a while,” corrigan said. 
The irish offense scored in bursts, including a 5-0 streak in the second quarter and a 7-1 run in the fourth. The virginia de­fense, which entered the game allowing 11 goals per game, surrendered 28 shots on goal and cleared the ball just once in the fourth quarter as the irish scored nine goals in the period. 
on defense, freshman goal­keeper shane doss recorded nine saves and took his second win of the season. 
“shane played very well on sunday,” corrigan said. “They got some good opportunities on him, and he made some really big saves for us. The fact that we were able to keep the ball away from them for long stretches was significant as well.” 
despite the win, corrigan said he believes his squad can continue to improve, especially so early in the season. 
“we need to improve in all ar­eas, really,” corrigan said. “our six-on-six can get better on both ends. … There’s still an awful lot of season to go, but it’s nice to get a good win on the board. … still, there’s more ahead of us then behind us and we need to get back to work this week.” 
The irish do not play again until march 25, when they trav­el to columbus, ohio, to take on ohio state at 4 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
W BBall 
conTinued From page 16 
“we absolutely had a strong case for it [the overall no. 1],” “we abso­lutely had a strong case for it [the overall no. 1],” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i’m sure that last year came into play, and i’m not sure it’s supposed to, but i think as defending national champs, they had the no. 1 seed all locked up.” 
after years playing as big east ri­vals, the irish and huskies did not meet during the regular season, in which both teams went undefeat­ed. notre dame and connecticut have played 12 times over the last three years, and the two teams could compete head-to-head in the tournament if both make it to the championship game. 
achonwa said the irish don’t mind being called the “other” un­defeated team.
 “it takes the light off of us,” achonwa said. “if we’re not put in that spotlight, that’s fine by us. … we will get on the floor, anything that we have to do to get there, we 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
about ourselves,” aoki said. “i and i think the team felt good about ourselves,” aoki said. “i think as a coaching staff you start to look at certain things and you’re like, ‘oh, gosh, maybe this is the thing that gets us heading in the right direc­tion.’ unfortunately it didn’t turn out to be that way.” 
The series against duke played out much like the three-game set against n.c. state. on Friday, se­nior right-hander sean Fitzgerald allowed just three runs in seven­and-two-thirds innings of work, while freshman second baseman cavan biggio picked up two rbi and freshman third baseman kyle Fiala accounted for the third irish rbi. but notre dame could not muster another four-run 10th inning, and the blue devils got the best of junior right-handed will do, so if that doesn’t mean we get all the glory, so be it. at the end of the day, if we have the national championship, that’s all we want.” 
mcgraw said she was looking forward to tomorrow’s practice, now that notre dame knows who its opponent will be. 
“i think the intensity level is going to be ratcheted up tomor­row from them [the players], so i think that’ll be interesting: to get to practice and see how physical it becomes tomorrow,” mcgraw said. 
according to achonwa, notre dame’s first energy source is mcgraw. 
“our energy level, our competi­tiveness, our drive all comes from the top down, starting with coach mcgraw and the fire that she brings,” achonwa said. “it inspires us and motivates us to compete much harder, to give that much more energy and to work that much harder.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
reliever cristian Torres (2-2)nto win, 4-3. 
The irish scored just one run between both ends of saturday’s doubleheader, dropping the first game, 4-1, and the second, 1-0. 
“it wasn’t like we played poorly against duke. we played well, they just played a little, just a tiny bit better,” aoki said. “we’re knocking on the door, but we’re just not heeding the opportunity and walking through it, so kind of a work in progress. you try to stay as patient as you can with this crew and hope that we start to take advantage of those oppor­tunities that we have.” 
notre dame heads back to the diamond Tuesday to take on robert morris (ill.) in chicag.. First pitch at csu baseball stadium is scheduled for 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  60  61  62  
63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Happy Birthday: put financial strategy into motion. investments, wheeling and dealing or collecting what’s owed to you place you in a good position for positive changes. don’t procrastinate. seize the moment when it comes along and make moves that will lead to your professional advancement and personal gain. stay in control and see matters through to the end. your numbers are 5, 13, 22, 26, 34, 37, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t stir up an emotional situation. let people come to you. concentrate on unfinished projects that are weighing you down. a willingness to make adjustments to your plans will open up opportunities to collaborate with someone who has something worthwhile to offer. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): use charm and finesse to get ahead professionally. present your ideas and services with confidence. someone from your past can help fill a void you’ve been feeling. a partnership will help stabilize your life personally and professionally. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Forward thinking will help keep you on track. an unusual opportunity is apparent. don’t let it pass you by because you are too involved in trying to do the impossible. go with the flow and you will find your way to victory. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): T stay calm, collect your thoughts and engage in dynamic conversations that are geared toward positive change. There is much you can accomplish if you refuse to let negativity leak into your ideas, intentions and plans for future development. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): rely on friends or relatives you feel have clear vision. a change is in order, but it has to be the right move. don’t feel threatened by red tape or stipulations you encounter. hard work will get you closer to your goal. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): shake things up a bit and take ownership of the things you do and say. don’t let what others do or say stand between you and your plans. express your strategy boldly and continue in the direction that suits you. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Jump into action. participate and engage in whatever grabs your interest. sitting back or waffling will not impress others or help you advance. love is on the rise, and a romantic gesture will improve your personal life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): live in the here and now. The past will only drag you down and hold you back. Focus on home, family and possibilities for the future. engage in creative or unique endeavors that have the potential to raise your income and your reputation. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): play strategically and fairly. protect your secrets and be ready and willing to make last-minute changes if necessary. don’t let uncertainty within relationships be your downfall. look out for your best interests. romance is highlighted and love could lead to affluence. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be prepared to wheel and deal to the best of your ability. nothing will come easy, but it will be worth your time and effort to do your best and push for what you want. unexpected change will result in opportunity. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your passion and desire to do well and reach your goals will transform into proposals that can bring you greater financial security. look at every angle and don’t be afraid to negotiate until you feel content with the outcome. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a moment to breathe. Formulate your plan of attack. process all the information you receive and find the channel best suited to your specific needs as well as what you have to contribute. a personal investment will pay off. 

Birthday Baby: you are an opportunist. you are willful, skillful and intuitively intelligent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

ACROSS 
1 Wines said to go well with meat 
5 White-bellied whales 10 Musical Mama 14 Each 15 Bubkes 16 Voting nay 17 *1952 Marlon Brando film 19 It might hold the solution 20 Arctic fishing tool 21 *2008 Meryl Streep film 
23 Parent who can pass on an X or Y chromosome 
25 Orioles and Blue Jays, informally 
26 From the start 
30 *1968 Mark Lester film 
34 Name on a 
plaque, maybe 
35 French seas 
36 Part of fashion’s 
YSL 


40 It follows the answer to each starred clue 
43 Medvedev’s denial 
44 Skew 
45 Blue Cross competitor 
46 *1972 Jack Lemmon film 
48 Atlas blowup 
49 Harvard Law Review editor who went on to become president 
52 Bubkes 
54 *1980 Robert 
Hays film 
58 Intense passion 
63 Tart fruit 
64 *1969 Barbra 
Streisand film 
66 Letter-shaped support 
67 Lensman Adams 68 Common 
feature in Roman statuary 
69 Achy 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Emulated a lamb 
71 Former New York archbishop 
DOWN 
1 Shankar at Woodstock 
2 Like some fails, in modern slang 
3 Bird of peace 4 Baden-Baden and others 5 Seiji ___, longtime Boston Symphony 
maestro 6 Dead letters? 7 Tight-lipped 
sort 8 Court proceedings 9 Hoax 10 Chargers in “The Charge of the Light Brigade” 11 Japanese cartoon art 12 Connector of stories 13 Fictional 
Marner 
18 Actress Pia 
22 Daisy ___ 
24 Realm 
26 Mideast oil port 
27 Hardly 
aerodynamic 
28 Formerly 
29 Watt’s 
equivalent 
31 Allow to attack 
32 Silent film 
effect 
33 Letters on brandy 
37 Textile factory containers 

PUZZLE BY DAVID STEINBERG 
38 White-tailed 51 Loud, as a raptor crowd 
39 Game similar to 
59 Tedious learning method 
53 Poker player’s 

bridge 60 Many a 
“Uncle” 

41 Many a C.E.O. YouTube upload has one 55 Melville captain 61 Gymnast 
42 Did perfectly Korbut 
56 “99

47 Batman 62 Meg of 
Luftballons” 

portrayer “Sleepless in
singer

Kilmer Seattle” 
49 Desert stop-off 57 “Lohengrin” 65 Big name in 
50 A ring bearer heroine jeans 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 
CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 





3/19/13 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2013 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish bound for Toledo 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
The irish finished the regular season ranked no. 2 in the country, earned theaccregular season title, won the acc tournament and now prepare for their next challenge in the ncaa tournament as the no. 1 seed in the notre dame region. 
senior forward natalie achonwa acknowledged the long tournament road ahead but said her team was happy with the announcement. 
“we have a lot to accomplish be­fore we get to that national cham­pionship, but at the end of the day, that’s what we wanted,” achonwa said. 
notre dame (32-0, 16-0 acc) will play no. 16 seed robert morris in its first-round tournament matchup saturday at 1:30 p.m. in Toledo, ohio, and espn will broadcast the game. This will be the first tourna­ment appearance for the colonials (21-11, 14-3 nec) since 2008, when they lost to rutgers. 
“it’s good for women’s basketball, good for the program, but we have a long way to go, and it starts with robert morris,” senior guard kayla mcbride said. 
baylor and kentucky were an­nounced as the no. 2 and no. 3 seeds, respectively, in the notre dame region. in 2012, brittney griner led baylor (29-4, 16-2 big Xii) to an 80-61 victory over the irish in the national championship game. 
in addition to notre dame, connecticut (34-0, 18-0 aac), Tennessee and south carolina also earned no. 1 seeds. 
connecticut and Tennessee (27-5, 13-3 sec) have more Final Four appearances than any other teams over the past 20 seasons and last year, connecticut knocked off louisville in the national champi­onship game, 93-60. connecticut’s part of the bracket, the lincoln re­gion, includes duke, Texas a&m and nebraska as the no. 2, no. 3 and no. 4 seeds, respectively. 
The huskies earned the overall no. 1 ranking, despite the rpi rank­ings that listed notre dame first and connecticut second. 
see w bball PAGE 14 
BASEBALL 
bats silenced in acc opener 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
notre dame received a rude welcome to the acc over the break as both no. 7/10 n.c. state and duke swept the irish in three-game series. of the seven games the irish played during their week-long trip to north carolina, their lone victory was a 13-9, 10-inning, midweek win over appalachian state in boone, n.c., on march 11. 
The irish (6-12, 0-6 acc) scored just seven runs in their first six conference games and were shut out three times, once by duke (12­7, 4-2) and twice by n.c. state (14­5, 3-3). The irish are batting just .234 as a team, while junior first baseman blaise lezynski (.303) is the only everyday player hitting over .270. 
“The kids are without any ques­tion beginning to press a little bit,” irish coach mik aoki said. “without any question, we hit some balls right on the button and weren’t rewarded for it, but part of that is just sort of the na­ture of baseball, and when things are going well, the results are good. you don’t think about that as much as when things are go­ing poorly and your results aren’t good.” 
after n.c. state swept notre dame in a three-game series march 8 and 9 in raleigh, n.c., the irish bounced back with a 13-9 ex­tra-innings win over appalachian state (5-14) on march 11, their sec­ond comeback victory against the mountaineers this season. 
appalachian state scored five runs in the sixth inning and en­tered the ninth inning with a 9-7 lead, but freshman catcher ryan lidge hit a two-out double to ignite a rally that would con­clude with a two-run double from sophomore outfielder Zak katsulis. in the top of the 10th in­ning, the irish scored four runs with two outs to ensure an end to the losing streak. 
“lidgie hits what looks at the time to be a relatively benign double to get things going, but that was a really gratifying win, and i think the team felt good 
see baseball PAGE 14 
ND MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 18, virginia 9 
offense erupts in rout over virginia 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
after three straight close games, no. 9 notre dame erupted in the second quarter sunday against no. 10 virginia and never looked back, cruising to an 18-9 victory and first place in the acc early in the season. 
“our guys just made plays,” irish coach kevin corrigan said. “we went into the game knowing that they were the sort of team that forced you to make plays, and we came out and played athletically the whole game at both ends of the field and put away our opportunities.” 
sophomore attackman matt kavanagh led the way for the irish (3-2, 2-0 acc), who entered the game as underdogs against the cavaliers (6-2, 1-1), then ranked seventh in the country. kavanagh recorded four goals and two assists, scoring twice during a 7-1 run in the second quarter that gave notre dame a lead it would never relin­quish at loftus sports center. eleven different players scored for the irish, the most since the team’s opening win against Jacksonville on Feb. 16. 
“when we’re at our best, we’re going to have that depth,” corrigan said. “we can score in a lot of different ways — out of the face-off, out of transi­tion and unsettled play, [out of] riding and in man-up and 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 
HOCKEY | nd 4, bc 2; bc 4, nd 2; nd 7, bc 2 
ND advances past BC 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
no. 11 notre dame did some­thing this weekend it hadn’t in more than a month: lose a game. but it only did so once in the best-of-three hockey east quarterfinals against no. 2 boston college, winning twice in chestnut hill, mass., to advance to the hockey east semifinals. 
The eighth-seeded irish (23­13-2, 9-9-2 hockey east) won the deciding third game, 4-2, on sunday over the top-seeded eagles (26-7-4, 16-2-2). That victory, coupled with a 7-2 rout on Friday, sent notre dame on in the tournament, despite a 4-2 loss saturday. 
boston college freshman forward ryan Fitzgerald struck first Friday to give the eagles a 1-0 lead with 2:23 remaining in the first period. but irish the score. senior defenseman stephen Johns scored again just 2:50 Johns scored his sixth goal of into the second period on the the season with less than 10 seconds left in the period to tie see hockey PAGE 14 



Hockey vs. Boston College  W 4-2  Softball vs. Virginia Tech  L 5-4  Baseball vs. Robert Morris  Tuesday, 8:05 p.m.  
Softball vs. Virginia Tech  W 9-5  Softball vs. Virginia Tech  L 3-2  ND W Lacrosse vs. Marquette  Wednesday, 6 p.m.  
Men’s Lacrosse vs. Virginia  W 18-9  ND W Lacrosse vs. Maryland  L 16-10  ND W Swimming NCAA Championships  Thursday - Sunday  
ND Men’s Golf  5th  Baseball vs. Duke  L 4-1  Hockey vs. UMass Lowell  Friday, 5 p.m.  
ND Women’s Golf  2nd  Baseball vs. Duke  L 1-0  Men’s Tennis vs. Clemson  Friday, 2:30 p.m.  






