The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 69 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Friends remember graduate student 
Students reflect on the life of third-year Ph.D. candidate Akash Sharma 
university did not comment on india and lived in the Fischer way. he would be happy to do monkey and a dog,” mcnamara
By MARISA IATI 

assistant managing editor the cause of sharma’s death, graduate residences. it.” said. “he was surprised at how 
but friends said he died of “i can’t even think of one per-nick mcnamara, who is also much the american students 
when graduate student health-related causes. son who he did not get along a third-year graduate student in loved hearing about monkeys, sneha polisetti remembers fel-sharma was a native of delhi, with or he had a problem with,” sharma’s program, said he met because they are so common low graduate student akash india. he served as co-presi-polisetti said. “he got along 
in india. he told us a bunch of 

sharma, she said she thinks of dent of the indian association with everybody, and anyone other hilarious stories about 
monkey antics.” 
sharma constantly was smil­
ing, mcnamara said. 
“he always had a huge, goofy 
grin on his face,” mcnamara 
said. “he was always telling laughter. of notre dame during the 2012­you talked to, they’d have a 
“every memory i have of 2013 academic year and was good word to say about him.” 
him is either him laughing or a teaching assistant for sev­sharma was “extremely giv­
making other people laugh,” eral classes. sharma was also ing,” polisetti said. 
polisetti said. “That was akash a member of the notre dame “he was very willing to help, 
all the time. he was never sad men’s Boxing club. but i don’t even think he did 
or angry.” 

sharma, a third-year ph.d. student in the chemical and biomolecular engineering program, died Jan. 1. The 
polisetti, who is a third-year student in the chemical and biomolecular engineer­ing graduate program, said she and sharma are both from it consciously. That’s just the way he was,” polisetti said. “he would not even think twice about doing something for somebody else, going out of his 
jokes and trying to make people sharma in their math class. laugh. and he was never mean 
“he started telling a few of us or rude about it. he was just a this story about a problem he was having back in india with a see sharma PAGE 5 



Basilica prepares to reopen 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
The Basilica of the sacred heart will reopen for the 5:00 
p.m. vigil mass on saturday following its most signifi­cant renovations since the 1989 and 1990 restoration projects. 
The Basilica closed dec. 26, 2013, after christmas masses, and workers began the process of removing the carpet and replacing it with a new tile floor, according to a university press release. 
see Basilica PAGE 5 



Grants support student research 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
after taking a class on French philosophy, sophomore sheridan rosner pursued her interest in the work of albert camus, an algerian-French existentialist fiction writer, through a nanovic institute grant that sent her to see materials on camus in aix-en­provence, France. 
rosner said she received a winter break research grant from the nanovic institute for european studies to travel to aix-en-provence in early January and study manuscripts and dis­plays in an exhibition there. 
“most of [camus’] stuff is pub­lished, but i wanted to look at the originals,” rosner said. “There was a lot of stuff that was pub­lished but you would never be able to find here — like random ar­ticles, random journals, algerian journals that you would never find here that were on display.” 
The nanovic institute provided $36,530 to 16 students to conduct 
see research PAGE 4 


Bagpipe band continues musical tradition 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
The notre dame Bagpipe Band has shared their musical talent with football fans and the notre dame community since the 1950s, first as a part of the irish guard and now on their own. 
according to the band’s web­site, the irish guard realized how detrimental the cold was to the bagpipes. The guard continued without them, and the band slowly dismantled until former notre dame student and piper paul harren revamped it in 1991. 
danny suma, sophomore bagpiper, said most students are not familiar with the band’s history. 
“something most students don’t know about the bag­pipe band is that when we re-emerged after splitting with the irish guard, we did not have the rights to the nd [kilts], so the pipers would wrap bed sheets and blankets around their waists to make 
see Bagpipe PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s BaskeTBall PAGE 16 women’s BaskeTBall PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Would you volunteer for a one-way trip to Mars? 


Casey Hanley 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“definitely not. earth has better food.” 


Emily Gasta 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“no, i’m scared of space. it’s death.” 
Jackson Jhin 
freshman 
carroll hall 
“yeah! i’m an explorer.” 


Margaret Quinn 
freshman 
lewis hall 
“no! i could never see my family again.” 
Quinlan McWilliams 
freshman 
keough hall 
“nope. The ride back is mandatory.” 


Stephanie Burton 
freshman 
lewis hall 
“oh my god, no!” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Jack rooney casey kames charlie ducey greg hadley 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
steph wulz gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 
Blood Drive Vigil Mass Mass in Spanish Basilica Mass TEDxUND 
allison d’ambrosia dan sehlhorst 
Hesburgh Library Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Heart Heart Heart Arts Center Give blood to support 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

the Relay for Life. Worship service. Dillon Hall. Honors Basil Moreau. Educational TED talks. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Hockey Game Film: All is Lost Zen Meditation SSLP Information Lector Training 
strives for the highest standards 
Compton Family Ice DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Center Session Basilica of the Sacred 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Arena Arts Center 6:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Geddes Hall Heart 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:35p.m.-9:35 p.m. 3 p.m., 6:30 p.m., 9:30 Meditation practice in 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on Lake p.m. room 102. Information about Training session for 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Superior State. 2013 film about solo summer service. mass lectors. 
we can correct our error. 
voyage in Indian Ocean. 


ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | The oBserver 

SPARK empowers female entrepreneurs 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
Bridgette vanschoyck­clark, director of the saint mary’s Belles for Fitness pro­gram, opened Beyond Zen, a new yoga, pilates and mas­sage studio, Jan. 2 in granger, ind. 
vanschoyck-clark par­ticipated in spark, an 11­week program sponsored by saint mary’s women’s entrepreneurship initiative (wei) that helps south Bend women gain business skills to succeed. 
“[spark is] an incredible support system,” vanschoyck­clark said. “it’s not just busi­ness. This program makes you go deep inside yourself, helps you to conquer your fears and fix personal problems that might be holding you back.” 
vanschoyck-clark began envisioning opening her own studio in april 2012, she said. she said she had been work­ing on business plans for 10 months when she discovered spark. 
“my college degree is movement in sports science so i have not had one business course,” vanschoyck-clark said. “This course is only 11 weeks long — four hours per session, twice a week — but it covers everything you need to write a business plan, how to fix your credit, acquire inves­tors, get loans and then what to do after you open, making a budget, taxes and more.” 
spark instructors teach the participants that they are not alone in this pro­cess of opening a business, vanschoyck-clark said. she said wei director martha smith and her staff have built a support system and cama­raderie among participants 

“[SPARK is] an incredible support system. It’s not just business. This program makes you go deep inside yourself, helps you to conquer your fears and fix personal problems that might be holding you back.” 
Bridgette VanSchoyck-Clark 
SPARK participant 

and presenters. 
“opening a business is scary stuff,” vanschoyck-clark said. “can i afford it?  what if i put all of my savings in this and it fails?  is this a good idea?  i don’t have one busi­ness class under my belt. who am i kidding? i can’t open a business. 
“spark has given me the knowledge and the confi­dence to put my dream in action,.” 
vanschoyck-clark said she was touched by the amount of people in the south Bend community who take time to support the women of spark. she said she recommends the program to local women be­cause of the support system. 
“[smith] changes lives,” vanschoyck-clark said. “and it doesn’t stop at graduation. she continues to help me, encourage me and give me support. 
“you have to take a good look at you, yourself, and fig­ure out what negative pat­terns you have that might be keeping you from going after your dreams or succeeding,” she said. 

vanschoyck-clark said her staff at Beyond Zen is com­posed of caring and consider­ate people. They are educated and experienced at what they do and take saint mary’s val­ues into consideration, she said. 
“we help our clients to feel better,” vanschoyck­clark said. “increasing your strength or flexibility, help­ing you to quiet your mind and focus, de-stress, improve your posture and immunity … all through pilates, yoga and massage.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
smc soccer captain earns academic honor 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
The national soccer coaches association of america (nscaa) recognized saint mary’s senior soccer captain mollie valencia with an honorable mention on the nscaa college division women’s scholar all-north/ central region list. 
valencia was one of five student-athletes in the mid­america intercollegiate athletics association (miaa) to gain recognition and one of 40 midfielders to win an honorable mention, accord­ing to a college press release. 
“i worked hard, and it was more of an academic award than an athletic award,” valencia said. 
valencia, who is studying accounting, said she reacted to the honor with disbelief. 
“i was little bit surprised, just because there was so many people [in consider­ation],” she said. “my coach didn’t tell me he nominated me until later on.” 
potential honorees must be nominated by an institu­tion that is a current nscaa college services member. They also must be juniors or above in academic standing at their colleges or universi­ties, valencia said. she said they must also have started more than 50 percent of all games while contributing significantly to the team. 
“on the field i am a central 

paid adverTisemenT 

midfielder, which means that i am involved in almost every play,” valencia said. “Being the captain, i feel it is my responsibility to the lead the team, so i try to be a role model through my work ethic both on and off the field. 
“i am not a loud or boister­ous leader. i like to say that i lead by example.” 
valencia said she devel­oped her leadership skills through her four years play­ing soccer for the Belles. 
“my experience on the team has led me to be more assertive, which is an impor­tant quality of a leader,” she said. “i realize that setting a good example is imperative to my role as a leader on the team.” 
saint mary’s soccer coach michael Joyce nominated valencia based on nscaa standards that require can­didates to maintain at least a 3.3 cumulative grade-point average on a 4.0 scale throughout his or her athlet­ic career, valencia said. 
while rewards extend beyond the field, valencia said she acknowledges the amount of hard work and dedication she and her fellow teammates must commit to the sport they have loved and played since their youth. 
“it’s really time-consum­ing,” valencia said. “during the fall, it’s really hard to keep up academics, keep up your athletics and still have a social life because we are division iii, and none of us are on scholarships. 
“we’re all just doing this because we love the game. i think that’s very different than division i or division ii, which they’re basically get­ting paid to play soccer, but we basically put in the same amount of time as them.” 
“I feel I’ve just been given responsibilities that have put me in the position to develop my leadership skills. I have learned so many life lessons that I think will apply to life after college in the workforce.” 
Mollie Valencia 
captain 
Saint Mary’s soccer team 

valencia said she credits her success to Joyce, who be­gan his coaching career at saint mary’s the same season valencia first became a Belle. 
“This is his fourth year here,” she said. “i like him as a coach. he’s a little bit qui­eter, but he knows what he’s talking about, and he’s al­ways open to telling his play­ers how they can improve.” 
valencia said Joyce’s en­couragement had a particu­larly positive impact on his team this season. 
“i feel like the past season was the best season for me, because i felt like we were re­ally a team,” valencia said. “not just on the field. off the field we would do a lot of team stuff together, and i’ve seen that in past seasons, but i think this season more than ever.” 

Though valencia said rec­ognition by the nscaa is a wonderful tribute to her achievements in academics and athletics, she believes the greatest reward from her four years as a student ath­lete is her experience as a team leader. 
“i think anytime you’re the captain of a 27-person team, your leadership skills are go­ing to develop,” she said. “i feel i’ve just been given re­sponsibilities that have put me in the position to develop my leadership skills. 
“i have learned so many life lessons that i think will ap­ply to life after college in the workforce.  i have developed very good time management skills as a result of being a student athlete.” 
valencia said her team won only three games during her freshman year but now com­petes and often wins against some of the top teams in its conference. 
“i have watched the soc­cer program grow and i am proud to say i have played a small role in that growth,” she said. “i am proud to say that i am a soccer Belle.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Saint Mary’s alumna discusses civil disobedience 
By KATE KULWICKI 
news writer 
rosalie riegle, oral historian and saint mary’s alumna, vis­ited her alma mater Thursday to speak about her life’s work dedicated to nonviolent civil disobedience. 
“in 2004, i found myself con­templating, for the first time, do­ing serious civil disobedience, to show my outrage, my sadness and my emotional involvement in resisting our government poli­cies,” riegle said. 
riegle read excerpts from her two books “crossing the line: nonviolent resisters speak out for peace” and “doing Time for peace: resistance, Family, and community.” The Justice education program, the center for spirituality, the cushwa­leighton library of saint mary’s college and the catholic peace Fellowship of south Bend co­sponsored the event. 
riegle described her choice to participate in civil disobedience, an experience that could have sent her to jail for six months. 
“at an air Force base outside of omaha, i was with a group of catholic workers where i was try­ing to decide, should i do this? should i nonviolently cross the line?” riegle said. “This action was a very simple, very prayerful action.” 
“i think there were eight of us that, with a lot of supporters standing around, walked into the base and asked to see the base commander to give him a letter asking him to no longer be the command center that sends out all of the missiles,” she said. “we knelt down, said the ‘our Father.’ They asked us to leave; we said the ‘our Father’ again, and they arrested us. it took about 10 minutes.” 
riegle met dorothy day, the co-founder of the catholic worker movement in 1969. she said she later decided that she wanted to become an oral historian with the purpose of learning about the catholic worker. 
“i wrote my way into the move­ment,” riegle said. “i interviewed 213 people from all over the country so i learned a lot about individual catholic workers and how they lived the catholic worker life.” 
riegle said she wanted to help people understand the process of participating in nonviolent civil disobedience and the experience of being jailed or imprisoned. 
“we have learned a lot from these vietnam times, and when people are deciding to go to pris­on they spend some time in prep­aration,” riegle said. “They talk to other people, read the books, know what it’s like and prepare themselves spiritually.” 
one of the catholic worker philosophies is if one wants to walk with the poor and minister and listen to them, one should be a prisoner his or herself, riegle said. 
riegle said the purpose of her books is not to treat nonviolent civil disobedience as an enter­prise for success but as a practice that gives one the ability to work for something because it is good. 
“it’s the certainty that some­thing makes sense regardless of the outcome,” she said. 
Contact Kate Kulwicki at kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Research 
conTinued From page 1 
one-week research projects over the break in areas ranging from literature to philosophy to architecture, according to associate director dr. anthony monta. 
courtney rae haddick, a se­nior studying architecture, said she received around $2,500 to travel to switzerland to study the architecture of towns in the alps. a native of salt lake city in the rocky mountains, haddick said she wanted to un­derstand how swiss towns were able to develop while respect­ing the mountain landscape around them. 
“The places that going into it i expected to study a lot were the big cities like interlaken and lugano, but they’ve been overdeveloped almost as much as these places in the u.s.,” haddick said. “not that i wasn’t expecting it, but i didn’t realize i would actually learn more from the tiny towns that i went past on a train from lugano to interlaken. 
“as far as where would be ide­al to site a residential develop­ment or something like that, the examples might not be to look at these cities that every tourist that wants to go to switzerland knows about, but actually it might be these small towns.” 
monta said the nanovic institute offers grants every break, and students who receive those grants generally work with faculty members to craft their proposals and research methodologies. 
“we find, break after break af­ter break, that the students who work closely with a professor on their research project have more focused, more fully devel­oped, more concrete proposals, and those typically are funded,” monta said. 
dr. Julia douthwaite, a professor of French who has worked with many students on european and French research, said meeting with faculty in the weeks before the application deadline is crucial to develop­ing a plan that is specific and detailed enough for the stu­dents to execute well. 
“it takes a little bit of time to come from a big idea, like, ‘i’m interested in hugo,’” douthwaite said. “you need to work on the influence of hugo’s frustration with the catholic church in 1829 as seen in ‘les miserables’ and then look at pamphlets published in 1829 in a church in France and see how that might be echoed in the character of Quasimodo or something like that. 
“The way i help them is ba­sically paring away by saying, tighter, tighter, make it more fo­cused so it’s something you can accomplish in one week.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | The oBserver 



Basilica 
conTinued From page 1 
Fr. peter rocca, the rector of the Basilica, said these renovations constitute the first phase of a plan to in­stall a new pipe organ some­time in 2015. he said all of the carpeting has been or is in the process of being re­moved, including inside the nave, along either side of the sanctuary area to the lady chapel and the side chapels. 
“if you talk to any organ builder worth his salt, they will tell you they will never build an organ for a space that’s carpeted,” rocca said. 
“If you talk to any organ builder worth his salt, they will tell you they will never build an organ for a space that’s carpeted.” 
Fr. Peter Rocca 
rector 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
rocca said the person hired by the university to build the organ stated the carpet needed to be removed because the organ’s sound would not resonate well. 
“when you carpet a space, oftentimes the only person you can hear singing is your­self,” rocca said. “all of the most recent chapels we have built on campus, none of them have been carpeted be­cause [a non-carpeted floor] lends itself to a more vibrant sound and better singing.” 
rocca said the new tile floor would greatly improve the sound quality of the choirs and instruments in the Basilica. 
“it won’t eat up the sound; it will reflect the sound,” rocca said. “it will help with the vibrancy and the resonance and the reverberation.” 
rocca said the Basilica was not carpeted until af­ter the second vatican council, when it was com­mon practice. 
“in the renovations fol­lowing the second vatican council, they carpeted the Basilica to give it more of a warm, cozy feel,” rocca said. “as a result of that, it affect­ed the acoustics.” 
university sacristan John Zack said these renovations occurred in 1969 and 1970 and the Basilica did not see any significant work again until its restoration in 1989 and 1990. 
“part of the reason for this restoration [in 1989 and 1990] was that the Basilica had not really undergone any restoration or any clean­ing like this for decades, and it was really pretty filthy, system in the Basilica could accommodate the new tile floor and therefore the floor 


would  not  detrimentally  
affect  musical  or  spoken  
sound.  

“we have a sound system in the Basilica that can eas­ily be adjusted to this, so that it’s not something that makes hearing more diffi­cult,” he said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Bagpipe 
conTinued From page 1 
kilts,” suma said. 
The band gained access to kilts in 2001, according to its website. suma said the group became very involved in cam­pus life, especially on football game days. 
“The band performs during home games outside or inside of the dome, depending on the weather, and then does the player march from the library,” said suma. “we also play small gigs and tailgates throughout the day.” 
suma said he most enjoys spending time with his fellow pipers. 
“They’re all super outgoing and a fun group of individu­als,” suma said. “it definitely makes standing outside in a kilt in cold weather much easier.” 

senior piper colin patience has 7 years of playing un­der his belt and serves as the band’s pipe major. 
“a pipe major is a captain of a bagpipe band that teaches 
Sharma 
conTinued From page 1 
genuinely nice and friendly person.” 
grief counseling is avail­able to students through the university counseling center, campus ministry, and international student and especially in the upper parts of the Basilica,” rocca said. “There were some murals up there we didn’t know ex­isted because they were so covered with dirt, soot and smoke from incense.” 

rocca said the 1989 and 1990 restorations included new pews, restored stain glass windows and a new slate roof, among other improvements. 
“That’s when they decided to keep the carpeting, but 

paid adverTisemenT 
san diego traffic court threw out a cita­tion Thursday against a woman believed to be the first motorist in the country tick­eted for driving while wearing a google glass computer-in­eyeglass device. 
commissione r John Blair ruled that cecilia abadie was not guilty because she had been cited under a code that re­quires proof beyond a reasonable doubt that the device was forthcoming. 
Contact Marisa Iati at 
Associated Press 
miati@nd.edu 
san diego — a 
they added all new lighting, redid all the frescoes in the Basilica and air-conditioned the Basilica,” rocca said. 
rocca said the most recent renovations to the Basilica occurred in 2000 when mar­ble was installed in sanctu­ary and at the base of the baptismal font. he said the current renovations will leave the marble in place in these two areas of the Basilica. 
rocca said the sound 

new pipers, leads the band in performances and manages gigs and schedules,” patience said. 
“i joined the band day one of freshman year back in 2009,” patience said. 
“i was looking into the band before i even got accepted to notre dame. my favorite part of the band is performing on home football game days.” 
Though their main events took place during football season, patience said that stu­dents and faculty could look for the band next in chicago, where the pipers will perform in the st. patrick’s day parade. 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 
scholar affairs (issa). rosemary max, director of 
california motorist cleared 
issa, said her office is plan­ning a memorial mass for sharma in the Basilica of the sacred heart. details are 
in google glass case 
in operation, which the officer did not provide. 
however, Blair did find that the language of the code specifical­ly bars the operation of a video or Tv screen or similar device on the front of a vehicle while it is moving — a provision that Blair said could be broad enough to apply to google glass. 
The device in a kind of glass-wear frame features a thumbnail-size transparent dis­play above the right eye. 
abadie said she was happy she won her case but hoped the court would have ruled that google glass is legal to wear while driving whether activated or not. 
"i believe it's an initial success but we have a long way to go," said abadie, wearing the device outside the 
courthouse  after  the  
ruling.  
legal  experts  say  

the lower court rul­ing does not set a legal precedent but marks the beginning of a number of cases they expect courts to con­front as lawmakers struggle to keep pace with fast-evolving technology. 
"The fun is just starting," said vivek wadhwa, a fellow at standford law school. 
From driverless cars to wearable devices that can enhance human functions, wadhwa said, there are a host of legal ques­tions to be answered. For example, when a google-operated car is on the road and hits someone, who is responsible — the passenger, car manu­facturer or software developer? 


INSIDE COLUMN 

My first last semester 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 

Today marks the end of the last syllabus week of my college career. 
i am done with the days of show­ing up to class 10 minutes early to pick a good seat, but without a pen or paper because there was no way i was going to take notes. never have i ever been so prepared to do nothing. 
on sunday, i took my last flight back up to notre dame to start a new semester. 
i am done with swapping the 70 degrees and palm trees of south Florida for the 20 degrees and bare trees of south Bend. never have i ever been so unprepared to do nothing. 
But this is my last time looking at the last times. 
i am done with nostalgically re­flecting on the last three-and-a-half years as if i was already writing an obituary for my time at notre dame. 
it’s time to focus on the firsts of this semester. 
This was my first time coming back to indiana and having to worry about my car possibly being buried in snow. it was my first time think­ing about how i would get my car out of the snow. (For the record, it would resemble a combination of third-graders playing kickball and dogs digging a hole.) and it was my first time doing a celebratory fist-pump when i rolled out of the d6 lot without an issue. 
This was my first time going to the bars on sunday and monday nights. it was my first time catching up about winter break over a couple beers. and it was my first time play­ing trivia in south Bend. (who knew the gulf of guinea was off the coast of africa?) 
This was my first time running indoors, mostly because i never had to. it was my first time trying to turn on a treadmill. it was my first time failing at turning on a tread­mill. and it was my first time walk­ing out of the gym with snow on the ground. 
The rest of the semester is sure to bring about more firsts. 
it will have the first time i get published in 2014 (which is this time) and the first time i cover a high school basketball game. it will have the first time i run a half mar­athon and the first time i collapse after finishing one. it will have the first time i get a real job (hopefully) and the first time i celebrate getting one. 
so what if this is my last semester? it’s simply my first last semester. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Gary J. Caruso 
capitol comments 

it is painful to watch the university of notre dame re-file its lawsuit challenging the obama administra­tion’s compromise exemption in the affordable care act that creates a buf­fer for religiously affiliated hospitals, universities and social service groups that oppose the practice of birth control. For me, it is an interfamily squabble that should be avoided. my university is suing my government — both have been positive influences in developing my character and be­ing. however, on this issue where the university contends that the law vio­lates its freedom to practice religion without government interference, notre dame is in the wrong. notre dame attempts to limit the rendering of things that are caesar’s unto god’s disciples. 
First and foremost, notre dame chooses to insure its assets and personnel in a manner that uses a secular, financial bottom-line analy­sis, which has nothing to do with its catholic mission. notre dame does not offer free medical service to those it employs, let alone to the general public or the downtrodden, homeless or defenseless within the surrounding community. it is not a medical wing of catholic charities — witness its book­store prices for those of little faith. rather, it enjoys many governmental advantages, as does any religious academic institution, through which it can freely practice and teach its re­ligious dogma, prejudices, leanings or whims as an educational entity. 
secondly, notre dame — or any religious-affiliated institution ranging from liberty university to Brigham young university — cannot be granted carte blanche autonomy in the name of religious rights in order to trample an individual’s rights simply because that individual chooses to cross the threshold of a campus perimeter. The aca specifically grants the religious exemption by determining religious institutions as those that only employ members of its own faith, i.e., they are churches. it, for good reason, does not exempt religious-affiliated hospitals, charities or universities that employs or provides services to others outside that specific institution’s affiliated faith. 
president obama, in an effort to accommodate and remove religiously-affiliated organizations like notre dame from directly paying for con­traceptives, thereby preserving their convictions, approved a buffer mecha­nism by modifying the mandate. now insurers or the health plan’s outside administrator will pay for the birth control coverage for students and em­ployees — theoretically of other faiths 
— while establishing a way to reim­burse the insurer or administrator. unfortunately, notre dame’s problem is that its secular financial decision to insure its own assets and personnel keeps it squarely in the buffer zone. Therefore, notre dame prefers to maintain its strictly secularly focused bottom-line current-cost financial models and arrangements in favor of a lawsuit. 
notre dame has chosen the national rifle association’s tactic of mounting opposition to any and all regulatory changes under the guise of constitutional protections. Frankly, the university’s odds at winning in the u.s. supreme court are good given the stodgily recalcitrant conservative types like antonin scalia who must decide if — in his normal view on how to rule on a case — he conjures a way to rationalize how the founding fa­thers would have even dared imagine the concept of contraceptives when they drafted our constitution. his 18th century mind may yet produce an­other 21st century debacle. 
it is, however, heartening to see that three notre dame women who are students directly affected by this rul­ing were recently allowed to join the lawsuit with the government against the university in the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals. if i could, i would ask to be the fourth, and i would al­low my name to be attached despite fearing retaliation on campus. But for now, we can but offer best wishes for our three “Jane does” as the case proceeds. 
notre dame remains an american “rigorist,” as pope Francis called such recalcitrance. The university, in an attempt to be known as “the” catholic american educational institution, becomes embroiled in what the pope described as “in small things, small-minded rules … the rigorist washes his hands so that he leaves it to the commandments.” [pope Francis’ aug. 19, 2013 interview with “america magazine” discussing the catholic focus of faith]. in many ways the university’s actions are emblematic of past failures within the catholic church like clinging onto man-made dogma about contraception while millions become infected with hiv in africa. 
university president rev. John i. Jenkins, c.s.c, claims, “we do not seek to impose our religious beliefs on others; we simply ask that the government not impose its values on the university when those values conflict with our religious teachings.” university spokesman paul Browne said, “if government is allowed to en­tangle a religious institution in one area contrary to conscience, it’s given license to do so in others.” 
yet, as both men insist that the suit is not about contraception, it really is about money and medical wellness that just happens to include contra­ception. a 2011 guttmacher institute study found that 58 percent of con­traceptive pill users — including one of my catholic nieces who was pre­scribed the pill while in middle school 
— take the medication for purposes other than pregnancy prevention. The slippery slope this suit creates will benefit religious snake charmers and bloodletting advocates, believers of natural healing without medication and others who behave more cult-like than bona fide longstanding church­goers. we see on what side notre dame has placed its money. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
answers on lawsuit funding 
on dec. 3, 2013, The observer print­ed my letter to the editor, “Funding sources for reported lawsuits.” i ques­tioned whether the university would be using funds from students and other sources in its reported repeat liti­gation against the federal government over objections to certain require­ments in the affordable care act. 
i heard from a university spokes­man almost immediately about the fees part of the university’s most re­cent lawsuit. i was advised that the university’s fees will be handled pro bono by the law firm representing the university. 
however, the university spokesman truthfully did not know who is respon­sible for the costs of the university’s litigation. all lawsuits involve costs, i explained. For example, filing fees, court reporter fees, service of process fees and invoices all represent costs of litigation. 
Time will tell. 
my thanks to The observer for print­ing my original letter to the editor in december, and to the university spokesman for advising me so prompt­ly of the answer to my questions concerning the university’s litigation fees, as well as candidly advising me that he simply did not know the an­swer to my question of who is funding the costs of the lawsuit being con­ducted in the name of the university of notre dame. 
sincerely, 
dennis J. wall, esquire 
Dennis Wall 
alumnus class of 1973 Jan. 17 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

The colder side of global warming 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 
Fellow Tree huggers, 

let me begin by welcoming you all back to campus! Things got pretty crazy for the students who stayed in the midwest this winter, and i hope everyone had a safe and enjoyable break. For those of you who live ei­ther under a rock or spend all of your time on the balmy beaches of malibu and away from the Tv, i’ll fill you in. earlier this month, many cities in america’s midwest experienced a combination of strong snowstorms and blisteringly cold temperatures. over 50 weather centers recorded historically low temperatures on Jan. 6 and 7. Temperatures in our na­tion’s second city dipped well below zero, and midwesterners rushed to the grocery stores to stock up on food like they were expecting the second coming. This weather system managed to cancel the first day of class at many area universities and left some climate-change deniers even more firmly convinced that global warming is a myth. 
how could our planet be warming if chicago is experiencing negative 40-degree wind chills? now there is a very long and boring scientific ex­planation for this paradox, and to be honest i don’t completely understand it all. however, the gist of the problem is that as our planet warms, the jet stream slows down. The jet stream typically holds frigid artic air at the poles, but as it slows, the stream is less able to trap this air. This means that systems of super-cold air can occasionally slip by and cause fun things like water pipes that spon­taneously explode and hundreds of midwestern kids throwing pots of boiling water in to the sub-zero air (check it out on vine or Facebook). 
The point is super-cold fronts will actually become more frequent as the world warms. This counter­intuitive reality has broad reach­ing implications. The most recent “snowpocolypse” shut down virtu­ally every business and school in the midwest for two days, and complain­ing midwesterners almost crashed Facebook and Twitter. it also revealed that the current storm-fighting infra­structure will not be adequate if what used to be a “100-year storm” is now a “10-year storm.” if current warm­ing trends continue, the midwest will have to invest in more snow plows, more insulation for homes and above all else, lots and lots of salt. it also requires that we reevaluate the im­age of which communities are at risk for global warming-fueled disasters. global warming will not just affect low-lying coastal communities, it will affect chicago, new Jersey and every­where in between. 
The moral of this storm, and almost any weird weather for that matter, is that global warming is a real and growing problem that impacts all weather patterns. in fact, current forecasts predict that a polar vortex will be visiting our area this week, so batten down the hatches! stick with me this semester as i provide green advice and keep you up to date with trends in the sustainability world, and you can learn how to do your part to preserve this beautiful planet. here’s to a semester free of many more super-cold snaps, and to a more informed and green campus community. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

no, economics is not a science 
economists have faced a deluge of negative press in the past few years, ranging from criticisms over the failure to forecast the financial cri­sis, to the more recent disbelief over the granting of the nobel prize in economics to three economists, two of whom hold views that can be said to be polar opposites. indeed, the rep­utation of mainstream economics— specifically macroeconomics—is arguably at its worst since the forma­tion of the field in the 1930s, with the advent of the great depression. This state of affairs prompted raj chetty, a professor of economics at harvard, to author a defense of the field in ‘The new york Times,’ titled “yes, economics is a science.” 
it seems as though economics is fighting for its right to stay in the ex­clusive group of fields deemed worthy enough to be called “science,” where subjects such as physics, chemistry, and molecular biology reside com­fortably. some instead opt to call eco­nomics, along with psychology and sociology, a “social science”—a vague term, often blurred with humani­ties, which is neither here nor there. nevertheless, the underlying implica­tion behind this battle is that to be a “science” is to be credible. 
i don’t agree. 

First and foremost, i don’t agree at all that economics is a science. let me preface this by saying that i am concentrating in economics, and have the utmost respect for the field. let me also clarify that when i say “economics” throughout this article, i primarily mean macroeconom­ics—microeconomics is an entirely different beast. while the two are intrinsically related, the methods of experimentation are so drastically different that the two can hardly be subject to the same criticisms. 
merriam-webster’s definition of science is “a study of the natural world based on facts learned through experiments and observation.” what physics and chemistry and molecular biology have in common is that the building blocks of what they observe and experiment with don’t change. such is the natural world. But what is the building block of economics? people. economics does not study any unit smaller than a collection of people. and human behavior can never be absolutely predicted or ex­plained—not if we wish to believe in free will, at any rate. 
in fact, in a strict sense, econom­ics does not even follow the scientific method. engrained in the scientific method is the process of testing hy­potheses with repeatable, falsifiable, and parameter-controlled experi­ments. unfortunately for the field of economics, there are certain non-trivial barriers to experimen­tally tanking the czechoslovakian economy over and over while con­trolling for interest rate levels. oftentimes, the best economists can do is sit back and pore through the data given to them—data that is mud­dled by changing cultural standards, changing technological innovations, and changing time periods, among other factors. 
all of this is not to say that i disap­prove of economics, or think it illegit­imate in any way—quite the opposite, actually. i believe that economics is a crucial field that directly impacts most everyone on this planet, per­haps more so than any other subject. The discovery of the higgs-Boson made headline news around the world and has been heralded as one of the greatest triumphs of mankind’s collective intellect in history, but the higgs-Boson has very little bearing, if any, on the daily lives of people. on the on the other hand, ill-timed eco­nomic austerity measures in Britain caused a very real, and very notice­able effect nearly immediately, set­ting the backdrop for the 2011 london riots. 
This direct influence economics has on the individual lives of people stems from the fact that economics is, at its heart, a very person-centered and normative field of study. it is unique in the sense that economics fuses quantitative data and modeling with qualitative judgments; unlike in physics or chemistry, economics ap­pends an implied “therefore…” state­ment to its conclusions. economists’ findings that expanded insurance coverage increased lifespans and reduced costs lent implicit support to the affordable care act—a law that will affect tens of millions of americans. 
economics is not a science in the way that physics or chemistry is a science. yet, this is not something to be lamented. economics is not, and will never be, at the stage where models can precisely predict the day on which a financial crisis will start before it happens, but this is not due to the lack of legitimacy of the field; instead, it is due to the inherently un­predictable sphere of study in which economics operates. people are not atoms—and this is exactly why eco­nomics is immediately relevant. 
what this means is that all of us— and the press in particular—should cease treating economics as though it were a science. we need to under­stand that economics is attempting to neatly model a very messy world. do not expect clean answers. 
The Harvard Crimson is the independent daily student newpaper serving Harvard College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By  CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

winner of three golden globes, including Best motion picture, musical or comedy, david o’russell’s “american hustle” is already poised to take the award season by storm. starring christian Bale, amy adams, Bradley cooper and Jennifer lawrence, the film is full of note­worthy performances. 
Bale stars as con man irving rosenfeld, who works with sydney prosser (adams) in an elaborate ponzi scheme. sydney assumes the identity of a glamorous Brit with connections, lady edith greensley, and the two use her fake status to take fees from people who can’t receive loans elsewhere. it’s all done under the pretense of find­ing investors who will give them money (though they are already well aware they will never make them any cash). when FBi agent richie dimaso (cooper) catches them, the couple is forced to work alongside the government 
— leading them into a world of politics and the mafia for which neither was prepared. 
Their foray into these realms is further complicated by the presence of irving’s seemingly unstable wife (lawrence). her antics provide much of the comedy in the film while also complicating the life of her husband as he attempts to get himself and his mistress out of legal trouble. 
The film is loosely based on the FBi sting operation in 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

French farce “le dindon,” (“the turkey,” in english, also translated as “sauce for the goose”) comes to the deBartolo performing arts center this weekend, in a production starring a cast of notre dame students. 
The play, written in 1896 by the French playwright georges Feydeau and performed in French, follows the virtuous and faithful lucienne, a woman who has vowed never to cheat on her husband, unless he goes behind her back first, as different suitors compete for her love. old lovers and the police cross paths in hotel rooms and love nests as the different couples in the play attempt to be unfaithful, all coming together for a highly physical farce. 
don’t speak French? it’s not a problem. paul mcdowell, the play’s director and notre dame French professor, says the play can be understood and laughed at, whether the French line readings are understood or not. 
The production is through mcdowell’s signature the late 1970s and early 1980s, aBscam, though much of the film’s events are pure invention. 
without any background knowledge, this is a film that will make more sense upon second viewing. The events are complicated and at times, the movie seems to have so many different possible outcomes, it’s impossible to keep track. 
That being said, the actors give an incredible perfor­mance. specifically, both female actors give standout performances. Both were honored with a golden globe and certainly deserved it. 
lawrence was particularly memorable in her role. in one of the funniest and most memorable scenes, she dances wildly to paul mccartney’s “live and let die” after messing up yet another important moment for her husband. 
adams plays the part of sydeny prosser and her fake identity seamlessly. as irving’s mistress and partner-in-crime, adams doesn’t miss a beat. after irving and sydney’s arrest, it is never clear whether adam’s char­acter has sided against irving or if she is still working to get them out of the sticky situation. it is not until the final resolution that her character makes any sense at all — and therein lies her brilliance. 
while slightly outshone by their female counterparts, both Bale and cooper deliver outstanding performances. one is never quite sure whether to pity agent dimaso for his naïveté or pray that his stupidity is punished — an 
course, French Theatre production, a class that he created in 1991 and has produced a play in French at notre dame every year since. he says this year’s entry is another in a long line of successful and entertaining performances. 
“The productions from this course have wowed thousands of spectators at notre dame, showcasing the talents of notre dame undergraduates performing the great comic works of French theatre from molière to musset. ‘le dindon’ promises to live up the high standards of our past productions  . high energy, lots of laughs (even for those who don’t speak a word of French), period costumes and a few new twists this year,” mcdowell said. 
The students in the play said they have all taken French classes but not all of them are fluent, and that for most of them this is their first acting experience at notre dame. Two of them even play characters whom are supposed to be a British couple speaking in French, and said they had to learn to speak French with a bad British accent. They were also able to explain the figu­rative title as it translates to english. 
impulse almost always inversely related to how one feels about Bale’s character, irving, at the moment. agent dimaso and irving do well to foil each other and they see­saw between being the good guy and the bad guy. 
Bale’s character is conflicting from the moment he en­ters the screen. The audience shouldn’t like the con man who consistently cheats on his wife, and yet, Bale creates a sympathetic and somewhat endearing character whom one doesn’t really want to see lose it all. 
From the very beginning, “american hustle” capti­vates its audience, switching between the vague hilarity and the sobering gravity of the situation. it is certainly worth watching and will remain one of the favorites as the oscars approach. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
“American Hustle” 
Annapurna Pictures 
Director: David O. Russell 
Starring: Christian Bale, Amy Adams, Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Lawrence If you like: “Goofafafafllas” 

“The dindon [the turkey] has been cheated on by his wife and is a cuckold, and it’s just sort of not a good term to be called. The play is just a farce about misunder­standing and situational humor and couples who are convinced that their partners are cheating on them, and then they get it in their heads that they’d like to cheat on their spouse, and it’s just a mess,” Jessica peck, a sophomore in the play, said. 
The actors seconded professor mcdowell’s assertion that the comedy translates across any language, and also said that a summary of the play will be provided for audience members so they can keep up with the plot even if they don’t speak French. 
“physical French farce, it’s a funny French farce, that’s the best way to put it,” peck said. 
“le dindon” opens tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the regis philbin Theater in the deBartolo performing arts center and runs through sunday. Tickets are $5, and can be purchased at the dpac box office or online at performingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 


Beating the heat down under 

Kit Loughran 
sports writer 
The players aren’t just bat­tling the opponent on the other side of the net at this year’s australian open. They’re bat­tling an even bigger and more uncontrollable opponent — the heat. 
as the second round of the tournament came to a close wednesday, the melbourne sun kept beating down. and when i say beating down, i really mean beating down. we’re talking triple figures here. Temperatures have been a consistent 105 degrees Fahrenheit, peaking at a high of 109 degrees. 
This heat is a force the play­ers cannot control. it’s not like figuring out how to handle the speed of an opponent’s serve, keeping your ball in play, de­ciding how to move your op­ponent around the court or choosing when to hit a winner down the line. 
There is nothing they can do about it. They just have to deal. mentally and physically, the players are both combating it and suffering from it — the heat has caused some “melt­downs,” if you will. 
players across the board, including andy murray, roger Federer, victoria azarenka and sloane stevens all showed in their matches that the secret to beat this heat is to forget about strategy and statistics — just manage yourself instead. 
after watching some of the second-round matches myself, it was serena williams and maria sharapova that definite­ly showed just how important managing yourself proves in dealing with these scorching temperatures. 
The no. 1 seed, serena seemed to easily play her way through the heat. unlike my­self or the rest of us who prob­ably would have simply said there’s no way we’re stepping onto that court in 105-degree weather, williams crushed vesna dolonc 6-1, 6-2 in a quick one-hour, three-minute match. 
williams’ goal was clearly to get off the court as quickly as possible. and she did just that. she shortened her rallies and cut down on her errors — she managed herself. 
sharapova, on the other hand, found it trickier than williams to beat the heat. But, after three hours and 28 min­utes in 109-degree heat, she prevailed past karin knapp 6-3, 4-6, 10-8 and avoided a meltdown.  i started sweat­ing myself just watching sharapova battle through each point in that grueling heat. 
i definitely would not say this was sharapova’s most eloquent match. she threw away three match points and 13 out of 20 break-point chances, tallied 67 unforced errors and had a dozen double faults. despite these stats, the match was one of the best i’ve ever watched. sharapova and knapp played phenomenally well, given that they had to play for 43 minutes once the extreme heat policy was implemented midway through their last 115-minute set. having played tennis my­self for over 15 years, i don’t think i could have ever pulled out a victory under those con­ditions like sharapova did. 
her second-round win might not have been as efficient or as pretty as williams’, but sharapova proved how much more important perseverance is than looking good on the court in a “heated” situation like this. 
sharapova did not have great stats, but she held on when she had to, especially when she found herself tied 8-8 in the third set. it was the longest match of her career, yet she al­ways seemed to come through and she never panicked. she came close to self-destructing in the last game, but her per­severance saved her. and my favorite thing about sharapova 
— the heat never affected how she continued to go for those shots. she went for every ace and winner. she didn’t use the heat as an excuse not to. 
There’s no sign of the hot temperatures dropping. The players are just going to have to keep taking those ice baths and even wearing those ice vests. all they can do is try to survive and beat their most challeng­ing opponent at the australian open — the heat.  
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

Colts begin rebuilding after elimination 
Associated Press 
colts general manager ryan grigson is just getting started on the hard part. 
after engineering a nine-game turnaround from 2011 to 2012 and matching that 11-win regular-season total while tak­ing the aFc south title in 2013, grigson must now figure out how to get indianapolis from the playoffs to the super Bowl. 
“we need to be consistent. we need to aspire to be one of those teams that doesn’t beat a great team one week and then get outscored by 40 the next,” he said Thursday. “That’s all growing pains. we are a young, young team and i feel like we are going in the right direction because that’s typical of youth.” 
grigson certainly has been dealt a good hand. 
he used his first draft pick on andrew luck. he hit on enough low-priced free agents to fill gaps in 2012. he cleared enough cap space to start plugging big holes in free agency last year and he’s projected to be about $31 million under the salary cap heading into this offseason. That’s enough room to make some big moves. 
But there are plenty of ques­tions, too. 
while head coach chuck pagano said earlier this week that he “absolutely” expected more stability on his staff this year than last, when offensive coordinator Bruce arians left to take his first nFl head coach­ing job, that may not be the case. 
grigson confirmed Thursday that vanderbilt had received permission to speak with pep hamilton, arians’ replacement, about its vacancy. There also has been speculation quarter­backs coach clyde christensen, indy’s offensive coordinator under head coach Jim caldwell, could be reunited with caldwell in detroit. grigson said the lions have not yet asked to speak with christensen. 
“as of right now, there’s noth­ing imminent,” he said. 
The bigger questions are on the personnel front. 
Twenty-two players could become restricted or unre­stricted free agents in march. The list includes names such as safety antoine Bethea, run­ning back donald Brown, cornerback vontae davis, punt­er pat mcafee and kicker adam vinatieri — all of whom played key roles in 2013. 
some of those players already sound like they’re leaving town. 
“was an honor and privilege to play for the colts,” Brown wrote wednesday on Twitter, continuing a theme that started monday morning in the locker room. “an organization made up of phenomenal people. will always be indebted to the horseshoe.” 
Brown was indy’s top rusher this season when indy finished 12-6 — including its first play­off win since 1971 without ei­ther Jim harbaugh or peyton manning at quarterback. 
grigson insisted he’s not dis­cussed the future possibilities with either players or coaches. 
But with vick Ballard, indy’s top runner in 2012, return­ing from a torn acl and Trent richardson, who indy got by trading a first-round pick to cleveland in september, both back, Brown may be out of a job. Ballard is confident he’ll be healthy for training camp, and grigson is committed to giving richardson another chance. 
NBA 

nets prevail over hawks across the pond 
Associated Press
  The Brooklyn nets should think about making another franchise move — to london. 
The nets improved to 3-0 in regular-season nBa games in the British capital with a 127­110 win over the atlanta hawks on Thursday. 
Joe Johnson, who spent sev­en years with the hawks, led the way for the nets at the o2 arena. The Brooklyn guard scored 26 of his game-high 29 points in the first half, and nailed two buzzer-beating 3-pointers. 
“we just exploited mis­matches. i was just feeding off these guys,” Johnson said. “we had a lot of ball movement and took a lot of open shots.” 
Three years ago, the then-new Jersey nets played two 

FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo -Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $137,500. Call 561-588-5520 
regular-season games at the same o2 arena, located on the banks of the river Thames and the venue used for the gold medal basketball game at the 2012 london olympics. They beat the raptors in both those games. 
last year, the new york knicks beat the detroit pistons in the third regular-season game to be played in london. 
although the crowd seemed to save its loudest cheers for off­the-court action, both teams finished the game with five players scoring in double digits. 
andray Blatche added 20 points and 14 rebounds for the nets, while paul pierce contrib­uted 18 points, alan anderson 15 and kevin garnett 12. 
“The ball was moving, guys were looking for each other and finding each other,” nets coach Jason kidd said. “Joe has been off the charts. not just last few games but the whole season.” 
mike scott and shelvin mack, both coming off the bench, led the hawks with 17 points each. Jeff Teague scored 16 points, paul millsap had 13 and pero antic 11. 
The hawks stayed close for the first quarter, but the nets started to pull away in the sec­ond. anderson started an 8-0 run early in the quarter, with pierce contributing two layups and Blatche finishing it off with a putback to make it 39-30. 
“Their size and their length was a problem in a lot of differ­ent ways, and rebounding was just one of them,” hawks coach mike Budenholzer said. 
Johnson ended the half with a 3-pointer at the buzzer to make it 65-53. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Name the Quotes at ghadley@nd.edu head... he’s never been in for a free smoothie at Recker’s. Seriously. love. Not real love, anyway...” 
“I’m a little preoccupied right now. “Meyer the Liar? How lucky am I Why don’t you ask your unicorn?” that I’m not Selina Mapist or Selina “Ah, this is way over Justin’s Medophile?” 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | The oBserver 

SAINT MARY’S BASKETBALL 

Belles look to rebound in conference play 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
Trying to bounce back after a lopsided 95-68 loss to calvin on wednesday, saint mary’s hopes to snap its three-game losing streak when it squares off against conference opponent albion this saturday. 
after having a 2-1 con­ference record a week ago following a 70-67 win over alma, the Belles (4-11, 2-4 miaa) have dropped three straight miaa contests to hope, kalamazoo and calvin. The Brits (6-9, 2-4 miaa) are also coming off a loss, having fallen 67-51 to olivet on wednesday. with both teams trying to turn things around, Belles coach Jenn henley said she ex­pects the game to be tightly contested. 
“it should be a good matchup for us,” she said. 
henley thinks the Belles will have the advantage down low against albion, who will have to stop a strong saint mary’s front court consisting of junior forward ariana paul and sophomore forwards krista knapke and eleni shea. paul has been on a hot streak over the past three weeks, averaging over 16 points per game. 

henley has also been preparing her team for albion’s versatile defensive schemes. 
“They do a good job of mixing up their defenses between man and zone,” henley said, “so we will cer­tainly need to be ready for that.” 
henley also repeatedly stressed that playing tight­er on the defensive end is a must if the Belles hope to gain some momentum mov­ing forward. 
“we need to work harder defensively to shut down the drives in the paint and secure the rebound,” she said. “we can’t give up sec­ond chance points.” 
in the game against calvin, over half the points the Belles allowed came off of second chance points and turnovers. 
The Brits will be led by senior guard/forward Brett deBear, who averages a team-high 18.1 points per game and has dominated 
paid adverTisemenT 

from the free throw line, shooting 76 for 87 on the season. she has led the team in scoring in 12 of the Brits’ 15 games. in last season’s matchup against the Belles, deBear scored 23 points and led the Brits to victory. 
“[deBear] is really car­rying albion on offense,” henley said, “we will have to find a way to contain her.” 
with 10 games remain­ing, all against conference opponents, the Belles still have plenty of time to turn things around. henley re­mains confident in the Belles and their resilience. 
“This team works hard and i am proud of how they continue to battle with teams,” she said. 
“we are still a young team when you compare us to other teams in the league. we continue to learn and gain experience, which will pay off in the long run.” 
saint mary’s and albion will meet at 3 p.m. on saturday at the angela athletic complex. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
FENCING 
irish to fence at national qualifier 

By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
after months of training and an­ticipation in the fall, notre dame will open its season with the north american cup (nac) this week­end in virginia Beach, va. 
This competition is a national tryout for the united states fenc­ing team, organized by the united states Fencing association. 
“our fencers, who represent themselves individually, will be confronted by all the best fenc­ers across north america,” irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “The most talented fencers from coun­tries such as mexico and canada will be competing in the nac, and will challenge the irish fencers in this continental competition.” 
Bednarski hopes to achieve suc­cess by utilizing his wealth of tal­ented fencers. 
“a lot of our top fencers are com­ing into this tournament with the goal of placing in the final eight to qualify for the united states na­tional fencing team,” Bednarski said. 
For the men’s group, senior gerek meinhardt will fence along with senior ariel desmet and freshman kristjan archer. other top performers for the irish men include sophomores garrett mcgrath and John hallsten and senior kevin hassett, rounding out a group Bednarski said he be­lieves is the strongest group on the men’s side. 
For the women’s group, sopho­more lee kiefer, a 2012 olympian and nac gold medalist, will be followed by junior maddie Zeiss, 2012 nac bronze medalist, as strong competitors in the tour­nament. Junior ashley severson and sophomore Johanna Thill are also expected to preform well this weekend. 
“This is a highly touted group that will most likely fence for the nac competition finals,” Bednarski said. 
as the irish prepare for this weekend’s competition, Bednarski said each fencer is encouraged to identify their individual strengths and weaknesses and put forth a plan of action to improve them­selves in both aspects. he harps upon the importance of staying healthy both mentally and physi­cally this early in the season. 
“it is important for us that the players suffer no injuries, that the team gets to the tournament on time with no complications, and most importantly, that each player can overcome the feelings of ex­citement and nervousness that tend to happen in the first com­petition of the season,” Bednarski said. “we have a young group of fencers this year in comparison to last year, so i hope that they can get over this barrier of anxiousness and that they do not let the hype get to them.” 
despite these minor difficul­ties, the irish aim to succeed at the nac competition, whether the fencers end up placing, qualifying for the united states fencing team, or simply getting more fencing ex­perience at the national level. 
“To be extremely successful, we have to be very strong,” Bednarski said. “The top fencing institutions in the country are practicing like we are, but with an intense devo­tion, emotion, and wish to beat us.” 
The notre dame fencing team has consistently been ranked as one of the top three fencing teams in the nation for the past four years, and the team strives to up­hold its position by preforming at a high level this weekend. 
“To be strong is a multifactorial case: one aspect involves wit, an­other involves preparation, and the final aspect involves overcom­ing emotional states and mak­ing this competition a learning experience as well,” Bednarski said. “Through implementing these three key components, we will no doubt achieve success this weekend.” 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

TRACK & FIELD 

ND returns to track after break 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

irish host Broncos, Jaguars to kick off new year 

By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame will hit the track for the first time in over a month when they travel to ann arbor, mich., for the simmons-harvey invitational on saturday. 
The irish have had a strong week of preparation, but irish coach Joe piane said he still expects some rust from the long hiatus. 
“if you don’t so something for a long time, it may be run­ning or playing basketball, there’s going to be a little bit of rust,” piane said. “after the workouts we did this week, the guys are looking pretty fit.” 
making the transition even more difficult will be the meet’s hosts, michigan. The wolverine women were ranked 13th in the preseason, and while the men are un­ranked, they return four all-americans from last sea­son. senior throwers cody riffle and ethan dennis both earned top-12 finishes in last year’s ncaa indoor championships for the men, and sophomore maya long is the lone returnee from their women’s national champion distance medley relay team. additional schools competing include eastern michigan and Bowling green, among oth­ers. piane said the irish would have to shake off their rust quickly because of the quality competition. 
“we told them ‘you just have to get out and race and see how you feel,’” piane said. “michigan is very good, eastern michigan has some good kids, so yeah, it’ll be a good meet.” 
The increase in difficulty is not the only way that this meet will help the irish pre­pare for the conference meet, as piane said the track size in ann arbor was a major factor in scheduling the meet. 
“The reason why we’re going to ann arbor is that they have a 200-meter flat track, and our acc meet is on a 200-me­ter flat track,” piane said. “so most of the people need to get on it to just to find out what its like to run on a track of that size.” 
The irish will be counting on continued excellence from their 400-meter runners. at the Blue and gold meet on dec. 6th, the irish placed one-two in both genders, with sopho­more margaret Bamgbose and senior michelle Brown pacing the women, and se­nior patrick Feeney and junior chris giesting leading the men. piane said he expects strong performances from those runners again, and also that Brown and giesting will experiment in a new event, the 200. 
“[This meet] is an oppor­tunity for kids … like chris giesting and michelle Brown, who are really good 400 run­ners, but they’re going to run the 200,” piane said. “so it’s a chance to do something a little bit different, in prepa­ration for the balance of the season.” 
notre dame is taking 63 ath­letes to ann arbor, and piane said he was excited for some of the freshmen to get their first road meet under their belt. 
“i’ve got two young fresh­men going that i’m really ex­cited about, [middle distance runners] chris marco and Jacob dumford.” piane said. “i’m anxious to see how they do. we’ll see how it goes.” 
The irish will compete all day saturday at the simmons­harvey invitational in ann arbor, mich. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The no. 21 irish will debut their mix of underclassmen and experienced leaders saturday when they host dual meets against western michigan and iupui, the first dual meet experience of the season for all three teams. 
notre dame competed at the western michigan super challenge in november, and the irish typically play against western michigan every season. iupui, how­ever, is a new opponent for notre dame. irish coach Jay louderback said that scout­ing matters less for the first matches of the season, so he will focus more on getting all his players court time. 
“we really haven’t done any scouting on them [iupui],” louderback said. “i know some of their kids because they’ve got quite a few kids from this area who i saw when they were younger. For us, it’s just getting into the season and getting a chance to play. with two matches, we can get a lot of kids in. we won’t play the same lineup in both matches.” 
as for western michigan, the Broncos feature se­nior kathleen hawkins, who recently received a no. 55 national ranking from the intercollegiate Tennis association (iTa). The ranking is the highest ever for a player from western michigan. 
seven players return for notre dame this season, and three freshmen will play their first spring matches. The freshmen experienced their first college tennis competition during fall tournaments, but the spring meets will challenge the tal­ented young group in new ways, louderback said. 
“The biggest thing with the freshman is even though they played tournaments in the fall and they traveled with everyone, they haven’t played a dual match, which is different from anything they’ve ever done before,” louderback said. “you’re not just playing for yourself; you’re playing for your team. playing a match for a point for your team takes a couple matches for them to get used to.” 
senior Britney sanders earned Big east player of the year honors last season and played no. 1 singles. sanders, along with fel­low seniors Jennifer kellner and Julie sabacinski, will help lead the freshmen, louderback said. seniors in the past have enjoyed the leadership responsibilities. 
“it’s a big thing for the seniors,” louderback said. “we’ve got three of them who have played a lot for us in their three years. … The experience they have will be a really big thing for our freshman and sophomores. we’ve got some young ones who haven’t played a lot.” 
leadership duties shouldn’t distract the up­perclassmen from focusing on their own matches, since tThe seniors can lead by showing the underclassmen quality tennis, according to louderback. 
“part of it is them play­ing well, playing hard and setting a good example,” louderback said. 
This season, because of the wealth of senior experi­ence, notre dame will de­but new doubles pairings. louderback said he will split up sanders and sabacinski, who played together last season, to spread out his se­niors on the doubles teams. kellner will also have a new partner after chrissie mcgaffigan’s graduation as the team’s only senior in 2013. 
“we will have one senior on each of our doubles teams,” louderback said. “all three [seniors] have played no. 1 doubles at times, so we know what we’ve got with each of those seniors on those dou­bles teams. you never know when you’ll have to mix up teams, but we feel really good about our seniors.” 
The irish kick off the dual meet season saturday against western michigan at.noon, then will take os iupui at 5 p.m., both at the eck Tennis center. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame to square off against old conference foe 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish will return to the pool and travel to louisville, ky., to take on louisville on saturday. 
The irish (6-4) take on former Big easT rival and future acc opponent no. 13 louisville. 
The irish head into the meet after defeating northwestern (160-140) and rutgers (206-94) and falling to michigan (168­
132) in a four-team dual meet saturday. The cardinals face the irish after beating houston (210-85) and cincinnati (211-84) in a double dual meet the same day. 
notre dame looks to ju­nior emma reaney and senior kelly ryan to lead the squad in individual events again this weekend. reaney won three individual events (100 breast, 200 breast and 100 fly) and one relay (400 free) saturday. she was named acc women’s swimmer of the week for the fifth time this season after her performance. 
ryan and reaney, paired with freshman catherine mulquin and sophomore catherine galleti, won the 400-relay 
(3:25.15) saturday and will re­turn to the water to test them­selves against the cardinals. 
The cardinals, who have yet to lose a dual meet this sea­son, are led by sophomore kelsi worrell, who won the 400-med­ley relay, 200 fly and 100 free saturday, as well as senior krissie Brandenburg, who won the 400 medley relay and 50 free. 
notre dame takes on louisville on saturday at ralph wright natatorium in louisville, ky., at 11 a.m. 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
the program in 1990. he guided the lakers to two national championships in his six seasons at the helm before leaving to become the first-ever program di­rector of the u.s. national Team development program in ann arbor, mich. he was inducted into the lake superior state hall of Fame in 2009. 
This year’s lakers (11-10­1, 7-9 wcha) are slightly over 500 on the year and sit in the middle of the pack in their first season in the western collegiate hockey association. led by fresh­man forward alex globke and senior goaltender kevin kapalka, the lakers are coming off of three consec­utive losses, two to Bemidji state and one on the back-end of a weekend series with michigan Tech. 
Jackson said that lake superior is coming along at a good time in his team’s schedule. with two blow­out wins over alabama­huntsville last weekend, the no. 15 irish (12-8-1, 3-5-1 hockey east) face the lakers before restarting their dif­ficult conference schedule against no. 11 northeastern. 
“when you talk about the level of competition ramping up, that was done intentionally,” Jackson said. “since we fortunately had these couple weeks off from hockey east scheduling, we had the chance to schedule non-conference games, and lake state will be a much better opponent than we had in alabama, so we’re go­ing to have our hands full.” 

with senior goaltender steven summerhays record­ing his ncaa-leading 4th shutout against alabama­huntsville, Jackson said the biggest room for improve­ment for his team is in the offensive end, particularly getting scoring chances off 
of the  cycle and  defensive  
zone transitions.  
“we  need  to  generate  

more five-on-five goals. we’re right around 20 per­cent on the power play, so if we could get more than two goals per game five-on-five, it would certainly help us,” Jackson said. “Then if we can get a power-play goal a game, that’s three-and-a­half or four goals a game, which is a high number in today’s game.” 
To get to that number, more irish players will need to contribute to the effort. 
“There’s some guys that i still think have more in them. it’s good that we’re getting guys on track, but we’re still looking for more depth,” Jackson said. “[sophomore forward mario] lucia, [se­nior forward Jeff] costello, we need [senior forward TJ] Tynan to contribute more to goal scoring. he’s doing a good job scoring points, but we need him to put the puck in the net more.” 
The irish face off at home against lake superior state at 7:35 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | The oBserver 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Two Irish players ranked as spring season opens 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
after two months away from competition, no. 29 notre dame begins its spring season this week­end, with matches against william and mary on Friday, and no. 47 michigan state and Toledo on sunday. 
Both the Tribe and the spartans are coming off doubleheader sweeps to start the season at 2-0, and irish head coach ryan sachire said both squads present tough challenges for his squad in the early season. 
“william and mary is al­ways one of the best teams in their conference,” sachire said. “They do a great job of preparing and they have a couple of solid players. michigan state went to [the ncaa tournament] last year and they return most of their starters. we fully expect a battle from each of them, but … at the same time, we’re confident that if we come out and play the way we want to play, there’s not a team on our schedule we can’t beat.” 
Toledo had had a rough start to the new year, fall­ing to michigan state, 6-1, but the rockets will play michigan on saturday be­fore coming to notre dame. 
history favors the irish in each match. last spring, squad also owns a 27-2 all-time record against Toledo. 
notre  dame  beat  both  
william  and  mary  and  
michigan  state,  6-1.  The  

senior greg andrews will continue to lead the way for the irish after a stel­lar fall campaign that in­cluded a runner-up finish at the usTa/iTa midwest regional championships. Both andrews and sopho­more Quentin monaghan enter the spring season ranked, andrews at no. 22 and monaghan at no. 90. 
“greg andrews is exactly what we expect of him,” sachire said. “he’s a great senior player, one of the best players in the country. he’s the leader of the team and he came back from break and continued to set the bar every single day for the rest of our guys.” 
The irish spent most of the fall focusing on player de­velopment, and that focus has paid off in a wealth of depth, sachire said. 
“we’ve got a lot of good players,” sachire said. “we can go 11 or 12 deep and i would still feel very confi­dent putting those players in a situation where we need them to win a big match. we’re going to have guys this spring sitting on the bench who are capable of winning.” 
with so many options, sachire said he anticipates a hectic spring as play­ers move in and out of the lineup. 
“it’s a long season,” sachire said. “There’s al­ways going to be adversity that we have to face, be it injury or illness or a player losing his confidence. when you have more good players than you have spots in the lineup, some people will feel like they could be playing and should be playing. But the reality is that as the sea­son goes on, everyone will get opportunities. what it comes down to is who steps up and takes advantage of them.” 
sachire said he will look to several players who had good practices to step up for the irish this weekend. 
“[sophomore] eric schnurrenberger came back from break and has really played well and competed well,” sachire said. “There’s no question he has talent, but he’s really taken it to the next level. [Freshman] eddy covalschi also has done well in training. it’s clear both of them worked really hard over break. 
The irish kickoff the spring season this weekend against william and mary on Friday and michigan state and Toledo on sunday in the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
half, and notre dame allowed north carolina state to ex­tend a three-point halftime lead to nine in the first four minutes of the second half. 
“it’s a hard thing to get over psychologically,” Brey said wednesday of the slow second halves. “The tip-ins during that flurry break your back, and then you’re digging out of a hole.” 
The irish will try to dig out of their three-game slide when they host the hokies (8-8, 1-3), who are stuck in their own three-game losing streak. virginia Tech, which lost 56-49 to clemson on wednesday, will play its first road game since dec. 21. 
senior forward Jarell eddie leads the hokies in scoring at 
15.3 points per game. eddie, who is the only senior on the young virginia Tech squad led by second-year head coach James Johnson, has only av­eraged 6.3 points during the three-game stretch. 
at halftime of sunday’s contest, former irish coach digger phelps will be in­ducted into the notre dame Basketball ring of honor. phelps’s induction comes on the 40th anniversary of notre dame’s historic victory over ucla in 1974 — an upset that ended the Bruins’ 88-game winning streak, a record that still stands today. 
phelps will become the first coach and the sixth per­son overall — joining austin carr, adrian dantley, skylar diggins, luke harangody and ruth riley — to join the ring of honor. 
phelps coached the irish from 1971-72 through 1990­91, compiled a record of 393­197 and advanced to 14 ncaa tournaments. 
more than two dozen of phelps’ former players at notre dame will be on cam­pus for the game. phelps’ banner will be unveiled in the rafters during halftime. 
From there, after honor­ing the legendary former coach, the irish will attempt to squash their second-half struggles and earn their sec­ond conference win. 
“it is one game at a time,” senior center garrick sherman told reporters after wednesday’s loss. “we have to focus on sunday and get a win against virginia Tech. That is all you can do. we have to try and get better until then.” 
notre dame tips off against the hokies on sunday at 6 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


to find some openings and make some shots. But over­all, Jewell’s defense was very good all night.” 
The victory increases notre dame’s lead in the series to 21-6 in the 19th consecutive year the two teams have met. however, this is the first time mcgraw and the irish faced off with first-year panthers head coach suzie mcconnell­serio, who gave a new look to a longtime opponent. 
“They have a new coach, so it’s really different, even though we’ve played them before,” mcgraw said. “They have a new system, running different things, but there was some familiarity with the players.” 
The irish had a change to their lineup for the con­test, as well. reimer, usually one of mcgraw’s first play­ers off the bench, started in place of senior forward ariel Braker, who did not play with a strained achilles and is day-to-day, mcgraw said. Freshman center diamond Thompson did not make the trip because of illness, but mcgraw said she expects her to be ready for the team’s next game against Tennessee. 
The irish take their perfect record to knoxville, Tenn., for a matchup with the no. 12/10 volunteers and one of college basketball’s most sto­ried programs monday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

MLS 
conTinued From page 16 
head to colorado’s preseason camp next week, where he’ll join former irish teammate dillon powers, who tallied 5 goals and 4 assists last season and was named the 2013 mls rookie of the year. 
“To be a professional athlete is a dream come true, especial­ly to go to an organization like colorado,” van de casteele said. “They have a recent his­tory of letting younger guys make an impression on the team and get solid minutes, as well.” 

in his 84 career matches, van de casteele helped lead the irish defense to 30 shut­outs, scoring four goals along the way. he was named to the ncaa championship all-Tournament Team this sea­son and last year graduated with degrees in Finance and economics. van de casteele was also named the 2012-2013 Big east male scholar-athlete of the year. 
“i’m so grateful for my time at notre dame,” he said. “it opened up a ton of doors for me, doors that definitely wouldn’t me open for me if i had gone somewhere else. notre dame has made me who i am today, and i owe them a lot more than i could ever repay them.” 
harrison shipp, another captain from this year’s cham­pionship squad, signed with mls’s chicago Fire last week. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
her to have a nice homecom­ing. so many fans from erie came down for the game, and she was able to play really well in front of her family and friends, so that was great.” 
mabrey, meanwhile, con­tinued to showcase the out­side shot she has improved from last season, making four of her five 3-point attempts and increasing her season average to 44.2 percent from behind the arc. 
“That is her job — to take those threes,” mcgraw said. “Tonight she made them, and she was so poised and effi­cient and really had a great game.” 
Besides contributing to the box score with her 20 points and four steals, loyd had the task of defending pittsburgh junior guard Brianna kiesel, who entered the night lead­ing the acc with 22.3 points per game in conference play. 
kiesel scored 20 points against the irish before leav­ing midway through the second half with an injury. however, she was scoreless through the first six minutes of the game and limited to two-for-nine shooting from the floor before halftime. 
“That was the one area i thought we could’ve done a little better at,” mcgraw said. “we did a decent job on her in the first half. she’s a really good player, and she was able 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | The oBserver 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher Brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: kate moss, 40; richard T. Jones, 42; debbie allen, 64; John carpenter, 66. 
Happy Birthday: strive to reach your goals. refuse to let emotional situations stand in your way. separate personal and professional obligations and focus on each with tolerance and passion. step outside your comfort zone if it will help you lead the way to a better life and future. set priorities and don’t budge until you reach your goals. live, love and laugh. your numbers are 7, 13, 18, 26, 37, 40, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you have the discipline to get things done, but your emotional outlook may cause some problems with someone who has the power to influence your future. an innovative look at the situation will help you find the best response. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): There is no time to waste. deadlines must be met and energy levels must remain consistent. you have plenty to gain if you bring your best game to the competition. less said and more done will confirm you can take charge. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen to advice and follow through with adding a unique touch. Take care of a money matter before it ruins your credit, a relationship or your reputation. connecting with someone from your past can lead to alternative ways to earn money. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): live in the moment and forget the past. By making new choices, you will find ways to rediscover some of the things that make you happiest. romance is highlighted and spending time socializing will enhance your personal life and attitude.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): choose your battles and your allies and focus on your strengths and destinations. The journey you begin will lead to specific changes that will need nurturing. prepare to give your all and see matters through to the end. success will be yours. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make whatever you do enjoyable. Take initiative and you’ll find a way to spread your happiness around and encourage others to follow suit. your influence on the people you deal with will make your life easier and your future brighter.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): use your intuitive insight when dealing with partners, friends and family. read between the lines and you’ll discover who is with you and who is not. let your emotions set the standard. it’s time to regulate instead of being controlled. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): pick a destination that will lead to knowledge, and head in that direction. you will benefit from the interactions you have with people sharing your interests or expertise. love is in the stars and romance should be planed for the evening hours. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): ask questions and show interest. The more infor­mation you gather, the easier it will be to make a decision. a money deal may be met with opposition. listen to what’s being said and it may save you a bundle. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t feel pressured to make a choice or decision. Take your time and make it clear that you will not be bullied or coerced into any­thing. a strong will is required if you are going to avoid loss and maintain control. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): revisit your strategy regarding work, money and moving forward. a change will do you good, but it may be necessary to pick up addi­tional skills or information to do so. Be patient and do what’s required of you. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): do whatever it takes to make an impression. expect to receive money or a gift or see a debt fulfilled. share an idea and you will receive an interesting comment that will help you expand and pursue your goal. 


Birthday Baby: you are inventive, hardworking and giving. you are generous and responsible. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
missed shots were few and far between for no. 2 notre dame as the team took an early lead and never looked back in Thursday’s 109-66 win over pittsburgh at the panthers’ petersen events center. 
notre dame (16-0, 4-0 acc) shot 60.6 percent from the floor, including 9-for-12 from behind the arc, while converting 20 of its 22 free-throw attempts en route to its highest point total of the season. 
“i think we beat them on both ends of the floor,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “shots were dropping, and i think we really felt good about that, and that probably gave us a little bit more energy on defense.” 
The irish were just as sol­id on the other end of the court, holding the panthers (9-9, 1-3 acc) to 28.1 percent shooting in the first half and 
37.1 percent for the game. The 43-point win comes on the heels of notre dame’s 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | noTre dame 109, piTT 66 
Notre Dame trounces Pitt 
79-72 win over virginia on sunday, the smallest margin of victory for the squad this season. 
“we worked really hard on our defense after the virginia game because we weren’t happy with how we defended them,” mcgraw said. “so i was really pleased with how we were able to ex­ecute and just really, really able to defend them in the first half.” 
senior guard kayla mcBride and sophomore guard Jewell loyd led the way for the irish with 20 points each. senior forward natalie achonwa, sophomore guard michaela mabrey and fresh­man forward Taya reimer also contributed double-digit scoring, with 14, 13 and 10 points, respectively. 
For mcBride, a native of erie, pa., the game was something of a return home, as her hometown and pittsburgh lie about two hours from each other. 
“she really shot it well,” mcgraw said. “it’s great for 
see w BaskeTBall PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Van De Casteele drafted 

By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
grant van de casteele had a lifelong dream real­ized Thursday morning when the colorado rapids select­ed him in the first round of major league soccer’s annual superdraft. 
The former irish center back started every match over the last four seasons and as a team captain was instrumental in leading notre dame to its first national championship in program history last month. 
“right now, it’s a pretty sur­real feeling,” van de casteele said. “The national cham­pionship hasn’t even set in, and then i get this good news today. it’s been a few good months for me.” 
The rapids selected van de casteele with the 19th and fi­nal pick of the first round. he’ll 
see mls PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish aim to break losing streak 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
mired in a three-game los­ing skid, notre dame looks for its first win in more than two weeks when it hosts virginia Tech on sunday night at purcell pavilion. 
little has gone right for the irish (10-7, 1-3 acc) since their 79-77 upset of then-no.7 duke on Jan. 4. They lost at home to north carolina state on Jan. 7. Four days later, in its first road acc contest, notre dame fell to georgia Tech. and on wednesday, maryland thor­oughly outplayed the irish in the second half en route to the 74-66 Terrapin win. 
even the marquee win over the Blue devils has lost some of its luster, at least for the time being, as duke dropped to no. 23 in this week’s ap poll. 
“we’re struggling a little bit right now,” irish coach mike Brey told reporters after wednesday’s loss. “we need to get back into a practice rhythm and see if we can win a league game sunday night.” 
notre dame committed a season-high of 17 turnovers and was outrebounded 40-31 
— including a 20-11 deficit on the offensive glass — by the Terrapins on wednesday. The nine-board rebounding dif­ferential was notre dame’s second-largest deficit this season, and the irish hadn’t surrendered 20 offensive re­bounds to their opponent since the five-overtime slug-fest with louisville on Feb. 9, 2013. 
“you’re just not going to win a game giving up 20 offensive rebounds and turning the ball over 17 times,” Brey said. “disappointing for us.” 
Fourteen of maryland’s of­fensive rebounds came after halftime, as the irish contin­ued a recent trend of slug­gish second-half starts. notre dame led by nine at the break but didn’t score its first buck­et until the 13:14 mark of the second half. against georgia Tech, the irish only tallied one point for the first five-plus minutes of the second 
see m BaskeTBall PAGE 14 
HOCKEY 

Jackson hosts former team 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
when the irish left the now-disbanded ccha at the end of last season to move to hockey east, they left behind a number of tra­ditional rivalries that they knew would be difficult to continue, at least with the same frequency as before. irish coach Jeff Jackson has pointed out the loss of series with teams like michigan and michigan state as one of the drawbacks of join­ing the new england-heavy hockey east. 
still, the team will get the opportunity to rekindle an old ccha rivalry this week­end when lake superior state, Jackson’s former team, visits the compton Family ice arena for a pair of games. 
“i think keeping things alive with old ccha teams is a good thing, especially from a geographical stand­point,” Jackson said. “and lake state, obviously with my relationship there i hope we can keep playing them, and maybe get up there at some point again as an assistant in the 1986 season, winning a national championship in 1988, and took over the reins of 


see hockey PAGE 13 
too. i think it’s important for their program and ours to still have that rivalry mentality.” 
Jackson got his start in coaching at lake superior 




