The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 60 | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students reflect on final football game 
Irish lose to USC 49-14, finishing with a 7-5 regular season record 
By PAUL STEVENSON 
news writer 
in the final regular season game of the 2014 season, the irish lost 49-14 in a game against usc on saturday afternoon. 
The game concluded notre dame’s season, one that saw the university climb to no. 5 in the ap poll after a perfect 6-0 start and fall out of the rank­ings after losing five of the next six games, finishing with a 7-5 overall record. 
The irish were well supported in los angeles, as a strong notre dame contingent traveled to support the team, freshman Kelly loughran said. 

“The tailgating environment was a lot of fun at the game,” loughran said. “i was im­pressed by how well represent­ed the notre dame fans were in southern california.” 
Junior lisa wuertz said she was also impressed by the university’s committed fans. 
“one of my favorite parts of 
see game PAGE 5 


Week to examine campus dating culture 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Quarterback Malik Zaire passes the ball during Notre Dame’s 49­14 loss to USC on Saturday afternoon in Los Angeles. 
smc students to research homeless youth 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
seven saint mary’s se­niors in professor Frances Kominkiewicz’s social work class will be assisting the youth service bureau of st. Joseph county in its research concerning the best possible way to determine the num­ber of homeless youths in the south bend area. The students are seeking out and contact­ing agencies who can provide information on youth, and in turn finding ways to bet­ter count homeless youth, Kominkiewicz said. 
“if we are unable to effective­ly locate the homeless youth, we will be unable to determine their specific needs and then work at meeting those needs,” Kominkiewicz said. “This re­search has great importance to the community as well as nationally by finding 
see research PAGE 4 

Campus buildings 




lose power 

By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
late sunday night, a clus­ter of buildings concen­trated on the south side of south Quad, including four dorms, lost power for around four hours, accord­ing to university spokesman dennis brown. students confirmed carroll hall also lost power. 
“at approximately 10:20 
p.m. sunday, a failed piece of cable led to a power outage in 11 buildings: st. Joseph hall, columba hall, holy cross annex, [the] rockne [memorial], lyons, west lake hall, Fisher, pangborn, dillon, alumni and a small portion of Fitzpatrick engineering,” brown said. “The failed section of cable was isolated and service re­stored to the first three facil­ities by approximately 2 a.m. and the balance of facilities by approximately 2:20 a.m. 
brown said there was “no relation” between this pow­er outage and other minor 
see ouTage PAGE 5 



By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
The gender relations center (grc) intends to spend the first week of december rede­annie Kuster said. 
Kuster, an anthropology and international economics ma­jor, is one of the coordinators of this year’s event, as well as a peer educator at the grc. 


ND alumnus Alex Coccia named Rhodes Scholar 
served as a three-year Fire allies on campus. 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

editor-in-chief starter peer educator in the while serving as the 2013-14 gender relations center and student body president, he led by the time he graduated in 
the “one is Too many” cam-

fining the dating culture at “The grc and Fire starters 
may 2014, alex coccia was one 
the university of notre dame (grc peer educators fo­
of the most recognizable peo­
through constructive con-cused on Finding identity, 
ple at notre dame. 

versation, social media cam-relationships and equality) 
he earned two monograms 
paigns and featured speakers. want to debunk this myth that 
with the varsity fencing team, 

paign against campus sexual 
assault, helped change admis­
sions policies so undocument­
ed students could attend notre 
dame and worked to improve 

“notre dating week is a way you have to already be boy-
which won the 2011 ncaa title 
the campus climate for lgbTQ 

to remind college kids that friend/girlfriend-dating 
when he was a freshman. 
students. to 

there’s a fun place between go on dates,” she said. “a lot 
he majored in africana 
he earned a Truman-albright 
the ‘ring by spring’ and casual 

studies and peace studies, con-founded the 4 to 5 movement to 
hookup mentalities,” junior see noTre daTing PAGE 5 
ducted research in rwanda, educate and empower lgbTQ see coccia PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 IRISH INSIDER 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

How many pounds of food did you consume over Thanksgiving break? 


Ariel Navota 
sophomore welsh Family hall 
“372.48.” 
Elizabeth O’Toole 
senior walsh hall 
“3.14159.” 
Hilary Johnson 
senior 
lyons hall 
“oh gosh, i don’t even know.” 

Julia Tombardi 
sophomore 
welsh Family hall 
“i wanna say 10 or 11.” 
Will Harris 
junior segfried hall 
“372.5.” 
Tom Wintering 
graduate student 
Keenan hall 
“(pumpkin pi)^2.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers alex carson emilie Kefalas christine mayuga 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
mary mcgraw caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Auditions: Cloud SB Youth Symphony Christmas Cooke Women’s Basketball 
wei lin Tabitha ricketts 
Rolfs Sports Tectonics Orchestra Decorating Joyce Center Recreation Center DeBartolo Performing Morris Inn LaFortune Student 3:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. 11 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. Arts Center 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Center ND vs. Connecticut. 
Corrections 

Appointments are 6 p.m. - 10 p.m. Holiday entertainment. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as encouraged. Sign up in FTT Practice your a professional publication and 
Department Office. decorating skills. 
strives for the highest standards 
Hear From Families Men’s Basketball Interdenominational ND Chorale Men’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Who Sew “The Shirt” Joyce Center Fellowship (ISI) DeBartolo Performing Joyce Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Geddes Hall 7:15 p.m. - 9:15 p.m. Coleman - Morse Arts Center 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. ND vs. Michigan State. Center 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. ND vs. Fairleigh 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free and open to the 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Featuring Handel’s Dickinson. 
we can correct our error. 

public. Student worship. “Messiah.” 


Panel explores changes in journalism 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
members of the advisory com­mittee for notre dame’s gallivan program in Journalism, ethics and democracy gathered nov. 24 for a panel discussion about “tradition­al” versus digital news and how online publications are changing the face of journalism. 
The event, titled “The new york Times vs. buzzFeed: can Traditional Journalism compete with digital news?,” gathered six advisors and program direc­tor robert schmuhl, chair of the american studies depart­ment. panelists included anne Thompson, chief environmental affairs correspondent for nbc news; meg martin, associate edi­tor for mobile and breaking news at minnesota public radio; Tom bettag, producer for nbc news; maddie hanna, reporter for the philadelphia inquirer; daniel leduc, senior officer and editor for The pew charitable Trusts, and robert costa, national political re­porter for The washington post. 
schmuhl began the discourse by asking whether the dynamic between the traditional news me­dia and new digital outlets would be better described as competition or conflict. 
costa said the internet is an equalizing force, but the tradi­tional brand weight carried by established news outlets is an advantage. 
“if you want to be creative with your coverage, you can do that from any platform, any organiza­tion,” he said. “if it’s quality, it will get read, and it will get noticed. The only thing the traditional media still has an edge up on is when it comes to traditional things – if the president wants to sit down with an organization, he’s likely not go­ing to sit down with buzzFeed.” 
bettag agreed and said “brand is everything.” 
“in this era when there are a hundred possible outlets, having a brand that stands for something [means] that i recognize that and i’ll go there, out of all 280 of these channels and all the different op­tions,” he said. “brand conscious­ness is the key to success. 
“people identify themselves with certain … media outlets, and these become loyalties that are so important for outlets looking for the young demographic. once you say you’re a committed viewer, you’re going to carry that until you’re 80 years old. if they can get you now, you will stay with that.” 
martin said the idea of “tradi­tional media” is misleading be­cause of blending platforms. 
“i do have trouble with the idea of the traditional media because if the washington post is talking to the president, they’re not just go­ing to print that in the paper,” she said. “They’re going to put it on their website immediately. They might even live stream it. so is that television? … yes, it’s a newsroom that has been around for awhile, a lot longer than an online organi­zation, but i still have a little trou­ble with the [traditional media] construct.” 
social media is another factor at play, and it can diminish brand power, hanna said. 
“maybe there’s some sort of brand loyalty, but there’s also this egalitarian system where i happen to see a link that’s being circulated on social media, soi’ll visit the site,” she said. “it’s not really because it’s from any particular news outlet, so i think that’s the biggest way that the web levels the playing field.” 
Thompson said her biggest concern with buzzFeed or other internet sites such as gawker or the huffington post is that the information verification process might not be as meticulous as it is with a more traditional news organization. 
“i don’t know what [buzzFeed’s] oversight is, so as a consumer of news, i am wary of what i see or read from them,” she said. “i know that if it’s in The washington post or The new york Times or The wall street Journal or any of the three broadcast networks or cnn, there is a vetting process it goes through to catch potential mistakes.” 
leduc said he sees buzzFeed and other digital-only outelts al­ready moving to more “ambitious” coverage. 
“buzzFeed and a couple of other sites who are trying to increase their ambition, they’re doing it by trying to do what traditional media does,” he said. “buzzFeed made a big deal of creating an investiga­tive unit, and they hired someone experienced to run that unit.” 
bettag said he believes the two extremes can coexist if the audi­ence is willing to use each on its own terms. 
“To some extent … they’re like apples and oranges,” he said. “i think offering people two differ­ent things with different standards that promise people different things is perfectly fine. …That’s a business, and it’s good business.” 
Thompson said she does not think network news will die, but rather that people will access it in different ways. 
“maybe instead of watching it on Tv, you watch it on your iphone. you watch it on your ipad,” she said. “what’s great for you is that journalism is not a dying industry, it is a growing industry. 
“Technology is changing the way we access journalism, but people still need to know what’s going on. They still need some­body to get out there and ask ques­tions and investigate, and it will take different forms.” 
The panelists discussed their personal news consumption hab­its, ranging from radio broadcasts to Twitter to traditional newspa­pers. They agreed that Twitter is a valuable medium for both con­suming and disseminating news. 
“iread Twitter constantly; it’s like my headline service,” Thompson said. 
“i also am a constant checker of Twitter,” hanna said. 
“i use Twitter lists a lot,” martin said. “There’s no way i could fol­low the billions of people i follow if i didn’t organize them. i check my minnesota list; i check my regular feed; i check my breaking news feed; i have a catholic church feed.” 
“Twitter is a great way to com­pete,” costa said. “it keeps people on edge. you don’t want to be con­sumed by it, but you want to make sure you’re engaged. … our editors at the post are always telling us to share what you know, in an article or on Twitter, but show people that the washington post is on top of it.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

custodian dies in house fire 
law professor 
Observer Staff Report 
connie morris, a mem­ber of the student activities Facilities custodial staff, died nov. 28 in a house fire at the age of 58. an email sent monday to student affairs staff notified them of the incident. 
The fire started in the garage of morris’ elkhart home early Friday, according to the south bend Tribune. investigation into the cause is ongoing, but “early find­ings point to the fire being 

accidental  in  nature,”  the  
Tribune report stated.  
morris  had  worked  for  

notre dame since 2008, the email said. 
“her dedicated and cheer-

emeritus dies
ful presence will be missed by students, staff, faculty and guests of laFortune,” erin hoffmann-harding, vice president for student affairs, said in the email to her staff. 
a celebration of life service will take place dec. 2 at 6 p.m. at walley-mills-Zimmerman Funeral home. 
paid adverTisemenT 


since continued “teaching and writing in the areas of admin­istrative law, civil procedure, ethics, jurisprudence, law and theology, legal history and wel­fare legislation,” the press release stated. he was also a member of the catholic commission on intellectual and cultural affairs. 
“The many of us who loved him, loved him for his character as much as for his extensive and superb scholarship,” nell Jessup newton, dean of the notre dame law school, said in a statement. “bob was an essential part of notre dame law school for more than 50 years. Though he retired earlier this year, he remained as intellectually vigorous and engaged as ever, most recently working on final touches of a book manuscript.” 
rhodes graduated from brown university in 1947 and served in the u.s. navy for two years be­fore earning a law degree from harvard, the press release stated. From 1952 to 1954, he worked at liberty mutual insurance company, followed by two years on the rutgers school of law faculty. during the summers, he served as a clerk for the new Jersey supreme court. 
a wake took place at Kaniewski Funeral home on dec. 1 from 12 
p.m. to 2:30 p.m. and was followed with a funeral mass at 3:30 p.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. 
Observer Staff Report 
robert e. rhodes Jr., professor emeritus of legal ethics, died nov. 25 at the age of 87, according to a university press release. 
rhodes arrived at the notre dame law school in 1956 and 


The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND community to celebrate Las Posadas 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
The notre dame community will celebrate its catholic tradi­tion and latin american ties by hosting las posadas from dec. 2-4 at 9 p.m. The celebration, whose spanish title translates to “lodg­ing,” represents mary and Joseph’s search for shelter before Jesus’ birth. This year, las posadas be­gins at The grotto and ends in Keenan hall, Farley hall and the coleman-morse center on each of the three respective nights. 
multiple student organizations on campus including campus ministry, coro primavera and the latino student alliance worked in tandem to plan and generate participation in this year’s las posadas, Farley hall rector and las posadas organizer elaine debassige said. 
“To see the diverse ways of how we come together as a spiritual community is really important,” debassige said. “we also have to remember to be like christ in the season of advent and have our hearts and doors open to all those who need a place of shelter.” 
she said the celebration brought back memories of her childhood in new mexico. 
“back in my hometown, it end­ed at midnight mass in the church and took place in 11 other houses,” she said. 
debassige said her mom volun­teered her family’s house to be one of the destinations for las posadas in their small village every year. 
debassige said she too helps designate the path las posadas celebrants will follow through the university’s campus. she said Keenan hall was a logical host as Farley’s brother dorm. 
“last year the path from The grotto to the two dorms worked really well,” debassige said. “what’s different this year is that we are ending at campus ministry.” 
debassige said that, although she was not disappointed with last year’s turn out, she hopes an increase in club involvement will translate to an increase in student attendance. 

“last year, there were a to­tal of about 150 people over the three nights which was great,” debassige said. “it was more than what i thought.” 
debassige said she anticipates a large turnout this year due to bet­ter publicity and relatively tamer weather. 
“i think it’s a good way to rep­resent catholic traditions and culture in a way that involves a lot more people than just latinos,” Juan rangel, multicultural senior intern for campus ministry, said. 
members of the notre dame community will sing hymns, pray and eat food in order to celebrate this journey. 
“prayer and music and reflec­tion demonstrates the colorful­ness of the culture,” rangel said. 
debassige said aside from prayers and songs of worship, las posadas incorporates a social element. The event provides op­portunities to socialize over food and beverages served by the host location. 
“my favorite part growing up was helping my mom make the food for the event,” debassige said. “it was a time to welcome people into your home … and a time of hospitality.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
alumnus shares design career at marvel 
can understand what the movie meinerding said he and his life, as opposed to reinterpret-not selected as the final design, 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 

news writer is going to look like before it’s team focus on whatever story ing or changing it.” but that he has learned to step 
made.” the filmmakers are trying to tell one of the biggest challenges back as a manager and realize 
ryan meinerding, the head of meinerding said he dabbled and align the spirit of the char-as a designer in the film in-that the design that is chosen visual development at marvel in website and video game char-acters with the marvel universe. dustry is maintaining a sense will be quality. studios and 1999 notre dame acter design before working for “The visuals of the movie de-of integrity and pride in your “our job is to present the best graduate, spoke monday night marvel studios. fine the tone, however dramatic work, meinerding said, while options that we are capable of in west lake hall about his ca-“i began trying to do anima-or comedic, and that’s the driv-still putting out pieces at the de-preventing,” he said. “if i get to reer in design and his work on tion style work, but i learned ing force for the storytelling,” he manding pace required by the draw captain america and it various movies including iron very quickly that across all of said. “behind that, we aim to be industry. doesn’t get picked i’m still okay man 2, captain america and the companies that do anima-true to the comics. other comic “it’s very easy to get beaten with that because i got to draw The avengers. tion: pixar, dreamworks, sony, book movies that are being done down by deadlines and say i captain america. it can get dis­
“i head up a team of artists there are basically three guys not by marvel studios aren’t al-can’t do something good,” he heartening in some context like that actually do all the charac-that do all of the animation,” he ways using that as the basis for said. “That’s a constant chal-when politics are involved and ter design for all of the marvel said. “The jobs that are design their films, but at marvel we try lenge with concept art because they actively aren’t picking the studios movies,” meinerding jobs for the other people are de-to be true to the story of the film things have gotten to the point best design, but because we’re said. “we also do key frame signing all the doors or all the and true to the source material.” where people are just using pho-in a place where i have hired illustrations, which is going tables in the films and i decided “we have a faith in the char-tocopying and using pictures as a lot of people that i know are through the script and figuring pretty quickly i wasn’t going to acter and in the brand that’s their bases and not taking pride doing great stuff. if my stuff out what the key moments are do animation, which is sad be-been around forever,” he said. in their work, they just want to doesn’t get picked, i still know and how to visualize them. we cause i really enjoy it. “captain america has been get something done that looks it’s going to be a good design.” illustrate and design things as “That’s when i started to do around for over 70 years. we try realistic.” early as possible in production more realistic work, like live ac-to find what’s fantastic about meinerding said it can be Contact Matthew McKenna at so the director and producers tion film design.” that character and bring it to challenging when his work is mmcken12@nd.edu 
Research 
conTinued From page 1 
the best practices to locate home­less youth.” 
students conducted qualitative interviews to learn more about the methods of local and nation­al agencies for counting home­less youth, what services had been provided to the youth and what legal procedures were part of the process, senior meghan Thornton said. 
“The individuals and organi­zations/agencies were selected because they are indirectly or directly in contact with the homeless youth around the na­tion,” Thornton said. “They are the experts in this field. They all have one goal in mind and that is ending the homeless youth population.” 
senior Kelly Key said she and her classmates are aware of the fallibility of these research meth­ods. other agencies have run into problems conducting similar surveys, including double count­ing, trying to locate the home­less youth, volunteer bias and the length of the survey, Key said. 
Thornton said working in tandem with the youth service bureau will help her and her classmates determine how to find the best methods of research, as well benefit the growing homeless population in the sur­rounding community by raising awareness. 
“youth homelessness is a grow­ing concern in the united states,” Thornton said. “… There are ap­proximately 1.6-2 million home­less youth in the united states.” 
senior Kelly crooks said she interviewed four of the 11 confi­dential informants and was re­sponsible for writing literature reviews and researching lifestyles of homeless youth. The saint mary’s students also learned how to complete an irb proposal and analyze data — valuable skills in the social work field, crooks said. 
“This process was extremely valuable for me,” crooks said. “i think it prepared me well for what i will experience in graduate school.” 
research is one of the 10 com­petencies required for the social work major, Kominkiewicz said. 
“we are teaching students so­cial work research methods on a graduate basis since the research methods course can be used to meet graduate social work re­quirements,” Kominkiewicz said. “students must be able to be producers and consumers of research. To most effectively achieve this, students need to actually have an opportunity to conduct community-based research.” 
as a former member of the re­search committee at the youth service bureau, Kominkiewicz said she recognizes the signifi­cance community-based re­search has in higher education. 
“The youth service bureau of st. Joseph county has served as a social work field practicum site for many years with shotunus peterson serving as the field in­structor,” she said. ”shotunus and the youth service bureau have al­ways worked with us, and have consistently been at the forefront of social work education.” 
Key said the research began in november and its findings will be shared with the youth service bureau of st. Joseph county in december. 
“i hope that our research proj­ect will educate the south bend community and that the com­munity will become aware of this growing issue,” Key said. “i also hope that this will help promote youth service bureau and all of their services that they provide for the community. 
“The more information we have on counting and serving homeless youth, the better youth service bureau will be able to serve them, and organizations can utilize this thus bettering the community. information.” we desire to publish this study to contribute to the greater research Contact Kathryn Marshall at community, so more individuals kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Coccia 
conTinued From page 1 
Fellowship and currently works in the department of health and human services in washington d.c., addressing is­sues from climate change to do­mestic violence prevention. 
and, as of last weekend, he be­came notre dame’s 15th rhodes scholar, the first since 2002. 
“it’s a big honor, and i’m very thankful,” coccia said. “i see it as a team effort, though, so i wish i could be celebrating with people on campus.” 
coccia, a 2014 graduate,  is one of  32 rhodes scholars from the u.s. this year and will begin studying at the university of oxford in october 2015. 
coccia is one of 32 rhodes scholars from the u.s. this year and will begin a two-year masters in comparative social policy program at the university of oxford in october. 
Rhodes Scholarship 
according to the rhodes Trust website, 80 scholars from across the world are selected annually according to criteria outlined by the will of cecil rhodes. The scholarship provides funding for students to enroll in a program of their choice at the university of oxford in england. 
The website lists the four cri­teria from rhodes’ will as: “liter­ary and scholastic attainments; energy to use one’s talents to the full, as exemplified by fondness for and success in sports; truth, courage, devotion to duty, sym­pathy for and protection of the weak, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship; moral force of character and instincts to lead, and to take an interest in one’s fellow beings.” 
“what i proposed for my program of study as a rhodes scholar was that i really wanted to engage in social and eco­nomic policy with a framework of social inclusion,” coccia said. “i applied for rhodes last year as well as this year, and both years have just felt like there was an immense team supporting me. 
“i had faculty mentors who took time out of their schedules to prep me or write recommen­dation letters and my fellow stu­dents who helped me articulate what i wanted to do with the scholarship, so it feels like it’s re­ally been a team effort.” 
Formative time at Notre Dame 
coccia said his interest in so­cial policy is “a natural trajec­tory” from his work at notre dame, which focused on inclu­sion in many forms. 
“my academic experience in africana studies and peace studies helped me begin to ask the right questions that i could apply to my work in the [progressive student alliance] or in student government,” he said. 
nancy Joyce, a 2014 graduate and student body vice president for 2013-14, said she witnessed firsthand how coccia embodies the rhodes criteria. 
“during the time that alex and i worked together, it was al­ways very clear to me that alex was – and is – motivated by the stories and experiences of those without a voice, and is willing to take up the fight for those individuals and groups,” she said. “whether working for the establishment of notre dame’s first [gay-straight alliance], for the healing of those affected by sexual violence, for the welcom­ing of undocumented students at notre dame or for the support of socioeconomically disadvan­taged students on our campus, alex has always been a cham­pion of those who need one.” 
ernesto verdeja, director of undergraduate studies for the Kroc institute for international peace studies said he was “de­lighted, but not surprised” by the news. 
“in his time here as a peace studies student at the Kroc institute, he excelled in his stud­ies and became a noted leader on campus,” verdeja said. “he has distinguished himself as a scholar and a leader, and i wish him all the best at oxford.” 
Joyce said watching both of coccia’s rhodes application processes makes her “genuinely thrilled and incredibly excited for him.” 
“winning the rhodes is such a well-deserved opportunity and will only serve to better enable alex to continue championing the causes and people that most need his truth, courage, devo­tion, leadership and moral force of character,” she said. 
Plans for the future 
coccia said his work at the department of health and human services has given him broad exposure to public policy and shown him firsthand how public social and economic poli­cies are interwoven. 
“it’s easy to silo things, but it’s taught me that a holistic frame­work for government is what’s important in terms of address­ing an agenda and what we owe to each other as human beings and citizens,” he said. “i’ve been working on projects that are within my interest areas and that expand my interests.” 
The comparative social policy program at oxford appeals to him because “it’s a good bal­ance between theory and the nuts and bolts of how to make policies work,” coccia said. 
“social inclusion as a policy framework is being discussed in the united Kingdom and France, and it’s a stated part of the comparative social policy curriculum [at oxford],” he said. “i’ve been interested in the the­oretical foundations for policy and policymaking, and from what i’ve read, the comparative degree does a great job showing the implications of how we ap­proach public policy and how it gets shaped.” 
The past few years have given him a “much greater clarity” for his future plans, coccia said, and he hopes to get involved in public policy at some level in the future. looking at public policy from a social inclusion perspec­tive is productive because “it’s a holistic and multidimensional account of the policy, and it takes into account all kinds of factors in terms of wellbeing and how policies influence each other,” he said. 
The leadership strategy he developed at notre dame will continue to be part of his future approach, he said. as student body president, he developed a reputation for scheduling non­stop personal meetings with hundreds of students, faculty members and administrators as he worked to develop initiatives. 
“i’ll still try to meet with as many people as possible,” he said with a laugh. “i will very much look forward to being a student again, but given my nature, i’ll be wanting to be in­volved in other ways as much as possible too.” 
Fellowships at Notre Dame 
at notre dame, students who apply for the rhodes scholarship or dozens of other national fellowships, includ­ing the Fulbright program and the marshall/mitchell schol­arships, work with the center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse). 
“alex did what we hope all students will do as undergradu­ates at notre dame,” said deb rotman, director of cuse. “he took his learning experience be­yond the classroom and took full advantage of all the resources on campus to discern his path, cultivate his gifts and serve as a transformational leader.” 
rotman said students inter­ested in applying for the rhodes scholarship or any of the other national fellowships should visit fellows.nd.edu for preliminary information and contact cuse for more details about the appli­cation process. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Notre Dating 
conTinued From page 1 
of the week is just a focus on what it means to be in or start a healthy relationship of any degree.” 
another Fire starter and coordinator, senior amanda peña, said she is excited to see how students respond over the course of the week to the events, most of which focus on breaking the ice and moving beyond the so-called friend zone. 
Editor’s  note:  Peña  is  a  
Viewpoint  columnist  for the  
Observer.  

“There seems to be a cul­ture on campus where stu­dents feel there are only two options when it comes to re­lationships: super serious or some vague, undefined fling,” peña said. “This week, i think the grc is hoping to open up the dialogue about the different levels of build­ing relationships — from new friendships to getting stu­dents comfortable with the language of dating to enter­ing and maintaining healthy relationships.” 
To supplement the week’s events, the grc will keep a blog all week proposing some creative and primar­ily off-campus date ideas for prospective couples, junior connor hayes said. 
“one of my favorite parts of the week is the date blog run by a few Fire starters at the grc,” hayes said. “… given that most students rarely think to go on dates off-cam­pus, i think the blog could be a really unique resource for students.” 
hayes said he joined the grc as a Fire starter hoping to change the dialogue after noticing a general unwilling­ness to talk about gender and sexuality issues on campus. 
“notre dating week, i think, helps create a dialogue on campus surrounding these issues, or at the very least encourages people to begin critically thinking about the relationship culture on cam­pus,” hayes said. 
regina gesicki, assis­tant director of educational initiatives at the grc, said she is particularly excited to attend a talk on “the friend-zone” tonight at 8 p.m. in 106 o’shaughnessy. 
“This  interactive  talk  
presented  by  emmanuel  
cannady  of  the  gender  

relations center will provide 
an opportunity to think about common personal and social barriers to dating that might exist at notre dame,” gesicki said. “students who attend will have a chance to debunk well-worn myths and miscon­ceptions about dating in gen­eral and specifically at nd. 
“yes, it’s a challenge, and it can be awkward, but it’s important to have authen­tic conversations about this topic if we’re going to change the dating climate on our campus.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
Game 
conTinued From page 1 
away games is seeing notre dame fans traveling from all over the country,” wuertz said. “i sat in the notre dame sec­tion. There were a ton of irish fans.” 
in the face of the usc loss, nd fans left the game with mixed reactions. 
“one positive is we have a month off to get ready for the bowl game and finally get healthy,” sophomore ryan loughran said. 
“The worst part was definite­ly the score, but enjoying one last notre dame game this year made it completely worth it,” Kelly loughran said. 

ryan loughran said with the close of the regular season, he was curious about the possible quarterback competition be­tween sophomore malik Zaire and senior everett golson. 
“There needed to be some type of change to put a fire into this team,” ryan loughran said. “i don’t know who [irish head coach brian] Kelly will go with, but there definitely is a Qb controversy.” 
Zaire took over the quar­terback responsibilities from golson during the second quarter of the game and ran for one of the irish touchdowns. 
in addition to the quarter­back switch, Kelly also subbed in redshirt freshman mike mcglinchey at offensive tackle for fifth-year senior christian lombard. 
“we have a lot injuries, so it’s hard to really judge where we will be next year,” wuertz said. “i thought malik looked good and was a good change of pace.” 
in spite of the loss, the irish were able to finish with a win­ning record for a seventh con­secutive season. 
“with young teams, bowl preparation can be very ben­eficial to the development of a team leading into the offsea­son,” said ryan loughran. 

after a series of disappoint­ing losses, the irish aim to end the year on a high note as they turn their attention to bowl game preparation. 
students say they are ready to move on. 
“i’m indifferent about a bowl game,” wuertz said. “i sort of want to just start a new season and forget about the negatives from this one.” 
currently, the irish are pre­dicted to play against the university of Tennessee in the belk bowl on december 30 in charlotte, north carolina. 
Contact Paul Stevenson at psteven4@nd.edu 
Outage 
conTinued From page 1 
outages this semester or the nearly campus-wide blackout Feb. 27. 
“permanent repairs are forthcoming,” he said. “… once repairs are made, there likely will be a very short, scheduled outage at some point in the future to restore the system to its normal configuration. The timing for that will be communi­cated to building managers, rectors and others.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
It’s Christmas! 

INSIDE COLUMN 

love in print 
Kayla Mullen 
news writer 

by the time holden caulfield confided in me, “what really knocks me out is a book that, when you’re all done reading it, you wish the author that wrote it was a terrific friend of yours and you could call him up on the phone whenever you felt like it,” i was already in love with him. Forget movie stars; my celebrity crush was on an iconic literary character. 
i mean, sure, he was a little mentally unstable, and oK, maybe he wasn’t real, but there was definitely a con­nection. That had to mean something, right? i know, i know, we couldn’t go on dates, and we couldn’t talk that much. honestly, we couldn’t do anything at all. being in a one-sided relationship takes a toll, but i soon discovered that by mak­ing up stories myself, it evened out a bit. 
unlike a normal boyfriend, i could take holden anywhere. movie dates? how basic. we were visiting paris in the spring ... circa 1876. it was a blissful few months together, but — this be­ing a teenage love — the relationship eventually came to an end. holden was cute and all, but he was just so un­happy all the time. if i hear the word “phony” again in my life, it’ll be too soon. creating my own character to fill the void seemed like a good idea. at least he’d be a little more emotionally sensi­tive. Thus, Jack, chad, henry and max were all written into existence, each one more perfect than the next. but then i turned 15, and realized it was a little weird to be dating boys that existed only on paper. 
i still fall in love with characters in books, over and over again each time i read a book, even for the second, 30th or 100th time. i still find a little piece of me inside every story i read that makes me ache when i finish the last sentence. but holden caulfield taught me that not every story has to end at the last period, that a story isn’t just what’s on the page and that the characters don’t disappear when the final chapter ends. They’re alive in every person who ever asked if Jake and brett ended up together after all, if winston lived the rest of his life under big brother, if nick wound up liv­ing happily by himself. 
i fall in love with books because they change every time you read them. a word triggers a feeling you hadn’t expe­rienced the last time you read the book, and the whole meaning of the entire novel is altered. i love books because they’re new and comforting, familiar and consuming. i love books, chapters, sentences, words and the characters that are created by them. i may have moved on, but holden caulfield will always be my second love. after books. 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

yesterday, dec. 1, marked the end of my three-week totalitarian reign over christmas music. my room­mate is now completely free to listen to as much christmas music as she likes in my presence. i have protected the sanctity of Thanksgiving and am now quite happy to move on to snow and twinkling lights and the wreath hanging from our window for all of laFun to see. 
music and i have had a sometimes problematic, but mostly loving, relationship. a frequent nick­name given to me by my beloved family has been the singing nazi, a name stemming from my incessantly loud voice that would pick and choose arbitrarily what songs we would sing in any exceedingly long car ride. if all of my sisters would like to sing meat loaf and i was not in the mood for meat loaf, my loud dissent­ing voice would be heard in the back singing anything else (especially if it sounded very discordant). it used to drive my siblings up the proverbial wall (and sometimes literally over the back seats so they could throttle me and stop the madness), but now they have come up with quippy and witty responses in order to throw me off my normal reign of terror: 
me: singing various one direction songs 
eliza: “who sings that, Kitty?” 
me: “one direction.” 
eliza: “well, let’s keep it that way.” 

now, while my sisters have gained more control of the radio as they have been able to fight back against my desire for musical numbers and disney classics, there is one area they have not been able to trump me in, and that is when christmas music is played in the house. i don’t know whether it is out of respect for my weird appreciation for Thanksgiving, or if my parents actually find too much non-traditional christmas mu­sic a bit grating, but the sounds of “Jingle bells” and “white christmas” are never heard anywhere near the vicinity of the house until dec. 1. 
it’s not that i don’t love christmas. i do. but there is something to be said for waiting until the actual first day of december that makes you appreciate it so much more. and Thanksgiving is not a holiday to be walked all over. it is a day on which you give thanks for what you have, eat a ridiculous amount of delicious food and watch two football games without your mother exclaiming that “the Tv is the devil and it should be banned from the house.” Thanksgiving is a precious thing and shouldn’t be wasted. 
when my sisters and i were little, christmas music didn’t even come on the radio until december, and that was the only place you could listen to christmas music. now, with newfangled sites like pandora and youTube (sites that might have been out when i was a child, but i was unaware of the glorious internet), you can have christmas music at any time you’d like. a bit blue about the blistering heat that even copious amounts of air conditioning does not improve? open up your pandora page and listen to some dean martin to console you. wish you could enjoy hot cocoa and baggy sweaters even though your seatbelt is burn­ing into your skin? listen to bing crosby crooning through your speakers. 
in some ways, christmas, being the beautiful, won­derful, enjoyable thing it is, has crept into everyday life. now, there might even be a radio station in the car that is entirely devoted to christmas (if anyone still listens to the radio in the car). 
To be fair, i might be a little too grinchy about this. but it’s not that i want to steal christmas; i want to cherish it and make it special again. my reign as caesar Kitty for the last few weeks of november also means my ears are not burdened with the unfortunate favorite, “The christmas shoes.” and for that, i shall be thankful for every Thanksgiving. 
Kitty Baker is a PLS-FTT major, eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls and proud resident of Cavanaugh Hall (go Chaos) who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
How to not get sick 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

it’s the most wonderful time of the year for pre­schoolers, snowplows and that one person who actually looks good in red and green. it’s also the most wonderful time of the year for germs. 
The last time i interviewed a batch of bacteria, they said they couldn’t imagine a better time of year than the holiday season. everyone gives each other hugs and kisses (and germs). aunts and uncles hop on planes to bring their nieces and nephews pie and presents (and germs). washing hands? ain’t nobody got time for that. There are cookies to be decorated with frosting and sprin­kles (and germs). 
by now, you may be worried about catching a cold in the near future. This is good. i am brain­washing you to start hand washing. 
now, my hypnotized victims, it is time for you to ask: can you save yourself from the sniffles? The answer is — drumroll from a) the little drum­mer boy, b) 12 drummers drumming or c) the notre dame drumline — yes. Follow these rea­sonable rules, and you will never be mistaken for rudolph the red-nosed reindeer again. 
Rule 1) Bring your own bathroom (BYOB) 
bathrooms will make you sick. repeat after me: public bathrooms are the enemy. 
“but erin!” you might say. “sometimes i need to go to the bathroom and i cannot run or skip or seesaw home.” 
This is an understandable plight. i have, on oc­casion, also had to use the restroom when i was out of my house. yes, i do leave my house. don’t make that face. you’re supposed to be hypnotized. 
what i have come to realize, and what you will now come to believe until you come to your senses, is that you must bring your own bathroom if you are ever going to get through Thanksgiving dinner without sneezing on the mashed potatoes. you convinced your family last year that you add­ed pesto to the potatoes, but this year, you are in charge of the pie. you won’t be able to make up an excuse for boogery pumpkin pie. 
but how can you bring your own bathroom? it’s simple. put a porta potty in your backpack. it will fit. remember: you are hypnotized. 
your own bathroom will be so much better than a public one. you can have embroidered hand towels instead of those weak hand-dryers. i’m sure there are other pluses. insert them here. 
Rule 2) Curse the sneezers 

all those suckers who offer a “bless you” to sneezers are simply inviting the diseased to en­ter their personal bubble and infect them. make it clear to those sickies that you want them to stay far, far away by responding to sneezes with a forceful “curse you.” you may not have much experience with confrontation, so i invite you to practice, out loud, right now. remember: you are hypnotized, and this is entertaining. 
Rule 3) Eat the orange 

see the orange. peel the orange. eat the orange. preferably in that order. you could try to peel the orange without seeing it, or eating the orange without peeling it, but you might not enjoy the experience. Then again, you might get some great vitamins from that peel, so go ahead and eat the orange before peeling it. you have your own bath­room, after all. 
Rule 4) Floss 

i’m not sure why this will prevent you from get­ting a cold, but you should floss anyway. personal hygiene for the win. 
Rule 5) Smile 

you should smile. it is the holiday season after all, and now that you’ve flossed, someone might smile back at you. imagine that. 
smiling makes you happier and healthier. i have not done any doctoral research on that subject (or on any subject), but you’re hypnotized, and i like to see smiles, so you should smile. 
Rule 6) Learn to count past six 
mental exercise is important, as is physical ex­ercise, so why don’t you learn to count past six while hula hooping? don’t multi-task too much, though, for side effects include unnecessary stress. 
in fact, trying to do too much at once will pre­vent you from learning well. it might also make you crash because distracted driving is the new drunk driving. 
Rule 7) Like the Observer on Facebook 
Rule 8) Delete your Facebook account. It’s poisonous. 
Rule 9) Don’t actually delete it because then you won’t see when I annoyingly post this column. 
Rule 10) There needs to be a 10th rule because having nine rules is awkward. 
i kind of like awkward, though. awkward could be good for your health. if i ever do perform doc­toral research, it will be on the health benefits of awkwardness. more to come on that later. 
Rule n) Follow these rules 
Rule n+1) Do not follow these rules 
have a great break instead. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her sanity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

overcoming hate: a response to scop 
This is in response to the nov. 19th viewpoint, “scop stands against hate,” written by Tiernan Kane and Tim bradley. 
as i write this, i am sitting at home, and by home, i do not mean my beautiful dorm in the basement of sorin. i am in the state of arizona at the house i grew up in, under the watchful eye of my parents. 
i had to withdraw from the university for the rest of the year for mental health reasons, a deci­sion that was probably the hardest of my life. That decision stands as an example of what scop really means, and in order to respond, let me tell you a little about myself. 
i grew up in a small town in rural arizona. as far as beliefs go, it’s about as conservative as you can get. raised in a traditional catholic family, i “knew” what was right and what was wrong. The idea of two guys together was revolting and caused god to shake his head, upset with his creation. homosexual acts were obviously wrong, and i would debate to the death any person who dared say otherwise. 
Then i went to a steubenville conference in 2012. For those of you that don’t know, steubenville hosts a catholic retreat for high school students. it was on the second day during adoration that i cried and accepted that god had said, “let him be gay,” and so i was. 
This didn’t really surprise me. i had started noticing i liked guys as far back as fourth grade. when puberty kicked in, i noticed that the guys i had grown up around suddenly didn’t want to be around me, nor i around them. i was different, and i could tell that difference wasn’t good. This inter­nal struggle led me to four years without a friend. From seventh through tenth grades, i was alone in the world because i felt different, but i didn’t quite know how. don’t get me wrong, i was a sociable kid, but there was a wall between me and the rest of the people in my life. 
it is only now that i realize that it was my sexual­ity that separated me. i was gay, and as i had so of­ten said, god was not oK with gay. 
These years of loneliness caused an insecurity in me that i was unloved and unloveable. it didn’t matter the friends i made. no matter how great of a friend they were, i was still unloved. 
when i came to notre dame this year, my inse­curity manifested in the most horrible of ways. i became suicidal. For two months, i spent everynday thinking i would be better off dead. i didn’t real­ize at the time, but these feelings were very closely linked to how i felt isolated because of my sexuality. on the worst day, the day of the unc game, i left my room just so i could spend my last day outside. when the game was done, we went to sdh for the candlelight dinner. There was an incredible reese’s cream pie, of which i had four slices. i thought, “why not? This is the last thing i will ever eat.” 
Thankfully, i was in just a good enough mood to tell a friend how i felt, and she sat with me for hours as i cried. 
i would just like to note that turning suicide into a simple act of self-hate is both ignorant and hateful. 
For me, suicide was agreeing with society that who i am is backwards and worthless. i could never live a life as fully as others, and the world would be better off were i not there to waste space. 
That’s the problem with scop’s viewpoint: we can use words to make our arguments appear bet­ter, but we sometimes get lost in them. in these ar­guments, we forget about the human consequences of these arguments when or if they are carried out. it’s the stigmatization of being gay — that gay means different and that difference can never be rightly acted upon — that has caused me so many years of angst. it made me lonely; it made me hate living. if that isn’t hate, then i don’t know what is. 
it’s important to recognize hate, but it’s just as necessary to realize that hate is losing its battle. 
i’ll end with this: 30 states now recognize gay marriage, and the tally is only getting higher. countries around the world are grappling with this issue, and debates like this make the fight that much more relevant. it is my sincere belief that ev­eryone at our lady’s university is trying to live the best life they can. let’s not get lost with words, but embrace these diverse viewpoints, “lov[ing] one another and together [let’s] build a less imperfect community of love” (“same-sex couples to receive benefits,” oct. 16). 
Tyrel London 
freshman sorin hall nov. 20 

The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BY MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

it’s december, and as we approach the end of the year, scene wants to take a minute to reflect on all the great music that was released this year. check out the Top 10 here and then head to our website to find the rest of the list. 
1) “Interference Fits” — Perfect Pussy 
The term “interference fit” refers to a fastening be­tween two parts that is achieved by friction after the parts are pushed together, rather than by any other means of connection. “interference Fits,” then, is by far the most beautifully poetic name for a song in which lead singer meredith graves details her modern concep­tion of marriage and monogamy. graves envisions a life of uncompromising solitude for herself, yet all around her she sees her peers aging and compromising — in her eyes, giving up. 
her soul-baring performance and brutally personal lyricism spark imagery of burning wedding rings and messily fused relationships built on love’s conventions. dissonant guitars, fuzzy production and stumbling drums only heighten the already close similarities be­tween bulldozers plowing orchids and love gruesomely manipulating graves inside and out. This deeply inti­mate exhibition is not only stunningly written, but also confidently expressed with a conviction no other song reached this year. 
2) “Wonderful Everyday: Arthur” — Chance The Rapper 
chancellor bennett is an extremely gifted individual, equipped with the talent, wisdom, experience and under­standing to influence and affect an entire generation to promote positivity. synonymous with the “outstanding youth of the year” award the city of chicago presented to the 21-year-old in november, chance handles his popu­larity hand-in-hand with his anti-violence, peace-for-all activism. 
ingeniously, he repurposed a ubiquitously recognized theme song from a similarly toned children’s show for his generation to virally instigate his message. The song is naturally strong lyrically, but with help from his chicago #savemoney cohorts and stars like wyclef Jean, it flour­ishes sonically. 
The lushness of the production, the epicness of the song’s booming second half and the outward giddiness of each contributing singer make the song incredibly im­portant for the present time. 
3) “Man Of The Year” — ScHoolboy Q 
schoolboy Q has precognition. in “man of The year,” the california rapper predicted exactly what he’d be do­ing once his debut major label album blew up. The entire song is laden with every euphemism and entendre for a year’s worth of partying. 
yet, with the chromatics’ chilly, ominous sample rid­ing out the duration of the song, some of Q’s phrases take 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 

on an air of cinematic finality, like this one is the climax in a long line of blowouts. 
yeah, schoolboy Q may be the man of the year, but what happens after? 
his awareness is never more present than in the pen­ultimate line: “This verse straight from the morgue.” coupled with the haunt of an added layer to the “cherry” sample about 3-minutes in, “man of The year” is way more complex than the club in which you first heard it. 
4) “Prince Johnny” — St. Vincent 

annie clark is the queen of pop — on this planet, and surely on whichever planet her otherworldly persona st. vincent hails from. 
with the boundary-pushing “prince Johnny,” she pro­duced one of the most intelligent, sexy and, somehow, human songs of her career, all while maintaining it as chiefly pop in orientation. over an alternatingly quick, crunching verse guitar clutch and swaggering, strutting choral guitar riff, clark details the dangers of sociopath­ic tendencies involved with a mutually self-destructive relationship. 
her inflection at the end of the line “and bragged of when and where and who you gonna bed next” commu­nicates such a delicate, complex range of emotions, lilt­ing to show concern, but pronouncing “next” as if each letter is its own syllable in a remarkably sensual manner. other phrases end in similar hyper-emotive form, signi­fying st. vincent’s deft command and control over her art. 
5) “Two Weeks” — FKA twigs 

FKa twigs represents the future of pop music. “Two weeks” features a magnificent blend of pop, electronics and the new r&b that has been hinted at on the radio, but FKa twigs is about two dial clicks ahead of any other artist. 
she’s more advanced instrumentally, vocally and content-wise. her wispy, sexual delivery reminds one of a stronger britney spears, but her unabashed poise po­sitioned on a track as huge as “Two weeks” transcends typical pop star performances. 
6) “Mr Noah” — Panda Bear 

when animal collective’s co-founding member avey Tare established the side project avery Tare’s slasher Flicks, his intention was to create an album celebrating his love for horror movies with a campy, carnival-after­dark tone through the kaleidoscopic lens of his experi­mental indie pop. 
but it’s the other animal collective founder panda bear’s 2014 release that — whether intentionally or not — hits all the beats Tare set out to cover and raises the “ring the bell” strongman game bar to its maximum. panda bear’s warped mirror-maze soundtracking synth and merry-go-round harmonies hit as immediately as they enter “mr noah,” scoring one of the year’s, and panda bear’s, most abrasively catchy pop songs. 
7) “Blue Suede” — Vince Staples 

it’s hard enough living in the projects dealing with po­lice and racism, but vince staples’ depiction of the all­too-present in-violence between youth over material as seemingly trivial as new Jordans speaks to a different, deeper concern. 
relevant as ever, “blue suede” pushes a sentiment raised over and over again toward a new demographic. yeezus-like production in the form of a wincing, there­min-esque sample stretches the song from edm to hip-hop and contextualizes it with a roughness necessary for the unnerving subject material. 
8) “Today More Than Any Other Day” — Ought 
“Today more Than any other day” may not be the loudest, sharpest or strongest track on ought’s debut “more Than any other day”; however, it is the most em­blematic of the post-punk quartet’s aesthetic. 
The song has an extended, crescendoing intro, brazen wit, a simultaneously skeptical and uplifting message and lead singer Tim beeler’s spastic, passionate mood swings. 
when beeler states, “i am prepared to make a decision between 2% and whole milk,” grocery shopping has nev­er seemed so immediate and necessary. 
9) “Queen” — Perfume Genius 
“Queen” is an anthem for anyone in the margins. it’s an affront to the status quo that assaults with a piercing, staccato keyboard line found in classic glam rock and distorted to fit today’s more industrious standards. 
even more arresting, though, is the commanding presence of the maker of “Queen,” perfume genius. “no family is safe when i sashay,” he struts on the chorus, warning anyone who may get in his way before he woofs and bucks in their direction. 
his voice might break momentarily on “safe,” but it’s not in fear for himself. no, in that moment he surely is thinking about what would happen to this family should they interfere with him. 
10) “Bored In The USA” — Father John Misty 
Father John misty’s performance of “bored in The usa” on The late show with david letterman may have been the funniest thing seen on the program in years. The disenchantment with the american dream so cen­tral to Joshua Tillman’s constructed persona Father John misty has never been more realized than on this track. misty is a product of middle-class america. 
he’s got a useless education, a craftsman home and prescriptions that help him “kind of deal” even though they make it so he can’t get off. in many more and much more articulate words he asks, “what else?” of this, con­tinuing to make detached music in search for a better meaning. 
check out the analysis of the next 40 songs in the Top 50 songs of 2014 list online at ndsmcobserver.com and listen to the playlist on spotify. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

USC 49, NOTRE DAME 14 | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | NDSMCObSERvER.COM 
Coliseum catastrophe 
USC shreds Notre Dame, 49-14, at L.A. Coliseum to drop Irish to 7-5 after fourth loss in a row 
Irish entered the ring unprepared, undermanned 

Isaac Lorton 
Assistant Managing Editor 
LOS ANGELES — In the 2001 film “Gladiator,” there is a scene where one of the fighters is so terrified to enter the arena, he wets himself in the tunnel. Once he moves inside the ring, he has no idea to what to do and is struck down immediately. 
This character was Notre Dame in its 49-14 loss to USC at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on Saturday. 
The Irish looked timid, played timid and, in the end, the results showed such timidness. 
In just over a six minute-stretch toward the end of first quarter, the Trojans offense crushed any hope left in the Irish defense with a 21-0 scoring fest. USC redshirt junior Cody Kessler picked apart the Irish secondary, throwing seem­ingly uncontested touchdowns to receivers George Farmer and Adoree’ Jackson. 
In little more than three quar­ters, Kessler went 32-for-40 for 372 yards and six touchdowns. Luckily for Notre Dame, Kessler was pulled and Trojans head coach Steve Sarkisian took it easy on the beaten-down Irish defense by running the ball for the entirety of the fourth quarter. 
Notre Dame, like the nameless gladiator mentioned above, was inexperienced and it showed. The defense was a patchwork of a patchwork. 
With injuries to defensive lead­ers senior linebacker Joe Schmidt and junior defensive lineman Sheldon Day, graduate student cornerback Cody Riggs, junior de­fensive lineman Jarron Jones and freshman safety Drue Tranquill, the Irish knew it was going to be an “uphill” battle coming into the game, Irish head coach brian Kelly said. To add injury to injury, graduate student safety Austin Collinsworth went down early, re-separating his shoulder, sophomore safety Max Redfield exited with a broken rib, freshman linebacker Greer Martini limped off with a quad injury, freshman defensive lineman Jay Hayes left with an ankle injury and sopho­more defensive lineman Jacob Matuska was hobbled by a stinger 
see DOMINATED PAGE 3 


By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant Managing Editor 
LOS ANGELES — In the 86th meeting between Notre Dame and Southern California, USC struck first and kept on ham­mering the bruised and beaten Irish, leading USC to a 49-14 victory Saturday afternoon at the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
The beatdown saw sopho­more quarterback Malik Zaire’s first career completion and touchdown after senior quarterback Everett Golson was pulled from the game and five more injuries to an already-depleted defense. 
“We got punched in the nose today,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “You want to see a response too. They’re young, but I want to see some bite too. For the bowl preparation, we’re going to have to see a response. All jobs are available, and we are going to have to see some­thing from this group.” 
Trojans redshirt junior quarterback Cody Kessler ex­ited the game two minutes into the fourth quarter with a 49-14 lead, allowing the USC running game to close it out. Kessler went 32-for-40 against the Irish defense, throwing for 372 yards and six touchdowns 
— the most passing touch­downs Notre Dame (7-5) has ever given up to an opposing quarterback in a single game. The Trojans (8-4) had a strong run game also, going for 225 yards and one score. 

“Today we got our butts beat badly,” Kelly said. “It wasn’t as close as the score, but [Trojans head coach Steve Sarkisian] was very generous running the football to keep the score where it was.” 
USC’s offense got started midway through the first quar­ter, as Kessler connected on a 48-yard touchdown pass to redshirt sophomore receiv­er George Farmer, who got 
see LOSS PAGE 2 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
CODY KESSLER 
TROJANS REDSHIRT JUNIOR QUARTERBACK 
Kessler has been one of the most underrated quarterbacks in the country  this year, and he showed why Saturday, throwing for 372 yards and becoming the first quarterback to throw six touchdowns in a single game against the Irish. 

QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“They got punched in the nose today.” 
Irish head coach brian Kelly on the 49-14 defeat his team suffered Saturday against USC. The Trojans scored the first five touchdowns of the game and recorded 577 total yards against the Irish defense to cap off a 7-5 regular season for Notre Dame. 
Zaire brings spark to offense, makes case for QB job 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing Editor 
LOS ANGELES — Notre Dame sophomore quarterback Malik Zaire’s season began with a 56­yard run on his first collegiate play from scrimmage against Rice on Aug. 30. 
It involved the Kettering, Ohio, native watching from the side­lines, even as senior quarter­back Everett Golson recorded 22 turnovers. 
It included a mid-November insertion into the holder posi­tion, one he had never played in his football career. 
And in Saturday’s regular sea­son finale against USC, it fea­tured Zaire taking over in the second quarter and providing something different to a then-scoreless Notre Dame offense. 
“Everything in life is about get­ting the opportunity,” Zaire said after Notre Dame’s 49-14 loss to USC on Saturday. “When the opportunity came, I didn’t even look at a make it or break it point. It was more of a chance for me to go out there and help the team win the football game.” 
Zaire entered Saturday’s game after USC extended its lead to 35­0, taking advantage of a Golson fumble, his second turnover of the game. 
Zaire said his main goal upon taking the field was to bring some energy to a Notre Dame offense that had not moved past the USC 47-yard line up to that point in the game. 
“We came too far as a team to have a lack of energy,” he said. “The only thing on my mind was how to spark the team up. We had to make plays, and that’s something that was my mindset going in.” 
Senior offensive lineman Nick Martin said Zaire wasn’t afraid to challenge his teammates early. 
“Malik came up and goes, ‘Let’s go,’” Martin said. “We go, ‘Hey, we have faith in you, and let’s just get out there and do our job.’” 
Sophomore receiver Will Fuller, who said he was “pretty surprised” at the quarterback change, added that Zaire’s pres­ence was noticed as soon as he 
see ZAIRE PAGE 3 


THE ObSERvER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | NDSMCObSERvER.COM 

REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

Everett Golson looked a lot worse in game 12 than he did in game one or nearly any other game this season, as he locked onto receivers and missed wide-open targets. Malik Zaire provided a bit of a spark to the Irish in the second half but still had a sub-50 percent completion percentage. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Notre Dame’s running backs should almost get an incom­plete grade, as they received few carries before the game got out of hand. Greg bryant showed some flashes of power and speed in his most extended stretch of playing time this season. 
RECEIVERS 

While Notre Dame’s quarterbacks struggled to find their receivers, the receivers didn’t do them any favors. Corey Robinson had a pass go right through his hands for an interception, and Irish receivers dropped at least three passes from Zaire. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The offensive line continued its struggles against an ag­gressive Trojans defense, yielding four sacks and forcing Golson to move about the pocket. Golson’s second turn­over, ruled a fumble, came after a USC defender hit him from behind. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The defensive line stood up better to USC’s rushing attack than it had against other running games over the second half of the season. but the Irish still failed to get consistent pressure on Kessler, who often had ample time to find his receivers. 
LINEBACKERS 

Notre Dame’s linebackers struggled both to contain re­ceivers on underneath routes and stop running backs in the second level. Jaylon Smith and Nyles Morgan, who only played the second half, combined for 25 tackles, though several of them came at the end of long gains. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Injuries to Cody Riggs, Austin Collinsworth and Max Redfield did the Irish no favors, but USC’s talented cast of pass-catchers repeatedly outmuscled and outran the Notre Dame secondary. Kessler particularly targeted the sophomore duo of Cole Luke and Devin butler. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

The good news is that there were no holding issues that cost the Irish the game this week. The bad news is that Kyle brindza missed a field goal and struggled with punting the ball, and Notre Dame’s kick return unit had a hard time reaching the touchback line. 
COACHING 

It is no secret that the Irish are injured and undermanned at this point of the season. but that doesn’t excuse the team looking completely unprepared to face a USC team still shorthanded by sanctions and also 7-4 entering Satur­day’s game. Even brian Kelly admitted this one was closer than it could have been — Steve Sarkisian’s team could have put up 70 points. 
OVERALL GPA: 1.00 (D) 

Notre Dame played one of its worst games in recent memory, coming out flat and looking uninspired against its biggest rival. The Irish looked disjointed on offense, defeated on defense and incompetent on special teams. Outside of maybe the first three possessions, they were never in the game and could have lost by an even larger margin. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
CODY KESSLER’S 48-YARD TOUCHDOWN PASS TO GEORGE FARMER 
After Notre Dame stopped USC on its first offensive possession, Kessler threw a 48-yard touchdown strike to Farmer with 6:50 left in the first quar­ter. From there, the floodgates opened, as USC racked up 21 points before the end of the quarter and effectively left Notre Dame in the dust. 

Loss 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

behind the Irish secondary af­ter beating sophomore corner­back Cole Luke. 
“We loaded up against the run — man coverage all day,” Kelly said. “We knew it was pick your poison today, and we don’t have a lot of answers in that situation.” 
With the ball on Notre Dame’s 16-yard line on their next drive, Trojans freshman receiver Adoree’ Jackson came out of the backfield unnoticed past Irish freshman linebacker Greer Martini and caught a pass from Kessler for an uncon­tested touchdown. The Trojans stretched their lead to 14-0 with 
3:36 left in the first quarter. 

USC got the ball back and, within five plays, scored again to make the lead 21-0. Kessler hit Farmer, who beat Irish soph­omore cornerback Devin butler for a 31-yard touchdown. 
The Irish cornerbacks were put under a lot of pressure to play precisely in man-to-man coverage, making it tough for them to stop the barrage of USC skill players, Luke said. 
“[The Trojans] are good all around,” Luke said. “They have a lot of depth and great pass receivers. 
“When you have one-on-one matchups, it’s really all tech­nique. … besides that, I re­ally didn’t think we could do anything better. Just play our game.” 
The Irish finally entered into USC territory with 12:30 left on the clock in the second quarter. 
After two incompletions, Golson’s pass went through sophomore receiver Corey Robinson’s hands and into the waiting arms of Trojans redshirt senior safety Gerald bowman. 
In only six more plays, the Trojans went up 28-0, as Kessler connected with sophomore re­ceiver Darreus Rogers for the six-yard touchdown with 10:51 left in the first half. 
Notre Dame soon got inside Trojans territory for the second time on the day, but the Irish were soon knocked out of it. Golson was hit by senior line­backer J.R. Tavai as he went back to pass and the ball popped into the hands of Trojans redshirt se­nior linebacker Hayes Pullard. Golson was benched and did not return to the game. He fin­ished 7-for-18 with 75 passing yards on the day. 
Golson’s fumble was his sec­ond turnover of the day and his 22nd on the season. The Irish offensive line gave up four sacks. Senior offensive lineman and captain Nick Martin said a lot of the offensive struggles be­gan in the trenches. 
“We‘ve got one play, one man to block on the offensive line, we didn’t do enough up front, and that’s what it came down to,” Martin said. 
USC kept rolling to a 35-0 lead with a 14-yard pass from Kessler to junior receiver Nelson Agholor, who notched 12 recep­tions for 120 yards. 
Kelly said the lopsided defeat was due to lack of depth on de­fense and a lack of execution on offense. 
“You know, they’re playing as hard as they can, there’s just a deficiency there personnel wise on the defensive side of the ball.” Kelly said. “We made too many mistakes on the offensive side of the ball — uncharacter­istic mistakes.” 
The Irish flashed some mo­mentary signs of life when Zaire and sophomore offensive line­man Mike McGlinchey came into the game with 5:09 remain­ing in the first half. Sophomore running back Greg bryant rushed for four yards, Zaire completed a 49-yard pass to ju­nior receiver Chris brown and then ran for an 11-yard touch­down to finally put the Irish on the board. 
Kelly said that the youth of Notre Dame’s defense showed Saturday. 
“We knew we were short­handed,” Kelly said. “We’ve lost a lot of players on defense these last five weeks. It’s been a very difficult run for us. Key players on defense. Having to play so many young players on defense. We just haven’t been able to stop anybody. It’s been a difficult run for us. So, we knew we that it was going to be an uphill run.” 
Kelly said the Irish should use this loss to get back to where they feel they belong. 
“We can’t forget to lose sight of today,” Kelly said. “We have to remember where we are after today’s loss. It’s a red-letter day for our football players and our coaches alike. Two years ago, we were playing for a national championship.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

Kessler tosses six TDs 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing Editor 

LOS ANGELES — The six touchdown passes thrown by Trojans redshirt junior quarter­back Cody Kessler mark the most ever thrown against Notre Dame by an opponent in a single game. Former USC quarterback Matt Leinart and former Pitt quarter­back Tyler Palko held the previous record of five touchdown passes, which both came in 2004. . USC’s 35 first downs also mark the most ever gained against Notre Dame in a single game, eclipsing the previous high of 34 by Stanford in 1997. 
Kessler also set a career high with 32 completions and tied the USC record for most touchdown passes in a half with five touch­downs in the first half. 
Injury Report 
An already-shorthanded Notre Dame defense suffered further losses Saturday, as several players left the game with injuries. 
In the secondary, sophomore safety Max Redfield suffered a broken rib, and graduate student safety Austin Collinsworth suf­fered another separated shoul­der, Irish coach brian Kelly said. 
In the trenches, freshman defensive lineman Jay Hayes left the game with a high ankle sprain, and sophomore defensive 
see NOTES PAGE 3 



SCORING SUMMARY 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish sophomore quarterback Malik Zaire throws to the right during Notre Dame’s 49-14 loss to USC on 
Saturday at the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
Zaire 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
entered the game. 
“He came in with some ener­gy to help the team,” Fuller said. 
Zaire’s first pass, his first col­legiate attempt, was a 49-yard completion to junior receiver Chris brown. On the next play, Zaire ran it in from 11 yards out for his first rushing touchdown on the season. 
Zaire said the in-game situa­tions forced him to quickly get into a competitive mindset. 
“In the game, guys are actu­ally hitting me,” he said. “In practice, it’s kind of like, you get tapped … I think the realness of being in the game definitely sparks me up because it has to, because nobody likes to get hit all the time.” 
Dominated 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
in his shoulder. 
Notre Dame had almost no options left at defense. It is no wonder USC put up 577 yards and 49 points. 
Yet, like the nameless gladia­tor, the Irish had a sword: their offense. but they didn’t even use it. Whether it was out of fear or apathy, Notre Dame’s offense looked like it had no idea what to do. 
In the first quarter when USC amassed 209 yards and three scores, the Irish were still trying to get into Trojans territory. The Irish only were able to move the ball 35 yards in the first stanza, and they did not get out of their half of the field until the second quarter. Senior quarterback Everett Golson went 7-for-18 for 
Notes 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2 
lineman Jacob Matuska exited the game with a shoulder injury, per Kelly. 
Freshmen linebackers Nyles Morgan and Greer Martini both left the game at various points, though Morgan later returned. Martini suffered a quadriceps injury, according to Kelly. 
Graduate student corner­back Cody Riggs did not play Saturday, out with a nagging an­kle injury. Kelly said in his week­ly Tuesday press conference that 

Zaire finished 9-for-20 with 170 passing yards and also gained a net total of 18 yards on six carries on the ground. 
He threw for 26 yards and ran for five more on Notre Dame’s nine-play, 75-yard scoring drive that concluded with a rushing touchdown from sophomore running back Greg bryant. Zaire also added 47 yards pass­ing on the last drive of the first-half, which concluded with a missed 44-yard field goal by se­nior kicker Kyle brindza. 
“We tried to get a spark offen­sively, and Malik gave us that spark,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “We had a couple of drops on one drive and missed a field goal [while Zaire was in the game]. … He made some mis­takes, which is to be anticipated on it being his first time.” 
75 yards and one interception before being replaced by Malik Zaire. Yet Zaire was not much better, as the sophomore went 9-for-20 for 170 yards. 
Although he has been riddled by turnovers this season, at least one of Golson’s two turn­overs was not his fault. Golson hit sophomore receiver Corey Robinson downfield with a strike, but the ball went straight through Robinson’s hands and into the arms of a Trojans de­fender. When Golson coughed up the ball the second time, he was hit hard from behind. The Irish offensive line gave up three sacks in the first 20 minutes. 
Kelly, who had praised the Irish receivers earlier in the week said he was “disappointed” in their performance. The only silver lining in the offense was sophomore running back Greg 
he expected Riggs to be available for around 30 plays against the Trojans. 
Miscellaneous 

Notre Dame sophomore re­ceiver Will Fuller passed the 1,000-yard receiving mark for the season with a 26-yard recep­tion in the second quarter. Fuller is the eighth player in Notre Dame history to record more than 1,000 yards receiving in a single season. 
Irish sophomore running back Greg bryant set a career high with 79 rushing yards against USC, besting his previous high 
Going forward, Zaire’s sea­son may have one final chapter, as Kelly said he didn’t have an answer as to whether there will be a quarterback change for the team’s bowl game. 
Zaire’s relationship with Golson has been collaborative and that it is unlikely to change, he said, regardless of which player earns the starting nod for the team’s final game of the season. 
“It’s never a ‘me-versus-him’ type of thing … this quarter­back group, we are the ‘Red Army,’ and we do what we need to do to support each other be­cause honestly, it’s about the team, it’s about getting victo­ries,” Zaire said. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
bryant, who appeared to actually care about the season finale. 
With five of its last six games resulting in losses, all signs point to something being wrong with this year’s Notre Dame team. If Kelly wants to continue to point to the team’s injuries and inexperience, it might be better if the Irish sat out the bowl game to heal up and began to prepare for next season because the in­juries and inexperience are only causing more players got hurt. As it looks like the Irish sat out Saturday’s game, it should be no problem for them to sit out the bowl season. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
of 71 against Rice on Aug. 30. bryant’s 27-yard run in the third quarter eclipsed his previous ca­reer high, also set against Rice. 
Matuska made his first ca­reer start Saturday, becoming the 19th different player to start on defense for Notre Dame this season. A trio of sophomores — defensive lineman Isaac Rochell, linebacker Jaylon Smith and cornerback Cole Luke — are the only players that have started all 12 games on defense for the Irish this season. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 





1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  7  7  0  14  
21  14  14  0  49  

USC 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
George Farmer 48-yard pass from Kessler (Heidari kick) 
6:50 remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 80 yards, 1:38 elapsed 
USC 14, NOTRE DAME 0 
Adoree’ Jackson 16-yard pass from Kessler (Heidari kick) 
3:36 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 51 yards, 2:01 elapsed 
USC 21, NOTRE DAME 0 
George Farmer 31-yard pass from Kessler (Heidari kick) 
0:43 remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 55 yards, 1:25 elapsed 
USC 28, NOTRE DAME 0 
Darreus Rogers 6-yard pass from Kessler (Heidari kick) 
10:51remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 51 yards, 1:26 elapsed 
USC 35, NOTRE DAME 0 
Nelson Agholor 14-yard pass from Kessler (Heidari kick) 
5:15remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 51 yards, 2:58 elapsed 
USC 35, NOTRE DAME 7 
Malik Zaire 11-yard run (brindza kick) 
4:11 remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 64 yards, 0:58 elapsed 
USC 42, NOTRE DAME 7 
Randall Telfer nine-yard pass from Kessler (Heidari kick) 
11:19remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 3:41 elapsed 
USC 49, NOTRE DAME 7 
Justin Davis 16-yard run (Heidari kick) 
6:02remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 70 yards, 3:58 elapsed 
USC 49, NOTRE DAME 14 
Greg bryant one-yard run (brindza kick) 
2:48remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 75 yards, 3:14 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 

104 
PASSING YARDS 
PASSING 
Zaire Golson 
RUSHING 
Bryant Folston 
RECEIVING 
Fuller Brown Prosise 
9-20-170 7-18-75 
7-79 4-14 
5-75 2-53 2-45 Kessler 
205  
245  
372  

Allen Davis 
Agholor Farmer Smith 
32-40-372 
19-93 19-81 
12-120 4-85 5-48 



THE ObSERvER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | NDSMCObSERvER.COM 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish sophomore receiver Corey Robinson tries to break free from the USC defense during Notre Dame’s 49-14 loss to the Trojans on Saturday at the Los Angeles Coliseum. USC stormed to a 35-7 halftime lead, and Notre Dame never recovered. The Irish are now 7-5 and have lost five of their last six. 
In a rivalry game in enemy territory, Notre Dame was dealt the de­
cisive blow in its overall knockout defeat to end the regular season. USC toppled the Irish, 49-14, on Saturday at the Los Angeles Coli-
SOUTHERN CAL 
seum, handing Notre Dame its fourth consecutive loss and its fifth in the last six games. While Cody Kessler tossed six touchdown passes, 
SMACKDOWN 
Malik Zaire replaced Everett Golson. The Irish dropped to 7-5. 




The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

while we in scene and at every other publication in the country are busy gathering together a “favorite things” list or handy shopping guides for the holiday season, i’ve decided to go another route. 
rather than tell you all the things you need to buy, i’m here to tell you the things to avoid amidst the chaos that is holiday shopping. if you have already committed to some of these gifts on black Friday, small business saturday, cyber monday and whatever fake, crass, con­sumerist shopping day this Tuesday has become, i apol­ogize for this bad news. To those who take a little longer to get their shopping done: you’ve been warned. 
1) That personalized knit scarf/necklace/pot­tery you found on Etsy 
i love etsy. it’s the craft fair of the internet, and you can get some incredible handmade or vintage jewelry, clothing and décor on the site. in fact, i encourage you to support independent business owners and artisans and do as much etsy holiday shopping as possible. 
however, before you pull the trigger on a customiz­able engraved cutting board or a knit sweater boasting a portrait of your family dog, take a look at your calendar and remind yourself it’s already december. 
ordering handcrafted personalized gifts from an artist on the other side of the country is great, but it also means your christmas present isn’t coming until well 
BY JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

i don’t think there are any words sufficient to describe how big of a letdown “a better Tomorrow” is. 
The idea for this final wu-Tang clan record sprang from necessity rather than creativity — a feeling that wTc’s fans needed closure. They don’t, especially if it comes in the form of this album. 
necessity probably isn’t the best motivator for art. at times, “a better Tomorrow” feels like a last-minute five-page paper i would write as a senior in high school. it re­lies too much on previous work and hopes the audience cares as little as the author does to let it slide by with a passing grade. 
“a better Tomorrow” is the outcome of 21 years of the wu-Tang clan and the drama, tensions and bickering that have come to define the latter years of a great career. it was actually supposed to mark the twentieth anniver­sary of their landmark debut, 1993’s “enter The wu-Tang (36 chambers),” but the clan couldn’t pull themselves together, in part due to a creative struggle between raekwon and head-honcho rZa, tension which blem­ishes the sentimentality of this new record. 
The end result of this mess is heartbreaking. with a name like “a better Tomorrow,” one would expect fu­turistic production, big risks, a new twist on the classic wu formula or, at the very least, maybe something dif­ferent from the same martial arts references we’ve been into 2015. instead, opt for something a little less time-consuming for now — i’m sure your mom will love get­ting those coasters hand-painted with your family crest just as much on her birthday. 
2) A journal 

we all know it’s a re-gift from your aunt. “Funky” journals are always a re-gift from someone’s aunt. The socks of the friend-gift world, diaries with inspirational quotations on them will probably be filled with pas­sages about how unoriginal your gift is. harsh but true. 
3) Lessons 

whether they’re cooking classes, mandarin lessons or a gift certificate to that pottery place in your hometown, the gift of lessons is always well-intentioned. 
you see that a friend or relative has taken an inter­est in something new, and you want to encourage their potential, spice up their life or empower them with a new, quirky skill. 
This is all perfectly nice and thoughtful, but it always ends up the same way: your friend hangs the gift cer­tificate to swing dance lessons or acupuncture class on their refrigerator unused, and it begins to slowly eat away at their conscience. 
either because they don’t have the time or the inter­est in whatever hobby you’ve signed them up for, the present ends up being less of a gift and more of an obli­gation. soon, every run-in with the recipient becomes wrought with excuses for why they haven’t cashed in on their free lessons yet. anxiety ensues. money is lost. it’s 
listening to since 1993. what we get is a halfhearted effort to prove that wu-Tang is forever and a fainthearted long­ing for the glory days of the once great clan. 
The best songs off “a better Tomorrow” (“ruckus in b minor,” “40th street black/we will Fight,” “Keep watch”) feel like the #ThrowbackThursday of wTc’s career, often containing samples from or lyrical allusions to beloved, classic wu triumphs. “a better Tomorrow” itself is named for a song from 1997’s “wu-Tang Forever.” 
opener “ruckus in b minor” takes us back to the very beginning, reminding us of the dangers of the shaolin and the wu Tang in a throwback to “bring da ruckus” 
– the opening track of their debut – bringing their career full circle although rZa’s production has evolved quite considerably since that time. 
Then ol’ dirty bastard appears from beyond the grave and very well might be the liveliest dude on the album. This was somewhat strange and gave the impression that rZa seems to rely on odb because he knows wu’s glory days are past, its collective drive depleted. odb’s captivating psychopathic charm lures you into “a better Tomorrow” before the rest of the clan sets out to “strive with an army of winners and no pretenders,” as raekwon puts it. “ruckus in b minor” is my personal favorite on the album, but unfortunately it stands in stark contrast to a number of the other songs. 
The album struggles, in part, because of how uneven the production is. “a better Tomorrow,” much like the modern wu-Tang clan, does not feel like a cohesive unit. 
a lose-lose. 

4) The new U2 album 
your dad already has it this year. Thanks a lot, bono. 
5) An enormous gag gift 
i may be coming off as a bit of a scrooge here, but i insist there are few presents worse than a poorly thought-out gag gift. sure, if well executed, joke gifts can make for a funny story and garner a chuckle out of your good-humored friend, but they can also be a com­memorative token of how bad you are at holidays. if it’s agreed upon that light-hearted gifts are the nature of the exchange, go all out. if not, you always run the risk of being the person who gave a shamwow to the friend who thoughtfully made you a gift basket of your favorite things. 
more importantly, whether you’re going white-ele­phant-style with your friends or springing an absurd, useless present on someone unannounced, make sure your ironic gift is not big in size. The joke almost imme­diately goes south when the gag gift is so large, its recipi­ent faces the sophie’s choice of either finding a place to store it or feeling weirdly guilty about throwing it away. adding insult to injury, a large gag gift not only says, “i gave this very little thought!” but also, “have fun deal­ing with this every time you move!” 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The backing instrumentation ranges greatly, and there is no overarching theme to keep the album together. rZa gives us great songs like “ruckus in b minor,” but then embarrasses us with awful songs like “preacher’s daughter,” in which the middle-aged wTc lusts after a young pastor’s daughter. creepy. some of the songs shouldn’t be awful and have some really solid lyrics, but the performances feel dialed-in, and the kung-fu sam­ples don’t pack the punch they did twenty-one years ago. who would have ever thought a wu-Tang clan album could ever be boring? 
wu-Tang clan is supposed to bring the ruckus, to be nothing to mess with, to be forever. “a better Tomorrow” is none of these things and definitely not the end wu-Tang deserves. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“A Better Tomorrow” 
Wu Tang Clan 
Label: Asylum, Warner Bros. 
Tracks: “Ruckus in B Minor,” “40th Street Black/We Will Fight” If you like: A$AP Mob, Run The Jewels 


MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Holiday brings coaching changes 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
The monday after Thanksgiving ranks among the most miserable days of the year for many americans who have just returned from a long holiday weekend. 
but it has the prospects of being a whole lot worse for college foot­ball coaches on the hot seat, some of whom receive their pink slips around this time of year. 
Florida’s will muschamp discovered his fate weeks ago, but nebraska’s bo pelini was the headliner among a group of coaches who lost their jobs over the last few days. pelini’s firing means that two high-profile coaching jobs are now open, with the possibility of one or two more slots opening this week (michigan, anyone?). 
and with these head coaching dismissals comes a list of poten­tial replacements that range from impossible-to-get — does anyone think Jon gruden is going to leave a job where he can talk about how Teddy bridgewater is the greatest quarterback since the one he saw last monday night? — to fanbase­infuriating — think of lane Kiffin, who somebody will argue is now well seasoned after failing at three different jobs. 
with that being said, however, the college football coaching pool is small, and there’s bound to be some candidates that will be linked to some of the premier vacancies. here’s a list of some candidates whose names will surely pop up over the next few weeks. 
Hugh Freeze and Dan Mullen — the Mississippi coaches 
The state of mississippi’s two major programs — ole miss and mississippi state — have been in the news often this year, a big accomplishment given the lack of historical success in the magnolia state. although their teams have faltered recently, mullen had mississippi state at the no. 1 ranking for five straight weeks, and Freeze took ole miss to the no. 3 spot earlier this year. additionally, mullen has connec­tions to Florida — he served as the gators’ offensive coordinator/ quarterbacks coach from 2005 to 2008, tutoring both chris leak and Tim Tebow. 
Jim McElwain — Colorado State head coach 
mcelwain has one name at­tached to his resume that every program in the country will notice — nick saban. mcelwain worked side-by-side with the four-time national champion as alabama’s offensive coordina­tor/quarterbacks coach from 2008 to 2011. he left Tuscaloosa to inherit a colorado state team that was 3-9 the season before he arrived and has made quick work improving the team. This season, his third at the helm, the rams finished 10-2 and reached the top 25 in the ap poll. 
Craig Bohl — Wyoming head coach 
Few college coaches in the country can say they have three national championships — bohl is one of the exceptions. bohl coached a north dakota state team that lost only two games and won three ncaa division i Football championships (Fcs) between 2011 and 2013. under his direction, the bison upset several power Five opponents, including minnesota, Kansas and Kansas state. bohl is now at wyoming, but he might not be far from a return to nebraska, the school he graduated from in 1982. 
Pat Narduzzi — Michigan State defensive coordinator 
michigan state, the defending rose bowl champion, has had a strong run of success the last few seasons, and much of it is due to the defense. The spartans have ranked in the top 10 nationally in total defense the last three years, and narduzzi has received much of the credit for the program’s strong performance — he took home the broyles award, given to the nation’s top assistant, last season. narduzzi has never been a head coach, but then again, nei­ther had Jimbo Fisher, head coach of last year’s national champions.
 Jim Harbaugh — San Francisco 49ers head coach 
i strongly contemplated listing harbaugh as an impossibility, but i remembered three things — it’s almost certain that he will be out as 49ers head coach at the end of the season; most of his head coaching experience is with col­lege programs, and nebraska has previously hired a coach two years removed from the super bowl — bill callahan. on the off-chance harbaugh leaves the bay area, he would be intriguing to college programs for a variety of reasons — he’s a quarterbacks guru; he previously built stanford from the ground up, and he’s got that larger-than-life personality to which many recruits would flock. 
in short, harbaugh and the other coaches on this list could help brighten the future for fans of programs currently struggling during this dreary week after Thanksgiving. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

expert to examine brain of former ohio state player 
Associated Press 

columbus, ohio — a neu­ropathologist will look for signs of traumatic brain injury in an ohio state athlete who was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound and had a reported history of concussions, a coroner said monday. 
The examination, not nor­mally part of the autopsy pro­cess, is being done on Kosta Karageorge because of that his­tory, said dr. anahi ortiz, the Franklin county coroner. 
The pathologist “may or may not be able to determine any sort of abnormality or defect from traumatic brain injury,” ortiz said. 
preliminary results from a monday morning autopsy con­firmed that Karageorge died of a gunshot wound, ortiz said. she hasn’t yet definitively ruled it a suicide. 
columbus police said sunday that Karageorge died of an ap­parent self-inflicted gunshot wound. a handgun was found in a trash bin with him, police spokesman sgt. rich weiner said. 
his mother, susan Karageorge, told police her son had had several concussions and a few spells of being ex­tremely confused. 
Karageorge, 22, was a buckeyes wrestler for three years, and the senior defen­sive tackle joined the football team as a walk-on this season. although earlier reports said Karageorge played in one game, ohio state spokesman Jerry emig corrected that monday, saying Karageorge had not played in any games. 
a woman and her son looking for items in a trash bin sunday found the body of Karageorge, who disappeared four days earlier. 
police reports released monday indicated a man look­ing for food in the trash bin ear­lier in the day may have found Karageorge’s body, but he didn’t report it and instead told other people who called police. 
after Karageorge went miss­ing, the football team’s phy­sician, dr. Jim borchers, said he could not comment on the medical care of student ath­letes. but, he said, “we are confident in our medical pro­cedures and policies to return athletes to participation fol­lowing injury or illness.” 
ohio state football coach urban meyer said monday he’d been instructed not to talk about medical issues sur­rounding Karageorge. 
“i can say this: This is the best group of medical people i’ve ever been around, the way they handle their business and the attention to detail,” meyer said. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Losses shake up AP women’s basketball poll 
Associated Press 

it was a rough week to be a top 10 team. 
while the top three women’s teams — south carolina, notre dame and connecticut — all were unscathed, five of the oth­er seven teams in the first 10 lost games, causing a shuffling in The associated press basket­ball poll monday. 
This is the first time since 1999 that five teams in the top 10 lost in the same week this early in the season, according to sTaTs. Tennessee, stanford, duke, Kentucky and maryland all dropped games. The lady vols lost twice, falling 10 spots to no. 14. 
“it definitely seems like there have been a bunch of upsets so far,” notre dame coach muffet mcgraw said. “it’s good for our game. it gets people talking about it.” 
notre dame, connecticut, Texas and Texas a&m round 

FOR RENT 

SPRING SEMESTER -rental avail­able. Fully Furnished. 2BR 2BA. $700 per bedroom. Call 925-640-4707 or email jatkins3@nd.edu 
out the first five. 
The lady vols lost to chattanooga and no. 4 Texas. it’s a rare occurrence for Tennessee to drop two straight games in november. Tennessee’s plunge of 10 rank­ing spots is the school’s biggest one-week decline. The lady vols, who hadn’t lost consecu­tive games since 2012, will try and end the skid wednesday against saint Francis, pennsylvania. 
maryland’s loss to washington state in the san Juan shootout dropped the team five spots to 15th — the school’s lowest ranking since the final poll of 2011 when the Terrapins were 16th. maryland has a chance to quickly jump back up with a game against no. 2 notre dame on wednesday in the acc-big Ten challenge. 
For the fourth straight week there was a tie in the poll. The preseason poll had two teams at no. 24. week 1 had a three-way tie for no. 24. last week there was a three-way tie at no. 22 with georgia, syracuse and west virginia sharing the hon­ors. now arkansas and depaul are both no. 25. 
lots of big games on tap. no. 2 notre dame hosts both maryland and no. 3 uconn. no. 6 north carolina visits no. 18 rutgers on Thursday, only the second time hall of Fame coaches c. vivian stringer and sylvia hatchell have met. no. 13 Kentucky visits no. 7 louisville on sunday and no. 1 south carolina plays at no. 9 duke the same day. 
The game at duke is south carolina’s last against a ranked team until most likely a show­down with Kentucky on Jan. 11. 
First-year coach Jimmy dykes has arkansas back in the Top 25 for the first time since dec. 31, 2012. The razorbacks won the south point Thanksgiving shootout in las vegas over the weekend. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Attn: graduate students! Tri-level home for rent almost immediately! Everything nice and new. 3 bed­room or could be 4, 2 full bathrooms, open concept main floor! 2 1/2 car garage. Call Laura for more details 574-532-9167  1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 Have a holly jolly Christmas. It’s the best time of the year. I don’t know if there’ll be snow but have a cup of cheer. Have a holly, jolly Christmas.  



NHL | lighTning 6, rangers 3 
lundqvist struggles as lightning roll past rangers 
Associated Press 
new yorK — brett connolly’s second goal of the game during a third-period power play lifted the Tampa bay lightning to their third straight win over the new york rangers, 6-3 on monday night. 
with martin st. louis off for slashing, connolly scored past henrik lundqvist at 
5:34 for his fourth of the season. Tyler Johnson gave the lightning a two-goal lead 1:24 later with his sec­ond of the night, and ondrej palat added an empty-netter with 26.4 seconds left to give Tampa bay its fourth con­secutive victory. 
victor hedman had three assists, and ben bishop made 32 saves to improve to 8-0 against the rangers — including three wins in 15 days. he even had an assist on connolly’s first. 
matt carle added a goal for the lightning, who out­scored the rangers 15-7 in the three games — includ­ing 11 goals at madison square garden. 
Kevin hayes, Jesper Fast and st. louis scored for the rangers, who had won four of five. lundqvist struggled and made only 15 saves. 

st. louis was honored be­fore the game for recently reaching 1,000 nhl points. his family joined him on the ice as a video tribute was shown, and he was given gifts by both teams. st. louis, traded to new york last season in a cap­tain swap that sent ryan callahan to Tampa bay, had 953 points in 972 games with the lightning. 
after st. louis put the rangers in front 3-2, the lightning went on a 5-on-3 power play that generated only one shot, but tired out the new york skaters and set up the tying goal 26 seconds after the advantage ended. 
The rangers couldn’t clear the zone, and carle scored off a pass from Johnson to make it 3-all at 14:23. Tampa bay had only five shots in the second and 13 through 40 minutes. 
earlier, the rangers erased their second one-goal deficit when Fast scored his second nhl goal — in consecu­tive games. derick brassard faked a slap shot high in the zone before moving to the center. he spotted Fast at 
paid adverTisemenT 
the right post and sent him a perfect pass that was easily steered in at 2:42. 
st. louis put the rangers in front for the first time by scoring his 10th during a power play at 9:24. a re­bound of ryan mcdonagh’s shot came right to the for­mer lightning star, and he calmly deposited the puck behind bishop at the right post. 
Tampa bay grabbed a 1-0 lead 6:32 in on Johnson’s seventh. hedman took a shot that hit the skate of palat in front. palat got the puck to his stick and fed a pass to Johnson. 
new york tied it when carl hagelin worked the puck be­hind the net and sent a quick pass out front to hayes for a goal with 7:46 left in the first. 
it didn’t stay even for long because connolly restored the lightning lead 3:48 lat­er. he made several moves high in the zone to get free of defenseman marc staal before snapping a drive that got past lundqvist as new york’s dan girardi and Tampa bay’s brenden morrow jousted in front of him. 

NHL | blue JacKeTs 2, panThers 1 
Calvert, Jenner halt Jackets’ skid 
Associated Press 
columbus, ohio — boone Jenner scored at 10:05 of the third period to lift columbus past the Florida panthers 2-1 and end the blue Jackets’ six-game skid on monday night. 
matt calvert also scored for columbus, which en­tered having won only two of its past 17 games to drop to the bottom of the eastern conference. 
rookie aaron ekblad, the top overall pick, scored his third goal of the season for Florida, which has lost nine in a row to columbus. 
Tied at 1 in the third, Jenner poked home a loose puck in front of the goal. al montoya had stopped Kerby rychel’s spin-around shot, but Jenner got to the re­bound for his second of the season. 
The assist was the first nhl point for rychel, a 2013 first-round draft pick, in his second game. 
moments later, sergei bobrovsky, who finished with 24 saves, went right to left to kick aside Tomas Fleischmann’s shot. 
The panthers had a faceoff in the columbus zone with 
10.3 seconds remaining, but after the draw they couldn’t get the puck out from behind the blue Jackets’ net. 
Florida dominated most of the first period, but it was columbus scoring first. working in the corner, michael chaput sent the puck to calvert, who made an in-tight forehand to back­hand move to tuck it behind montoya at 15:07 for his third of the season. montoya made 21 saves. 
The panthers wasted little time getting even in the sec­ond period. maneuvering at the point on the power play, ekblad fired a shot past a screened bobrovsky at 1:23. 
at the end of the period, columbus withstood pres­sure from Florida then al­most had a prime scoring chance going the other away. bobrovsky stopped Tomas Kopecky’s uncontested shot from the slot and paddled away Kopecky’s follow. The blue Jackets left the zone on a 2-on-1 break, but dmitry Kulikov broke it up by slid­ing to make a stop. 


NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | s. car 90, nc cenTral 26 
no. 1 gamecocks win in rout 
Associated Press 
columbia, south carolina 
— Freshman a’ja wilson scored 16 points, reigning southeastern conference player of the year Tiffany mitchell had 14 and south carolina showed off its no. 1 ranking at home for the first time in a 90-26 victory over north carolina central on monday night. 
The gamecocks (6-0) were already on their way to the bahamas for the Junkanoo Jam tournament last monday when they took over the top spot. after winning twice on grand bahama island to re­tain no. 1 for a second week, south carolina returned home and quickly put away the overmatched eagles (2-4). 
The gamecocks led 14-3 in the first five minutes and went on to win their 22nd straight home game. 
wilson added eight re­bounds, although her shoot­ing touch was off as she made just four of 12 shots. mitchell had a career-high seven steals, surpassing the six she had in a win over auburn last season. 
morgan Jones had seven points for the eagles. 
asia dozier had 14 points for south carolina, includ­ing three of its five 3-point­ers. aleighsa welch had 11 points and elem ibiam 10 to give the gamecocks five players with double-figure scoring. 
The gamecocks beat north carolina central 79­27 last season and this one figured to be an even big­ger mismatch with all south carolina had back and its no. 2-ranked group of freshmen. 
south carolina’s experi­ence came through quickly. mitchell and sec newcomer of the year alaina coates had five points each while all-sec first-teamer welch had four after less than five minutes. 
The eagles missed nine of their first 10 shots and had 12 first-half turnovers. 
wilson, the 6-foot-5 for­ward, was off the mark a bit, going 2 of 6 from the field in the first 20 minutes. still, newly chosen sec freshman of the week had nine points in the period. 


The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | smc 68, anderson 57 
paul paces belles in victory 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
saint mary’s notched its second consecutive victory nov. 25, winning 68-57 at anderson. 
despite trailing early in the game, the belles (2-3) rallied late in the first half to take a 40-31 lead entering halftime. 
coming out of the break, the ravens (1-3) didn’t dent the belles’ lead, and saint mary’s held on to win in a lower-scoring second half. 
belles senior forward ariana paul shot 14-of-21 from the field and scored 32 points in the win as the belles made nearly half of their field goals. paul’s 32 points were the highest scored by a saint mary’s player since the 2007­2008 season. 
belles coach Jennifer henley said she was im­pressed by her team’s shoot­ing performances and the work of paul in particular. 
“i thought we had good ball movement on offense and took good shots,” henley said. “we continued to at­tack the gaps in anderson’s defense and found a lot of points in the paint. 
“ariana had the hot hand on Tuesday, and her team­mates did a great job of find­ing her.” 
despite the win, henley said the performance was far from perfect. The belles were out-rebounded 32-31 in the game, and henley said there was room for improvement on both sides of the ball. 
“anderson beat us on the boards,” henley said. “we need to continue to work on finding bodies when we box out and not just ball-watch when a shot goes up. 
“we still need to focus on our team defense in keep­ing teams out of the paint on the drive and offensively, we need to be stronger with the ball and cut down on our turnovers.” 
henley said she was still pleased to see her team re­cord a second win in a row, and she believes it could be an important boost in mo­mentum for saint mary’s heading into conference play. 
“anytime you can get two wins in a row — especially on the road — is great momen­tum,” henley said. “as we prepare to open up confer­ence play with alma, we con­tinue to build upon the things we did well at anderson.” 
Junior forward eleni shea led the team with eight re­bounds in addition to scor­ing 17 points, while paul recorded seven boards and four steals to go along with her 32 points. Junior guard maddie Kohler added eight points and two assists. 
saint mary’s commit­ted 22 turnovers compared to anderson’s 15, but the belles were more effective at converting those chances into points, outscoring the ravens, 23-13, in points off turnovers. 
The belles are back in ac­tion tomorrow night as they host conference foe alma at 
7:30p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

ND VOLLEYBALL | piTTsburgh 3, nd 0 
irish suffer straight-set defeat on senior day 
Observer Staff Report 

in the final game of a sea­son filled with challenges, the irish celebrated the careers of six graduating players but lost 3-0 (25-20, 25-14, 25-18) to pittsburgh at purcell pavilion on Friday. 
The irish (6-25, 3-15 acc) fought with the panthers (25-6, 13-5) in the first set, which featured 11 ties and seven irish leads. however, pittsburgh’s offense caught fire, going on an 8-2 run en route to a 25-20 victory in the first set. 
despite remaining close early in each set, the irish saw their season come to a close after a 14-5 run by the panthers in the second set, and a 10-3 run in the third set brought the match to its end. 
The panthers were domi­nant at the net with a .357 attack percentage – com­pared to .202 for notre dame – and 43 kills and 7.5 blocks. 
in her final match, gradu­ate student outside hitter nicole smith had a career-high .529 attack percentage and a team-high 10 kills. 
irish fans and under­classmen said farewell to smith and the five grad­uating seniors – libero erin Klosterman, libero Kathleen severyn, outside hitter meg vonderhaar, out­side hitter Toni alugbue and middle blocker Jeni houser. 
after smith’s sophomore and junior seasons were hampered with a knee injury, she became a force in her senior season and again this year as a gradu­ate student. she was second on the team this year with 249 kills and 2.62 kills per set. 
as a senior, severyn as­sumed a veteran leadership role down the stretch, play­ing in 82 sets and tallying 181 digs. 
Klosterman played her freshman season at saint mary’s before joining notre dame and playing in 141 sets, notching 97 digs in her three years. 
vonderhaar ended her career with 223 kills, in­
cluding  seven  against  
pittsburgh.  
notre  dame  suffered  

a major loss before the season had even started when alugbue, who led the team in kills in 2012 and 2013, went down with a 


season-ending injury. 
after  two  seasons  in  
second  place  statistically  
behind  alugbue,  houser  

stepped into the offensive void and led the team in kills with 289. she ended her time at notre dame with several all-conference hon­ors and two all-american honorable mentions in her career, and she finished tied for eighth with 1,299 kills. 
alugbue’s injury, com­pounded with other sporad­ic injuries and adjustments, resulted in a tough early season for the irish, who began the year 0-6. despite battling back and picking up a few conference victo­ries, they ended with a 2-13 stretch. however, brown re­peatedly praised her players for maintaining a positive attitude and high energy throughout the season. 

FENCING | penn sTaTe garreTT open 
shorthanded notre dame snags six medals 
lost to ohio state freshman capped three other irish top-
Observer Staff Report 

Julian raul as time expired, 15 finishes, including The irish competed to 
8-7. hanahan placed sev-sophomore eva niklinska’s high finishes at the penn 
enth, and mcgrath grabbed eighth-place finish. state garrett openduring 
eighth. in the sabre, sopho­the weekend before 
The irish only fought with more allison barry fenced Thanksgiving. despite miss-
three sabreists and were led pennsylvania sophomore ing starters due to inter-
by junior John hallsten’s dana Kong to a tie for third national events, the irish 
fifth-place finish. he ad-place, which earned her a still racked up a combined 
vanced to the  elimination spot on the podium. she six medals, with the men 
rounds as the no. 2 seed was followed by irish fresh-and women each earning 
and fell to defending ncaa men madeline gallagher three in college station, champion and penn state and Jamie norville, who fin­pennsylvania. junior Kaito streets in the ished seventh and eighth, 
The men’s team was miss-quarterfinals, 15-10. respectively. ing a whopping 10 starters each other in the round of david gomez Tanamachi in a day earlier, the women’s rounding out the competi­yet still produced six top-16, with desmet winning 15-the finals, 15-12. team also turned in an im-tion, the irish placed well in 10 finishes, highlighted by 1. desmet won again in the in the epee, the irish pressive performance and the foil. Junior nicole mcKee freshman virgile collineau’s next round, leading to a top-placed two fencers in the earned a medal in each finished second, while three second-place finish in 10 finish, while crumpler round of eight. however, nei-event. other foilists claimed top-15 the foil. overall, the men finished 10th. collineau ther junior garrett mcgrath in the epee, junior spots. earned three top-10 finish-bested four fighters in the nor freshman nicholas catherine lee lost to ohio irish fencers next head es in the event. senior ariel elimination rounds before hanahan could advance state sophomore eugenia to dallas for the north desmet and sophomore John losing to penn state sopho-to the final four. hanahan Falqui in the final round american cup next Friday crumpler fenced against more and eventual champion had a tough defeat, as he to claim second. her finish through monday. 




M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
“we were calm, and we are really efficient on the offensive end,” irish coach mike brey told reporters wednesday. “we put some guys in different spots to­night against the zone; we didn’t force anything, and we threw it inside when we had to. 
“it was good to see demetrius Jackson rise up and shoot his 3-point shot and not overanalyze it. with him and Jerian, when the ball reverses to you and you have a clean look, we want you to shoot it.” 
against grambling state, notre dame again had a bat­tle on its hands for rebounds. while the irish finished with a 30-29 edge overall, the Tigers brought down 11 of­fensive rebounds, led by five offensive boards from 6-foot­7 junior forward mark grey. brey has said on more than one occasion that rebound­ing would be a key for success this season. 
The irish showed improve­ment in that area saturday against chicago state. notre dame finished with a 39-26 advantage on the boards, as well as a 9-8 advantage on the offensive glass. auguste led the team with eight re­bounds, while connaughton and Jackson each chipped in another five. 
grant tied his career high for points in the win over the cougars, dropping 26 points on 8-of-12 shooting from the field. This included six 3-pointers, a new personal best for the senior. he also chipped in a team-high five assists. 
“[grant] is a scary talent,” brey told reporters saturday. “i feel like i’m coaching a pro because he is a pro. he pre­pares like a pro. … he’s the type of guy that tries to get guys involved first, and we do have some guys that can score. i’m ok with that. but if we stall, and we will, then we start to run some stuff for him.” 
connaughton chipped in 17 points for the irish, while Jackson and fellow sopho­more guard v.J. beachem each finished with 11, the lat­ter’s career-best after he tal­lied 10 points in two games last season. 
“i love that [beachum] is scoring,” brey said. “That scoring really helps us. he’s shooting it so confidently. … he still needs to improve de­fensively, and we work with him every day on that. but he can rebound for us. The abil­ity to have another shot-mak­er out there that stretches the defense gives us another weapon.” 
grambling state first-year assistant coach ray martin made a return trip to south bend. martin played for notre dame under digger phelps from 1973-1977 as the team’s the end of your games, i get a little emotional every time the alma mater plays.’” 


The irish return to the purcell pavilion floor wednesday night at 7:15 
p.m. when they host no. 19 michigan state during the big Ten/acc challenge. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
more offensive rebounds, 10-8, than notre dame, the second time an irish op­ponent has done that all season. 
The irish also faced their biggest deficit of the season, down 5-0, 74 seconds after the opening tip. however, bolstered by a long 3-pointer from junior guard michaela point guard and served as team captain his senior year. martin was part of the irish squad that stopped ucla’s record 88-game win streak before he moved on and eventually coached under Jim valvano from 1980-1988 at north carolina state where he won a national champion­ship with the team in 1983. 
“There are a lot of young people in the college game, through his different coach­ing stops, that have really benefited from his relation­ship,” brey said of martin on wednesday. “he’s one of the good guys in the business; he’s a class act. … it was re­ally neat there at the end — i grabbed him to get in the alma mater and he said, ‘i watch on the football saturdays, and at 
hard to guard. we pressed; we had the whole team on her at times; we tried to run people at her, and she still managed to shoot 50 per­cent. … i think we did a de­cent job on her at times, but 
overall,  she  really  played  
well.”  
irish  freshman  forward  

Kathryn westbeld was part of the rotation tasked with matching up with gardner and responded with seven rebounds and six points, as well as her finest defensive performance of the year, mcgraw said. 
“i was so pleased with her,” mcgraw said. “she came off the bench and did a great job. she was very active de­fensively. she rebounded well. she had a key offen­sive rebound that i thought helped change the game in the first half. she really battled for it, kicked it out to michaela mabrey for the 3, and i thought that was a turning point in the game.” 
The 3-pointer was part of a 15-0 run for the irish to end the first stanza with a 21-point lead. during that stretch, the Jayhawks did not score for nearly six-and-a­half minutes. 
mabrey was key to the of­fensive outburst, scoring 11 or her 17 points in the first half. notre dame’s most pro­lific and successful 3-point shooter attempted seven shots from long range on the day, connecting on five of them. she added a pair of free throws but did not at­tempt a single field goal all game. 
in the second half, mabrey, loyd and the rest of notre dame’s starters came out for good with over 10 min­utes remaining in the con­test, making way for the rest of the 12 players on the irish roster to all play and score, the fourth straight game they have done so. Ten irish players also grabbed a rebound. 
“This is the most depth i think we’ve ever had,” mcgraw said. “we played [nine] people in the first half, we’ve been playing nine or ten all year. we have different people who can come in in different situa­tions and really help us. our young players are playing really well. … we’re able to work on some things when we sub, which is good be­cause we haven’t been able to get a lot of practice in.” 
That depth will be put to test over the next week as the irish face three ranked teams in seven days, start­ing wednesday against no. 15 maryland in the acc/ big Ten challenge in Fort wayne, indiana. Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at 
mabrey and a pair of free throws from sophomore guard lindsay allen, notre dame tied the game up in less than a minute and never trailed again. 
on offense, the irish were led once again by junior guard Jewell loyd, who took 4:15 to record her first points, but then put up 23 in just 23 minutes on the court. on the season, she is aver­aging just under a point per minute, playing 22.6 min­utes per game and scoring 
20.3points. 
The Jayhawks managed to keep the game within reach for most of the first half, re­lying on senior guard natalie Knight and senior forward chelsea gardner to generate 62 percent of their offense in the period. 
“chelsea gardner is a tre­mendous player,” mcgraw said. “[she’s] really, really 



The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


acc tournament semifinals. halftime,” clark said. “The 
M Soccer 

in this episode of the bud-lad got it away from evan 
conTinued From page 16 

ding rivalry, neither team panken right at the back 
almost got ahold of,” clark could find space to work for post. i think it was patrick said. “could we have done much of the game. hodan that put it across the that earlier? i don’t know, “They did a good job,” goal. but you always have to wait besler said. “They put ten “goals change games. if until you’re in a hole before people behind the ball, and we get a goal, then they come you really go. you keep put-i thought we controlled the out, and you can get behind ting off finals until the last game pretty much from the them again, but we just minute, and then you’ve got get-go. it was one of those didn’t get the goal today. but to work very hard. days where you can’t score.” like i said, i felt we played, 
“i think we just kept think-“They don’t give up many in a funny way, much better ing a goal was going to come. goals,” clark said. “They just than when we beat them 3-0 i honestly thought it might defended really well.” earlier in the year, but such have happened through irish graduate student is life.” our regular game. … it just goalkeeper patrick wall at halftime, the irish held a wasn’t enough.” kept the game scoreless 3-2 shot advantage although 
The third-round playoff in the 24th minute when wharton’s free kick blast match marked the third time cavaliers junior midfielder was the only shot on goal for this season and fifth time in Todd wharton put a free either team. play opened up the last two years that notre kick on net from just out-a little in the second half, dame and virginia squared side the penalty box. The and notre dame finished off with each other. This ball burrowed through the with an 11-8 shot advantage. year, the two teams tied in wall of irish defenders, but although the loss was ob­charlottesville, virginia, on wall smothered it. The goal-viously not how the team sept. 21, and notre dame keeper finishes his career hoped to end its season, won 3-0 in the quarterfinals with a 38-7-10 record and 19 clark said the senior class of the acc tournament nov. shutouts. can hold their heads high 9 at alumni stadium. notre dame just missed after all they have accom­
last season, virginia was taking the lead seconds be-plished in their time at notre the only team to defeat fore halftime when panken dame. notre dame en route to the almost connected with a “i’ve been proud of this 
forward peter schneider. 

national championship. The cross at the top of the six-team all season, all year,” 
Hockey 
The momentum was short-cavaliers bested the irish yard box, but a cavalier de-clark said. “They’re a great 

conTinued From page 16 
lived for the irish, and ohio 

at home, 2-0, in the regular fender cleared the ball high group of guys.” goal, roofing a backhand state stretched its lead back 
season and then advanced of the wide-open net. over the glove of union se-to two goals just before the 
on penalty kicks when the “That was a really Contact Zach Klonsinski at nior goaltender colin stevens six-minute mark of the sec-
two faced off again in the good chance right before zklonsin@nd.edu while the teams were in the ond period. midst of a line change. an interference penalty 
The lead grew to 2-0 with on irish sophomore defen­five minutes left in the sec-seman Justin wade gave the ond period when senior buckeyes a power play, and forward austin wuthrich Fritz bagged his second goal deflected a ripley shot from of the game. the point past stevens. Junior buckeyes freshman defen­forward Thomas dipauli was seman victor björkung scored also credited with an assist his first career goal to pad his on the play, his ninth of the team’s lead 88 seconds into year. the final stanza, and senior 
although it marked the forward derek angeli bagged fourth time the irish had sur-the game’s final goal with rendered a 2-0 lead at home, nine minutes to play. it was the first time notre The irish were 0-for-6 with dame lost a game after such the man advantage on the a lead. weekend and have now failed 
after dropping a close deci-to score on 21 consecutive sion Friday, the irish suffered power plays. a significant defeat in the western michigan won third-place game saturday the shillelagh Tournament against ohio state (5-8-1, 1-1-crown with a 6-2 win against 0 big Ten). ohio state on Friday and an 
a pair of goals in the first 8-2 triumph over union in 13 minutes of the game pro-saturday’s title tilt. pelled the buckeyes to an notre dame will return early two-goal lead, one they to hockey east play this would not surrender en route weekend as it visits last-to a 5-1 victory. place umass. puck drop in 
buckeyes junior defender amherst, massachusetts, is blake doerring jumped on a slated for 7 p.m. both Friday rebound to give ohio state a and saturday nights. 1-0 lead seven minutes into the game, and senior forward Tanner Fritz doubled the visi­tors’ advantage five minutes later when he fired a wrist shot from the circle past irish freshman goaltender cal petersen. 
petersen finished with 23 saves. 
with 56 seconds remaining in the first period, however, the irish pulled to within a goal when junior forward and captain steven Fogarty put a rebound past buckeyes soph­omore goaltender christian Frey. assists were credited to dipauli — his team-leading 10th of the year — and senior 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: be careful not to overload your plate. excess will be your downfall. Focus on what’s truly important to you, and you will maneuver your way through the year. Try to get more rewards for your efforts. it’s all about believing in yourself and following through instead of just talking. call the shots and make your dreams come true. your numbers are 4, 12, 13, 21, 28, 33, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): hard work will pay off. you will find strength and success, even in a difficult situation. enjoy your good fortune. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what you love the most. make a point to get out with people you find interesting or who have something to offer you. altering your outlook will encourage professional advancement. learn something new or pick up helpful skills. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ve got the right idea, so figure out how to implement the information you have in an orderly but unique manner. don’t let uncertainty in your personal life cost you. Take care of business, regardless of what’s going on around you. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep a cool head and a diplomatic approach. what you do at work will make a bigger impact on your future than how you deal with personal matters. don’t let the complaints regarding your work hours slow down your progress. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): say what’s on your mind. you need a little excitement in your life. Follow a new path, learn, form alliances and expand your creative dream. express your feelings, concerns and plans for the future. love is on the rise. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a chance and do things a little differently. look at the facts and add your unique touch to stylize the way you intend to move ahead. bring any concerns you have out in the open and disclose your plans. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let others see your vulnerability. Keeping your beliefs and concerns a secret will allow you to find out what everyone else thinks before you commit to anything that entails working with others. an argument will result in an unexpected change. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): check out destinations that intrigue you or courses that can help you develop greater insight into an unusual interest. don’t get sidetracked by someone using emotional tactics to get you to spend money or make a contribution. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make personal changes that will help you get ahead professionally. put your reputation on the line and gather as much knowledge as you can to help support your ideas, plans and concerns. love is highlighted, and romance will help improve your personal life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): speak up, but don’t act out emotionally. you have to have your strategy in place and your information accurate. Knowing exactly what you want will help you avoid being coerced into an emotional battle. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you know what you want, but trying to get it will be difficult. use reverse psychology to improve your chances of closing a deal or getting someone to agree with your plans. romance is in the stars. plan a celebration with someone special. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): go over important papers and any plans you have to contribute to something you feel is worthwhile. sending out a positive message will help you reconnect with people you’ve worked with in the past. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, spontaneous and determined. you are outgoing and generous. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
PRAGH  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
MURTS  

DLOETD EEECDX  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


The retired hockey player lived here — 
Print your answer here:  A  
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday’s  Jumbles: Answer:  CYNIC  THINK  EXEMPT  FOSSIL  

IN THE STICKS 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | virginia 1, nd 0 
Late goal eliminates top-seeded Notre Dame 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
The third time was not the charm for notre dame. 
after earning a draw and a win in their first two match-ups against virginia this season, the top-seeded irish (12-5-4, 6-1-1 acc) felt the sting of the third possible outcome sunday night at alumni stadium. a rebound goal in the 82nd minute by cavaliers sophomore mid­fielder nicko corriveau was all 16-seed virginia (12-6-2, 3-3-2 acc) needed to ad­vance to the ncaa quarter­finals with a 1-0 victory and end notre dame’s bid for consecutive titles. 

“of the three games we’ve played against them this year, possibly that was the game we had the most con­trol over,” irish coach bobby clark said. “i felt that was the one i was most comfort-notre dame ratcheted up able in, yet that was the one the pressure in the closing that we lost. soccer is a fun-minutes but was unable to ny game sometimes.” find an answer. 
scoring chances were hard irish freshman forward to come by in a tight de-Jeffrey Farina’s shot was fensive game, but a shot by knocked down a minute cavaliers redshirt freshman later by cavalier fifth-year midfielder pablo aguilar senior goalkeeper calle ricocheted off an irish play-brown and Farina’s follow­er to corriveau, who put a up sailed well wide. senior laser inside the left post to midfielder and captain nick record the game’s lone tally. besler sent a blast from 20 
HOCKEY | union 3, nd 2 (oT); ohio sTaTe 5, nd 1 

yards just high with under seven minutes remaining and junior midfielder evan panken’s free kick from 25 yards out with 1:31 remain­ing in the game suffered a similar fate before the clock ran out on notre dame’s season. 
“There were a couple of very close chances that we 
see m soccer PAGE 14 

irish drop two, finish last at shillelagh Tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame dropped a pair of decisions over the weekend — a 3-2 overtime loss to union on Friday and a 5-1 defeat at the hands of ohio state on saturday — to finish last at the shillelagh Tournament at the compton Family ice arena. 
The irish (6-8-2, 2-2-2 hockey east) grabbed a 2-0 lead for the fourth time in five home games Friday, but like the previous three, they were not able to hold onto the lead. 
The defending national champion dutchmen (7-6-1, 1-4-1 ecac) got the first goal back coming off a faceoff in the irish zone with just un­der 12 minutes to play in the game. after sophomore forward mike vecchione won the faceoff for union, sophomore defenseman Jeff Taylor carried the puck be­low the blue line. a centering pass found freshman for­ward spencer Foo in front of irish sophomore goaltender chad Katunar, and Foo put the biscuit in the basket for his seventh goal of the year, closing the gap to 2-1. 

with fewer than four min­utes remaining, irish fresh­man defender luke ripley took a hooking penalty, and the dutchmen used the man advantage to tie the game with 1:45 left in regulation. union sophomore forward michael pontarelli centered a puck in the attacking zone that deflected off junior for­ward matt wilkins and into the irish net, past Katunar, who finished with a career-high 35 saves. 
wilkins and the dutchmen managed the equalizer late in the third period and scored the win­ner even later in overtime. in the final minute, notre dame was caught commit­ting too many men forward, providing union an oppor­tunity on an odd-man rush. dutchmen junior defense-man sebastien gingras sent a cross-ice pass to wilkins who buried it to give the vis­itors the overtime win with just 22 seconds left on the clock. 
notre dame went ahead just seven minutes into the game when junior forward sam herr scored his sixth 
see hocKey PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 89, Kansas 47 
irish pummel Jayhawks 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
no. 2 notre dame fin­ished off the easiest portion of its schedule with flair sunday afternoon, racing by Kansas, 89-47, in uncasville, connecticut, to finish the naismith memorial hall of 
Fame  women’s  challenge  
undefeated.  
with  the  win  over  the  

Jayhawks (5-2), the irish (7­
0) completed the first half of their non-conference sched­ule, including victories over six unranked squads. notre dame has won every con­test by an average of almost 47 points, but irish coach muffet mcgraw said she is far from satisfied with the team’s early performance. 
“every area, honestly,” mcgraw said when asked where the irish could im­prove. “[against Kansas] we shot the ball really well, so that hides some problems, but i think we can execute better. i think we can re­bound better. i think we can defend better. i think we can do everything better.” 
against Kansas, the irish shot 55.4 percent from the field and 61.5 percent from 3-point territory, but their four-rebound advantage was well below their season aver­age of 17.7. 
“our rebounding was dis­appointing,” mcgraw said. “we wanted to out-rebound them by a bigger margin and we didn’t do that. when you shoot the ball well, you’re not going to get a lot of offensive rebounds, but i thought we should have done a better job defensively on the boards.” 
Kansas shot 38.2 percent from the field and collected 
see w basKeTball PAGE 13 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 91, gsu 54; nd 90, csu 42 
ND grabs pair of lopsided wins 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
whatever the irish ate over Thanksgiving, keep feeding it to them. 
Thanks to strong perfor­mances from beyond the 3-point arc, notre dame (6-1) rolled to big wins over grambling state and chicago state over the holiday. The irish tamed the Tigers (1-4), 81-54, wednesday and then followed that with a 90-42 steamrolling of the cougars (2-6) on saturday at purcell pavilion. 
combined, the irish went 26-of-52 from behind the 3-point line, draining 12 3-pointers against grambling state and another 14 against chicago state. 
sophomore guard demetrius Jackson led the way for the irish against grambling state, pour­ing in four 3-pointers and leading the team with 17 points. senior guard Jerian grant (13), junior forward Zach auguste (12), and se­nior guard/forward pat connaughton (10) joined Jackson in double-figures. 
see m basKeTball PAGE 13 




