The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 61 | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SIBC reopens membership to all majors 
Sponsorship of largest student organization switches from Mendoza to Career Center 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
after beginning the year un­der the purview of the mendoza college of business, and therefore being open only to mendoza stu­dents, the student international business council (sibc) recently moved under the advisorship of the career center and will reopen its membership to students of all ma­jors, senior and sibc co-president alisha anderson said. 
“The most immediate change is, once again, we will be open to stu­dents from all majors and all col­lege affiliations, which we saw as the most important change so far,” anderson said. “beyond that, we’re still working through some of the other structural changes in terms of bylaws and organizational aspects.” 
career center director hilary Flanagan said the new partnership with sibc, the largest student orga­nization on campus, came about after discussions between student members of sibc and university administrators. 
“after considering some recent feedback from and discussion be­tween students involved in sibc, deans, and the division of student affairs, the decision was made to transition sibc from a student club to a student organization,” Flanagan said in an email. “like other student organizations on campus, sibc already functioned with a university employee ap­pointed to advise the group. 
see sibc PAGE 4 




Saint Mary’s juniors win study abroad scholarships 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
Two saint mary’s students, juniors christine germann and victoire michel de la maisoneuve, received the gilman scholarship to par­ticipate in a study abroad program or career-oriented international internship this academic year. 
germann won an $8,000 grant because she is studying swahili, which the gilman program designates as a criti­cal language. germann is also the first saint mary’s student to win the program’s critical need language supplement program scholarship in addi­tion to the primary scholar-

ship, which offers up to $5,000 for any kind of study abroad. 
germann will study abroad in iringa, Tanzania from January through may, she said. she will join a group sponsored by the council on international educational exchange (ciee) at a program 

focusing on language, culture and development. 
“we will take five courses, 
see gilman PAGE 5 

society of women engineers advisor earns fellowship 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
catherine (cathy) pieronek, associate dean for the college of engineering, director of the women’s engineering program and faculty advisor to the notre dame chapter of the society of women engineers (swe), was named a swe fellow in october at the national society’s annual con­ference in los angeles. 
“we are all very proud of cathy for her recognition,” senior Jillian montalvo, president of the notre dame swe chapter, said. “cathy is a huge advocate for women in engineering, and she has been an extremely active member in swe. … her success reflects highly on the notre dame section and it brings even more attention to the university’s dedication to increas­ing the number of female students 
see swe PAGE 4 


Factory produces The shirt, benefits community 

By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
For the last three years, The shirt project has contracted with alta gracia apparel, a fair trade clothing factory lo­cated in the altagracia prov­ince of dominican republic, to produce The shirt. in an event sponsored by the center for social concerns and the higgins labor studies program, two women who work at the factory in the dominican republic, a member of the alta gracia educational staff and a member of The shirt commit­tee sat down for a panel on the garment company and its work with notre dame. 
The shirt project was found­ed in 1990, and its proceeds go towards the rector Fund, which helps students afford football tickets and participate in other activities not covered by financial aid. Funds also aid students with “extraordi­nary medical costs,”  junior molly howell, vice president of The shirt project, said. 
see shirT PAGE 5 






ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you want for Christmas? 

Ryan Brickner 
freshman 
Zahm hall 
“i want a hippopotamus for christmas.” 
Michael Dang 
freshman 
Zahm hall 
“hair.” 
Claire Purcell 
junior 
pasquerilla west hall 
“new boots.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Luis Young 
freshman 
Zahm hall 
“all i want for christmas is mariah carey.” 
Joe Faulkner 
freshman 
Zahm hall 
“i want interhall hockey to start #Fear.” 
Colleen Houston 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west hall 
“something monogrammed.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville Zack klonsinski alex winegar hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

MFA Student South Bend Youth Christmas Cookie Women’s Basketball Classic Film: “It’s a 
emmet Farnan bianca almada 

Reading Series Symphony Orchestra Decorating Purcell Pavilion Wonderful Life” Hammes Bookstore Morris Inn LaFortune Student 3:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Center ND vs. Connecticut. Arts Center 
Corrections 

Holiday entertainment. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 3 p.m.- 5 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Free for students. Free for students. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball Interdenominational ND Chorale Men’s Basketball Advent Lessons and 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Purcell Pavilion Fellowship (ISI) DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion Carols 
however, recognize that we will make 

7:15 p.m. - 9:15 p.m. Coleman - Morse Arts Center 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

ND vs. Michigan State. Center 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. ND vs. Fairleigh Heart 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Featuring Handel’s Dickinson. 7:15 p.m.- 8:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Student worship. “Messiah.” Features all choirs. 


ND physicists research traffic 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
notre dame researchers, in­cluding professor of theoretical physics Zoltán Toroczkai and graduate student yihui ren, re­cently completed a model that will predict traffic patterns based on physics principles and published their work in the journal “nature communications.” 
“The motivation of this work is twofold, intellectual inquisitive­ness and practical application,” ren said. “by observing a compli­cated system, [physicists] always wonder whether there is a simple fundamental underlying principle driving this system. human mo­bility on road networks is such a problem. it is also an old problem.” 
ren said the desire to design a model to predict traffic patterns was born out of dissatisfaction with previous models. 
“we found that most researchers [used] gravity laws to study traffic within urban areas,” he said. “… we found this [to be] unsatisfactory. … an urban area is not a closed sys­tem, [and] traffic could come from outside of the city. [dissatisfaction] is a good thing; it indicates there is room for improvement.” 
improvement was made through what ren described as a long and complicated but ulti­mately rewarding research pe­riod in which he collaborated with and received advice from both Toroczkai and fellow physicist dr. maria ercsey-ravasz of babes­bolyai university in romania. The result was a model that can predict traffic values on a road­way network based on the network structure and the geographic dis­tribution of the population. The model, ren said, accomplishes three major milestones. 
“The first is the first-principles nature of our model, [which] en­ables its usage on any roadway network without knowing traffic data,” ren said. “The second ac­complishment is high accuracy. by comparing with the empiri­cal data, our model can yield a high linear correlation coefficient around 0.75, which is a validation of the correctness of our model. 
“The third is high computation­al efficiency. … it can reduce a 24­hour computation to several hours … but still keep a good result.” 
The model takes into account the unpredictability of humans as they choose their destinations and the routes to those destinations, according to a press release. 
The factoring in of one’s choice of destination was based on an earlier traffic prediction model developed by Filippo simini and marta gonzález that “takes into account the reasons why people travel, such as commuting to a job. That study is coupled with a model of the cost considerations people use to choose which path to take, such as favoring a quicker interstate route over a shorter but slower road.” 
ren said their research is “sig­nificantly meaningful in … real world practice” and has a practi­cal application when consider­ing, for example, damage to road networks caused by events such as earthquakes. after such events, populations relocate, and the con­struction of new roads is necessary to mitigate damage. 
predicting traffic patterns more accurately could help “evaluate road construction” before costly plans are drawn up and initiated, ren said. 
“our model is ideal for this pur­pose,” he said. 
Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

design students fight hiv/aids in south africa 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 

robert sedlack, associ­ate professor of visual com­munication design, and a group of students from notre dame’s department of art, art history and design are creating a campaign to help hiv victims in south africa by designing resources to inform and educate local communities. 
“we’re in a class called ‘design for social good,” se­nior colleen hancuch said. “The idea is that design can be an effective communica­tor and the ideal method for education and problem-solv­ing. The big project we’re all working on now focuses on that the current hiv/aids situation in south africa is not unlike hiv/aids was in the united states in the early 1980s,” sedlack said. “The as­sumptions once someone gets hiv are really misguided. 
“many people think being hiv positive is a death sen­tence. The population just doesn’t have access to the information that, in my opin­ion, they should have access to.” 
This semester, sedlack as­signed the 13 students en­rolled in “design for social good” the project of using design to better inform the people of south africa about hiv/aids and help change societal misconceptions about the virus. 
“Hopefully our campaigns will give an element of hope and the possibility of continuation of life, which I think a lot of people struggle with upon diagnosis. We’re hoping our actions can help minimize that fear.” 
Samantha Lessen senior design student 

the task of creating an over­arching campaign to address the issue and stigma of hiv/ aids in south africa.” 
sedlack said the rela­tionship between notre dame’s design program and Johannesburg, south africa, was first established in april 2011 in response to xeno­phobic attacks. since then, sedlack has led two groups of design students on spring break trips to Johannesburg. 
“last spring break, one of the things we realized was 
senior design students holly o’hara, keri o’mara and samantha lessen de­signed their project to fo­cus on antiretroviral drugs (arvs), the medication given to individuals diagnosed as hiv positive. (editor’s note: keri o’mara is graphics editor at The observer) 
“in order for this medicine to be effective, people are supposed to continue taking it for the rest of their lives,” o’mara said. “problems oc­cur when people run out of their medication and never go to refill it. in south africa, the arvs are free, so it really comes down to just taking the initiative to go and get more pills.” 
o’hara, o’mara and lessen said they are trying to ad­dress this problem by design­ing a wallet-like accessory in which hiv victims can carry their daily doses of medicine in calendar-style pockets. 
“according to our contact, right now south africans use plastic bags to carry around their phone, money, and oth­er important things,” lessen said. “The design we’re cur­rently focusing on is kind of like a wallet that will have a foldable calendar with zip­per pouches for their monthly arvs. we hope it will allow people to carry everything that’s important for their lives 
—
 such as money or a phone 

—
 in one place. because the arvs would be carried with these other essentials, we hope it would show their val­ue as something that’s impor­tant for the rest of their lives.” 


The students in sedlack’s “design for social good” class said the curriculum helps integrate their design skills with social concerns. 
“i think it goes along with everything that notre dame tries to instill in its students,” o’hara said. “get an educa­tion, learn your skills and then use those skills to better the world.” 
Two other groups’ projects target the social construction of gender in south africa by designing and implement­ing after-school programs for elementary and high school-aged female students. another group is working to make a booklet to hand out to people once they are diag­nosed with hiv. 
“hopefully our campaigns will give an element of hope and the possibility of contin­uation of life, which i think a lot of people struggle with upon diagnosis,” lessen said. “we’re hoping our actions can help minimize that fear.” 
sedlack plans to organize another trip to Johannesburg over the upcoming spring break so that design students can begin to implement some of their projects and adapt them to fit the south african culture as necessary. 
“i think it’s easy to think of design just as advertising, sort of just feeding into the commercial world,” o’hara said. “That’s really the point of this whole class: to expand that idea and to get us to think that we can do so much more with design.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


these students, our retention in 

the level of independence the sibc these opportunities are still in the 
SWE SIBC 
engineering from first year to 

is capable of in order to function early stages. 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
sophomore year was 45 percent 

at a healthy state,” he said. “and “we’re still in preliminary dis-
for women and 62 percent for 

we’re very excited to work with the cussions with the career center, 
in engineering.” men,” pieronek said. “within “being recognized as a student career center, whose mission very but you can certainly see how there 
peironek received the acco-three years, through strengthen-

organization and moving forward much aligns with ours — provid-may potentially be some synergies 
lade for her “dedication to the ing swe and through using those with that recognition seems like a ing a diverse set of educational on some of our international in­
swe mission, for a lasting and students’ feedback, we increased very positive outcome that will ad-experience while maintaining an ternship programs, whether that 
positive impact on engineering the retention rate of both genders dress important student feedback impact in both the local and global be through parallel funding sourc­
education and for illuminat-to 72 percent. Today, we have an and benefit all who participate in communities.” es or amplified relationships with 
ing public discourse on gender 85 percent retention for that same the organization.” anderson said the administra-companies,” he said. 
equality in science, technology, period for both men and women.” senior alessandro disanto, tion listened to student concerns Flanagan said she and her staff at 
engineering and mathematics last year, female engineers also an sibc co-president, said regarding sibc membership and the career center are likewise ex­
(sTem) fields,” according to a made up one-third of notre the move stemmed from a mutual prioritized the best interest for the cited about the possibilities for the 
college of engineering press re-dame’s graduating engineering desire from mendoza and sibc to council in its response. new relationship with sibc. 
lease. her award of Fellow grade class, compared to a national aver-find the best home for the council. “everyone was very impassioned “Time will certainly tell, but i 
is the society’s highest category of age of 18 percent, pieronek added. “i think because of the immedi-about, ‘how can we best find a think there are some great oppor­
membership. “although notre dame swe acy of the decision that was made home for the sibc?’” she said. “i tunities for our staff to provide some 
“what the award recognized is is a student organization and 

over the summer by the college think everyone was trying to find coaching to students within sibc to 
my contributions toward helping completely student-run, it owes of business [to have control over the best interest for us, including further their aim to promote peace 
swe become a national leader in a huge amount of success to sibc], we were not able to fully mendoza and student affairs.” through commerce,” she said. “we 
the discussion of how to make en-cathy,” montalvo said. “with her discuss how the transition would Though sibc has essentially look forward to coaching the stu­
gineering education more acces-guidance, our membership has work with mendoza,” he said. “and completed its projects for the fall dent leadership of sibc, as well as 
sible to women,” pieronek said. seen a dramatic increase in the once those discussions started semester, disanto said the coun-the general membership as they 
pieronek also has served as last few years … and it doesn’t 

taking place, there was a feeling of cil looks forward to reopening its strive to gain experience in various 
Title iX lead and chair of the soci-look like this trend will change maybe this should go in a different membership to all students in the career fields through interaction 
ety’s government relations and anytime soon.” direction. spring semester. with employers. 
public policy committee, help-swe serves as a resource for “Just given the circumstances “our projects are coming to the “This is a brand new transition 
ing shape swe’s position on how female students to find ways to that both [mendoza and sibc] are end for this semester, so it’s kind of for all of us, and i think this new col-
Title iX should be applied to en-make a traditionally male-dom­in, perhaps both organizations the end of our cycle, but starting im-laboration will be great for student 
gineering and science programs inated profession work for them, could meet their missions better if mediately, we are open to everyone members of sibc. being recognized 
and giving presentations to fed-pieronek said. the sibc was located in a different from all educational backgrounds as a student organization and mov­
eral agencies on this topic. “our goal is to make sure that home that allowed for a more ex-and are excited to welcome all of our ing forward with that recognition 
pieronek, a notre dame alum-women never feel pushed out of 

pansive impact on campus.” new members and old members seems like a very positive outcome 
na with a degree in aerospace en-engineering, but that they choose disanto said he was pleased to back at the start of this coming se-that will address important student 
gineering, joined the notre dame to stay because they know that see the university respond to the mester,” disanto said. feedback and benefit all who par-
engineering faculty in 2002 they can thrive here,” she said. council’s needs in an effective and he also said the move to the ticipate in the organization.” 
and established the women’s productive way. career center will provide new and 
engineering program. Contact Bianca Almada at “it was very heartening to see exciting opportunities for sibc and Contact Jack Rooney at 
“when i started working with balmada@nd.edu 

the office of student affairs realize its members, though the details of jrooney1@nd.edu paid adverTisemenT 



country and culture that i do supporting u.s. undergradu­

Gilman 
entrepreneurs in their own not have much knowledge on ates who might otherwise not 
Shirt 
hometowns … actually em­
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
and broaden my international consider these opportunities 

ploying other people in their education,” maisoneuve said. due to financial constraints, 
community. it’s such a pow-including swahili lessons, “i start the process of learn-the website stated. 
howell said The shirt com-erful ripple effect.” community development ing mandarin while in china, germann said the applica­
mittee’s partnership with yenny perez, a single moth-management and a hands-on which i hope to continue once tion process was lengthy and 
alta gracia has been a largely er of five children, is a worker practicum on-site at a rural i come back to school.” included several information-
positive experience. at the alta gracia factory. she [non-governmental organiza-germann said faculty at al sections focusing on top­
“They came to us in 2012 spoke about her experience tion] for four weeks at the end saint mary’s encouraged ics like student demographics 
and really impressed us,” with the company as Taber of the semester,” germann her to pursue the opportu-and the program for which an 
howell said. “… it’s been a translated from spanish. said. nity the gilman scholarship applicant applied. 
great collaboration. They do “since i have started work­germann said she hopes presented. “The most labor-intensive 
so much for the people in the ing at alta gracia, my life has this experience will aid in her “i heard about the benjamin part was the statement of pur­
dominican republic, and the made a 180,” perez said. “we goals of pursuing a career in a. gilman scholarship from pose essay and the follow-on 
social aspect of that really have the saying in spanish international development or the saint mary’s study abroad service essay,” germann said. 
stood out to us. that it is the difference be-humanitarian aid work, spe-advisor, alice yang,” she said. “The statement of purpose es­
“They’ve been incredibly tween heaven and earth. i cifically in africa. “she has much experience say is straightforward listing 
accommodating in terms of have been able to do things “i am a global studies major guiding students to the often why you chose the program 
design, and they allowed at home and take time to do with a concentration in inter-necessary funding options and what it holds for your fu­
us to change the fabric this things with my children. national development, so this for study abroad programs ture. The follow-on service 
year. in addition to being this “before i worked at alta program fit my goals nicely,” and has actually been on the essay is where the student 
amazing company that does gracia, even sending all of germann said. gilman review board in the describes how they will pro-
so much good for the people them to school was a huge germann started studying past.” mote study abroad and the 
challenge. i had to pick which swahili on her own last sum-The benjamin a. gilman gilman scholarship upon 
one of them would get to go. mer to be better prepared for international scholarship their return.” 
“Now, all of my now, all of my children are 
her semester abroad. program is a congressionally-germann said she would enrolled in school; my two 
children are 
“The program includes in-funded program sponsored encourage all students to seek oldest daughters are enrolled 
enrolled in school; 
tensive study in that language by the bureau of educational out the best experiences for 

in the university. This hasn’t as well,” germann said. “my and cultural affairs at the u.s. themselves. 
my two oldest just been a big change for me; impression is that the immer-department of state and is “do not limit yourself,” she 
daughters are it has been a big change for all sion process will greatly en-administered by the institute said. “if there is something 
the workers and also for our 
enrolled in the 
hance comprehension too.” of international education, that you think will assist in local economy in altagracia.” 
university. This 
maisoneuve won a $5,000 according to the scholarship your personal growth, such as 

maritza vargas, a 49-year­grant to study abroad in the program’s website. international education, seek 
hasn’t just been a old factory worker with five 
ciee china shanghai business The gilman program aims to information and put yourself 

big change for me; children and one grand-
culture and language diversify the kinds of students out there.” 
child, talked about specific 
it has been a big 
program. who study and intern abroad policies at the factory that 
change for all the 
“This scholarship will as well as the countries and Contact Alex Winegar  at 

have improved the working permit me to learn about a regions to which they travel by awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
workers.” conditions, particularly for women. 
Yenny Perez 
“at alta gracia, we as wom­
employee 
en feel like we’re on a whole 
Alta Gracia Apparel 
new level,” vargas said, with 

Taber translating. “as wom­in the dominican republic, en, we are treated well and they also have a really solid respected. our right to be a business model.” mother is respected. 
rachel Taber, commu-“at alta gracia our right nity education coordinator to be a mother is fully re-for alta gracia, spoke about spected and accommodated the company and served as on the job. when it’s time to translator for the two women give birth, they are given full visiting from the alta gracia pregnancy leave, and post-factory. partum, they are also given 
“alta gracia is the first-rights to tend to their babies ever, living-wage college ap-properly. parel project,” Taber said. “some of the benefits that “sometimes people think of a mothers enjoy are that they living wage as a family wage are allowed half a day out of because it is enough to sup-the schedule to bring their port a family of five. child to the doctor or to any 
“it is more than three checkups that they could times what your average possibly need. They are also dominican garment worker given one hour each day to go would be making otherwise. home and breast feed their This has a really profound child, to make sure it gets impact on this communi-proper nutrition. They are ty, as many people in this also given time and the sup-room have been able to see port of a childcare center that themselves.” they can take their child to.” 
The factory’s policies have vargas said that the alta greatly impacted the com-gracia factory represents a munity, Taber said. The model of garment production higher wages provided by that allows for human digni­the company allow for work-ty but also profit. ers to engage in opportuni-“it’s a great pride to work ties that would otherwise be at alta gracia,” vargas said. impossible. “we’re showing the world 
“kids are going to school together that this can be where they weren’t able to done. you can have a factory before for lack of resources where people are treated like like school supplies,” she humans, with respect, like said. “The children of gar-equals. you can have a fac­ment workers are now en-tory where people are paid rolled in college, pursuing a dignified wage and this is their dreams, and even the something that can be done workers themselves [can pur-all over.” sue an education]. people have access to medical Contact Margaret Hynds at care; people have become mhynds@nd.edu 





INSIDE COLUMN 

Equal to our tasks 
because i lost a bet 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
i would like to start off this column by saying that i am writing it against my will. 
it all started a few weeks ago at the second annual andrew gastelum Turkey bowl, in which the members of The observer sports department faced off in a snowy football game at mcglinn Fields. The battle lines were drawn and after a draft and a few trades, i was convinced i had the winning team, the one that would trounce the team captained by associate sports editor greg hadley. The stakes were high — the los­ing team’s captain would write an inside column devoted to the winners’ captain. 
since other observer duties beckoned me away from the game before its conclusion, i had to place my trust in the honor of the rest of the staff, who promptly informed me that i would indeed be writing the next inside column on the schedule. 
so here is my column, dedicated to one gregory gerard hadley. 
an acrostic: 
great amount of sass 
really likes fruit snacks 
eats a lot of fruit snacks 
good kid, bad choice in sports teams 
orioles included 
regularly gets emails in response to his stories 
yes, those emails are rather funny 
golden-haired for much of freshman year 
emotional half of the sports editors 
really from maryland but says he’s from d.c. 
always jinxes notre dame sports 
really shouldn’t cover any more champi­onship games 
doesn’t believe this is his fault (it prob­ably is) 
has a lot of siblings 
average writer 
doesn’t like the beautiful things in life 
like particularly funny puns 
engages in treks from south dining hall to carroll hall frequently 
yes, even when it’s snowing — that’s dedication 
a haiku: 
Fruit snacks and carroll 
That’s how i would describe greg, 
with food and his dorm. 
a limerick: 
greg is pretty quick when he works not so sure if he’s as good when he twerks no, he’s no miley his humor comes dryly and his sass is one of his better quirks 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 
i’m not a huge prayer guy. 

i believe in god. i think. well, at least i want to. i guess i’m still working on that. 
i like to think i’m decently religious, though the fact that i just used “decently” as a modifier and “i think” in relation to my believing in god probably speaks to a relationship with religion that leaves something to be desired. 
so, in short, i’ll pray at mass and on the off-chance i end up at the grotto. but even then, i’m “praying” as much to chat with myself as to anyone above. i struggle with the idea that the world around me is changed upon our petitions, that we can save those things and people who we ask to be saved and others will be left to fend for themselves. i’d like to think that beyond this, any god has better things to do than a lot of the stuff that gets tossed in his direction in prayer. 
as i navigate my way through my catholicism, i’m not ex­actly looking to add another religion. i do my best to avoid proselytizers walking door to door, but once in a while, one sneaks through. in my defense, when you’re waiting to board a flight, there’s not much room to escape. so i took her little piece of paper — my new bookmark for the trip — smiled, and went on my merry way to my seat. 
as i opened my book, i snuck a look at the handout, which asked what i’d pray to change about my life. interesting enough. 
i didn’t think about it much until i came across a discussion of John F. kennedy a few pages in. my mind wandered back to the piece of paper and to something kennedy had once said. 
“do not pray for easy lives,” he counseled, quoting an episcopal bishop, phillips brooks. “pray to be stronger men.” according to him, women, i assume, should figure something else out. 
my book suddenly held less interest. i started thinking of ways i could be a better person, a stronger one. i came up with some hopes — i guess you could call them prayers — about how i would want to live. 
i’d hope to live up to the chances i’ve had — to those whom much is given, much is expected. i’d hope to live up to the ex­pectations of those who have sacrificed for me and mentored me. i’d hope to live in a way to make them proud. i’d hope to work as tirelessly as my dad and to love as unequivocally as my mom. i’d hope to have as big of a heart as my grandpar­ents. i’d hope to be as dedicated as my brother and as kind and compassionate as my sisters. 
i’d wish to be as supportive, spontaneous and outright awe­some as my friends. i’d wish to leave as big of an impact on others’ lives as they have left on mine. i’d wish to help kids find their way just as my teachers and coaches did for me. i’d wish to inspire the same fire and passion for learning. 
i’d aspire to be as unapologetically optimistic as christmastime is. in a season of unmatched giving, i’d aspire to give more freely in support of friends and strangers. 
selfishly, i’d want to be a freshman again, to have four more years in this land of intellectual curiosity and unlimited ca­pacity for good. 
i’d dream for the humility of the brothers and Fathers and sisters that roam notre dame, for the wisdom they have shared, for the help that they have given and will give. i’d dream to live my life even half as well as those students around me, the ones i am inspired by daily, do. 
i’d yearn for a heart that knows right from wrong and for the strength to pursue right’s cause. i’d yearn for eyes that could see the world’s problems, ears that could hear victim’s ills and a mind that could help find solutions. i’d yearn for the courage of those who protest peacefully in the face of a sys­tem they view as unjust and of those who walk the streets day after day to keep communities safe. 
i’d hope for the ability to do some fraction of the good that those across the globe and throughout the country do. i’d hope for the chance to stand with the servicemen and wom­en, doctors and volunteers, development workers and clergy, to fight the fires of famine and disease where they rage, to fight tyranny where it stands and to help the suffering where they lay. 
Finishing his quotation of brooks, kennedy continued, “do not pray for tasks equal to your powers. pray for powers equal to your tasks.” 
in a world inundated by fear and suffering and immersed in a conflagration of pain and anguish, i would dream for the powers to help in some manner, to aid in some way. i would hope for the powers that allow me to help set back the tide, to calm the flame and to face the tasks that i and we all, face. and for that? For that i will pray. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine studying political science and finance. He’s the loving father of Siegfried 4B, which apparently got a section Tinder. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

end neglected Tropical diseases 
Trachoma. elephantiasis. snail Fever. river blindness. roundworm. whipworm. hookworm. 
many of you are probably thinking to yourselves, “what are those things?” These are seven of the most common diseases found in developing countries across the world. This may be a surprise considering that you may not have ever heard of such diseases. because they are not found within the united states, these dis­eases often tend to escape our attention and the efforts needed to help bring an end to the growing problems amount to very little. For this reason, these diseases are referred to as neglected Tropical diseases. it is my hope to raise awareness by providing a deeper look into these diseases. 
neglected Tropical diseases, or nTds for short, are endemic tropical infections that affect over one billion of the world’s poorest people in many countries in the southern hemisphere, especially in south america and africa. a staggering one in six people are currently infected with one or more of these diseases. They are most often transmitted through contaminated soil or different living organisms, such as flies, mosquitoes and snails. These nTds have a huge impact on those whom they afflict. They can cause severe illnesses, disfigure­ment and abdominal pain, and unfortunately, they kill more than half a million people every year. 

nTds also contribute to a cycle of poverty and stigma that leaves afflicted people unable to work, go to school or participate in community life. pharmaceutical drugs have been developed to help cure these diseases, but the problem lies in receiving greater funds to continue the manufacture of these medications and provide means of distribution. compared to other diseases like malaria, hiv/aids and tuberculosis, nTds don’t draw nearly the same amount of resources and funding, receiving only one percent of u.s. global health funding. 
by donating just $0.50, you can help a child receive the necessary medication to treat and protect himself or herself against all seven of these diseases for an entire year. if everyone joins in on the campaign, the world can see the end of all seven of these nTds by the year 2020. visit http://www.end7.org/ to learn more information and help make a difference. Together we can see the end. 
Andrew Curcio
       freshman    Zahm hall nov. 30 

make a difference with camp kesem 
when i told my mom i was doing something called camp kesem at notre dame, she was a little confused. she had never heard of such an organization, and while the idea was a good one, it seemed a little unrealistic for a college student with a full-time summer job to spend his one week off with a bunch of kids. in short, why should i spend so much time away from my classes and job for something so idealistic? 
allow me to explain: camp kesem is a week-long sum­mer camp for children affected by a parent’s cancer. we take local kids ranging in ages from 6-16 to ymca camp storer in Jackson, michigan for a week of classic summer camp activities and bonding, including kayaking, capture-the-flag and campfires. camp kesem notre dame is one of 62 col­lege chapters across the country that provides life-changing experiences for thousands of kids each year. we give them the chance to just be kids for once, instead of worrying about their mother’s latest chemo treatment or how they’ll answer awkward questions at school. kesem is magic for the kids and counselors alike and embodies something that can’t be eas­ily captured in words. To quote former irish head coach lou holtz, “if you’ve been there, no explanation is necessary.  if you haven’t, none is adequate.” 
at notre dame, we pride ourselves for being more than just a university. character and service follow hand-in­hand with academic and athletic excellence. as cardinal Timothy dolan, archbishop of new york, said in his 2013 commencement address, “notre dame is about not just a ca­reer but a call, not just what we’ve gotten but what we’re giving ... not just the ‘i’ but the ‘we.’” 

we are taught not only to eye the bottom line, but to always envision loftier goals, to set the world on fire. a sense of pur­pose pervades our time here; our educations are not just of the mind but also of the heart and soul. 
during my three and a half years here, i have not found something more notre dame than camp kesem. kesem is about bringing people together and empowering each other with shared experiences and love. like notre dame, kesem challenges us to live for more than just ourselves and reminds us of the life-altering power of love, of entering into relation­ships with each other. no other time at camp exemplifies this better than our empowerment ceremony, the one time dur­ing the week when we discuss why we are all there: cancer. i do not exaggerate when i say that the high point of my life was when a nine-year-old, with tears in his eyes, told me that while he may have lost his dad, he had found a family at camp. 
despite the convergence of our missions, camp kesem is still, for the most part, unknown on campus. ask any 10 peo­ple on south Quad if they’ve heard about camp kesem and maybe two have, describing it as “that thing my friend does with all the weird songs and nicknames.” during the year, our student volunteers plan fundraisers constantly, making us one of the most active clubs on campus so that we can ensure our camp remains 100 percent free for our campers and their families. if we achieve our goal of raising $72,000 this year, we will be able to serve more than 80 kids this year, not only at camp but also by providing support all year at their soccer games, reunions and all too often, funerals. 
our goal is to bridge that gap, to bring together the amazing children kesem serves and the extraordinary students notre dame cultivates. as we grow our program, we need more money and counselors. we are having our monthly all-camp meeting tonight (wednesday, dec. 3) in 129 debartolo hall at 8 p.m. come and see for yourselves what camp kesem is all about. all are welcome. 
To answer my mother’s question today, i would say that i kesem for the same reason the rest of us do: purpose. in the abstract midst of job searches, paper deadlines and an unend­ing pile of reading, camp kesem allows us to make a tangible difference in the world. kesem provides us with a renewed sense of fulfillment that corresponds perfectly with notre dame’s mission. remember, if you change a life you change the world, and we have 80 amazing kids this year. 
do it for the kids.
                John Groden
              senior   off-campus dec. 2 

Tell their story with “Show Some Skin” 
like many of you, we have sat in the audience at a “show some skin” performance, and we know first­hand how powerful the show can be. both of us were inspired to get involved in the show, so we auditioned to be actors. 
For those who have not seen it, “show some skin” is a performance of anonymously submitted monologues about identity and difference. The purpose and mission of “show some skin” is to give voice to the unspoken stories that exist on this campus. it cannot be done without the bravery and open-heartedness of the actors. 
The opportunity to act in the “show some skin” per­formance was one of the most life-changing and memo­rable moments of our notre dame experience. i would like to share the stories of myself and our director, lucas garcia, in the hopes that you will take a leap of faith and participate in this project. 
Three years ago i never knew that i would become producer of “show some skin.” i auditioned for “show some skin” in my sophomore year because i felt lost. i no longer could find a sense of purpose in the work that i did and i was trying to understand who i was at notre dame. in the spring of 2013 i joined a cast of 20 actors who, in their own ways, were passionate about making a difference in regards to issues of diversity and inclu­sivity. i received two monologues and for six straight weeks, i pored over them. while i may never know who wrote the monologues, i tried to understand my writers. They taught me about what it feels like to be ignored, different and scared to be one’s self in ways that i ex­perience in my own life and in ways that i do not. even now, i think about their stories, and they stay with me. performing in “show some skin” was a unique experi­ence that i am grateful for every day. 

current director lucas got involved with “show some skin” as a freshman. he was confused and felt like he had to start making decisions about who he was and who he wanted to be, and he found that who he wanted to be didn’t fit in at notre dame. 
he recalls, “i felt like i didn’t belong here. after i was cast, i met an incredible group of people from many racial and ethnic backgrounds, majors and graduating classes, all of whom wanted to make a difference. They wanted nd to be a place where whenever someone had a question about themselves, about who they wanted to be, they would feel and be safe, no matter what the answer. They all wanted to make notre dame a place where people could feel like they belonged. getting to know them and to know notre dame through these anonymous stories changed my life and that experience helps me every day in becoming who i am and who i want to be.” 
as the executive director and executive producer, respectively, of the upcoming show in spring, lucas and i invite and encourage all students to audition for “show some skin: Tell me more.” we are looking for a diverse group of actors; no previous experience on stage is necessary. 
acting for “show some skin” is unique because it’s not a fictional script. each monologue has a real voice behind it and it can be a student sitting in your class, your professor, a staff member or even your roommate. That’s the beauty and the power of the production. 
we have selected 30 outstanding monologues for the February 2015 production of “show some skin: Tell me more.” we are looking for a new batch of actors to come into community with one another and present the sto­ries that we believe campus needs to hear. 
auditions will be held wednesday, dec. 3 from 7 p.m. 
- 9:45 p.m. and Thursday, dec. 4 from 5 p.m. - 8 p.m. in andrews auditorium of geddes hall. For questions please email s.someskin@gmail.com 
Deandra Cadet 

executive producer “show some skin: Tell me more” 
Luca Garcia 

executive director “show some skin: Tell me more” dec. 1 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 
Finally, it’s that time of year again; Thanksgiving is over, december has begun and the weather is oh-so delightful (or not so delightful if you are opposed to below-freezing temperatures and frostbite). dec. 1 marked not only the first day you were able to open the first door in your advent calendar and find a surprise inside; it also marked the start of the famous 25 days of christmas on abc Family. This means that every day for the next three and a half weeks, abc Family will air a classic christmas movie to get everyone in the holi­day spirit. it’s like they knew it was finals season and that notre dame students would be looking for any and every reason to procrastinate, how kind of them. 
here are the must-see movies playing over the 25 days of christmas on abc Family; set your dvr be­cause you won’t want to miss a single one.
 “Elf” 
This one pretty much speaks for itself. i mean, is it re­ally december if you haven’t watched “elf” yet and quot­ed every single line? bonus points for acting out scenes (the mall elevator, “sanTa’s coming!”, spaghetti with syrup, etc.). perhaps consider investing in a buddy the elf costume for your next christmas-themed party.
 “Dr. Seuss’s How the Grinch Stole Christmas” 
based on the classic dr. seuss book, “how the grinch stole christmas,” this 2000 film starring a very hairy 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 
The question of beauty is constantly present in our modern world of photoshop, selfies and filters. we are always trying to work out the new and all-important definitions of what is "beautiful" and what is "ugly." 
in lindsay hunter's novel, "ugly girls," we follow the story of high schoolers perry and dayna; however, after dayna's brother is involved in a near-fatal acci­dent, she shaves half of her head and insists on going by "baby girl." The girls spend their time skipping school, staying up all night, stealing cars and driving around. They are as different as could be — baby girl works to make herself as much of an outcast as possible, mak­ing herself "ugly" before others can tell her she is, while perry strives to fit in, using her beauty to find love and acceptance. 
at the beginning of the novel, both girls are engaged in a quasi-relationship with a suspicious internet boy who goes by Jamey. perry, whose options for real-life re­lationships are more exciting, is somewhat turned off by her conversations with him, but baby girl is flattered by the attention. EMILY DANAHER | The Observer and green Jim carrey epitomizes christmas. between the elaborate, cartoon-like set of whoville and the ador­able cindy lou (played by a much younger and much less eye-lined Taylor momsen), this movie will get you in the christmas spirit and maybe even bring a few tears (the classroom flashback scene gets me every time). 

“Disney’s A Christmas Carol” 

now this is a newer addition to the list, as it just came out in 2009 and has yet to reach the list of clas­sics. however, it is telling a classic christmas story, so it must be included on the list. Jim carrey is at it again, playing the cranky ebenezer scrooge as well as the ghosts of christmas past, present and future. 
“The Polar Express” 

This movie will take you back to your childhood; an animated form of the children’s book by chris van allsburg, “The polar express” is a heartwarming tale about belief and growing up. 
“Home Alone” 

every 90s kid knows this story inside and out; the christmas movie list simply would not be complete without the iconic face of macaulay culkin, screaming as he runs away from robbers (no wonder all kids are scared to stay home alone … don’t think this would fly in our day and age as a children’s movie). 
“The Santa Clause” 

even though there are two more films in this series, 
punctuating the girls' storyline are the underlying is­sues of perry's mother and stepfather. her mother is a struggling alcoholic who is constantly trying to reach the happiness she had prior to her teenage pregnancy, while her stepfather works nights at a prison and strug­gles with maintaining his human decency in such a po­sition of power. 
my favorite part of this novel is the way hunter uses fragmentary images and language to tell this story. each chapter is short, only a couple pages long at most. she skips quickly from one perspective to another and builds the storyline in this way. it takes a little bit of de­ciphering, but is worth it in the end. 
perhaps the biggest mistake hunter makes is attempt­ing to work in the point of view of too many characters in too short of a space. The book is only 235 pages long, yet we get five different characters telling their side of each story, fragmenting the plot line and leaving much of their issues unresolved. The end never makes it clear where any of these storylines end up (with the excep­tion, perhaps, of Jamey's). Then again, perhaps this is the entire point of hunter's narrative. 
hunter's central question seems to come from perry's stepfather Jim's perspective. he seeks to understand the original is all that really matters. Tim allen kills it playing the absent, divorced dad turned santa claus and hero of christmas. didn’t we all want our dads to turn into santa after this 1994 christmas classic? 
“Frosty’s Winter Wonderland” 
now this one goes way back — all the way to 1976, in fact (hence the terrible yet lovable animation). The jolly christmas tune “Frosty The snowman” comes to life in this adorable animated “film” (run time of 25 minutes) — a longtime tradition for the christmas season. 
“Toy Story 3” 

ok, i have no idea why this is included in the 25 days of christmas, but it simply must be on this list. The tear-jerking finale (well, not anymore because of the proposed "Toy story 4") to the beloved Toy story series might as well be added to the christmas movie canon; in the least, it is yet another reminder to never grow up and to treat your toys nicely. 
Honorable Mention: The "Harry Potter" Series 
For some reason, these movies always seem to sneak their way into the christmas season, i suppose for the one christmas feast scene. even though they also play at every other time of the year on abc Family, why not give them another watch while you have the time dur­ing finals week? 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
how people deal with the everyday struggles of being alive. at one point, he reflects on how both his wife and his stepdaughter try to deal with their lives and exam­ines (somewhat negatively) their coping mechanisms. 
it is baby girl's plight that seems to be the greatest. There is some implication that prior to her brother's accident she was fairly bright, with some ambition to make something out of her life. but after her brother, who was involved in illicit activity and had a tough ex­terior that baby girl always admired, becomes mentally unstable, baby girl makes a complete reversal. she at­tempts to take over charles's role, making up a "thug" persona and trying to appear tougher than she is. it is only by the end of the novel that she realizes that what­ever charles did in his spare time before the accident was more complicated and well-meaning than what she previously thought. 
"ugly girls" examines the idea of "ugly" and how it works itself inside of all our lives. hunter never works out how to solve the mess her characters create, but that ap­pears to be part of the beauty of it all — that there is no solution. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

call december, i resorted to listening to resolved to enjoy them instead. 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 

scene editor christmas music nonstop, just to moti-so, here’s a different kind of advent vate myself during the final stretch. This calendar — one with a lowercase “a” — 
it’s that time of the year again — no, not behavior was particularly unusual be-counting down to the arrival of finals the holiday season — that time between cause of my general distaste for holiday week. Treat yourself to the events and all Thanksgiving break and winter break, songs and radio stations that play bing things seasonal on and around campus, the three weeks that seem to feel like a crosby from Thanksgiving to new year's and celebrate these last 12 days before whole semester in itself. we students get day. exams. a tiny taste of vacation and egg nog, then but these last few days of classes don’t it’s back to the final grind. have to be miserable. This year, perhaps Contact Allie Tollaksen at 
one year, during this purgatory we inspired by bubbling holiday cheer, i’ve atollaks@nd.edu 
wed., dec. 3 – if you haven’t  Thurs., dec. 4 – hit up the humor  Fri., dec. 5 – cheer on your talented  
found your way to a spoken word  artists’ last show of the semester  friends and classmates at the signa­ 
nd open mic or poetry slam event,  at legends at 11 p.m. The student  ture event “asian allure,” this year  
now is your chance. hear stu­ group is putting on “haccidentally  titled, “There and back again,” put on  
dents perform original poetry and  in lhave,” a “tribute to the mu- by the asian american association.  
compete for a cash prize. bring  sic of 'shrek,'” so dig up those old  incorporating performances and fash­ 
your friends and $3 for a ticket to  soundtracks and relive your child- ion showcasing asian cultures, the  
washington hall’s lab Theatre.  hood cd collection.  event takes place  in washington hall at  
7 p.m.  
sat., dec. 6 – There’s nothing  sun., dec. 7 – get in the holiday spirit  mon., dec. 8 – Take advantage of the  
more comforting in a time of stress  by catching the christmas classic, “it’s  lull in end-of-semester events today  
than a canine friend, so check out  a wonderful life,” at 3 p.m. in dpac.  to do something festive, whether it’s  
the “reindog parade” in downtown  Then call your family and tell them  baking cookies (or just eating all the  
south bend at 11 a.m. That’s right  hello in the midst of Jimmy stewart­ ones your ra bakes) or ugly sweater  
— a parade of dogs will be trotting  inspired sentimentality.  shopping for those christmas parties  
through the city, followed by a cos- waiting just on the other side of finals.  
tume contest that includes the cat­ 
egory “best puppy.” This event can’t  
be missed.  
Tues., dec. 9 – if you haven’t  wed., dec. 10 – in case you missed  Thurs., dec. 11 – classes are over,  
stopped by the snite yet this year,  sunday’s classic christmas mov­ and only finals week lies ahead.  
take advantage of the snite salon  ie, you can catch another. “white  celebrate and find your center with  
series at 5 p.m.  christmas” will be playing at dpac at  mindful meditation in coleman­ 
7 p.m.  morse at 5:15 p.m.  

Fri., dec. 12 – it’s the first day of  sat., dec. 13 – what better way to  sun., dec. 14 – Finals may be start- 
study days, so do yourself a favor  close out your semester than with a  ing the next day, but if you need  
and just sleep in.  concert by the notre dame glee club?  to blow off some steam, swing by  
The student group will be performing  compton  during  its  public  skate  
at 12, 3:30 and 8:30 p.m in dpac.  time. From 3-4:50 p.m., bring some  
friends and skate your hearts out.  

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Don’t blame Baylor 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
i don’t blame baylor for hir­ing a pr firm. 
The school has appar­ently hired kevin sullivan communications in the stretch run of playoff campaigning. 
interesting. many websites are reporting that 10-1 baylor, no. 6 in the college Football playoff rankings, hired the firm to enhance its playoff hopes — an entirely allowable move, by the way. 
but kevin sullivan insisted to Foxsports.com his company wasn’t hired to influence the playoff selection commit­tee. instead, he said baylor’s media relations staff was swamped and sought extra help. Foxsports.com quoted sullivan as saying, “we’re just trying to set up some national interviews for [baylor director of athletics] ian [mccaw]. it’s media relations, that’s all.” 
i don’t know if the firm’s help will involve raising the school’s selection profile, directly, in­directly or not at all. what i do know is that i don’t blame baylor even if the bears are trying to reach the selection committee somehow. 
either way, this move reveals a lot more about college foot­ball than it does about baylor. 
in a recent column for Forbes, Jim pagels wrote about how baylor’s decision reflects a problem with the college foot­ball playoff and ranking sys­tem. The school is only playing the game. 
The fact that most people assume baylor hired the pr firm to make its playoff case tells you everything you need to know. 
Few trust the human-driven selection system. 
commentators don’t think schools and their athletic di­rectors have reason to trust the fairness of the selection committee’s choices, so they think baylor must be trying to strengthen its case off the field. 
maybe baylor is. maybe baylor isn’t. 
The point is, how we talk about the college playoff sys­tem demonstrates just how subjective it remains. 
another example: when alabama looked to be in dan­ger of losing to auburn last weekend and dropping out of the top four, you could almost feel the fear rolling in from the south. “but then which sec team would make the play­off? you can’t have a football playoff without the sec!” i’m sure you heard the disgruntled whispers until alabama pulled away. 
a fine argument for the in­creased strength of schedule in the sec exists. sec teams with a loss or two are often better than undefeated teams from other conferences. but this still ends up being yet another subjectively tinged argument. how good is the sec, really, compared to the other power 5 conferences? even if you feel strongly on the topic, you can probably admit there’s room for debate and interpretation of game results. 
and that’s the enduring problem. The selection com­mittee looks at stats and re­sults — and then they must interpret these in order to ar­rive at a decision. 
people — you know, the liv­ing, breathing, fallible kind 
— are still calling the shots. we call it the “college Football playoff rankings,” but it’s really still a poll, just more mysteri­ous and with a fancier website. 
Frankly, i find the squab­bling over rankings entertain­ing. Then again, as a student at notre dame, i watched my school faint out of the rank­ings. That’s quite different from finding your school just on the outside, looking up at those top four headed to the playoffs without you. 
expanding to an eight-team playoff will fluster teams nine through 15 even more by bringing them even closer to the party but still leaving “almost” ringing in their ears. but including the top eight will eliminate some of the biggest controversies, as a one-loss team is unlikely to miss the playoffs at that point. 
here’s the harsh reality: good teams will miss the play­offs no matter what the system is. 
even if more computerized components are introduced to the process, good teams will miss the playoffs. Fan bases will call foul. but that’s okay. 
making the playoffs should be hard. it shouldn’t be an unfair process, but it should be difficult. There will always be a subjective component and people wondering about the fairness of the whole thing when their schools don’t make it. some of them will be justi­fied, some blinded by love for their schools. 
as long as college football re­mains the subjective, loyalty-driven craze that it is, schools will continue to try subjective, loyalty-driven, crazy things. 
so don’t blame baylor. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

purdue supports hazell despite poor season 
Associated Press 

wesT laFayeTTe, indiana — Two seasons into a six-year con­tract that pays him $2 million a year, purdue’s darrell hazell has compiled a 4-20 record, including 1-15 in the big Ten. 
There were improvements in 2014 as the boilermakers won for the first time against an Fbs op­ponent, increased the victory total from one to three and won a big Ten road game against illinois, which will likely receive a bowl game invitation. 
however, purdue finished the season with six consecutive loss­es, including an emotional 23-16 setback saturday at rival indiana, the second consecutive season the boilermakers have lost the old oaken bucket in finishing 3-9. 
while hazell was on the road re­cruiting and unavailable Tuesday, athletic director morgan burke said he believes in his coach and is convinced he is the right man for the job. 
while purdue will return nine offensive starters and eight defen­sive starters for 2015, burke wants to see more consistent play within the same game from the offense and the defense. The offense, for example, played well against michigan state and minnesota, but the defense gave up a com­bined 84 points in those two losses. 
“i would like to see the offense and the defense consistently play at a high level,” burke said. “last year was about the variability of the play from game to game. This year was about the variability of one side of the ball in a game, and then the other side. 
“if both sides of the ball played at their best level, i think we would have been very happy with the results, but we didn’t. when i sit down with darrell, i will ask what we have to do.” 

burke said purdue got better in 2014 from 2013, but he says it must get much better next season. he and hazell are eager for the day when purdue’s two-deep roster is comprised 80 percent of players with third- and fourth-year eligi­bility and not loaded with fresh­men and sophomores, which it has been for two seasons. 
“darrell is a smart guy,” burke said. “some people want the fiery, gene keady kind of mentality, and others kind of like the cool, calm and collected image. This guy has an unbelievable ability to stay focused and to be unruffled. i think this team needs to look over there and see a sense of calm­ness that we are going to get this done. he was at rutgers when they struggled and was at ohio state when they won. we are really for­tunate to have the leadership that we’ve got.” 
yet despite the fact standout linebacker Ja’whan bentley, de­fensive back Frankie williams, wide receiver danny anthrop, quarterback austin appleby and the entire offensive line is set to return, burke said the bottom line if that there must be improvement in 2015. 
“obviously, in this past year, a ton of energy and effort were ex­pended by the players, the coach­ing staff, our marketing staff and the fans,” burke said. “but we don’t have much to show for it. That is disappointing, and it is discouraging.” 
before hazell left to recruit this week, burke told him to sell the vi­sion for this program and to add to the talent level that has won only four times in two seasons. 
“if you look at many of the met­rics that you would use to chart the progress of a team, they certainly moved in a positive direction,” burke said. “but at the end of the day, as darrell has said, it is about winning. we have a very fraction­alized fan base right now. i under­stand that. we do not have enough playmakers yet. i hope they are on the roster.” 
HIGH SCHOOL 

Fall concussion numbers released in Indiana 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — schools across the state have reported more than 1,200 concussions among athletes taking part in the five-month fall sports season, according to the indiana high school athletic association. 
Those reports show that foot­ball players suffered nearly 70 percent of the reported 1,219 con­cussions, followed by girls and boys soccer players with about 20 percent. 
This is the first year of the ihsaa’s voluntary system for reporting concussions, so the group doesn’t have any compari­son figures. concussion reports were submitted by 189 of the as­sociation’s 410 schools during the period between July 1 and nov. 

FOR RENT 

1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 
30. 

ihsaa commissioner bobby cox said the number of concus­sions seemed high to him, but that the school reports would be­come more useful as data contin­ued to be collected. 
“The numbers are fairly reflec­tive of what we anticipated with the lion’s share in football and on natural grass. girls soccer num­bers are up there like i thought they would be,” cox told wThr-Tv. “but i would never have thought about swimmers hitting their heads on the wall and get­ting a concussion, or one kid who hit himself in the head with a ten­nis racket and got a concussion.” 
a state law that took effect in 2012 requires schools to im­mediately remove from play or practice any athletes suspected of sustaining a concussion. Those athletes are not allowed to return until they have written clearance from a licensed health care provider trained in the evaluation and management of concussions. 
The school reported to the ihsaa that 92 percent of athletes who suffered a concussion were able to participate in their sport again within 30 days. 
most attention about con­cussion safety has been paid to football, but cox told wrTv that some girls’ sports are also areas of concern. 
“The game’s faster now than it’s ever been, and with those girls in basketball and soccer playing with no head protection, then there’s going to be incidences,” he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPRING SEMESTER -rental avail-Christmas, Christmas time is near/ able. Fully Furnished. 2BR 2BA. $700 Time for toys and time for cheer/ per bedroom. Call 925-640-4707 or We’ve been good, but we can’t last/ email jatkins3@nd.edu Hurry Christmas, hurry fast. 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles set to open conference play against Alma 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will face ri­val alma at home wednesday to open its miaa conference schedule. 
The belles currently hold a 2-3 record after opening their season with three losses, but they have won their last two games against Trinity international and anderson. belles coach Jenn henley said the winning streak is the re­sult of improved team chemis­try and simple execution. 
“i can’t say that we have been doing anything dif­ferently during the last two weeks,” henley said. “we just needed more time to come to­gether as a team. we started to do more of the little things the right way and found success.” 
henley said the perfor­mance of freshman forward gabby diamond has keyed the belles’ turnaround. diamond is the fourth-leading scorer for saint mary’s, averaging 8.4 points a game. 
“gabby is doing well for us early in the season,” henley said. “her teammates are do­ing a good job of finding her in the paint the last few games. i am expecting her to continue to contribute to our overall team success as she continues to improve.” 
The game against the scots marks the first game on a com­petitive conference slate for the belles. 
“we are going to take one game at a time in the miaa,” henley said. “every year, our conference is tough. our fo­cus is on the little things as we open up miaa play this week.” 
henley said the key to de­feating alma is taking control of tempo and shutting down the scots’ star players. 
“alma is quick and scrappy,” henley said. “we have to set the tone of the game early on and maintain it.  They are led by … senior [guard] mallory pruett, who is shooting 50 per­cent from the 3-point line in four games. she makes them go. defending her will be key.” 
The belles head into the matchup after a week of rest due to the Thanksgiving holi­day, but henley said she ex­pects her team to recover quickly. 
“long layoffs between games are never good for a basketball coach,” henley said. “we have enough returners on this team who understand what is need­ed to be done so that a holiday break does not become an ex­cuse for not performing.” 
The belles tip off against the scots on wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. at angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

NHL | islanders 3, senaTors 2 (oT) 
Hickey’s blast lifts Islanders in OT 
Associated Press 
uniondale, new york — Thomas hickey set up a third-period goal and scored 3:06 into overtime as the new york islanders started december just as they ended november, with a victory — 3-2 over the ottawa senators on Tuesday night. 
The defenseman netted his second of the season with a wrap­around goal to help the islanders improve to 8-0 in games decided after regulation. 
Jaroslav halak, the nhl’s no. 1 star last week, wasn’t busy but earned his team-record ty­ing 10th straight win with a 16­save performance. brock nelson scored in the second period for the islanders, who have won sev­en of eight and 12 of 14. 
ottawa had used a crisp play to tie it as mark stone, on the goal line to halak’s left, fed the puck in front to clarke macarthur for his ninth goal at 11:14. 
The islanders took a 2-1 lead 
1:07 into the third during 4-on-4 play. hickey tried to jam the puck past craig anderson at the right post. it caromed across the crease to ryan strome, who stuffed it in on the left side for his fifth goal. 
mike hoffman scored in the first period, and anderson made 25 saves for the senators, who have lost five of six. These teams meet again in ottawa on Thursday. 
it took until late in the second period for the islanders to get go­ing, and for a brief moment they thought they might have taken the lead. 
new york got even when kyle okposo forced a turnover and flung a backhand pass behind his back from the center-ice boards that nelson tracked down in the senators end. he skated in alone on anderson and beat him with a shot with 1:34 remaining for his 11th goal. 
Then, just as time was expiring in the period, casey cizikas fired a rising drive from above the left circle that hit the top corner of the net just as the green light behind it went on to signal time had run out. The officials went to video replay, and before they could announce “no goal,” the crowd groaned as it saw on the big board that the puck was shy of the line when the clock hit 0.0. 
neither team could muster much offense in either of the first two periods. new york had a 15-11 shots edge through 40 minutes. The only two penalty calls in that span came 31 seconds apart in the final minute of the second. 

NHL | penguins 1, devils 0 

penguins win with a Fleury of saves 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — marc-andre Fleury stopped 29 shots for his nhl-leading fifth shutout as the pittsburgh penguins edged the new Jersey devils 1-0 on Tuesday night. 
Fleury matched his career high for shutouts in a season and was rarely tested by the devils, who have just one vic­tory in their last eight games. 
evgeni malkin scored the game’s only goal 3:32 into the third period, taking a feed from blake comeau and tuck­ing it under cory schneider’s outstretched arm for his 12th score of the season. 
schneider made 22 saves but received little help. new Jersey generated few quality chances against Fleury, who has won six straight at home against the devils. 
new Jersey forward Jaromir Jagr left in the second peri­od following a vicious colli­sion with pittsburgh’s robert bortuzzo. scott gomez played 22 minutes in his return to the devils after being signed on monday. 
The penguins dominated new Jersey 8-3 in the teams’ first meeting on oct. 28. but the rematch looked more like an early december slog be­tween two teams struggling to stay healthy. 
pittsburgh’s patched-to­gether lineup lacked injured defenseman kris letang and banged-up forwards chris kunitz and marcel goc. in their place were fill-ins such as andrew ebbett and scott wilson, who was called up from wilkes-barre scranton on Tuesday morning when crosby missed the pregame skate with an illness. while the reigning mvp played in his 574th game — the eighth most in team history — crosby was surrounded by a sea of largely unfamiliar faces. 
Then again, the penguins received little sympathy from new Jersey. The devils brought back the well-trav­eled gomez hoping he could give the struggling lineup a needed energy boost. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FENCING 

Bednarski retires as fencing coach 


Klonsinski 
conTinued From page 16 
which the irish were the bet­ter side. That didn’t make it any easier for this year’s graduating class, either. 
after a few minutes back at alumni stadium, brown sat down on the turf on which the irish went 29-7-8 during his four years in the irish lineup. This year, the pitch witnessed three irish defeats, all by a score of 1-0. yet it also saw plenty of high moments: senior midfielder nick besler’s header in double over­time against vcu, junior mid­fielder patrick hodan’s beautiful strike to beat louisville in over­time and a 3-0 victory over the cavaliers in the acc tournament quarterfinals just three weeks ago, to name a few. 
brown and his fellow fifth-year classmates — defender andrew o’malley, goalkeeper patrick wall and defender luke mishu, along with six seniors who may never again put on an irish uni­form — comprise a class that carried the notre dame program to new heights. 

notre dame reached the ulti­mate peak last season, of course, by winning the program’s first national championship. The year before, the irish earned the no. 1 seed in the ncaa tournament, as they did again this year, with the third overall seed during the 2013 championship campaign sandwiched in between. The irish won two regular-season acc titles as well as the big east tournament title the year before. over the last four years, the team compiled a 55-15-15 overall re­cord, including a 13-2-4 record in its first two seasons of acc play, far and away the toughest con­ference in all of college soccer. 
in addition to the team accom­plishments, this year’s senior class racked up individual ac­colades both on and off the pitch. This season saw wall named a senior class award finalist and mishu honored as an academic all-american. The class boasts two ncaa all-Tournament Team selections, three all-acc Team selections, two all-acc academic Team members, one all-big east Team player and seven big east academic all-star selections. 
“[These seniors] took the pro­gram to a level it had never been before,” clark said sunday night. “we’ve also been a top-three seed [in the ncaa tournament] each of the last three years. That’s a phenomenal record for any team. … These seniors can walk away and hold their heads up pretty high. i think this se­nior class can feel good about themselves.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Observer Staff Report 

irish head coach Janusz bednarski, who led notre dame to three team na­tional championships and coached 14 ncaa individ­ual champions over 12 sea­sons, has retired, university director of athletics Jack swarbrick announced in a press release Tuesday. 
bednarski will be re­placed by associate head coach gia kvaratskhelia, who has spent eight years on the team’s coaching staff. 
bednarski coached 109 all-americans across ev­ery weapon while at notre dame, and his teams fin­ished in the top three at the ncaa championships a combined nine times. 
in addition to his suc­cess at the ncaa cham­pionships, bednarski also leaves the irish as the third-winningest coach in any sport in school his­tory, with 623 combined wins between the men’s and women’s programs. he trails only former fencing coach mike decicco and current women’s basketball coach muffet mcgraw. 
on the global stage, bednarski has also left a mark. Five of his former athletes have competed in the olympics, with former irish sabre mariel Zagunis 
bringing  home  two  gold  
medals.  
kvaratskhelia  has  been  
an assistant to  bednarski  

since 2007, when he came to notre dame from salina, kansas, to work with the team’s foilists. in the eight years since, notre dame has qualified the maximum four fencers in the foil at every national champion­ship. of those 32 fencers who competed, 29 earned all-american status. 
kvaratskhelia spent his first five years at notre dame as an assistant coach before being promoted to the role of associate head coach three years ago. he was named the 2010­2011 u.s. Fencing national coach of the year, as well as the 2013 midwest Fencing conference varsity coach of the year. 
kvaratskhelia and the irish will send several in­dividuals to the north american cup in dallas on Friday, but the next team event is not until Jan. 24, when notre dame travels to new york city to face st. John’s. 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 




Carson 
conTinued From page 16 
from home can be huge. For many teams, it’s the difference between a solid finish in the middle of the pack and a team that chal­lenges for a regular-season championship. 
but a team that cannot win at home? a finish in the having learned the lesson enough times, getting too comfortable with a two-goal lead could be an easy mis­take to make. 
but at the same point in time, it is a notre dame team that is carried — or at least should be — by a strong group of veteran leaders that maybe are not quite carrying their weight. a team’s mind­set should not influenced by its youth, but instead by its leadership. Forwards make up the majority of this team’s veteran core and fun­damentally, they have to be the ones to set the table once the team goes up by a pair of goals. rather than trying to take the rest of the night off, they need to keep playing hard, keep skating and keep generating chances, lest the team’s pair of goaltenders (sophomore chad katunar and freshman cal petersen) keep having to make 30 saves a night just to keep the irish from losing the game. 
Then again, notre dame’s approach could be worse, like it was saturday night when it got taken to the woodshed by a mediocre-at-best ohio state team. The buckeyes entered saturday with just four wins on the season and got drilled 6-2 by western michigan the night before. but they came onto notre dame’s home ice and put a 5-1 beatdown on the hosts. 
From here? it would be hard to imagine it could be worse. a trip to massachusetts beckons this weekend, and the minutemen sit at the bottom of the hockey east standings, post­ing a 1-7-0 record so far in the league. in eight conference games, this weekend’s op­ponent has given up 42 goals. while it is a road series, this weekend presents notre dame an opportunity to start to turn its season around. 
The bad news? a three-week layoff follows for the irish, making it difficult to carry momentum forward. 
or maybe at this point, that layoff is good news. maybe it gives the irish a chance to clear their heads and start from fresh when the second part of their schedule picks up with a holiday tourna­ment in late december. 
The irish have hit rock bottom. This weekend is a great chance to start the slow climb back up towards the top of the totem pole. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
that got them an early lead really has little to do with confidence. 
admittedly, this is a young notre dame team and in many ways, like their football counterparts, the irish can point to their inexperience as a source for struggles. in many ways, it is a fair point to make — for many, hold­ing leads in juniors may have been easier and without bottom part of the confer­ence standings beckons. 

and at a certain point, a team’s ability to hold leads comes down to mindset as much as it does skill. it is no secret that the irish are en­tirely devoid of confidence at the moment — their poor record this month shows that 
— but a lack of willingness to continue to play hard, to hustle and to do the things 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Rematch 
conTinued From page 16 
over the past week, and i think we’re anxious to find out re­ally where we are. we haven’t learned enough about our­selves — winning by 30, you don’t really get to learn that much. it’ll be good to be tested and see where we need to get the work in to get ready for the conference season.” 
mcgraw said there are a number of similarities be­tween maryland and notre dame, especially in their bal­anced approach and depth on the bench. 
“both teams have a lot of balance,” mcgraw said. “[maryland] in particular, re­ally anybody can have a big night for them. They’ve all taken turns getting a 20-point effort, and i think four of their starters are in double figures, so i think [there is] really good balance on their team. it’s go­ing to be a really tough match-up for us. They play a lot of people, we play a lot of people, so there are a lot of similarities between the teams.” 
mcgraw pointed to the guard play and post play as strengths of the maryland team that will create several competitive in­dividual matchups. 
“i think the big matchups are going to be [notre dame junior guard] Jewell [loyd] against [maryland redshirt senior guard] laurin mincy and [irish sophomore guard] lindsay [allen] against [Terrapins sophomore guard] lexie brown,” mcgraw said. “and then we have the inside matchup between [maryland sophomore center] brionna Jones and [irish sophomore forward] Taya [reimer] or [freshman forward] brianna Turner, so really it’s difficult. i don’t think we win any of the matchups on paper; i think they’re all going to be really, really tough.” 
The problems posed by maryland keep the irish from looking ahead to a game against no. 3 connecticut on saturday, mcgraw said. 
“we’re really focused on this maryland game,” mcgraw said. “it’s a big rivalry for us, especially for lindsay allen, who’s from maryland. you know, we played them twice 

— we played them in the Final Four and had a big game at their place. i think this would’ve been a great acc ri­valry, so it’s a shame they left the league.” 
mcgraw emphasized the opportunity for improve­ment the game against the Terrapins offers her team. 
“living out here in big Ten country, we get to play a lot of the big Ten teams,” she said. “we feel like we’re al­ways measuring ourselves against them. it’s interest­ing that we’re paired with maryland again; i think we’re starting to have a re­ally good rivalry with them. it’s going to be a great game for the challenge.” 
mcgraw said the neutral site in Fort wayne should provide a fun atmosphere for the players. 
“we’re excited about go­ing to Fort wayne because i’ve heard so many great things about the venue and the crowds,” mcgraw said. “we’re taking buses over there, and i’m sure there are a lot of people in Fort wayne who are excited to see us play, so it’s a great opportu­nity for us. we’d rather have home court advantage, but that’s the next best thing.” 
The  irish  take  on  
the  Terrapins  at  7  p.m.  
wednesday  at  the  allen  
county  war  memorial  

coliseum in Fort wayne, indiana. 
Contact Renee Griffin at       rgriffi6@nd.edu 
ACC/Big Ten 
conTinued From page 16 
head coach Tom izzo. 
“it’s a workmanlike pro­gram,” he said of michigan state. “[its philosophy is], ‘we’re going to defend. we’re going to rebound.’” 
brey, who started his head-coaching career the same year izzo did, said izzo has been successful by keeping his philosophy simple. 
“he’s just a regular guy,” brey said of izzo. “he’s one of the good guys in the busi­ness who’s a fabulous coach. certainly a hall-of-Fame guy.” 
history aside, this year’s michigan state team has a different identity than izzo­coached teams of the past, brey said. The spartans, who have a victory over marquette and losses to cur­rent no. 4 duke and no. 11 kansas, are shooting 48.6 percent from the field and 
42.1 percent from 3-point range, making their offense not too different from that of the irish, he added. 
“The thing that strikes you is how they’re shooting,” brey said. “They’re shooting the heck out of the basket­ball. like us, they’re making nine [3-pointers] per game … so we’re a little similar offensively.” 
senior guard Travis Trice leads the spartans in scor­ing with 16.4 points per game and assists with nearly six per game. Junior guard denzel valentine aver­ages 14.4 points per game, while senior guard/forward branden dawson has added 
10.2 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. 
brey said notre dame will have to get back in transition and successfully defend the 3-point line to slow down michigan state’s offense. 
“They really get down the floor on makes and misses,” brey said of the spartans. “Trice gets deep outlets, and they shoot a lot of their [3-pointers] in transition. They throw ahead and fire. 
“Transition defense and guarding the arc, i think, are the two big defensive keys for us on wednesday.” 
notre dame will also try to counter with an aggressive defense that has forced 61 steals, second-most of any acc program, on the sea­son. irish sophomore guard demetrius Jackson has 14 of those steals, and brey said Jackson’s defense has played a big role in notre dame’s early success. 
“i think demetrius Jackson’s ball pressure — that right there makes us a better team,” he said. “… i think it’s something that comes very natural with demetrius. he is an athletic defender. 
“… he knows how impor­tant his ball pressure is, and his teammates continually reinforce, ‘d, your ball pres­sure is really helping us.’” 
notre dame and michigan state will meet wednesday at 
7:15 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at    bhartnet@nd.edu 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore guard Demetrius Jackson goes up for a score in Notre Dame’s 104-67 win over Coppin State on Nov. 19 at Purcell Pavilion. 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ve got plenty of choices, so think big while remaining realistic. The combination will help you reach your goals successfully. adaptability is your saving grace, and chance will keep you from boredom. listen carefully, do your research and stick to the facts, and you will bypass any unfortunate mishap caused by vague conversations. love is highlighted. your numbers are 6, 10, 13, 20, 27, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get together with people you find mentally stimulating. enjoy sharing information and you will find a way to make positive changes to the way you live. don’t let someone you work with bully you. use your intelligence to outsmart an aggressor. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Tie up loose ends. Financial gains can be made if you invest in yourself. add to your skills or knowledge and you will be able to apply for a better position. Talking with someone you respect will lead to a new opportunity. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): strive to reach personal goals. self-improvement will result in compliments. stand up to anyone who gets in your way. your knowledge and expressive way of dealing with others will buy you time. romance looks promising. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): refuse to let your emotions take over. listen carefully and take care of your responsibilities. someone will take advantage of you if you don’t clearly state what you will and won’t do. put yourself on the line and be consistent. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): add a little excitement to your life. plan a trip or indulge in something you’ve never done before. open your mind to learning new skills that can be incorporated into your resume. stop dreaming and start doing. love is beckoning you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): hold on to what you’ve got. don’t give in to someone pressuring you to spend your money. you can make an investment, but stay within your means. do what feels right and works for you. personal problems will be based on false information. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out and meet new people. a partnership will lead to new possibilities. sharing ideas and space with someone looks favorable, as long as you iron out any kinks at the very beginning. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): change can be good if it’s built on solid ground. don’t be a follower or you will have regrets. Take your own unique path and develop what works best for you. recognition is heading your way, along with new opportunities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): improve your surroundings and start getting ready for the holiday season. you can make financial gains if you take care of unfinished business. concentrate on new beginnings. love and romance are on the rise. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): mull over any suggestions without feeling the need to make hasty decisions. don’t fall for the tactics used by someone who wants to manipulate you emotionally. it’s ok to waffle if the cost is high and uncertainty prevails. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): give whatever you do your best shot and head for the finish line. you have more going for you than you realize. a promotion, change of status or recognition will give you the confidence you need to forge ahead. embrace change. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work on creative endeavors that can bring in extra cash or help you save during the upcoming months. striving for greater stability or financial security will pay off. good fortune can be yours if you make the right choices. 


Birthday Baby: you are aggressive and challenging. you are a lover and a crusader. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame, Maryland eye Final Four rematch 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame and no. 15 maryland square off in Fort wayne, indiana on wednesday at 7 p.m., mark­ing the second game against a ranked opponent for the irish this season. 
The game is a rematch of last year’s Final Four meet­ing, in which the irish (7-0) earned a 87-61 victory over the Terrapins (6-1) to end their tournament run. 
notre dame coach muffet mcgraw said the game, part of the acc/big Ten challenge, will give good insight into the untried and undefeated irish and that the team is well-prepared for the quality opponent. 
“we’re absolutely ready,” mcgraw said. “we’ve had some relatively easy games 
see remaTch PAGE 14 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

spartans loom for nd in challenge 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
notre dame is no strang­er to purcell pavilion this season, since the irish have played five of their seven games thus far on campus. 
however, irish coach mike brey said he is fully expect­ing the atmosphere at the arena to be quite different when no. 19 michigan state visits wednesday night for the acc/big Ten challenge, so much so that he has im­plemented practice mea­sures typically only used before true road games. 
“i actually piped in crowd noise before we went to mohegan sun [on nov. 22­23],” brey said in his monday press conference. “usually, you do it before you go on the road. we’re going to use it today and tomorrow be­cause it will be a different atmosphere [wednesday].” 
gone are the chicago states and coppin states that have filled the home slate for notre dame (6-1) over the last few weeks. in steps michigan state (5-2), a team notre dame hasn’t faced since the spartans had a point guard named magic Johnson running the floor. 
“wednesday is a heck of a test to guard a really explo­sive offensive team,” brey said. “so i think that’s a great test for where we are defensively.” 
The last meeting between the two teams came in 1979, when michigan state de­feated notre dame in the ncaa tournament mideast regional Final en route to a national championship. since then, the spartans have added another national championship and reached six Final Fours, all under 
see acc/big Ten PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
irish doomed by inconsistency 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 
after the crowd filed out of alumni stadium on sunday, leon brown walked back out of the tunnel lead­ing to the irish locker room. The graduate student for­ward stopped and crouched at the edge of the pitch, where minutes before, his collegiate career had come to an end after notre dame fell to acc rival virginia, 1-0. 
sunday night’s loss in the third round of the ncaa tournament was a fitting microcosm of the notre dame season. The two pre­vious games against the cavaliers ended in a 1-1 draw and 3-0 irish win, yet this time around, the irish failed to find the back of the net in 90 minutes of play. irish coach bobby clark said after the game that of the three matchups against virginia this season, this match was the one in which he felt his team played its best. 
it was not the first time the irish dominated a game in which they struggled to find the back of the net. it happened in a pair of 1-0 losses to kentucky and boston college but also in the 1-0 double overtime win against vcu and the 1-0 vic­tory over northwestern. 
inconsistency on offense was a concern all season, especially during the first half of the year. although they scored three or more goals six times, the irish were either shut out or man­aged only a single goal in 10 of their 21 matches. while notre dame seemed to find something offensively dur­ing the second half of the season, especially during its six-game unbeaten streak prior to sunday night, the team’s lack of consistent of­fensive production eventu­ally doomed its playoff run. 
This is not to take any­thing away from the cavaliers, of course; they played a strong game defen­sively. yet clark was again left talking about a loss in 
see klonsinski PAGE 12 
HOCKEY 

Leadership, finishing absent early in season 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 

in its last six home games, notre dame has jumped out to a 2-0 lead on four occasions. 
That is … good. it is what home teams are supposed to do. 
but there is an issue at hand — and that’s what transpires after the irish get two goals up. They get com­fortable, crawl into a shell, get massively outshot and eventually, concede a pair of goals to tie the game. 
it has so far been without fault as on all four occa­sions, the irish have blown the lead. granted, they came back to win one of those games and held on for two ties but, still, for a team that recorded one win in nine games during the month of november, not winning when up by two goals at home is not sustainable. 
especially in conference play, getting points away 

see carson PAGE 13 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish senior right winger Peter Schneider skates after a loose puck during Notre Dame’s 2-2 tie with UMass-Lowell on Nov. 21. 




