the indePendent to uncover neWsPaPer serving the truth notre dame and and rePort saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 108 | MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Life celebrated at memorial mass 
Friends remember Connor Sorensen as tough, passionate, selfless 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
connor sorensen was a fighter. 
Friends said he fought playfully in annual games of humans vs. Zombies on notre dame’s campus. in a more lit­eral sense, sorensen fought against lifelong lung disease and numerous health issues, a battle he ultimately lost dec. 20, 2013. 
Friends and family gathered in the morrissey manor chapel sunday afternoon to celebrate and remember sorensen, who 
see sorensen PAGE 4 




IBM VP discusses future of computers 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news Writer 
John gordon, vice president of marketing and strategy at ibm’s Watson solutions divisions said the question at ibm right now is: how do we start applying tech­nology to solve problems, creat­ing something meaningful that would have an impact on people’s lives? 
gordon spoke Friday in Jordan auditorium at the mendoza college of business as part of a one-credit course called “notre dame ten years hence speaker series: the Future of energy” that brings speakers to campus who will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect society in the next decade. gordon’s is the fourth lecture in the series. 

gordon is a graduate of notre dame in philosophy and com­puter science who has been working in the technology world since receiving his mba from the university of texas at austin. 
in his speech, gordon dis­cussed the future of computer systems and software — how it is changing and how it is expected to change over the next decade. 
“With the help of 400,000 em­ployees, we focus on innovation that matters to us and the world”, gordon said. 
he said their goal is to push the world forward and show dedica­tion to every client’s success. 
“ibm is unique in that we have a sense of trust and personal re­sponsibility in all relationships, which greatly helps us develop professional relationships and push past problems,” gordon said. 
gordon said the world is at the initial cusp of a new era of com­puting: the cognitive area of com­puting, which will have profound effects on the opportunities avail­able for people and businesses. 
“instead of building machines to do what we want, we want to build machines that we can tell what to do.” gordon said. 
he said the goal of ibm is to create a system that learns and grows by experience. 
“We want to create a system that augments human cognition 
— systems that don’t just give output but explain it,” gordon said. 
he said this system would en­compass a whole new system of reasoning that can help us figure out what is out there. gordon said 
see gordon PAGE 5 


Professor discusses u.s. empire 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
on Friday, laura briggs, a professor of women, gender and sexuality studies at the university of massachusetts amherst, delivered a lecture titled “imperialism as a Way of life: thinking sex and gender in american empire,” in which she argued for the necessity of feminism in scholarship and activism. 
the lecture was the key­note address of the two-day american empire conference, which was sponsored by sev­eral notre dame departments within the college of arts and letters. 
briggs framed her argument within the field of u.s. empire studies, which was the focus of the conference and said the scholarship within the field is influential, though it is hard of­ten difficult to see the results. 
“We live and work in the belly of a great war-and-money-mak­ing machine and if we’re serious about challenging it, we’re go­ing to feel the sting,” briggs said. “no one is going to thank us for our services as intellectuals, 
see emPire PAGE 5 


students join hannah and Friends dance party 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news Writer 
hannah and Friends’ “march dance Party” brought student volunteers and disabled partici­pants together to stomp, jump and groove saturday. 
hannah and Friends is a na­tional organization that works to improve the lives of children and adults with special needs. saint mary’s students visit the residen­tial home owned by hannah and Friends every Wednesday to volun­teer with special needs residents. 
once a month, hannah and Friends holds a dance party at its 30-acre farm in south bend. saint mary’s and notre dame students joined in on saturday. 
student coordinator emily hazen, a saint mary’s junior, visits local grade schools to help spread the message to “be a friend to all people with all different abilities.” 
“We’re just working to help spread their [hannah & Friends] message of awareness and com­passion on smc and nd’s campus­es,” hazen said. 
hazen said she was first drawn into the hannah & Friends orga­nization because of a dance party, she attended during her freshman year. 
“it’s great,” emily small, a first year at saint mary’s college, said. “it’s so happy here!” 
small and her two friends, kelly o’reilly and meghan mcdonough, attended the dance party because they wanted a different service experience. 
“the best part is the atmo­sphere,” mcdonough said. 
see dance PAGE 5 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: Wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post office information 

the observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
Postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
P.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated Press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

What was your reaction to hearing that Dayton upset Syracuse Saturday night? 


Frank Wamsley 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“i didn’t see it coming.” 
Andrew Brady 
senior 
duncan hall 
“i was pretty flabbergasted.” 
Brad Gonzalez 
freshman 
keough hall 
“i cried. anger, confusion, all-around bad time.” 
Stephen Fox 
junior off campus 
“i was kinda bummed. it hurt my bracket but i was happy because dayton celebrated the right way.” 
Kirk Dettmer 
freshman 
keough hall 
“i laughed at my roommate.” 
Daniel Pape 
freshman 
siegfried hall 
“they weren’t even supposed to make the tournament.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman vicky Jacobson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville mike ginocchio kayla mullen renee griffin 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa allie tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Behind the Kitchen Women’s Softball “The Death of God & “Travails of the Irish ND Relay for Life 
Jodi lo gabriela leskur 
Door” Melissa Cook Stadium the War on Terror” Language” Compton Family Ice Hesburgh Library 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Eck Visitors Center Hesburgh Library Arena 
7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. The Irish take on 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 6 p.m.-10 a.m. 
Corrections 

Lecture on restaurant the Northwestern Lecture by Terry Lecture on history of Fundraiser for cancer 
in the march 21 issue of the observer, workers’ rights. Wildcats. Eagleton the Irish language. research. the graphic accompanying the article “mba program raises rankings” 
“Casta Paintings” Gesualdo Quartet Wellness Wednesday Zen Meditation Men’s Tennis 
incorrectly stated the percentage of 
Information Snite Museum of Art St. Liam Hall Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion 
masters of business administration 
Technology Center 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Center 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 
students with jobs upon graduation. 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. Free string quartet Tai Chi and Chai Tea. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 
it is 80.9%. the observer regrets this 
Lecture on casta concert. Open to all students Duke Blue Devils. 
error. 

paintings and race. and staff. 



Saint Mary’s welcomes prospective first years 
by HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news Writer 
accepted members of saint mary’s class of 2018 were invited to the college sunday for meet me at the avenue, a program for students to meet each other and learn more about the campus community. 
vice president for enrollment management mona bowe said meet me at the avenue is im­portant for prospective students because it is often a young wom­an’s first visit to campus and the first opportunity for students to meet one another. 
“students get to talk to other students and meet their future classmates,” bowe said. 
“there are still many months to make decisions about col­lege so [meet me at the avenue] allows students to answer ques­tions they have.” 
the day began with a cer­emony to welcome accepted students to campus, bowe said. saint mary’s president carol ann mooney welcomed stu­dents, as well as sister veronique Wiedower, vice president for mission. incoming student body president mckenna schuster welcomed the young women on behalf of student government association and the larger stu­dent body. 
bowe said the prospective stu­dents heard from many depart­ments on campus throughout the day, including information technology, sodexho dining services and student accounts, to discuss the next steps of the acceptance process. 
this year, the admissions 



shades of ebony to host Women’s Week 
By EMILY MCCONVILLE 
news Writer 
this week, shades of ebony hosts its second annual Women’s Week, a series of pre­sentations, discussions and other events designed to cel­ebrate women at notre dame. 
carina reich, secretary of shades of ebony, said the in­tent of this year’s event is to continue a discussion about the role of women on cam­pus, in the workforce and in society. 
“We see Women’s Week as our little shades of ebony meetings at large, because we get together as a women’s group every other weekend to discuss topics on women that are important to us, and we want to share it with the rest of campus,” reich said. 
the first Women’s Week in 2013 coincided with the 40th anniversary of the introduc­tion of coeducation at notre dame and consisted of a din­ner, a prayer service and a service event at st. margaret’s house. ray’von Jones, President of shades of ebony, said the positive response the club received last year prompted them to expand the number and size of the events this year. 
many of the week’s events are co-sponsored by other organizations including campus ministry, the gender relations center, several indi­vidual alumnae and a number of residence halls and other student clubs. rachel Wallace, shades of ebony’s marketing director, said the club saw an increase in the number of people involved, both in terms of sponsorship and stu­dent interest. 
“We’ve got a lot of other student organizations,” Wallace said. “For our prayer service we have harmonia, since they’re an all-women’s choir, coming to sing . . . for our final event on Friday we have Wabruda, our brother organization, helping us with our cake walk on Friday. We try to reach out to a lot of other organizations around campus.” 
the week will kick off with a prayer service monday in ryan hall, featuring the a cappella group harmonia as well as student reflec­tions. on tuesday, there will be a screening of “miss representation,” a documen­tary about women’s portrayal in the media. in addition, the topic of the gender relations center’s regular sister Jean roundtable will be “different 
Paths  to  Womanhood:  the  
intersection  of  career  and  
Family.”  

“We want people to know that there are a lot of promi­nent women on campus and prominent women who grad­uated from notre dame,” shades of ebony historian chizo ekechukwu said. “bringing those people in to speak and having them at our roundtable about different career paths on womanhood [will let] women know on campus that there are differ­ent outlooks on life, because a lot of women at notre dame focus so much on academics that they forget about family and forget about the intersec­tions between the two.” 
on Wednesday, a group of students will have an ice cream social at st. margaret’s house, a day center for wom­en in downtown south bend. 
“[the week is] not only just focused on notre dame but also on the outer community and how as notre dame wom­en we can incorporate those worlds,” reich said. 
shades of ebony will host the celebration of Women dinner in mckenna hall thursday night. the for­mal event will feature grace Watkins, a freshman at notre dame; Frances shavers, for­mer chief of staff to President John Jenkins; and katie Washington, notre dame’s first black valedictorian. ekechukwu said the presen­tations will explore national Women’s history month themes of “character, courage and commitment.” 
Jones said even though the group moved the dinner to a bigger location this year the event is still over capacity. 
“the rsvPs were crazy,” Jones said. “there was a point where we were like, ‘oh, we need to get people to rsvP, and then it was like, maybe we shouldn’t.’ it was really great to see that; the last day just jumped.” 
the week, which also con­sists of a display in the library Fishbowl, a toiletry drive for st. margaret’s house and posters around campus, will conclude with a cakewalk fun­draiser on Friday, which Jones said will benefit the robinson community learning center.
 Jones said the events are open to the public and meant for students of both genders. 
“by coming, people are say­ing that they want to celebrate women and that women are important on this campus, and it’s something important for us to be promoting,” she said. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

Paid advertisement 
office received the largest num­ber of applications in the record­ed history of saint mary’s, bowe said. the office received about 1660 applications, but saint mary’s plans to keep the class size at about 430 women. 
current students served as greeters, panelists and tour guides in each of the buildings on campus, bowe said. 
“We always get comments from visitors about how friendly our students are,” bowe said. “We want to thank the commu­nity for their help.” 
Junior rachel Wall served as a student liaison for the rome study abroad program at the event. she spoke with students interested in the program about her own study abroad experience in rome and how it shaped her overall saint mary’s experience. 
“the college offers such a unique experience to its stu­dents that it would be a shame for anyone to pass it up,” Wall said. 
Wall said she hoped to get the prospective students and their parents excited about the oppor­tunities that saint mary’s and the rome program have to offer. 
the day provided an oppor­tunity for current students to interact with prospective stu­dents during the academic open house, Wall said. students and professors from their respective departments discussed what common classroom and study abroad experiences are like at saint mary’s. 
“meet me at the avenue is im­portant to saint mary’s because it occurs at a pivotal point in a high school senior’s year,” Wall said. “saint mary’s has the op­portunity to seal the deal in the minds of the student’s visiting campus. 
“For many prospective stu­dents, today marks the day they can finally see themselves at saint mary’s.” 
Wall said the event served as a pleasant reminder of her own decision to come to saint mary’s. 
“being involved with meet me at the avenue has made me realize how quickly my time at saint mary’s has flown by,” Wall said. “not too long ago, i was in the shoes of the seniors visiting campus today. … i’m hopeful that all of these young women will find a special place in their heart for saint mary’s college.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu. 


the observer | MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Sorensen 
continued From Page 1 
lived in morrissey for three years before receiving his de­gree last fall. 
in his homily at the memo­rial mass, Fr. ronald vierling, the rector of morrissey manor, said sorensen lived the virtue of defiance and always fought with faith and determination. 
“the important thing to know about connor, i think, is that he fought the good fight,” vierling said. “and although before his death in december. 
“he did officially graduate,” Jewell said. “he is officially a graduate of notre dame, which he and his family are extremely proud of, and right­fully so. he was able to com­plete all that he did, even with this hardship.” 
Jewell said sorenson ma­jored in biochemistry and de­scribed him as “the science guy” of their group of friends. he said sorenson would have gone on to do great things if disease did not cut his life 

Professor wins engineering 
education award 
of technology for his graduate [carbon dioxide] to liquids, 
By KATIE McCARTY 

news Writer work in chemical engineering. producing biofuels from non-
he attributed his abilities as edible biomass feedstocks and 

the american society of an instructor to several of his producing chemicals from re-engineering education re-own professors throughout his newable resources.” cently featured Jason hicks, education. hicks said the feature was assistant professor of chemical “i had multiple remarkable especially meaningful given and bio-molecular engineer-instructors who inspired me to his relatively short time as a ing, as a “leader in engineering pursue a career in education,” professor. 
his body gave out, his spirit  short.  education.”  
did not.”  “he was probably going to  hicks earned the recognition  
senior  sean  brady, one of  do great things,” Jewell said.  due to his contributions and  
sorensen’s close friends, said  “he was brilliant with science  dedication, both inside and out­ 

sorensen’s toughness was and he was dedicated to find-
side the classroom to the engi­
evident throughout his entire ing cures for really anything 
life. he could because of his hard­
“An engineering 

“he was really tough. … ship. i think everyone lost out 
education 

there were times when he because he is not around.” 
provides students 

“this is my fourth year at 
notre dame teaching primar­
ily senior undergraduate stu­
dents, and i am very excited to 
be recognized as a junior fac­
ulty member,” hicks said. “the 
[department of chemical and 
biomolecular engineering] has 
excellent educators, and i have 

would try and handle his con-senior chris ayala, another 
dition through sheer force of of sorensen’s friends, said 
with skills 
hicks said. “they were clearly had many opportunities to 
dedicated to their students, learn from my senior faculty.” 
will,” brady said. “he was so stubborn and so tough … it was amazing how tough he was and how self-confident and courageous he was.” 
brady said sorensen strove to make the most of his time at notre dame and fought to stay a part of the notre dame 
community  as  long  as  he  
could.  
“When  he  came  here,  he  

didn’t think he was going to be living very long, but he re­ally wanted to come to notre dame and he really wanted to go to college,” brady said. “he didn’t want to let the fact that he might not make it to his next birthday dictate his life, and so he came here and he fought to stay here … his doctors wanted him to leave before he did.” 
senior matt Jewell, who lived with sorensen in morrissey, said sorensen re­fused to give up despite his physical condition. 
“he never quit,” Jewell said. “he might be slower than the group because his lungs were never functioning properly so he would have to slow down, but he would never stop. he would never quit.” 
sorensen’s friend, se­nior John mundaden, said sorensen frequently defied others’ perceptions of his ability to live his life to the fullest. 
“you think you could define him by looking at him, but it never ceased to amaze me how tough he was and how brave he was,” mundaden said. “there was nothing that he couldn’t do or wasn’t will­ing to try, whether that be playing sports with us or play­ing humans vs. Zombies.” 
Jewell said sorensen did not return to notre dame in the fall of 2013 for his senior year because his health deterio­rated. vierling said sorenson still received his diploma from university Provost tom burish and the dean of the college of science gregory crawford, who traveled to sorenson’s home in Portage, mich., to present it to him sorensen was a selfless per­son despite his health battles. 
“connor was a very driven and passionate person and he lived out the ideal of put­ting others first before him­self,” ayala said. “something remarkable about him is that he always had this desire to help people. in particular, he wanted to help people who were in the same position as him … so he would go to his doctors and he would read up on new treatments and basi­cally volunteer himself for science to a point.” 
this selflessness was on dis­play when sorensen returned to morrissey last november to tell his friends he did not have much time left, mundaden said. 
“When he came by like a week before thanksgiving to let us know basically that he was in hospice care, and his mentality is that he didn’t want to ruin our holidays,” mundaden said. “that’s what he was worried about it.” 
despite all of his health struggles, Jewell said sorensen never breathed a word of com­plaint about his situation. 
“he would not accept spe­cial treatment or really any sort of pity or anything,” Jewell said. “he never com­plained once.” 
according to an online re­membrance, sorensen, in addition to participating in humans vs. Zombies, played the saxophone in the notre dame hockey band his fresh­man year, performed chemis­try research and attained the boy scouts of america’s high­est rank of eagle scout. 
through all of his hard­ship and strife, vierling said sorensen’s bravery and cour­age represented the spirit of notre dame in a unique way. 
“connor’s attitude of defi­ance toward his illness and struggles represents the spirit of notre dame to a de­gree i don’t think others can,” vierling said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
needed to design, construct and operate processes that impact our spociety.” 
Jason Hicks 

assistant professor of chemical 
and bio-molecular engineering 

neering program, according to a press release. 
hicks, a kentucky native, at­tended kentucky Wesleyan college and graduated with a 
b.s. in chemistry. he then at­tended vanderbilt university to obtain a b.e. in chemical engi­neering and georgia institute 
hicks said he receives his pas­sion for engineering from its po­tential to enhance lives. 
“an engineering education provides students with skills needed to design, construct and operate processes that im­pact our society,” hicks said. “engineers are needed to de­velop technologies for energy, food, pharmaceutical, textile, manufacturing, transportation and computer industries. 
“i am passionate about engi­neering because we can use this knowledge to directly and indi­rectly enhance our lifestyles.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
and they spent a lot of time in­vesting in me. they imparted knowledge, skills and passion for learning and being creative to me, and this career gives me the opportunity to regularly interact with students and pass these things along to them.” 
hicks teaches several class­es within the department of chemical engineering and conducts research on the syn­thesis and characterization of materials and catalysts for en­ergy applications. 
“We are focused on develop­ing new catalysts to generate clean liquid fuels,” hicks said. “this includes removing sulfur from diesel fuels, converting 
Paid advertisement 



Empire 
continued From Page 1 
calling to people’s conscious what they know or suspect about academic freedom or ed­ucational opportunities. … and even worse, i want to tell you this is what success looks like. 
“in all my years as an activ­ist i have never found myself on the front page of the new york times, nor cited by the secretary of state. … What i have learned from all this is simply that: academics have a great deal of power to affect change, particularly when we act collectively, but nobody is going to tell us that and we are going to have to look hard for the evidence that we are being effective.” 
briggs outlined the feminist, gender and sexual implications of torture, microcredit lending and environmental issues, and ultimately said academics must remember feminism’s impor­tance in empire studies. 
“as much fun as it is to com­plain about all of this, i’m more interested in actually making a case to those who, like me, are generally inclined to view femi­nism and issues of sexuality and reproduction generously, to think with more consistency about these issues,” she said. “a few years ago i found myself struggling to think of ways fem­inism still seemed important to me. 
“i want to suggest that femi­nism is not old nor passé nor liberal. on the contrary, i want to address the possibility that our work on empire will never be as good as it could be if we don’t attend to feminism and to gender and sexuality. Feminism … provides us with powerful intellectual tools and an impor­tant activist tradition in which to engage the study of empire.” 
briggs concluded with her “manifesto for the contin­ued urgency of our need for a feminist and queer politics that makes race and empire central,” and said scholars and the general public alike must keep feminism front and center when considering the issues of the american empire. 
“We cannot effectively con­test torture without speaking of its sexualization,” she said. “We cannot push back against neo­liberalism without recognizing how crucial its understanding of women and gender is to the work it is doing. We can’t resist extractive industries, climate change and the enclosure of the global commons … with­out feminist fiction or indig­enous movements grounded in feminism. 
“We can’t make sense of how enemies are being produced without an analysis of the nar­ratives of rescuing women and gays. We cannot, finally, do the scholarly or activist work that we want to contest u.s. empire without feminism.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Gordon 
continued From Page 1 
it would be able to evaluate all possible responses in hundreds of thousands of ways, and as it grows in experience, it will learn and become more precise. 
“these systems could lead to 
Dance 
continued From Page 1 
katelyn smith said her brother, who suffers from downs syn­drome, inspires her involvement in the special needs community. 
“the hannah & Friends dance Party is a fun way to get involved and everyone benefits,” said smith. 
notre dame seniors amanda Frick and gable brady got in­volved with hannah & Friends through their previous work experience. 
“i worked with americorps in the summer of 2012 and i also breakthroughs in many differ­ent areas — medicine, environ­mental issues, etcetera,” gordon said. “as the entire spectrum grows, the industry will grow and will continue to inspire us in different ways.” 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 
helped with a hannah & Friends summer camp in tandem … so i decided to come back today, just to help in any way that i can,” Frick said. 
“being with these participants is rewarding,” Frick said, motion­ing to the gaiety of the dancers at the hannah & Friends facility. “hannah & Friends is an organi­zation of welcoming and genuine people.” 
hazen said students can get more involved by visiting hanna­handfriends.org. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 

satellite detects possible malaysian jet debris 

locator has highly sensitive lis-but we’ll stick at it,” he told airlines. described the French satellite 
Associated Press 

tening capability so that if the australian broadcasting corp. in Paris, French Foreign sighting of potential debris as 
Perth — rain was expected wreck site is located, it can hear radio before the first aircraft left ministry spokesman romain a “positive development,” al­to hamper the hunt monday for the black box pinger down to a Perth at dawn. nadal said in an interview with though he was unaware of the the missing malaysia airlines depth of about 20,000 feet (6,100 he said that the latest search the associated Press that the full details. jet, as a growing number of meters), cmdr. chris budde, a area based on French radar data satellite radar echoes “identified mearns was an adviser to planes focus on an expanded u.s. seventh Fleet operations of-was 850 kilometers (530 miles) some debris that could be from british and French search au­area of the south indian ocean ficer, said in a statement. north of the previous search the malaysian airlines plane.” thorities following the loss of air where a French satellite detected two chinese ilyushin il-76 zone. he said it was not the same the spokesman said that these France Flight 447 in the atlantic potential debris. planes joined the search from area that had been identified as echoes “are not images with a ocean during a flight from brazil 
australian maritime safety Perth, increasing the number the most likely place where the definition like a photograph, but to Paris in 2009. authority’s rescue coordination of aircraft to 10 from eight a day aircraft may have entered the they do allow us to identify the he warned that time was center said the search area was earlier, amsa said. sea, “but ... we’ve got to check out nature of an object and to local-running out to find confirmed expanded from 59,000 to 68,500 it said the weather in the all the options.” ize it.” wreckage that could lead search-square kilometers (22,800-search area, about 2,500 kilome-“We’re just, i guess, clutching “the French government has ers back to the aircraft’s black 26,400 square miles), including ters (1,550 miles) southwest of at whatever little piece of infor-decided to increase its satellite box. he told the aP that two a new separate area because Perth, was expected to deterio-mation comes along to try and monitoring of this zone and try satellite images of a large object of data provided by France on rate with rain likely. find a place where we might be to obtain precise images and lo-spotted in the indian ocean two sunday. australian transport minister able to concentrate the efforts,” cations,” nadal said. days apart could be the break-
the u.s. Pacific command said Warren truss said “nothing of he added. gathering satellite echo data through needed to find the it was sending a black box loca-note” was found sunday, which a cyclone bearing down on involves sending a beam of en-wreckage. tor to the region in case a debris he described as a “fruitless day.” the australian northwest coast ergy to the earth and then ana-“the odds are still against field is located. the towed Pinger “it’s going to be a challenge, “could stir up less favorable lyzing it when it bounces back, the plane being found at the 
weather,” he said. according to Joseph bermudez moment, but at least we have a 
Paid advertisement 
Flight 370 vanished march 8 Jr., chief analytics officer at glimmer of hope that we didn’t with 239 people aboard while allsource analysis, a commer-have two days ago,” mearns said. en route from kuala lumpur, cial satellite intelligence firm. “right now, time is running out malaysia, to beijing, setting off satellite radar echoes can be very quickly.” a multinational search that has converted into an image that the southern indian ocean is turned up no confirmed pieces would look similar to a black-thought to be a potential area to and nothing conclusive on what and-white photo, though not find the jet because malaysian happened to the jet. as clear, he said. “you’d have to authorities have said pings sent 
the latest French satellite know what you’re looking at,” by the boeing 777-200 for several data came to light on sunday bermudez said. hours after it disappeared indi­as australian authorities coor-a malaysian official involved cated that the plane ended up dinating the search sent planes in the search said the French in one of two huge arcs: a north-and a ship to try to locate a data located objects about 930 ern corridor stretching from wooden pallet that appeared to kilometers (575 miles) north of malaysia to central asia, or a be surrounded by straps of dif-the spots where the objects in southern corridor that stretches ferent lengths and colors. the images released by australia toward antarctica. 
the pallet was spotted on and china were located. malaysian authorities have saturday from a search plane, one of the objects located not ruled out any possible expla­but the spotters were unable to was estimated to be about the nation for what happened to the take photos of it. same size as an object captured jet, but have said the evidence so 
Wooden pallets are most com-tuesday by the chinese satellite far suggests it was deliberately monly used by ships but are also that appeared to be 22 meters turned back across malaysia to used airplane cargo holds, and (72 feet) by 13 meters (43 feet), the strait of malacca, with its an official with malaysia airlines said the official, who declined to communications systems dis-said sunday night that the flight be identified because he wasn’t abled. they are unsure what was, in fact, carrying wooden authorized to speak to the me-happened next. pallets. the official spoke on dia. it was not possible to deter-authorities are considering condition of anonymity in keep-mine precise dimensions from the possibilities of hijacking, ing with company policy. the French data, the official said. sabotage, terrorism or issues re­
amsa said it has requested a u.s. underwater wreck hunt-lated to the mental health of the cargo manifest from malaysia er david mearns on monday pilots or someone else on board. 

Peace by piece 
Catherine Owers 
news Writer 


over winter break, i decided to or­ganize my bookshelves. i stumbled across madeline l’engle’s “a swiftly tilting Planet,” a very old favorite that was begging to be re-read. i some­what thoughtlessly tossed it into my suitcase for my return trip to school; as soon as i returned to campus, i promptly forgot about it. only after my last midterm, searching for something less dense than augustine, did i re­member the book on my shelf. 
i sat down, ready for a couple hours of relaxation and distraction, courtesy of l’engle’s lyrical prose and unparal­leled storytelling. i was not expect­ing to close the fourth book in the “a Wrinkle in times” series and feel consoled. given that the plot revolves around the threat of nuclear war, per­haps this is not the most anticipated reaction. it was, however, the under­lying emphasis on the importance of small details and deeds that deeply resonated with me. 
i was particularly struck by one line: “if there is to be any peace or reason, we have to create it in our own hearts and homes.” 
With all the horrors in our world, it is so easy to become disinterested and disenchanted. this line is a reminder of hope and the agency we possess. We are both empowered and challenged to embrace the reality that our ac­tions have larger implications. and as notre dame students, we are uniquely poised to impact the world for better with the education we receive and the resources available to us. 
the differences we can make in our community, in our dorms and among our friends demonstrate the responsibility we have to “think small.” support for larger causes is of course crucial and necessary, but we shouldn’t forget the importance of caring for the people we interact with every day, as well as friends and family. 
While i can’t end the conflict in ukraine or venezuela this afternoon, i can have a meaningful conversa­tion with a friend who is struggling with academic pressure. i can call my grandmother and let her know i am thinking of her. Furthermore, i can create peace within myself by forgiv­ing slights, letting go of grudges or taking responsibility for mistakes. 
i fully realize these small deeds aren’t going to win the nobel Peace Prize, but they are concrete acts that remind people they are valued and cared about. therefore, i encourage everyone to remember the impact of their daily actions and the differences we can make in our own community. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 

the hour is upon us! earth hour, one of the year’s biggest sustain­ability events is upon us, and i guarantee it is a bigger deal than you think. 
earth hour “got big” in 2008 and has been one of the most par­ticipated in sustainability events every year. during one evening hour late in march, all businesses, governments and people are asked to pull the plug on all of their elec­tronics in a moment of solidarity. 
you may have images of hippies dimming their led light bulbs or hipsters unplugging their hybrids shooting through your head, but this event goes far beyond individ­uals. last year notable landmarks like the burj khalifa, the eiffel tower, china’s bird’s nest sta­dium, big ben and all 30 canadian hockey league arenas doused their spot light. if the canadians are willing to forgo hockey for an hour, its got to be legit, right? earth hour is definitely drawing some attention. 
the big news though is the re­ception it is receiving state side. this year, laX and the empire state building have both an­nounced their participation, but that’s not surprising considering notre dame is leading the way. 
that’s right, the planes head­ed to the south bend regional airport will need to find another guide as the approach because the main building and the hesburgh library will be going dark this saturday. 
although the solidarity of earth hour is impressive, the combined impact of all of the lights around the world going dark pales in com­parison to the movements it has spawned. last year, the “i Will if you Will” program used earth hour as a launching point. the program, started by the president of botswana, set the goal to plant 1 million trees over four years. Programs like this are the magic of earth hour. yes, earth hour is a symbolic event, but something about the solidarity of most of the world’s countries coming together brings out the best in people. 
i encourage all of you to participate in this year’s earth hour. i know i will. 
in fact, i will be exercising my creativity by taking a ceremonial nap because naps are awesome. 
however, you should do some­thing boring like going outside and connecting with your youth. Play some hide and seek, buy a glow-in-the-dark volleyball or go for a night run. take an extended trip to the grotto. bonus points for people who take some time out to reflect on what they can do to live a more sustainable life. the opportunities are really endless, and it would be amazing to see the notre dame community come to­gether for this event. 
Email your predicaments to The Greenman at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. 
The Greenman will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.” 
Confucius Chinese philosopher 



the observer | MONDAY, MARCH 24. 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Reform food stamp system for ex-cons 
Brooke Justus 
guest columnist 

in my center for social concerns’ advocacy for the common good course, my classmates and i have been focusing on various instances of injustice in the social and political arena. in our research into the issue of food justice in indiana, our attention was drawn to the Federal Personal responsibility and Work opportunity reconciliation act and its significance for certain vulnerable populations in indiana. 
in 1996, this act amended the welfare system to prohibit anyone with a drug related felony con­viction from receiving supplemental nutrition assistance Program (snaP) benefits, commonly known as food stamps, for the rest of their lives. this short-sighted and unjust measure makes no exceptions or provisions for demonstrated good behavior, successful completion of a rehabilita­tion program or the need of minor dependents. 
so far, 39 states have passed legislation to amend or remove these restrictions. indiana is not one of them. 
if america wants to get serious about making significant strides against our societal ills of hun­ger, hyper-incarceration and recidivism, we must look at the structural faults in our own backyards that are prohibiting progress. When released in­mates attempt to reenter society and provide for their family, they already face huge barriers to assimilation into the workforce due to their re­cord and social stigma. in this crucial period of transition, unemployment compounded with food insecurity fosters desperation and increases the likelihood of resorting to crime, prostitution or other risky behaviors to obtain food, encouraging recidivism. 
Far from solely punishing offenders, the exclu­sion from snaP food stamps also has detrimental effects on their children. With the current arith­metic, the ex-offender is simply not counted when determining their family’s eligibility. it is unreal­istic to believe that the parent will just go hungry, and thus, the already small food rations will be spread thinner. many parents will wait to eat, eat­ing only after their children. older children soon realize their parents’ sacrifice, and the child will eat less to leave food for their parents in return. 
single parents with a history of a drug related felony conviction face a particular dilemma. even if their income might qualify them for food assistance, the system keeps them from being eligible. instead of being recognized as a two-person household, parent and child, single parent households may be counted as only a one-person household. this is because the parent cannot qualify for snaP benefits due to their criminal history. in this situation, the child will not receive the nutrition they need and deserve. it’s time to rethink and remove this legislation that unfairly targets innocent youths for their parents’ pasts. 
the equity of targeting drug offenders also has an alarming racial component. although the ma­jority of illegal drug users and dealers in america are white, three-fourths of people imprisoned for drug offenses are black or latino. due to this act, minority populations are systematically barred from receiving federal benefits. this disconnect between the drug using populations in this coun­try and those being penalized for it commands us to reevaluate our judicial failings and not rein­force them by withholding food from the needy. 
rather than recognizing the issue at hand and undergoing preventative and systemic change, Washington and indianapolis have continued along the path of the 1996 act. the 2013 Federal Farm bill cut funding to food stamps in half, making it more difficult to gain traction for al­lowing rehabilitated ex-felons to be included in the funding. 
indiana senator John broden (d) introduced a bill in 2014 to amend the ban by making ex-felons eligible after five years of good behavior and af­ter the completion of a rehabilitation program. however, indiana senator brent steele (r), the chair of the committee on corrections, criminal and civil matters, refused to commence a hearing for broden’s proposed bill. regardless of steele’s decision, this issue must be brought to the public consciousness. 
my hope is that after becoming aware of this injustice, people will be compelled to educate themselves and those around them on this is­sue, and will make their voices heard by indiana state senators and those in positions of power. the individuals suffering from this injustice need responsible citizens to voice their concerns and support the amendment of federal regulations on snaP benefits. this bill and the individuals for whom it is a crucial lifeline deserve a second chance. 
Brooke Justus is a freshman studying political science. She can be reached at bjustus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

don’t hate the prostate 
dear bookstore-basketball-name-evaluation committee, 
Prostate cancer is the second-most common cancer among american men. one in seven men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer. about one in 36 men will die of prostate cancer. 
dr. Pizzat’s Prostate exam is — was — a group of five young men trying to raise aware­ness of this serious disease, until we were un­fairly wronged by an ignorant and insensitive committee. 
We specifically mentioned in our application that our team name stood for men’s health awareness. do you not like dr. Pizzat? are you against men’s health? if the former is true, we assure you dr. Pizzat is a respectable doctor and a tremendous activist for men’s health. if the lat­ter is true, you are contributing to the “awkward gender stereotypes” so talked about at notre dame. 
“dallas buyers club: aiding you With love” is a clear reference to aids, a prominent theme throughout the aforementioned movie and one of the worst diseases known to man. that team pokes fun at the disease and is rewarded with a top-ten name, while support for men’s health is rejected. 
We would like a formal apology and official recognition of our team name — dr. Pizzat’s Prostate exam. 
the ball is in your court. 
Jonathan Gordon DJ Augenblick Eric Palutsis Pat Dorin 
juniors knott hall 


the observer | MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

comedy central has done it again. 
after introducing a string of quality new shows (“broad city,” “@midnight”) and renewing series that have no­ticeably improved in recent seasons (“kroll show,” “key and Peele”), the network has found another gem with new series “review.” 
starring the tragically underrated andy daly, “review” features daly as “life critic” Forrest macneil. macneil is the hilariously ignorant host of a tv show in which he tries out and rates life experiences rather than books or restaurants. he tries everything from prom and hunting to addiction and divorce. as expected, these attempts at “reviewing life” go horribly awry, but always close with an earnest rating on a scale of five stars.
 “review” is adapted from an australian comedy “review with myles barlow,” and plays out largely as Forrest’s television show, “review,” itself (think “check it out! With dr. steve brule”). but while each episode be­gins and concludes with macneil and his co-host sitting in a beautifully gaudy, “entertainment tonight”-style green-screened room, we get behind the scenes looks into the making of the show-within-the-show as well as Forrest’s personal life. Forrest’s overly enthusiastic 
Matt McMahon 
scene Writer 

on Friday, debartolo Performing arts center screened the 2003 independent film “the room” as part of its “late night at the browning” series. akin to midnight showings of cult classics like “the rocky horror Picture show,” this screening of “the room” encouraged audience participa­tion throughout, including a number of gags familiar to fans. the movie bombed when it was originally released, due to poor promotion and even poorer filmmaking. however, it has gained a large fan base because of its over­all terribleness and the unintentional humor derived from it. 
“the room” as a movie is complete cinematic garbage. there are numerous story inconsistencies, the dialog is at times either circular or entirely perplexing and the acting is utterly unbearable. shot discrepancies, non sequitur plot points and character introductions constantly take the viewer out of the movie. it would be exhaustive to list all the instances in which any number of people involved in the making of the movie did something incorrectly; but, in this environment of watching “the room,” that is the point. 
at the time of the screening Friday night, the audience 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

producer shows the chaos happening behind the scenes while his wife, who suffers through her husband’s twist­ed experiments, reveals Forrest as a wonderfully clueless family man. 
daly shows off his improv chops as Forrest, and it seems that the actor, who has been featured in small roles on television since the late 1990s (“mad tv,” “eastbound & down”), has finally found a time and place where his smart satirical humor, improv skills and khaki-wearing­dad-aesthetic come together in harmony. 
each episode features three to-be-reviewed experi­ences sent in as suggestions from fans. after introducing the experience to review, the show cuts to segments in which Forrest fully submerges himself in the challenge. the greatest part about the show is the integrity and sin­cerity of idiot Forrest. devoted to trying out anything thrown at him, Forrest goes all-out in each segment. he becomes a criminal and ruins relationships, but all with an admirable dedication to his craft. his unwillingness to turn down any challenge shows that Forrest actually cares about trying out life experiences, though he choos­es those that should never be just tried out. each segment is simultaneously offensive and heroic, then hilarious as it spins into absurdity with Forrest’s chipper voice nar­rating all the while. 
reviews of life range from silly, like being batman or 
immediately got involved, setting the tone for a rather long hour and a half. members of the crowd had some­thing to say for every moment, shot and beat. during the opening credits, the chanting of “Water!” accompanied scene-establishing shots of san Francisco and the golden gate bridge, a chant that would erupt anytime water was seen on screen. similar chants were induced whenever a character parked a car, and any appearance of a spoon, an unexplained phenomenon, prompted the throwing of plastic spoons. 
these traditions all feel rather forced, or at least did in the browning cinema the other night. rather than playful­ly enjoying the movie’s lack of quality with the occasional riff, the audience much more mean-spiritedly harped on something — or perhaps more accurately, anything — every second. there was nothing inherently important, good or bad, about pointing out a shot containing water. still, they unrelentingly shouted about it during these, and other like moments, becoming more annoying than any of the films out of focus shots. as much as a continuity error between cuts or an obvious green screen might take some­one out of a movie, this constant negative presence does so even more. 
i can appreciate the humor found in a poorly-made movie, contemplating how all the people involved could have considered their work viable for any audience at all.  i eating 15 pancakes, to downright grave and wildly in­appropriate, including racism and drug addiction. but the juxtaposition of the dramatically different topics of review only up the humor. already in the series’ three-episode run, “review” has dabbled in topics that could easily turn horribly unfunny, but instead play out with only Forrest at the expense of the humor, a testament to daly as a comedian. 
the laughs lie not in the experiences themselves, but with the horrible repercussions felt by the foolish, privi­leged Forrest when attempting to dabble in them. Forrest is lovable in his steadfast attempt to qualify life experi­ences that aren’t his own, always with a smile on his face, but his blatant stupidity and arrogance makes his de­mise undeniably funny. this balance is struck expertly in the show’s first two episodes, making the third episode an incredibly funny and dark look at the unraveling of Forrest macneil. as the show moves from episodic bits characterized by funny segments to behind-the-scenes story lines that carry over from week to week, it’s clear that the excellent “review” is just getting started — and is something you won’t want to miss. 
“review” is available to watch online at cc.com or on thursdays at 10 p.m. on comedy central. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
can even play along and make jokes about acting decisions and the comedy of each scene’s ridiculous elements. still, this rigid midnight-showing setting does not encourage this behavior or commentary. it is one thing to make fun of “the room” while watching with a group of friends maybe once, but it is completely different in this cult format. 
Furthermore, i do not have the ability to overlook the details surrounding the making of the movie. For those familiar with the stories accompanying its production, i feel as though they hinder enjoyment. in fact, they are as uncomforting as the number of awkward, extended sex scenes and their incorporation into the movie. if you are not familiar with the movie, the details or both, i’ll is­sue a disclaimer: the information about the movie may give more insight into why it is one of the worst films ever made, but also provides too personal a look at the film’s creator. 
a handful of scenes from “the room” are worth watch­ing to see just how bad, and subsequently how funny, the movie can be. however, the film just doesn’t lend itself to this type of screening, for reasons ranging from annoying to unsettling. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcaho7@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


the observer | MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene Writer 

it makes sense to start with a very simple, appropriate metaphor: Freddie gibbs and madlib’s “Piñata” is very much a piñata. it’s chock full of candy — class-a, tasty beats done justice by a skilled wordsmith. the pieces here are unified by each artist’s recognizable style — gibbs’ smooth yet highly-focused flow and madlib’s pen­chant for slightly off-beat, sample-rich instrumentals. yet there is no greater concept at work in “Piñata”; it’s simply a showcase for the musical talent of the collabora­tors. is that a bad thing? given the consistent quality of the tracks on “Piñata,” the answer is a quick and resound­ing no. 
“Piñata” hits the ground running with intro “supplier,” which melds themes of artistic ambition with gibbs’ rough past as a drug dealer over an incredibly groovy drum sample. “supplier” then leads directly into “scarface,” an account of the past hinted at in the intro over another groove-tastic beat. “Piñata” remains in very similar territory for the entirety of the album; beats meld together from track to track while gibbs’ lyrics crisscross from his past to his present. 
however, the album is saved from repetition and stale­ness through the clear chemistry of the lyricist and beat-maker. on “deeper,” a string line sits in back of warped 
By MEGHAN CLEARY 
scene Writer 

on Friday evening, student union board brought comedian byron bowers to legends. after having pre­viously seen some of bowers’ stand-up performances online, there was an apprehensive air to what the au­dience response would be. honestly, i cannot recall a time i had laughed so hard, for so long. byron bowers, along with his opener, senior Jackie garvin, really hit the key stand-up tactics that kept the audience laughing throughout. 
garvin took the stage at 10 p.m. and provoked chuck­les immediately. We frequently find ourselves laughing at jokes where the explanation is, “it’s funny because it’s true.” not only did garvin’s jokes take hold of this concept, but they were tailored perfectly to the college student demographic that laid in front of him. garvin touched on the tension for the last hard-boiled egg in south dining hall. he gave us a nostalgic journey back to the days of “toy story” and lunchables. garvin man­aged to transcend the general concept to a smaller scale of the audience, through an even smaller scale of his personal story, and the laughter amongst the audience vocal samples while gibbs weaves conflicting feelings about women into a tale of infidelity. the conflicting in­tensity and complexity of such feelings become more ur­gent against madlib’s smooth production. on “shitsville,” one of the record’s fastest, most intense tracks, Freddie’s flow races note-for-note against a violin sample. this in turn pushes the song’s topic, a harsh criticism of gangster pride, to the forefront. 
in addition, the album boasts a plethora of left-turns that reward continued listens and close attention. on “high,” the lightweight beat dissolves into an even haz­ier affair following the last verse, mirroring the subject matter in the song to great effect. closer “Piñata” melds halloween arpeggios, eastern-sounding strings and a hollywood-orchestra sample to create a strangely intimi­dating soundscape. 
after six minutes, the beat drops into a bare-bones, infomercial-like tom-tom beat. then a vocal sample of a tense argument crawls out to top it, creating an alto­gether confusing and eerie affair. this is immediately fol­lowed by a humorously bad, and hardly understandable, a cappella improvised song. but through such twists and turns, the artists are able to flaunt their skills while keep­ing the record light-hearted and approachable. 
another factor that keeps the record afloat is the im­pressive guest roster, which spans from established voices like raekwon and scarface to indie-phenomena 
was already impressively well-established for bowers’ entrance. 
in sigmund Freud’s “Jokes and their relation to the unconscious,” Freud discusses the differences between joke and jest. Joke being the more developed version of jest, the main difference is that there is a “victim.” Part of what makes this joke laughable is that the “victim” is telling the joke, or rather, the comedian is poking fun at themselves, as bowers did expertly. 
along with this, comedy is considered to be laugh­able when there is a sense of absurdity to it. bowers was quick to take any relatable idea and bring forth com­edy in blowing it out of proportion. “yeah, i remember when i was in college. do any of you mismanage your student loans? i mismanaged my student loans. i bought five cars.” While the development of this question built a relationship with broke college students, the last state­ment was paired with a burst of laughter. Jokes like this were common and consistently coming from bowers, much to the audience’s pleasure. 
another very impressive aspect of bowers’ perfor­mance was his improvisational skill. many comedians take the time to meticulously plan out their jokes, as does bowers. very few comedians set themselves up to earl sweatshirt and danny brown to up-and-comers like casey veggies and mac miller (up-and-coming in the ex­perimental/indie scene vs. the popular rap scene). each artist is placed in a suitable context, each rapper matched with a theme they’re experienced rhyming about. this highlights and makes the most of each feature while com­plimenting Freddie’s ability to hop from topic to topic. 
From its solo affairs to its guest features, “Piñata” is a demonstration of experts at work. it’s simply the product of a group of experienced artists doing what they’re best at; the product is a very consistent, high-quality rap re­cord. sure, “Piñata” doesn’t break down walls or present a grand message, but it doesn’t need to. “Piñata” is great rap music, nothing more and certainly nothing less. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Piñata” 
Freddie Gibbs and Madlib 
Label: Madlib Invazion Tracks: “Supplier,” “High,” “Deeper” If you like: Madvillian, Action Bronson, Danny Brown 

display their ability to think on their feet. at a certain point, bowers asked audience members, “What is the weirdest major on campus? What is your major?” When given responses, he would delve into what was funny about each. science-business was thrown bowers’ way, and without hesitation, jokes alluding to a Walter White lifestyle were bouncing back at the audience. bowers’ interaction with the audience, and consistent question asking, was remarkable. along with this, it was a true testament to his abilities as a stand-up comedian. 
using these comedic strategies, bowers warmed the audience up for a step beyond the comfort zone. Jokes that may not be passable in an immediate presentation worked so well because bowers took the time to “get to know everyone.” Jokes that frequently are followed up with, “too soon,” worked perfectly because he kept things tasteful and placed jokes appropriately through­out the show. 
both garvin and bowers performed outstandingly at legends. this show was certainly worth the trip and keeps me on my toes for the next student union board comedy show. 
Contact Meghan Cleary at mcleary2@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Baseball out of place in Australia 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
With march and all its mad­ness and glory right now, it is easy to get caught up in the world of college basketball. 
but, for those of you who did not notice, the baseball season officially kicked off saturday, with a doubleheader between the dodgers and the diamondbacks, which los angeles swept. 
though the games were played over a week before the rest of the league begins its season, the early opening day wasn’t even the strangest part of the whole ordeal. 
no, that would be the game’s location — sydney, australia. 
i understand major league baseball is trying to expand the boundaries of its game and bring its product to new locations. it makes sense that, since baseball is firmly settled as a popular sport in the united states, it would want to expose more people to the joys of america’s pastime. 
but, of all places, australia? 
i have never traveled down under, so i admit that i do not fully know the extent to which australians play, watch or even know about baseball. but i can tell you it’s not as great as it is in Japan, Puerto rico, the dominican republic, cuba or chinese taipei. 
all these teams played in and advanced to the sec­ond round of the 2013 World baseball classic, which australia failed to do. even the netherlands — certainly not known as prime breed­ing grounds for mlb stars — advanced to the semifinals, where it lost to the dominican republic. 
granted, the World baseball classic is by no means the end-all-be-all of measuring baseball’s popularity in any given country or how good that country’s citizens are in the sport. if it was, surely mexico and venezuela would have progressed further than the first round, based on the number and quality of play­ers who have come from those two countries. 
but even if you look at both quality and quantity, it is clear that australia is no hub for baseball. 
there are currently seven active australians in the league, and none of them are exactly superstars. the clos­est would be grant balfour of the rays, who made an ap­pearance in last year’s all-star game, but he is not a house­hold name by any means. 
in fact, only 31 australians have ever competed in the mlb. there are way more than 31 active players from the dominican republic and venezuela in the league now, and the current numbers from Puerto rico, cuba, Japan and canada are just under 31. 
so, why choose to hold opening day in australia? 
obviously, venezuela and mexico would not be the saf­est locations for a trip, the dominican republic has no­where near the gdP and mon­ey to offer that australia does and traveling to cuba would be a whole other headache to sort out. 
but australia just does not seem to make sense. 
even some players were out­spoken about their discontent with the choice of location. dodgers starter Zack greinke said his team had “zero excite­ment” to start its season in sydney. greinke and outfield­ers carl crawford and matt kemp — three of the dodgers’ biggest names — did not make the trip because of injury or personal reasons. or maybe they just found something better to do than sit on a 14­hour plane ride. 
this would be a good experi­ence for any person, profes­sional athlete or not to have, traveling to a new country, bringing along members of your family, hanging out with your friends and doing it all for free — being paid to do it, in fact. 
but it would still be a good experience in another country that had shown more support for your game and your league in the past. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

mercer fails to upset again, tennessee wins in rout 
Associated Press 

after turning tobacco road into “raleigh top,” tennessee is headed to the round of 16. 
tennessee denied mercer a second straight upset in decid­edly one-sided fashion, rout­ing the bears 83-63 in the third round of the ncaa tournament on sunday night behind 17 points and a career-high-tying 18 rebounds for Jarnell stokes. 
Josh richardson had a career-high 26 points and antonio barton had 18 for the 11th-seed­ed vols (24-12), who are making the most of their first tourna­ment appearance since 2011. 
“nit two straight years, i guess that’s what you’d call starting from the bottom,” stokes said. “a lot of people doubted us, and that just makes the ride much better.” 
the tennessee band had plenty of chances to blare their beloved “rocky top” during this rout, which followed the same script as their 19-point thumping of massachusetts two days earlier: the voles out-rebounded mercer 41-19 to keep the southeastern conference perfect in the tournament. 
they joined Florida and kentucky in the regional semifi­nals — the first time three sec teams made it that far since 2007. 
“i’ve been hearing that the sec has been a football con­ference for a long time but i don’t know how you can still say that when you’ve got three sec schools in the sweet 16,” tennessee guard Jordan mcrae said. 
tennessee will face second-seeded michigan (27-8) in a midwest regional semifinal Friday night in indianapolis. 
stokes broke his 2-day-old school tournament record for rebounds. 
langston hall had 15 points to lead the 14th-seeded bears (27-9). they knocked off duke in the signature upset of the tournament but couldn’t an­swer tennessee’s size. 
“i think hopefully by the time (reality) sets in, we’ll all be able to put a smile on and realize that what we’ve been able to do at our school, and for the city, has been phenomenal,” forward Jakob gollon said. “it’s kind of hard to see right now.” 
mercer trailed by double fig­ures for the entire second half before the bears threatened an­other fantastic finish. 
they had the ball down 12 with about 2½ minutes left when gollon — one of the he­roes of the duke upset two days earlier — threw the ball away in the lane, then fouled out a few seconds later. 
mcrae hit two free throws, and richardson added a fast-break layup to push the tennessee lead to 77-61 with 1½ minutes left. 
mcrae finished with 13 points for the volunteers, who have won eight of nine with the only loss coming to the top-ranked gators in the sec tournament. 
they are in the round of 16 for the fourth time in eight years, and the third team to go from the First Four to the sweet 16 since the introduction of the ex­tra round in 2011. 
they also got a bit of payback: mercer ended tennessee’s sea­son last year with a 75-67 win in the first round of the nit. 
ike nwamu scored 12 points, anthony White Jr. had 11 and big man daniel coursey added 10 for mercer, the plucky atlantic sun conference school trying to match Florida gulf coast’s run last year to the regional semifinals. 
the bears drew a perfect matchup for their first game — and couldn’t have had a worse one for their second. 
“any time we have Jeronne (maymon) and Jarnell wearing tennessee orange,” mcrae said, “we always feel like we have the advantage.” 
NBA 

cavaliers defeat knicks 
Associated Press 

Jarrett Jack scored a season-high 31 points and the cleveland cavaliers won 106-100 sunday night to end the eight-game winning streak of the new york knicks, who wasted a chance to pull within two games of a playoff spot. 
hours after being handed a chance to get closer to the final spot in the eastern conference when atlanta blew a fourth-quarter lead in toronto, the knicks responded with an inept final period of their own after they led by 17 points in the first half. 
they couldn’t stop Jack and couldn’t get a basket from carmelo anthony, who missed all five shots in the final period and finished with 32 points. 
Jack scored 23 in the second half and finished with 10 assists for the cavaliers, who snapped a four-game losing streak. 
dion Waiters scored 22 points and luol deng had 13 in his return from a three-game absence with a sprained left ankle for the cavs, who didn’t miss all-star kyrie irving because Jack torched the knicks for 13 points in the fourth quarter. 
new york was missing ailing iman shumpert, their best perimeter defender who surely would’ve gotten a chance to defend Jack since nobody else could. 
the knicks, who suddenly were back in the play­off race after looking out of it after a seven-game skid dropped them to 21-40 after a loss in detroit on march 3, will have to bounce back on the road. they leave for a five-game Western conference trip that begins tuesday against the lakers. 
the hawks had already lost at toronto by the time the knicks showed up for work sunday. coach mike Woodson said he was glad but didn’t appear overjoyed, realizing the knicks still have plenty to do to get to the 35 to 40 wins he think will be necessary to earn a playoff spot. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
In the city that we love Great clouds roll over the hills Bringing darkness from above 
But if you close your eyes, Does it almost feel like Nothing changed at all? And if you close your eyes, Does it almost feel like You’ve been here before? How am I gonna be an optimist about this?” 
FOR RENT 

Ivy Quad rental available June 2014 for 1 year. 3BR 2Ba. 1 car garage. washer/dryer. Walk to campus. Call 215-913-9191 
Commencement Rental available ­next to Eddy Street Commons. Walk to everything. Call 574-360-6910 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Mathnasium of Granger is looking to hire part time math instructors. Year round positions available. Please email resumes to Cari at granger@mathna­sium.com 
“And the walls kept tumbling down 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | north carolina 6, nd 1 
MEN’S TENNIS | nd 5, clemson 2; nd 6, georgia tech 1 
notre dame topples 
tar heels top irish 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame was unable to keep up with no. 10 north carolina, and the irish dropped their match to the tar heels by a score of 6-1 in chapel hill on sunday. 
the irish loss concludes a week­end in which they were unable to defeat two teams ranked in the top 10, starting with a match at virginia on Friday. 
north carolina (16-3, 5-1 acc) features four singles players ¾ fresh­men hayley carter and Jamie loeb, junior caroline Price and sopho­more Whitney kay ¾ and two dou­bles teams ranked in the ita. carter and loeb form one of the doubles teams and are ranked seventh in the country. loeb is currently the no. 1 singles player in the country, while carter is no. 5. 
the lone victory for the irish (8­8, 2-6 acc) came from sophomore 

clemson, georgia tech 

Quinn gleason, who was able to hold off carter by winning back-to-back 
By GREG HADLEY 
sets, 6-4, 6-4. senior britney sanders 
associate sports editor 
also put up a strong performance against loeb, dropping the first set 

after a rough start to 6-3 but forcing a tiebreaker in the 
march, no. 11 notre dame second, which she eventually lost, 
flipped the script and domi­7-5. loeb and carter also defeated 
nated indoors and out over gleason and sanders in doubles play, 
the weekend, picking up beating the irish pair, 8-3. 
wins over no. 20 clemson Perhaps the tightest match came 
and georgia tech on the during the singles competition be-
road. tween Price and irish senior Jennifer 
the irish (13-5, 3-2 acc) kellner. 
began the month with a 6-1 although Price came out on top in 
loss to no. 7 virginia, then the end, kellner forced extra games 
came out flat against no. in both sets, ultimately coming up 
4 usc over spring break, short, 7-6, 7-6 (7-5). 
where they were swept notre dame resumes play 
7-0 for the first time this Wednesday against marquette. 
season. match play is set to begin at 3:30 p.m 
against the tigers 
Paid advertisement 
(16-3, 3-1) on Friday, the construction. … We’re just 
irish quickly fell behind, as good outdoors as we are 
dropping the first two indoors.” 
points of the match, before the match with the yellow 
storming back to claim the Jackets (7-7, 1-3) on sunday 
5-2 victory. irish coach ryan was moved indoors, but the 
sachire said the win was irish grabbed the doubles 
especially encouraging be-point and never looked 
cause the team played well back, surrendering just one 
outdoors after failing to do singles point for a 6-1 win. 
so against usc. “[against georgia tech], “the usc match was a we actually wanted to play 
good thing for us,” sachire outdoors,” sachire said. “We 
said. “it helped us realize just did a great job of bat-
some things about ourselves tling through.” 
that we needed to work on. irish senior greg andrews 
in practice we worked on led the way in both contests, 
being more patient when taking both of his singles 
we needed to be outdoors matches in straight sets. 
and really focused on point against clemson, andrews took down junior hunter harrington, ranked 90th in the nation. While he and sophomore alex lawson dropped their first doubles match against clemson, they recovered against georgia tech for an 8-6 win. For the no. 28 player in the nation, it was a welcome return to form after tough individual losses against virginia and usc, sachire said. “it was great to see greg get those wins this weekend,” he said. “he’s had some ups and downs this season, but he’s done a heck of a job re­maining positive and work­ing hard. he’s poised to have a great few last months of his career, and it was nice to see him bounce back and beat two good players very easily.” andrews’ fellow senior, ryan bandy, also played a key role in the irish victo­ries. Playing at the no. 3 spot for notre dame, bandy forced tiebreakers in both matches, pulling out wins by the scores of 6-7 (3­7), 6-4, 1-0 (10-8) against clemson junior alejandro augusto and 7-6 (7-3), 5-7, 11-9 against georgia tech freshman carlos benito. “ryan’s doing a great job for us,” sachire said. “he’s a senior who’s done things the right way for a long time, and it’s nice to see him get that payoff. he won two great matches against two really good players. it was about him competing and doing the things he had to do and, as a coach, there’s nothing more gratifying than seeing a guy like him succeed.” With the wins, notre dame pushes its way up to sev­enth place in the acc, while clemson falls to fourth. the irish return home for a pivotal acc matchup with no. 13 duke on Friday at 
3:30p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


the observer | MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Bears crush Creighton 
Associated Press 
too big. too strong. too 
fast.  
baylor  was  too  much  
of  just  about  everything  
for  creighton  and  doug  

mcdermott to handle. 
and because of it, the sixth-seeded bears are rolling out of texas toward california and the ncaa tournament sweet 16 after an impressive 85-55 win sunday night in the West regional. 
isaiah austin and brady heslip each scored 17 points and baylor used suffocat­ing defense to shut down mcdermott, ending the ca­reer of one of college basket­ball’s most prolific scorers. 
“We did a good job making it tough on him,” bears coach scott drew said. 
mcdermott, who aver­aged 27 points this season, finished with 15 but had just three in the first half as baylor built a 20-point lead. mcdermott ranks fifth on the ncaa career scoring list with 3,150 points. 
baylor (26-11) had five play­ers score in double figures and shot 64 percent in one of the dominant performances of the tournament. 
the rest of the West bracket may want to pay attention to this one. a team that looked like a wreck six weeks ago with a 2-8 start in the big 12 is brimming with confidence to match all that muscle in the lineup. 
“We take pride in people hating on us, and we love prov­ing people wrong,” austin said. “everybody has bought into the one goal that we have in mind and that is winning a national championship.” 
baylor plays no. 2 seed Wisconsin on thursday in anaheim. in baylor’s two pre­vious trips to the sweet 16, it fell one game short of the 
MEN’S GOLF 
Final Four. 
mcdermott carried the bluejays back to the round of 32 for the third year in a row, and had done it in spectacu­lar style, leading the nation in scoring with a sublime shoot­ing touch and uncanny knack to slither his way through defenders for layups and put-back baskets. 
mcdermott spurned the chance to turn pro after last season, and this was the year the bluejays and their senior-laden lineup were expected to drive creighton farther into the ncaa tournament than any bluejays team before them. 
but baylor’s defense gave him nothing: neither space to shoot nor even chances for his teammates to pass him the ball. 
and for all the talk about creighton’s maturity and bonding, baylor made the bluejays look small and slow. 
“this is the worst we’ve played all season, and it just stinks that it’s the last one. but that doesn’t take away from all my memories here. it’s tough to go out this way,” mcdermott said. 
baylor came out blazing from long range, knocking down five 3-pointers in the first 7 minutes. kenny chery made three and when heslip, who was 0 for 6 in Friday’s win over nebraska, swished his first against creighton, he mockingly shook the fingers on both hands as he loped back down the court. 
“We were just expecting it to be a fight, to be honest,” heslip said. 
mcdermott, meanwhile, struggled to find any kind of space inside or out against baylor’s zone defense and badly misfired on his first at­tempt, a baseline shot that missed everything. 
this rout was just beginning. 
the bears flexed their mus­cle early and often with a lineup built for the rigors of the big 12. austin is 7-foot-1 and he teamed with 6-10 for­ward cory Jefferson in the frontcourt. When creighton missed a shot, the typical re­sult was three bears under the basket with no bluejays around. 
baylor’s bench was just as intimidating. When reserve forward rico gathers pushed his 6-foot-8, 270-pound frame through the lane for a layup, two creighton defenders were powerless to stop him. 
by the time baylor had built a 20-point halftime lead, mcdermott had taken only three shots, made one and had two fouls. 
“We knew we had them on their heels,” austin said. “We wanted to step on their throat.” 
even when creighton got a spark — ethan Wragge made two 3-pointers early in the second half — baylor simply matched basket for basket, denying any hopes of a rally. 
soon it was showtime as baylor’s lead kept growing. Jefferson slammed down an alley-oop dunk for a 58­34 lead with just more than 12 minutes to play. gathers added another rim-rattler a few minutes later, his broad shoulders soaring to the bas­ket to punctuate the night. 
When mcdermott left the game with 2:31 to play, he hugged his father, creighton coach greg mcdermott, be­fore retreating to the bench and burying his face in a towel. 
“i’m not sure it was baylor being that good or us being that bad,” greg mcdermott said. “over the course of the season you’re going to have a few clunkers. We had one at the wrong time.” 

irish travel to lone star state for invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
the irish begin play in the two-day lone star invitational in san antonio at 8:30 a.m. monday. 
the tournament, which is held at the briggs ranch golf club, is hosted by the university of texas-san antonio and has a 15-team field, including baylor, central arkansas, houston baptist, louisiana tech, new mexico, north texas, Purdue, rice, sacramento state, south dakota state, southeastern louisiana, texas state and ut arlington. 
the irish are sending senior captains andrew carreon and niall Platt along with junior Patrick grahek and freshmen liam cox and matt rushton. carreon, a san antonio native, was originally entered as an un­attached individual compet­itor, but moved into the notre dame starting five because sophomore cory sciupider is ill and unable to compete. this will be the second start of carreon’s career. 
the 54-hole tournament is broken into three rounds, with the first two played monday and the final round completed tuesday. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Bruins return to Sweet 16 
Associated Press 
ucla is back in the sweet 16 for the first time in six seasons, a big step in the right direc­tion for a program whose tra­dition was tarnished in recent seasons. 
the bruins don’t want to stop there. 
“We’ve had a good over­all season but our work isn’t done,” sophomore forward kyle anderson said sunday af­ter the bruins beat stephen F. austin 77-60 reach the ncaa tournament regionals for the first time since 2008. “they don’t hang sweet 16s up in Pauley.” 
no, they don’t. expectations are always high in Westwood because of the 11 national championship banners hang­ing in Pauley Pavilion, the first 10 coming under John Wooden and the last one coming in 1995. 
the fourth-seeded bruins (28-8) will play Florida, the tournament’s overall top seed, in the south regional semifi­nals on thursday in memphis. 
“it’s a tough turn-around for us and we’re going to play arguably the best basketball team in the country right now, but it’s good to see us back in that mix and back in that discussion,” said first-year coach steve alford, who has won as many ncaa tourna­ment games in three days as the bruins had in the previous five seasons combined. “that’s what’s been a lot of fun.” 
alford replaced ben howland, who was fired a year ago after the bruins lost to minnesota in their ncaa tour­nament opener. this is ucla’s first trip to the regionals since howland got the bruins to their third straight Final Four in 2008. 
Florida beat ucla in the national championship game in 2006 and again in the na­tional semifinals the following season. the gators also elimi­nated the bruins in the second round in 2011. 
Jordan adams scored 19 points, norman Powell had 16 and anderson had 15 points and eight rebounds. 
Paid advertisement 





BASEBALL | nd 2, virginia tech 1; vt 8, nd 3; vt 5, nd 4 
Irish win one game, drop two against Hokies 
By MARY GREEN 
sports Writer 
notre dame opened up its first “home” series away from the familiar confines of Frank eck stadium by collecting its first acc victory over virginia tech on Friday, but the irish lost both games over the next two days to give the hokies the series win. 
“We’re right there, but some­times we’re not making those plays, be it mentally or physi­cally ¾ or even sometimes both ¾ that are going to help us win those games,” irish coach mik aoki said. “i think our hearts are there, but it’s been enough where we can’t overcome making four or five different mistakes in ev­ery game.” 
in Friday’s opener at Four Winds Field in south bend, senior right-hander sean Fitzgerald pitched his first career complete game en route to a 2-1 irish victory. 
the matchup was scoreless until the bottom of the fifth, when back-to-back singles from sophomore shortstop lane richards and sophomore cen­terfielder kyle richardson put irish players on first and second. Junior designated hitter conor biggio then hit a fielder’s-choice groundball to knock in richards and put a run on the board for notre dame. 
that momentum carried through to the next inning, when junior first baseman blaise lezynski set up the winning run with a single up the middle and eventually crossed the plate on a wild pitch from virginia tech senior starter brad markey, who took the complete-game loss. 
the hokies, however, did not make the win easy for the irish. virginia tech redshirt fresh­man centerfielder saige Jenco reached base with a two-strike double and headed home on an rbi single from junior second baseman alex Perez in the fol­lowing at-bat. however, three outs in the next three at-bats sealed notre dame’s first acc win and Fitzgerald’s third vic­tory of the season. 
“at this point, with the way the season is going, we’re relieved to just get wins, whether they’re conference or not,” aoki said. 
saturday was not as produc­tive for the irish, as a move to grand Park in Westfield, ind., brought an 8-3 loss. virginia tech picked up all eight of its runs in the first two innings as sophomore right-hander nick mccarty gave up seven runs and freshman reliever Jim orwick surrendered the final score. mccarty left the game after al­lowing five hits and two walks in one-and-one-third innings and is still looking to collect his first win of the season. 
“i certainly think that a couple of instances have been tough luck [for mccarty],” aoki said. “[saturday] was just one of those days where he wasn’t good. sometimes that happens, and obviously the whole situation gets a little exacerbated when you’re 0-4 going into it.” 
notre dame got on the board with a run in the second in­ning and two more scores in the fourth, but it could not muster enough of an effort to complete the comeback. 
With a mark in the win col­umn for each team, sunday’s cold and snowy finale brought a hard-fought, 5-4 loss for the irish in 12 innings at grand Park. 
a successfully executed dou­ble steal plated a run in the first inning for virginia tech, but lezynski tied the game up in the bottom of the inning by driving in freshman second baseman cavan biggio with a two-out, rbi line-drive single. 
after a single from sopho­more right fielder ricky sanchez moved him up to second, lezynski stole third and head­ed home on an errant throw over the third baseman’s head. sanchez scored on an rbi groundball from richards, giv­ing notre dame a 3-1 lead at the end of the first. 
a two-hit second inning cut the hokies’ deficit to 3-2, and virginia tech tagged on another run in the third to tie the game up. 
Junior starter Pat connaughton exited in the fourth after giving up three hits and a lead-off walk in two of those innings. 
in the sixth, the irish loaded the bases, and senior catcher Forrest Johnson delivered a one-run single to reclaim the lead for notre dame. two irish runners originally crossed the plate and would have given the team a 5-3 lead, but sanchez was called out after failing to touch third base. 

“i think there’s a lot of things that conspired against us,” aoki said. “unfortunately, right now, it’s a little indicative of the way we’re playing. it’s just a handful of mistakes, be it mental or phys­ical, that are keeping us from winning some of these games.” 
the hokies responded in the next inning when junior catcher mark Zagunis picked up a two-out, rbi single to knot the game at four. 
the score remained tied until virginia tech freshman right-fielder tom stoffel knocked in Zagunis on a fielder’s choice to take the lead and the 5-4 win in the top of the 12th. sophomore left-hander michael hearne was charged with the loss in his eight-and-one-third-innings performance. 
“i thought michael pitched great,” aoki said. “i thought he pitched out of some tough spots that we created for him. With regards to mike, he’s been re­ally good about every single time he’s taken the ball for us, and i was really pleased with the way michael threw.” 
the irish look to rebound against illinois-chicago on tuesday at Four Winds Field. First pitch is set for 5:35 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 17, villanova 8 
irish beat old rival, 17-8 
Observer Staff Report 
the no. 6 irish cruised past their former big east conference rival villanova on sunday in a convincing 17-8 victory. 
the match featured goals from ten different irish 
scorers,  including  fresh­ 
man  midf ielder  emma  
cla ire  Fontenot,  who  

scored her first goal of the season and her career. 
Fontenot notched the fi­nal tally of the game for the irish (8-3, 1-3 acc) with less than two minutes to play. 
Wildcat junior midfield hannah goforth answered Fontenot’s goal with 17 seconds left to round out the game’s scoring. 
goforth and freshman midfielder becca hetrick led the Wildcats (4-4, 0-0 big east) with two goals each. 
the irish attack fea­tured hat tricks from two sophomores: attack kiera mcmullan and midfield brie custis. Freshman mid­field and attack cortney Fortunato led the team in assists. Fortunato and mcmullan tied for point leader with five apiece. 

in the defensive end, the irish held the Wildcats scoreless for numerous stretches throughout the game. 
the irish defense and freshman goalkeeper liz o’sullivan were rock-solid, and proceeded to keep the ball out of the irish net for 23 consecutive minutes at one point in the second half. 
o’sullivan took over for junior allie murray in net after the first half. o’sullivan and murray col­lected two and three saves, respectively. 
For the Wildcats, sopho­more goalkeeper Jaclyn Fraum tallied eight saves. Fraum was named to the big east Weekly honor roll last week. 
despite this distinction, Fraum was unable to stave off an irish attack that had outscored its opponents by a combined margin of 126­95 in the season. 
the victory over villanova marks another game played without ju­nior defender barbara sullivan, who will be out for the rest of the season with an injury. sullivan had been a team leader in draw controls. 
against the Wildcats, freshman midfield casey Pearsall took it upon herself to take the majority of the draw controls for the irish, winning nine. 
Persall now leads the team in draw controls with 23 on the season. 
the irish return home next weekend for a match-up against no. 15 stanford. the two teams faceoff at 12 
p.m. saturday at arlotta stadium. 
WOMEN’S SOFTBALL 
Weather derails softball series 
Observer Staff Report 
the irish were supposed to play their first home games of the season over the weekend, but all three games against Pittsburgh were postponed due to weather. 
atlantic coast conference policy sets a minimum tem­perature at which games can be played. the high temperature on saturday was 47 degrees Fahrenheit, with temperatures dipping into the 30s, and the mercury remained below freez­ing for all of sunday. 
according to und.com, of­ficials are unsure if the three-game set will be rescheduled for later in the season. 
if weather permits, of course, the no. 24/25 irish will host no. 23 northwestern at 6 
p.m. tuesday at melissa cook stadium. 



W Basketball 
continued From Page 16 
players contributed 42 of the team’s 93 points. 
sophomore guard michaela mabrey led all scorers with 16 points, subbing in five minutes into the game to hit her first three attempts from behind the arc. eleven of her points came in the first half, which notre dame closed with a 50-15 advantage. 
“michaela mabrey was really critical today, coming off the bench,” mcgraw said. “she is al­ways ready to shoot the ball. she shot it extremely well. i think the zone gave her some good looks.” 
mcgraw said junior guard madison cable, who was 3-for-4 from 3-point range en route to a 13-point performance, also put in good minutes off the bench for the irish. 
Junior forward markisha Wright logged 21 minutes in the frontcourt after senior forward ariel braker and freshman for­ward taya reimer each picked up two early fouls in the first half. 
“i think everyone on the team wants to contribute in some way, and we tell them what their role is, and they all ac­cept their role,” mcgraw said. “markisha Wright didn’t have a lot of points, but she did her job defensively. 
“i think that everyone is do­ing a really good job — they are playing because they all want to win. they are unselfish, and they’ll do what it takes.” 
Five irish players — mabrey, cable, braker (10), senior for­ward natalie achonwa (15) and sophomore guard Jewell loyd 
(15) — scored in double figures, while freshman guard anna niki stamolamprou (12 points) was the only colonial to do so. 
notre dame repeatedly dou­ble- and triple-teamed robert morris senior forward artemis spanou, limiting the colonials’ leading scorer to seven points, well below her season average of 19.8. 
braker, loyd and cable helped the irish take a 45-22 ad­vantage on the glass, an area in which the team has struggled throughout the season. braker and cable each grabbed eight rebounds, while loyd hauled in seven more.
 “rebounding is a big part of our game, and when shots aren’t falling, we obviously have to rebound,” braker said. “everyone just has that mind­set. rebounding is effort, and everyone just had really good ef­fort getting to the boards today.” 
notre dame will look to take that effort into its second-round contest against no. 9 seed arizona state, which advanced after defeating vanderbilt, 69­61, on saturday. 
redshirt sophomore guard katie hempen led the sun devils (23-9, 11-7 Pac-12) with 16 points off the bench, while three of her teammates also reached double figures. 
“asu is a team that is so bal­anced, you can’t key in on one person,” mcgraw said. “it seems like in the acc, we’re always saying you have to guard these players or this person in partic­ular, but with that team, every­one is good.” 

arizona state received an at-large bid to the tournament, finishing fourth in the Pac-12 in the regular season and fall­ing in the quarterfinal of the conference tournament to usc. 
the irish and the sun devils tip off in the second round of the ncaa tournament monday at 6:30 p.m. at savage arena in toledo. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
W Swimming 
continued From Page 16 
proved a little harder than normal to keep my thoughts on me. i think it taught me a lot about how i operate and how to handle pressure.” 
despite the added pres­sure, reaney was able to keep her eye on the prize and not back down. 
“during warm ups, [irish coach brian barnes] was pretty much building up my confidence by telling me how strong i looked be­fore the race, and i felt it,” reaney said. “i’d been train­ing all year for that event and knowing i had all the hard work of this season be­hind me, i was pretty con­fident when i stepped up to the blocks.” 
reaney’s performance saturday night mirrored her successful junior campaign. she finished this weekend’s meet with three all-america trophies, which brings her career total to 10. reaney is now only two trophies away from passing former notre dame swimmer carrie nixon, who had 12 during her career. 
overall, the irish tied with nc state for 16th place at the championships. reaney contributed 12 points in the 200 im, 16 in the 100 breast­stroke and 20 in the 200 breaststroke.  the irish beat acc rivals north carolina, duke, miami, virginia tech and Florida state. 
Freshman katie miller beat her personal record in the 200 backstroke in the preliminary round for a 22nd place finish (1:57.54). senior christen mcdonough ended her notre dame career with a 50th place finish in the 200 breaststroke with a time of 
2:14.99 in the preliminary round. she finished 27th in the 100 breaststroke with a time of 1:00.65. Junior bridget casey took 32nd place in 200 fly (1:57.93) and 45th in the 400 im (4:17.26). 
“i’m really proud of this team this season,” reaney said. “We are working our way up in the swimming world and we couldn’t do it without the huge amount of love we have for one anoth­er. We are so close and the ups and downs of this sea­son have taught us a lot that i think we can use in our fa­vor next year.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

M Hockey 
continued From Page 16 
have a lot of meaning. you have to take advantage of it when you can,” Jackson said, “conference championships used to be everything. that’s what we should all be striving for.” 
still, the irish received a bit of a lift sunday morning when the team watched live the an­nouncement of brackets for the ncaa tournament and learned they would get anoth­er shot at a st. cloud state team that knocked notre dame out of the tournament a year ago. cheers erupted in the team au­ditorium in compton Family ice arena as the team watched the selection show and saw the pairing of the irish and the huskies. 
“We’re really excited to get another shot at st. cloud,” senior defenseman stephen Johns said. “i think we sort of let it slip through our hands at 9 p.m. saturday at the Xcel last year, and it’s pretty exciting energy center in st. Paul, minn. to get another crack at those guys.” Contact Connor Kelly at 


the irish take on the huskies ckelly17@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | Will shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christoPher brucker 
SUDOKU | the mePham grouP 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForte HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 

Happy Birthday: redefine what you want to accomplish and chip away at your goals, one step at a time. your determination and tenacity will help you reach your destination without interference. emotional matters can be expected to surface, but can also be resolved so that you can continue in a direction that encourages greater success. seal deals by getting what you want in writing. your numbers are 2, 17, 21, 28, 33, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): concentrate on your budget, investments and moving money around to better suit your lifestyle and current needs. investing in your future, as well as your skills, knowledge and expertise, will pay off. romance will help you make a choice. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): helping others will benefit you as well. the ideas and solutions you provide will put you in a good position regarding advancement. stick close to home and keep your communications factual to avoid an argument. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t get upset. Finish what you start. you’ll be judged by your work and your contributions. Following through will be half the battle, and the other half will be living up to the promises you’ve made. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): stick to instructions and finish whatever is expected of you. once your responsibilities are out of the way, you will be free to create and develop something that interests you. Protecting your position, reputation and income should take top priority. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): live and learn. the changes going on around you at home and at work mustn’t unnerve you. go with the flow and you will end up in a better position. someone special will give you hope and encouragement. Put love first.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): socialize, but don’t overspend or make offers you may not be able to deliver. a change in your financial standing will bring added benefits that will encourage a better lifestyle as long as you don’t live beyond your means. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Present and promote your talents, skills and intellect. a romantic relationship will undergo a transformation that can lead to interesting personal or professional prospects. Focus on getting ahead in all aspects of your life. love is in the stars. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): address work issues and focus on stabilizing your position, but don’t make personal decisions that can cause uncertainty. expand your professional interests to include knowledge or a skill you would like to put to better use. a relationship will undergo a change. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): slow down and listen to what’s being said. someone may try to trick you into believing something that isn’t true. an emotional matter will surface that can end up being costly if you haven’t protected your assets. stick to the truth. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look at every opportunity and be ready to take advantage. don’t let someone’s negativity stop you from doing something you’ve wanted to do for some time. keep your life simple and focus on the fastest way to reach your goals. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let the little things bother you. Put greater emphasis on building your assets up and whittling your liabilities down. Question your lifestyle and you will find a way to cut corners, lowering your overhead. get rid of costly connections. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an unusual investment will be your ticket to greater financial freedom. your unusual work ethic and unique talents will help you stay ahead of any competition you face. avoid anyone trying to convince you to get involved in secretive dealings. 

Birthday Baby: you are imaginative, entertaining and secretive. you are unique and changeable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyt and JeFF knurek 




make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
P.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the observer | MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 93, robert morris 42 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish beat Robert Morris, 
reaney shines at 

advance to second round 
championships 

By MARY GREEN 
sports Writer 
if notre dame had any first-round jitters, it masked them well as the irish cruised to a 93-42 victory over robert morris to begin the ncaa tournament saturday at savage arena in toledo, ohio. 
the no. 1 seed irish (33-0) jumped out an early lead over the no. 16 seed colonials (21-12), opening the first 11 min­utes of the game on a 28-6 run. 
the rest of the match-

up  followed  that  trend,  as  
the  acc  champions  never  
let  up,  and  robert  morris  

never picked up enough momentum to make a run that threatened notre dame’s lead and perfect season. 
allen dished out seven assists as notre dame moved on to the second round of the ncaa tournament. 
“in the tournament, you can’t take anyone lightly,” 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 
Junior emma reaney 
dominated the pool at the 
ncaa championships. 
reaney won the national championship in the 200­yard breaststroke at the ncaa championships on saturday night. reaney, who set an american re­cord time in the event one month ago at the acc championships, broke her own ncaa, u.s. open, and american records with a winning time of 2:04.06. she is the first swimmer from notre dame to win an individual title. 

“i personally could not imagine a better way [than senior forward ariel braker of the season. so we’re not going 
winning a national title] said. “upsets happen all the to overlook anyone.”irish coach 
to represent the university time. and i think [we had] that muffet mcgraw used her entire 
that i love so much,” mindset coming in, that you lineup in the victory, and bench 
reaney said. “no one ever still have to play hard to get to 
thought that a school not where you want to be at the end see W basketball PAGE 14 
known for swimming like notre dame could be on top of that podium and it feels great to prove them wrong. i’m so proud to be irish.” 


With her record time, reaney had a second and a half margin over runner-up finishers katie olsen of stanford and breeja larson of texas a&m, who tied for second with a time of 2: 05.88. 
reaney dominated the race from the beginning and had the fastest split for each lap. she swam the first 100 yards in 59.35 and the final 100 in 1:04.71. but reaney said the race was far from effortless. 
“[the most challenging part was] staying in my own lane,” reaney said. “i’m usually not someone to get in my own head dur­ing meets, but this one 
see W sWimming PAGE 14 

MEN’S HOCKEY | massachusetts-loWell 4, nd 0 
irish make ncaa tournament despite loss 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports Writer 
as senior irish goalten­der steven summerhays has shown with his play over the last month, a hot goaltender can make all the difference in a game, and the no. 10 irish ran into a scorching hot one Friday night as sophomore goaltender connor hellebuyck stopped all 35 irish shots to lead no. 7 massachusetts-lowell to a 4-0 victory over notre dame in a hockey east semifinal match-up at td garden in boston. 
the loss knocked the irish out of the hockey east tourna­ment, but the team found out sunday morning its season will continue in the ncaa tourna­ment with a first-round match-up against no. 8 st. cloud state. 
With both the irish and the river hawks coming off of three-game quarterfinal se­ries, lowell struck first to take a 1-0 lead 10:13 into the first pe­riod. sophomore defenseman christian Folin sent a puck to the front of the irish net that looked to be heading wide until it deflected off the skate of irish senior defenseman kevin lind, who was clearing a lowell for­ward from the front of the net, and sailed past summerhays. 
the goal was followed shortly after by a rocket of a wrist shot by river hawks senior for­ward derek arnold that beat summerhays to the glove side for a 2-0 lead. 
“We thought it was going to be a low-scoring game, so to see them come out and score two quick goals like that is pretty frustrating,” senior cen­ter t.J. tynan said. “you have to give a lot of credit to them. even though we played pretty sluggish for the first half of the game, they played tight defense.” 
the river hawks added two insurance goals in the second period with freshman forward evan campbell converting a re­bound on the power play at 3:35 and junior defenseman Zack kamrass once again banking a shot off the skate of an irish de­fenseman to beat summerhays. 
despite outshooting lowell 35-22, the irish were un­able to crack hellebuyck, a first-team hockey east selec­tion who earned his second straight hockey tournament mvP award after lowell de­feated new hampshire 4-0 in the championship game saturday to repeat as hockey east champions. 
“a couple of the goals went off of us, and that happened earlier in the year, but it hasn’t happened in the last few weeks, but when they get traffic to the net, that’s what happens,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We didn’t have the same kind of traffic at the net.” 


ND Women’s Basketball vs. Robert Morris  W 93-42  Men’s Golf at Lone Star Invitational  All Day  Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago  Tues.  
Men’s Hockey vs. Massachusetts-Lowell  L 4-0  ND Womens’s Basketball vs. Arizona State  6:30 PM  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Ohio State  Tues.  
ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Villanova  W 17-8  Softball vs. Northwestern  Tues.  
ND Women’s Tennis at North Carolina  L 6-1  Baseball vs. UIC  Tues.  
Men’s Tennis at Clemson  W 5-2  ND Women’s Tennis vs. Marquette  Wed.  
Baseball vs. Virginia Tech  W 2-1  Track at Texas Relays  Wed.-Sat.  


though the irish will con-championship would stick tinue their season in the ncaa with his team. tournament with a shot at a “i’m a big believer that national title, Jackson said conference championships that the disappointment of not earning a conference see m hockey PAGE 14 





