The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 45 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ELECTION 2014 
Candidates square off in midterm election 
Democrat Joe Bock, a Notre Dame faculty member, challenges incumbent Republican Jackie Walorski 
certainly impact the region in past week. i think they need to be taken leveraged to develop the region 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief which current and future stu-walorski, a south bend native, out, and that’s why i’m running economically. 
dents live. was elected to the u.s. house against Jackie walorski.” “There’s been a lot of focus 
many notre dame students The observer spoke to Joe of representatives in 2012 and on high technology here in st. aren’t registered voters in bock on Friday about his stance currently serves on the house Education in the district Joseph county, but there’s a lot indiana, so their ballots won’t on issues that are of special in-armed services committee, bock said the local colleges of manufacturing here as well,” affect the outcome of the u.s. 
veterans’ affairs committee 
he said. “we need to make sure 
congressional elections in the 
state’s second district. however, 
since notre dame and saint 
mary’s are located in the second 
district — along with holy cross 
college, bethel college, indiana 
university-south bend and ivy and budget committee, accord­

ing to her campaign website. 
bock said his disappointment 
with the current “dysfunctional 
government” is one of the main 
reasons he’s running. 
“i just can’t believe how dys-[these companies] are posi­

tioned to expand. 
“certainly, on the high-tech­
nology side, the universities 
have a huge role to play in terms 
of faculty members patenting 
their discoveries and then turn­
ing those into companies. That’s 
Tech community college — 
functional our government is,” 
the race between incumbent terest to students. walorski’s he said. “and frankly, there are and universities are key parts of the whole idea of course, with republican Jackie walorski campaign did not respond to re-certain groups of republicans the northern indiana economy, and democrat Joe bock will quests for an interview over the who are so uncooperative that and he would like to see them see elecTion PAGE 5 


expert examines global journalism in the age of isis 

By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
lawrence sheets, the for­mer moscow bureau chief for national public radio and current field analyst for the international crisis group, dis­cussed the positive and nega­tive consequences of changes made to the field of international journalism in the digital age in a lecture titled “public humanities in the age of isis” in the hesburgh center for international studies auditorium. 
sheets said the lack of reliable information about isis and other international events is indicative of a larger problem: america’s perceived view of international news and the quality of current 
see isis PAGE 4 



Lecture identifies young women as agents of justice 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 

associate professor of educational policy studies and african-american studies at the university of illinois at chicago dr. david stovall addressed students, faculty and south bend community members in a lecture titled “re-envisioning Justice: ella baker, Fannie lou hamer and the current struggle for human dignity” on Friday af­ternoon in stapleton lounge. 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the saint mary’s office of civic and social engagement, the notre dame college of arts and letters institute for scholarship in the liberal arts, multicultural student programs and services, africana studies, center for social concerns, gender studies, department of history, the Kroc institute and the rooney center for american democracy as a part of the women in civil rights lecture series. 
stovall said ella baker and Fannie lou hamer’s work during 
see JusTice PAGE 5 


Engineers raise money to improve infrastructure 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 

engineering2empower, a group of faculty and students from notre dame committed to a world in which all people have adequate housing, recently raised $16,000 in a day and a half for projects in haiti and has its sights set on raising more, grad­uate student dustin mix said. 
The group, which formed af­ter the 2010 earthquake in haiti, wants to construct five houses with funds raised from its cur­rent indiegogo campaign, mix said. 
“our mission is to facilitate access to housing by seeding a process that empowers lo­cal entrepreneurs to deliver engineered urban housing in the free market,” mix said. “we are planning on building five homes, ranging from 250 to 750 square feet, which will go to a range of aspiring homeowners, based on their family and finan­cial profiles. 
“we originally had plans to raise $16,000 to cover two of these homes. however, because of the unbelievable response we had in the first two days, we’ve upped the goal to $50,000 in hopes of covering all five houses that are planned.” 
mix said the homes will be accompanied by a pilot financ­ing program, which consists of three parts. 
“it breaks down into a sav­ings commitment by the homeowner, a subsidy from engineering2empower and a home loan granted by a lo­cal haitian bank,” mix said. “The funds from the fundraiser 
see engineers PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 inTerhall PAGE 12 FooTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you had the choice, which language would you like to learn? 


Daniel Kwasnieski 
senior stanford hall 
“italian.” 
Hana Jenks 
freshman pasquerilla east hall 
“asl or pig latin.” 
Jack Klamer 
sophomore 
carroll hall 

“The oompa-loompa language, so i can run a chocolate factory.” 
Jose Fernandez 
junior alumni hall 
“german.” 
Savannah Wunderlich 
junior 
lewis hall 
“sign language.” 
Tyler Dale 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“elvish, so i can sail to the undying lands.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil Kit loughlin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Kayla mullen renee griffin emilie Kefalas christine mayuga 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Wounded Military Women’s Basketball “Fatal Assistance” Swimming and Diving Vigil Mass 
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 
Heroes Event Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Rolfs Aquatic Center Basilica of the Sacred Morris Inn Ballroom 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart 
5:30 - 8:30 p.m. Exhibition game vs. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. The Irish face 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
Corrections 

Fundraiser for Ferris State. Film about post-Pittisburgh and Includes music by the 
in the nov. 3 issue of The observer, wounded veterans earthquake Haiti. Virginia Tech. Women’s Liturgical the article “ceo talks workplace 
Choir. 
culture” incorrectly stated paul 

Info Session for CST Grotto Trip ISI Fellowship Men’s Basketball “Six Characters in 
purcell’s company and first year at the 
minor Bond Hall Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion Search of an Author” 
organization. he started in 1994 at 
Geddes Hall 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 
baird Financial group. The observer 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Open to all. 10 p.m. -11:30 p.m. Exhibition game vs. Arts Center 
regrets this error. 

Catholic Social Open to all Christian Lewis. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Teaching minor. faith denominations. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | The observer 

Baraka Bouts raise money for Holy Cross missions 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
more than 80 notre dame women will face off under the lights in the Joyce athletic and convocation center (Jacc) for the 12th annual baraka bouts tonight. 
baraka bouts takes its name from the swahili word for “bless­ing” because funds raised through the tournament sup­port the holy cross missions in uganda. according to women’s boxing team captain, senior colby hoyer, last year’s tourna­ment raised around $25,000. 
in addition to selling tickets, hoyer said the team also fun­draises through the “power 24 hour,” ad sales for the tour­nament’s program and team merchandise. 
“The ‘power 24 hour’ is our main fundraiser, which is when we work out in front of south dining hall,” hoyer said. “we do that, and this year we had a really rainy day — rainy and cold — so we didn’t get as many donations as we had in years past, but it was still really fun and all the girls came out.” 
Team captain, junior nikki murgas said boxers must attend at least four of the eight practices each week since september to qualify to compete. she said the first week of training is dedicated solely to first-year boxers. 
“we have a week that’s just for novices and we do beginning workouts, and we start by teach­ing them basic punches and com­bos,” murgas said. “… everyone in the club is an amateur boxer, so we start at the beginning.” 
second-year boxer sopho­more mercedes de la rosa, whose nickname for the bouts will be mercedes “merciless” de la rosa, said the practices focused on strength and skill equally. 
“as far as actual practice, it’s split half and half,” de la rosa said. “one of the halves you do will be workout and one will be technique. what we do for work­out varies, but you can always 


“Honestly, my favorite part is putting on wraps and putting in the mouth guard. ... When you put them on, you just feel like such a pro. You feel like a cool kid.” 
Mercedes de la Rosa 
sophomore 

count on about 100 burpees, lots of core, lots of legs.” 
de la rosa said although she “has literally put blood, sweat and tears” into the workouts, person­al growth trumps competition in terms of physical ability. 
“if you can’t do a plank for 50 seconds at the beginning of the year, they won’t kick you out,” de la rosa said. “if you can’t do a plank for 50 seconds at the end of the year, they won’t kick you out. it’s all about personal growth and where you’re at, and doing the best that you can personally do.” 
hoyer said her responsibilities as captain include coaching girls during spars and helping them to hone in on what they need to im­prove in terms of their technique, but everything changes during the bouts. 
“it’s incredible to me to see just a completely different per­son on fight night than i’ve been cornering on spars the whole season,” hoyer said. “your friends are there, and you’re under the lights, and there’s the pressure. … i’m excited to see how the girls respond to that and the improvements they’ve made.” 

murgas said she is excited to see the novice boxers demon­strate what they have learned thus far. 
“i know a lot of them are ner­vous, but i think they know a lot more than they think they do,” murgas said. “… i am just so excited to see them have that moment and be able to realize that they have come so far since our first practice. i can’t wait to see everyone’s efforts come to fruition.” 
de la rosa, who endured the training but did not box in the tournament last year, said she enjoys boxing because of how it makes her feel. 
“honestly, my favorite part is putting on wraps and putting in the mouth guard,” de la rosa said. “when you put them on you just feel like such a pro. you feel like a cool kid.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
lecture examines origins of “blessed are the poor” 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 
notre dame law professor John Finnis posed the question, “who said, ‘blessed are the poor’?” in a lecture Friday at the notre dame center for ethics and culture’s 15th annual Fall conference en­titled “your light will rise in the darkness: responding to the cry of the poor.” 
Finnis said the answer to the lecture’s titular question can be found by exploring the differences between the gospels of luke and matthew. 
“The firm answer [to the ques­tion, who said, “blessed are the poor?”] is given by the gospel [of] luke,” Finnis said. 
Finnis said Jesus clearly that ad­dresses not only the poor, but also his disciples, when he compares the destitute and hungry to the rich. 
“what [Jesus] promised the poor was not social justice,” Finnis said. “what he was — and is — holding out is the short hope of a place of Kingdom of god — not now, but as a great reward in heaven.” 
Finnis said “blessed are the poor” with “blessed are the poor in spirit” are found in distinct ac­counts of the gospels. 
“The gospel according to matthew describes similar bless­ings in the beatitudes,” he said. “notice in his account that the poverty in the third and fourth beatitudes are spiritual. do not care for riches. lay up your trea­sures in heaven. you cannot serve two masters in god and wealth.” 
luke cautions readers of his gospel about the vices wealth may spawn. 
“in the context of warning, [luke] cautioned against avarice,” Finnis said.  “... The poor in luke’s straightforward sense is what the poor in spirit are to experience, that is the good news of the gospel 
— there is a treasure in heaven. 
“so, did Jesus say, blessed are the ‘poor’ or ‘poor in spirit?’ The two evangelists are reporting the same sermon.  both contain —in the same order — love your enemies, judge not others, but it seems clear one account is not de­rived from the other and they’re not from the same source.  Two different reports on one sermon.” 
Finnis cited theologian John chapman and said, “There is no reason to doubt that Jesus on in­augural sermon said both.” 
“while luke’s beatitudes may represent the fiery, original words, matthew spiritualized them, making them applicable to the spiritual needs of others,” Finnis said. “gospels are not eyewitness testimonies all the time, but each evangelist has arranged the ac­counts to address the spiritual needs of the community they are a part of. 
“one can forge a good argu­ment from discontinuity for the core beatitudes — in spirit can represent the beatitudes in the communities. as for the other beatitudes, they are parallel to the form and function of the work of Jesus. 
“Those beatitudes may be re­ferred to be authentic.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 

Professor examines Muslim-Christian interfaith dialogue 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 

professor of literature at al-Quds bard college in west bank stephanie saldaña lectured Thursday about people who have dedicated their lives to establishing a dialogue between islam and christianity. 
in the lecture, titled “so That we might Know They were real: reflections on muslim-christian dialogue in pre-civil war syria,” saldaña discussed the recent political upheaval in syria and emergence of terrorist groups such as isis, which have highlighted the divide between the muslim and christian worlds. 
despite these trials, many people have served as “lights” against violence as discord, she said. 
“even though we live in ter­rible times, there were these extraordinary lights in the midst of darkness,” she said. 
while traveling in syria in 2004 on a Fulbright grant, saldaña said she met two such “lights.” she said both paolo dall’oglio, a Jesuit priest, and huda al-habash, a female sheikh, taught her the importance of interfaith dialogue and the ability of ordinary people “to do some­thing extraordinary.” 
at the site of an abandoned monastery in syria, dall’oglio established a christian re­ligious community devoted to encouraging understand­ing between islam and christianity, saldaña said. 
“The members of the com­munity took a special vow to ‘live their lives in dialogue with islam,’” saldaña said. 
al-habash similarly urged communication between the two faiths, but saldaña said al-habash offered the muslim perspective of the is­sue. saldaña said al-habash founded the oldest Quranic school for girls in syria and shares a belief with her brother, who is also a sheikh, that “muslims [do] not have a monopoly on salvation.” 
“when i met her, her goal with me was not to convert me, but to make me the best christian that i could be,” saldaña said. “i learned a great deal about islam from her, but looking back, i think i learned more about uncon­ditional love, which is really what deep interreligious dia­logue teaches.” 
The civil war that erupted in syria in 2011 proved to be disastrous for both dall’oglio and al-habash, saldaña said. 
“when the war started, it became clear pretty quickly 
that  peacemakers  are  the  
first to go,” she said.  
both  dall’oglio  and  al­ 
habash  had  to  leave  the  

country, and dall’oglio was taken captive by isis in 2013, saldaña said. 
“[dall’oglio] was never very good at keeping quiet, so he became increasingly critical of the government,” she said. “The 29th of July, he crossed over into syria to meet with al-baghdadi — who we now know is the head of isis — in order to negoti­ate the release of kidnapped prisoners, and we didn’t see him again.” 
saldaña said al-habash, dall’oglio and others who attempted to create under­standing between islam and christianity drew inspira­tion from the story of a com­munity of Trappist monks in algeria who refused to flee even in the midst of civil war and growing hostility against christians in the country. 
dall’oglio, as well as Jesuit priest Fr. Frans van der lugt, followed the example of the Trappist monks by risking their lives to remain in syria, an act for which dall’oglio was exiled and van der lugt was killed, saldaña said. 
saldaña said the bravery of dall’oglio, al-habash and van der lugt taught her the power of an individual to overcome religious boundar­ies and effect change. 
“They also taught me one thing that i will never forget, which is that who we are be­fore conflict prepares us for who we will be in conflict,” she said. “all of us have the ability to make incredible choices … to change lives and to save them.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

 Cardinal speaks on role of theology in ending poverty 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
cardinal gerhard müller, prefect of the congregation for the doctrine of the Faith, came to mcKenna hall Friday to discuss the roles of catholic teaching and lib­eration theology in alleviat­ing poverty. The interview, titled “poor for the poor: The mission of the church,” was part of the weekend-long conference called “your light will rise in darkness: responding to cries of the poor.” 
“i am not an economist or a politician,” müller said. “i am a theologian, and these theories and depositions come not from an expertise in economics and politics but from expertise in humanity. 
“The church’s mission is not to be a social lever or eco­nomic link. The mission of the church is to preach the gospel of Jesus christ, and part of that preaching is to call attention to and solve the denigration of the dignity of man.” 

drawing on his recent book “arm for the poor,” müller said his experience with poverty in the andes was a sobering one and demon­strated the dehumanizing realities of poverty. 
“it is ... difficult to imag­ine a german university professor living on the floor of a clay hut ... being able to share the very real experi­ence of poverty as it is lived every day by countless men,” he said. “poverty leads to ex­tremely difficult situations and emergencies and causes conflict within families, groups and entire societies.” 
müller said first-world so­ciety is still plagued by some form of dehumanization, brought on by increasing dis­tance from the church. 
“mechanical developments and the process of industri­alization began to influence ideas about man such that he could be considered nothing more than a mere machine,” he said. “a machine only that would unconditionally serve to further productivity, guar­antee deregulated efficiency and produce ever-high prof­its. in such, the role of man was relegated to an inferior position, and his role of ma­chine exalted.” 
müller said the catholic church could act as a power­ful answer to poverty, playing an important role in protect­ing human dignity through the solidarity and teachings of the church. 
“The mission of the church is to free mankind from the poverty of our poor condi­tion and remind us that we are made in the image and likeness of god,” he said. “in a very important encycli­cal from pope leo Xiii, ‘The church has consistently ad­dressed the changing social situation of the world and its impact on man.’ 
“so we must all recognize in ourselves our own pov­erty, our need for salvation, our dependence on god, and we must see in this the fun­damental truth of our human nature.” 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 
ISIS 
conTinued From page 1 
reporting. 
“There’s really a dearth of re­porting about isis,” sheets said. “i have yet to read any cogent, in-depth explanation as to the origins of this group that seems to appear out of nowhere. with all the foreign correspondents in the world, this is shocking to me. 
“This speaks to a retrenchment in terms of coverage of interna­tional events. There are financial 

“I don’t think the American reader is uninterested in foreign affairs. I think it is just a misconception caused by the 24/7 media cycle.” 
Lawrence Sheets 
field analyst 
International Crisis Group 
motives certainly at work. but there are also, i believe, issues re­lated to america’s view that for­eign news isn’t that important.” 
sheets said reporters are being pressured into less complete cov­erage in order to satisfy the de­mands of today’s news industry. 
“Just yesterday, a checkpoint that i pass through frequently was hit and two soldiers were killed and one was injured, but for some reason, it’s as if the conflict doesn’t exist anymore because the dramatic value has lessened, and it’s no longer con­sidered worthy of front page news,” sheets said. “editors get bored, and they send people home.” 

sheets said news companies are much more enamored with their ratings and numbers of viewers and listeners than they are with their stories’ content and the informative weight news carries. 
“in addition to the retrench­ment in the number of foreign correspondents, we also see a ‘dumbing down’ of coverage,” he said. ”i worked for reuters for eight years and it was not unusu­al to write a story that was 75-80 lines. in 1998, harsh rules were instituted that news stories could not be over 65 lines.” 
“This is predicated on the pre­tense that people don’t care and that they aren’t going to read to the last line,” sheets said. “i think this is insulting not just to the american listener, or the american reader, but to the in­ternational reader as well. i don’t think the american reader is uninterested in foreign affairs. i think it’s just a misconception caused by the 24/7 media cycle.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | The observer 




Election 
conTinued From page 1 
innovation park and ignition park in downtown south bend. we’re going to get more accus­tomed to seeing faculty mem­bers working with investors and creating companies.” 
according to an august press release from walorski’s office, she toured the district to “hear from education officials, com­munity leaders and students about ways to improve opportu­nities that will prepare northern indiana students for a globally competitive workforce.” 
Bock and religion 
bock is a faculty member of notre dame’s eck institute for global health and an in­ternational humanitarian aid worker. according to his cam­paign website, he holds a phd from american university and served in the missouri legisla­ture for six years, and he said he has worked at notre dame for eight years. 
he is also a parishioner at st. Therese of the little Flower catholic church in south bend, and he said his faith is the source of his motivation in the election. 
“i got involved in interna­tional humanitarian work be­cause of my faith; i got involved in politics because of my faith,” bock said. 
bock cited catholic social Teaching on the dignity of the human person and the dignity of work and rights of workers as he described his stance on economic issues. 
Economic policy 
“i see a government that is going more and more in the di­rection of favoring large corpo­rations that have operated on the basis of maximizing profits without much of a moral com­pass at all, unless the board or the ceo has a moral com­pass,” bock said. “There are certainly companies out there who are that way. That’s one of the things that the notre dame business school tries to address 
— business is not just for profit. 
“and i think we need a gov­ernment that doesn’t just fa­vor large companies, that also supports small businesses. we need a government that sup­ports workers and provides an environment where people can thrive.” 
walorski’s website high­lights job creation as a key is­sue and cites her experience in the indiana state legislature as proof of her commitment to it. The website also address­es her views on the national debt and her conclusion that “washington is broken.” 
“with our national debt standing at nearly $17 trillion and counting, Jackie firmly believes we must put a stop to runaway spending to protect future generations and sustain a strong economy,” the website states. “Jackie supports a bal­anced budget amendment to the constitution, a model that worked in the state of indiana.” 
bock said he believes stu­dents should have options to refinance their loans much like people who buy homes have options to refinance their mortgage. he said he supports maintaining or expanding the Federal pell grant program as well. 

“The budget that paul ryan put forward, the head of the budget committee in the house, actually cuts pell grants,” bock said. “That’s something that congresswoman walorski sup­ports. she voted for that bud­get, and that’s one of the areas where we differ.” 
Sexual assault 

recently, colleges and uni­versities have entered political conversations as part of ongo­ing national concern with pre­vention and response to sexual assault. bock said he finds the prevalence of sexual assault “astonishing and shocking and despicable” and believes it is appropriate for the federal gov­ernment to address since it’s a problem nation-wide. 
“i believe notre dame and other universities and colleges are raising awareness among students,” he said. “certainly, from the standpoint of dealing with it in the criminal justice system, there needs to be ways in which women can speak up without feeling like they are making themselves a spectacle. and i think people are trying to address that in different ways, and i think we need to be open to addressing that issue as well.” 
bock said he thinks “it’s ap­propriate to move forward” with the white house cam­paign against sexual assault, since it’s an issue “that has been neglected for far too long.” 
in January 2014, a bill authored by walorski “to pro­vide protection for whistleblow­ers of military sexual assault” was signed into law by president obama, according to her web­site. according to a south bend Tribune report, the bill requires an inspector general investiga­tion into “any retaliatory per­sonnel actions taken against victims who reported rape, sexual assault or other sexual misconduct.” 
Immigration reform 
notre dame announced in fall 2013 that it had adjusted its admissions policies to make it possible for undocumented students to attend. bock said he understands the frustration of colleges and universities trying to make their policies without federal reform yet. 
“To me, if you have compre­hensive immigration reform, you don’t necessarily need to do a special [policy] … for stu­dents,” he said. “colleges and universities are doing that now … [because] they’re frustrated that there’s no reform yet. but i think as a government, what we need is to focus on having re­form and addressing the issue, not just putting out heads in the sand and ignoring it. 
“The fact that the speaker of the house (republican John boehner) was unable to bring forward an immigration bill is pathetic,” he said. “That’s one of the reasons i’m running.” 
according to an aug. 19 report in the south bend Tribune, local immigration advocates were disappointed with walorski’s lack of support for house resolution 15, the “border security, economic opportunity and immigration modernization act” when they met with her in august. walorski did not take a posi­tion on the broader issue of im­migration reform or the path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants during the meet­ing, the Tribune report stated. 

“she currently is not saying anything about [immigration reform], except that she’s listen­ing,” executive director of la casa de amistad sam centellas said in the article. “she’s being a politician; she doesn’t want to show her hand until she sees what happens.” 
bock said because illegal im­migration to the united states is a civil violation, not a criminal violation, he believes an appro­priate response would be a fine. 
“The idea would be, rather than putting all of our resources into border guards and every­thing else, we ought to assess a fine on people who come in ille­gally and we ought to adjust it to the point where it’s a deterrent to come in,” he said. “it needs to be fair to all concerned, in­cluding people who have been trying to come in legally … but at the same time, we need to re­spect the rule of law.” 
bock cited catholic social Teaching about respecting the dignity of the person as inform­ing his views on immigration reform. 
polls close in indiana at 6 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
the civil rights movement often goes unrecognized and is over­shadowed by the work of men. historical oversight of this kind is not unique to these two young activists, stovall said. civil rights analysis has overlooked the work of women and young people in the last 700 years. 
“in history, there are often moments where we do not rec­ognize the centrality of two par­ticular groups — women and young people,” stovall said. 
stovall said the notion that slavery is an oppression of the past must be challenged as civil rights are examined today. 
stovall said although hamer is mostly known for saying, “i’m sick and tired of being sick and tired,” her legacy eclipses that single quote. he said hamer re­ceived a sixth grade education because she had to work on a plantation, and she challenged the idea of justice. 
“hamer asked the difficult questions and was often met with the consequences,” stovall said. 
stovall said the term social justice is often misconstrued as a synonym for “helping.” picking up garbage is not an example of social justice, he said. 
“Justice has to be deter­mined by the people who are experiencing the injustice,” he said. “when we have those peo­ple identify the injustice, we have to ask a different set of questions, and those questions are mean and unrelenting.” 

stovall referred to the 13th amendment which declares, “neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punish­ment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the united states, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.” 
“what does this sound like? it sounds like prison to me,” he said 
stovall said he understands incarceration as an extension of slavery, as more people of african descent are in prison today than were in slavery in 1850. 
70 percent of all people incar­cerated are convicted for non-vi­olent drug offenses, stovall said. he said the 13th amendment was far from a cure-all, and other regulations must lead the na­tion’s populous towards equality. 
stovall said distractions, like a black president, may hinder the progress of civil rights. 
“There’s a difference between individual accomplishment and collective progress,” he said. 
stovall said young people’s commitment to the cause re­quires asking the difficult ques­tions of perpetuity like hamer. 
stovall said baker focused on the responsibility and ability young people have to act and re­act to contemporary and press­ing issues. 
“baker said we are the ones we have been waiting for,” stovall said. “she said getting people in the street for the march on washington is only part of the solution. what’s more impor­tant is what you do the next day. 
“in the arc of history we are always looking for the next per­son to stand in front. we want somebody to be the represen­tative, but work starts on the ground.” 
stovall said hamer and baker were prophetic. 
“They said the struggle is on­going, and the only way to en­gage it is to identify the injustice to work with others to improve the condition,” he said. “we talk about struggle not to depress us, but because the more we know, the less we can be manipulated. The project of justice is to end perpetual manipulation.” 
stovall said the social justice needs experts and young peo­ple constitute the experts of the “right now.” 
“i don’t see you all as the fu­ture,” stovall said. “you’re the ‘right now.’” 
“you are experts of right now. how are you using your expertise?” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Engineers 
conTinued From page 1 
specifically go toward covering the subsidies, as well as provid­ing some financial collateral to secure the loans.” 
mix said the first campaign, which originally had the goal of raising $16,000 within 30 days, was a learning experience. 
“There is a lot of work that goes into telling your story, finding ways to continually engage your audience and really showing why your cause is important to you,” mix said. “i think because of the passion we have for this work, we were able to tell that story, and within a day and a half, had al­ready raised $16,000. 
“i was really in awe and hum­bled by that because it really showed that people listened to our story and more importantly, saw the merit in how we are ap­proaching the problem.” 
mix said engineering2empower has raised $21,000 dollars of its in­tended $50,000 goal. he said the campaign, nearly halfway to its fiscal target, is scheduled to end in about a week. 

“we are down to the last week, so we are looking for a heavy push to get us to $50,000 and achieve something we never thought possible a month ago,” mix said. 
mix said the organization is just beginning its work to help provide adequate housing to the people of haiti. 
“There is so much that can be done in haiti to bring about dig­nified living conditions, but there are no easy or quick answers,” mix said. “The answers lie within the communities themselves. we have a great set of skills as engi­neers to help in that process and over the last four years, i think we’ve made a lot of progress, but we are only getting started.” 
“we need more investment in local systems of housing de­livery, local contractors, local banks and the local labor force to achieve our goal,” mix said. “This campaign is just one more step in that process.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



INSIDE COLUMN 

The laws of dead men 
women in d.c. 
Emilie Kefalas 
news writer 

of the many  roles my summer as a congressional intern included, one was tour guide. Four days a week, i walked with  pic-ture-snapping tourists through the corridors of our nation’s capitol. Though i never tired of my arena, i have recently developed a subcon­scious complacency to my own potential part amongst the pedestaled past. 
i became aware of this when i passed one of the rotunda’s two statues not counted among the presidents framing the interior and the american personification of leader­ship. The portrait monument to lucretia mott, elizabeth cady stanton and susan b. anthony stands as though it is the bow of a ship preparing to cross uncharted waters, looking proud and determined despite turbu­lence certain to be met. 
The buzz emitted is that our first female president would be the one to float alongside the likes of misses mott, stanton and anthony. when i mentioned this on tours, what fol­lowed was a game of, “who’s gonna say what we’re all thinking?” 
most of the adult tourists are sick of hillary clinton. some made comments like, “god help us,” or, “sure hope it’s not for a while.” when it’s wasn’t that, it was an awkward si­lence, then on to the next statue. 
i often ponder how the reaction might differ in another dimension where such a feasible concept brings more approval due to the welcomed reception of a woman not named hillary clinton. do the adults simply wince at the image of another clinton occupying the oval office? is the idea of a woman in that position uncomfortable because hillary has almost always called the  shots above many other qualified female voices ? if these other women were taken as seriously as she is, how would tourists’ comments vary? 
i ask because if we are finally going to enter the 21st century, we ought not to stop for this one woman claiming to be the most qualified female for the presidency because she has “been through the fire.” promoting herself in this same fashion as the savior of women in leadership is a turn-off, frankly. 
mrs. former whatever title you go by, if you truly considered this nation’s future, tell all women they have the potential to lead . set a positive example for them and this country. 
if women want women in long-shot, long­term leadership positions, let’s build each other up and encourage kids who don’t know the legacies of misses mott, stanton and anthony to reach beyond boundaries. 
let’s not simply build a statue. let’s erect an idea. identify potential women presidents. embolden each other’s strengths and abilities. 
a virgin slab is as mystifying as a blank piece of paper. The end never comes for an idea. ideas are ambidextrous, even for the unrealized lover of what is not. 
be an example. be exceptional. be presidential. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 

happy election day! i have the honor and privilege of writing on this much-hyped and important day in american politics. when i realized what day this col­umn would run, i struggled with what exactly i should say. 
do i have a unique enough opinion to sway you about which political candidate you may support? probably not. will my analysis of today’s political climate make some type of breakthrough in political theory? definitely not. so, with an obligation to dis­cuss politics on this day of days, i think what might be nice is a reminder that your vote does matter — just not always the way you think. 
First things first, statistically speaking, the vast ma­jority of students on campus aren’t voting in this elec­tion cycle. some may have voted early at home over fall break, a few others probably took the opportunity to send in an absentee ballot. a handful of lucky stu­dents are voting right here in south bend. 
despite being small in number, these votes — and the ones you will make throughout your life — matter. not necessarily because they will steer the course of the country in the way you want it to be, but because the people we put in office will write laws that live far longer than we do. 
about a month ago, i heard philip K. howard speak on campus as a guest of the constitutional studies department. The room was fairly crowded, partially due to a little extra credit for attendance in some classes (always a winner — that and chipotle). if you weren’t able to make it, and didn’t see the excellent observer story about it, howard is an accomplished author and speaker on the topic of government gridlock. 
The focus of his talk on that day was the way in which the american federal government is failing the american people. i didn’t agree in every respect with what he had to say (including his call for a vast over­haul of the american governing experience), but there was one thing in particular that caught my attention. 
as many of us learned in high school civics, the u.s. constitution makes it difficult to pass laws, with the hope that the ones that are passed are good ones. The opposite side of this, of course, is that it is nearly im­possible to remove or even amend laws once they have passed. howard takes this a step further, and con­cludes that we are a country run by the laws of dead men: people who had no connection to modern soci­ety or the strides technology has taken. 
his theory of dead men running government adds an interesting twist to today’s elections. if we are governed by the laws of people whom our ancestors elected, then the men and women we put in office to­day will create the government that rules our children and grandchildren, not just ourselves. it is difficult enough to implement the laws passed now — just look at the process the affordable care act and dodd-Frank have been through. 
between implementation and the immortality of passed laws, perhaps it would be more prudent of us to look at the decisions the people we send to washington will make in the context of their affect on the country in 50 years, not just five. 
of course, thinking this way is nearly impossible. who, in 1964, considered the privacy implications of personal information being on Facebook? consider this, however. politicians today argue over healthcare, immigration and foreign policy. whatever language is used in legislation to address those issues will be set in stone for decades to come. That language could very well prevent the best solution to a new healthcare crisis in 2045. 
what, then, should we consider when we step in that polling booth on election day? 
perhaps howard was onto something when he spoke about a broken system in america, or perhaps not. but the decisions you make in the polling booth over the course of your life have implications on arguments and problems we cannot possibly begin to foresee. 
if, and hopefully when, you decide to vote for the officials who will be making your laws, keep in mind that they will be a much bigger problem for the next generation than they are for you. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

response to ‘restroom literature’ 
To the imaginative writers of Knott hall: i read your observer article on saturday and was hon­estly heartbroken over your sorrows. 
how could we live in such a cruel word where honest men and women could not poop with the peace of mind that they would always be able to look up and see somewhat humorous, too-com­pletely-derogatory jokes and fake articles posted next to imaginative combinations of philosophical one-liners and the F-word. stall notes are a quint­essential part of the notre dame experience, right alongside trying to find an outlet in the hesburgh library, walking through puddles thanks to non­existent drainage on rainy days and, most recently, complaining about print quota. 
your sleuthing and investigatory skills are un­questionable and without equal as you have dis­covered oiT’s true nature and intentions. This strategy to “nickel and dime students and bury them beneath a mountain of red tape” can now be added to the list of oiT’s other conspiratorial ac­tions including the disappearance of the missing watergate Tapes, the forging of the moon landings, assistance in the Kennedy assassination and the closing of every freaking parking lot at notre dame (really, parking committee). 
i mean it’s not like the oiT printing budget had a deficit of almost $100,000 last year or anything, which it had to make up by cutting things out of other parts of its program. and it’s not like this is due to the fact that since 2005,- printing has al­most quadrupled on this campus, which outpaces many other of our peer institutions, or because the cost of a sheet of paper is predicted to go up an additional 12 percent just this year alone. Furthermore, oiT’s attack on our “daily dump” printing liberties could possibly be influenced by the fact that, even with all of these increases in ex­penses, its budget has not been increased in years. 
but you have failed to notice the most insidious aspect of their dastardly plot. The fact that they were able to force you to print out a stall notes for almost every single day of the week; as i presume the name “daily dump” infers. seeing how there are three floors in Knott and most likely around 10 spots on each floor that one puts stall notes, oiT was able to force you to print out almost 30 stall notes every day!!! This baffles the mind! “of course!” one would say, “anyone who printed out 30 pages a day would run out of print quota in no time!” 
but in all honesty, the fact that oiT has failed to execute their own policy for letting you buy more print quota is a problem; you’re 100 percent cor­rect. my issue is that ever since the print quota changed, people have been attacking oiT nonstop like they are some group of horrible people. it’s not oiT’s fault that the print quota went down. if you want to blame someone, blame the administration for not giving oiT a greater budget. 
articles like yours make good points, but if we really want to have any real change in the printing situation, we need to make the administration give oiT the resources it needs to provide us with the service we want. 
Christopher DeSapio
            junior nov. 3 

in the face of death, hope 
utter loss of hope. That is despair. hope is a vir­tue by which we expect and anticipate god and god’s dream for his children. even as we try to hope, the waters of ebola, of isis, of shootings, of endless wars, of the destruction of the environ­ment and of growing isolation bred by hyper-indi­vidualism threaten to drown out every last bit of expectation for anything better. 
From day to day, we see everything worth hop­ing for torn from our hands, shot and often ig­nored by the powers of the world. we ask ourselves how we should go about the business of hoping. 
and then there is joy. 

Joy comes from loving. goethe reminds us “happy alone is the soul who loves.” it is hope that gives us the courage to love, and it is love that grows joy. 
we have to trust in a vision of human life that refuses to believe death, displacement of millions of people because of violence and disease do not have the last word. if we are callous to suffering, then our hope is dead. There can be no joy. 
we can respond to the world’s suffering with a vision of love. imagination must be broken free from pessimism, and creativity must be unshack­led from a sense of disempowerment. 
The constitutions of the congregation of holy cross (the religious community that founded notre dame) state Jesus was “anointed to bring good news to the poor, release for prisoners, sight for the blind, restoration for every broken victim” and not “just as servants but as […] neighbors.” we can extend this mission of healing, reconciliation, justice and love, but we must trust it, hope in it. 
The center for social concerns (located in geddes hall) has dedicated this year to the themes of joy and hope. The center has arranged a series of speakers and film showings and a spring con­ference to explore how we can live in hope and joy in a world that often says we cannot. it also provides programming for students to concretely engage poverty, death, suffering and isolation here in the u.s. and all over the world. we will refuse to capitulate. even in the shadow of death, we will hope in and live out a vision of love. That will be our joy. 
Michael Thomas, csc 

seminarian                       The congregation of holy cross nov. 2 
UWIRE 

Getting fit one beat at a time 
Quan Siler 
niner Times 

have you experienced that moment of horror when you arrive at the gym and realized you for­got to bring your mp3 player or headphones? 
let’s face it: a workout without music is boring, bland and anything but motivating. 
This may explain why buildings where people gather to exercise and play sports are typically trembling with bass. but, did you know there is a scientific reason why fitness centers, aerobic classes and sports complexes blast loud, upbeat music from their speakers? 
humans will naturally follow a tempo. 
according to ph.d. carl Foster, ph.d. John pocari and mark anders, conductors of an exer­cise research study sponsored by the american council of exercise, it was first noted that human beings were responsive to beats and tempos in 300 
b.c. Foster explains “ you go all the way to back to rowers on the roman galleys[.] The guy is sitting there beating on his drum and he drives the basic rhythm of the rowing.” 
because of our basic instinct to synchronize, humans will move to the tempo, or beats per min­ute, of the sounds around them. 
The beat is not the only aspect of music that complements exercise. music has an “arousal” fac­tor, according to costas Karageorghis, ph.d. when you hear that amazing beat or feel that booming bass, it is hard to just sit still. you feel the urge to move or dance. 
music is a great distraction as well. dentists use this tactic every day. next time you have a seat in a dentist chair, notice the music playing in the background. it helps to keep your mind on the rhythm and beat of a song rather than the fact that there are metal instruments or drills in your mouth. The right music can distract you from the burning in your calves while running or the strain in your biceps while lifting weights. 
once you have learned the scientific and histori­cal facts concerning exercise and tempo, you can now mold your fitness routines around the music in which you listen. 
The rule of thumb is to build your workout playlist around songs that have bpm that are equal to the heart rate in which you would like to achieve. 
For example, the song eye of the Tiger, made popular by the movie rocky, contains 111 bpm. This is your target heart rate when this song plays during a jog or an aerobics class. 
bpm counts were found on www.songbpm.com. on that website, you can type in an artist or song and it will give you the duration of the song as well as the bpm. 
Karageorghis made an interesting compari­son when he said “music is like the legal drug for athletes.” rather you are an athlete, avid runner, lover of aerobics classes or just a gym rat, the music you choose to listen to as you exercise will influence the intensity of workout, amount of calories you burn and ultimately, the results you will achieve. 
The Niner Times is the official student newspaper of University of North Carolina, Charlotte. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

i’ve read a number of celebrity autobiographies in the last six months. 
i devoured lena dunham’s “not That Kind of girl,” suffered through Jenny mollen’s “i like you just the way i am,” found myself astounded at ann patchett’s “The getaway car” and finally got around to starting Tina Fey’s “bossypants.” every one of these books left me feeling somewhat the same — a little bit impressed by the women who wrote them, a little bit lost as to what to do with the lessons they supplied me and a little bit more hopeful for finding my way after college. amy poehler’s “yes, please!” was no exception. 
one of the best things about poehler’s book, setting her aside from the others mentioned above, is that she is as much commenting on the process of writing as she is writing how she came to be at the point she is today. she starts her book with an entire chapter dedicated to how hard it is to write a book — that’s it. a prologue dedicated to telling you how miserable the entire writ­ing process was for her. 
of course, she does it as only amy poehler can — in a self-deprecating, realistic and most importantly humor­ous way. it is, in some ways, the most honest reflection on writing i’ve ever read. she describes her sleep depri­vation and how easily she gets distracted from the task, 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

i saw annie clark, the musician st. vincent, live at the pitchfork music Festival in chicago this July, and again last Friday night at the festival’s paris incarna­tion. after these two entrancing sets, i am confident making this statement: st. vincent is hands down the best live act in the world right now. 
clark has always been an immensely talented gui­tarist and performer, but with the release of her self-titled fourth record this year, she has assumed a new level of confidence in her artistry. 
“i self-titled my new record because i was reading miles davis’ autobiography and he talks about how the hardest thing for a musician to do is to sound like yourself,” she said. not only does clark sound unique­ly like herself, but her music, image and live show all perfectly complement her singular artistic vision. 
Talking heads’ frontman david byrne, with whom clark collaborated on 2012’s “love This giant,” seems to have had an influence on her captivating stage presence. st. vincent’s live show recalls the joyous en­ergy and highly choreographed theatricality of “stop making sense,” the seminal 1984 Talking heads con­cert film that remains a high-water mark for the rock and something in the very way she writes it makes you quite sure she is telling you the truth. 
There’s something special about reading autobiog­raphies. They’re the same stories, i suppose, that one would find on the website about how poehler got her start — certainly, many of the events she talks about we have public record of, as they were part of her acting career. but when she tells the stories, there’s an ability to see them with double vision. certainly, the reader remembers the iconic sarah palin rap, but for poehler that story is intertwined with the birth of her first son the next week. it’s a new perspective and it’s enjoyable to read. 
perhaps some of the best moments in the book are where we get inserts from poehler’s colleagues, seth myers and michael schur. myers writes an entire chap­ter for poehler (commenting again on how hard it is to write a book) and schur provides footnotes to the chapter poehler dedicates to the creation and filming of “parks and recreation.” as fun as it is to read myers’ perspective on his relationship with poehler, there’s something amazing about the idea of schurr’s footnotes. it’s more conversational — showing rather than telling the depth of their relationship. 
poehler tells her story in a way that is only vaguely chronological. her childhood and college years are sort of at the beginning, and “parks and recreation” is only focused on at the very end. her stint on “saturday night live” is focused on during the middle of the book, but 
concert as a medium. 

“if st. vincent doesn’t come out dressed as a styl­ish futuristic witch,” i tweeted before her halloween night set, “i’m going to be very disappointed.” suffice to say, clark, who sported a brightly-sequined dress, slicked-back lavender-grey hair and neon eyeshadow, exceeded my expectations. her image has reached david bowie levels of bizarre, like a futuristic cult leader who went back in time to deliver art-rock to the masses. 
as the 8-bit bass line of opener “rattlesnake” echoed through the grande halle de la villette on Friday night, the calmly collected clark took the stage. before long, she was shredding a fuzzed-out guitar solo as the crowd reached a state of frenzied disbelief. “am i the only one in the only world?” clark asks on the track, as if an affirmation of her place as an auteur operating at the highest level. 
clark’s onstage movements are theatrical, angular and almost artificial, keeping with her recent record’s commentary about the digital age. she and guitarist/ keyboardist Toko yasuda shuffled back and forth ro­botically during the guitar solo of “birth in reverse.” during “cheerleader,” clark performed atop a pas­tel pink pyramid, defiantly singing, “i don’t want to be your cheerleader!” after stumbling through the makes its way into most of the story line. 
Thinking back on the book, this makes it a bit hard to distinguish what happened when. her chapters cut around each other, picking up from where others left off and adding new stories and anecdotes to previous ideas. it’s fun to read because it seems more conversational. each chapter contains multiple stories, which she tells by digressing from the primary one. at times it can get confusing (are we talking about the time she played dorothy in the “wizard of oz” as a child or the plays she participated in during college?) but in the end, she al­ways seems to pull the stories back to a cohesive point. 
There are a lot of lessons in amy poehler’s book. each section and chapter title states this clearly, but the way she tells them aren’t necessarily explicit. each one is stated and not interpreted — and sometimes, the stories she tells aren’t necessarily easily relatable to however she’s chosen to label them. 
poehler’s book is fun. she is, as always, funny and personable. she makes poignant remarks and follows them up with jokes. From the very beginning she makes it clear that she views herself at the middle of her life and therefore, can’t give out major life lessons or simply make witty comments about her success thus far. so she does both and the result is both funny and enlightening. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
audience during the climax of an almost 12-minute­long rendition of “your lips are red,” she collapsed on stage in dramatic fashion. at all times, clark is cap­tivating — demanding the audience’s rapt attention. 
her stage banter is equally entertaining. early on, she delivered a rambling monologue touching on top­ics like digging one’s hand into one’s thigh during awkward conversations, suitcase design — which she called the “epitome of theoretical” — and trying to fly as a child using pizza boxes as wings. 
not to mention, clark, who studied at the berklee college of music, is an amazing guitarist. her guitar work experiments with different textures, from the clean new wave sound of “cruel” to the scuzzy break­down of “huey newton.” after a day watching moody synth pop groups, it was refreshing to watch an artist so skilled at guitar showcase that talent in such a bold display. 
st. vincent will play with Future islands in chicago on dec. 2, and if you can somehow spare a few hours on a late-semester Tuesday night, you should find a way to go. clark has always gone by the name st. vincent; her fantastic live shows this year prove she is more than worthy of her canonization. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

The songs on “once more with Feeling…” seem to start in the middle of their runtime. Jarring from their onset with fully-formed ideas despite just beginning, it’s as if the band works its way up to completely developed themes and then, and only then, hits record. The tracks on “once more” begin with already-established struc­tures that maintain force and relentlessly drive through each song’s entirety. ought, a post-punk quartet from montreal, doesn’t have time to waste on niceties or in­troductions — their time is now, and they need every second of it. 
painfully cognizant of this, lead singer and guitar­ist Tim beeler mumbles, “how long you been waiting, how long you been waiting?” on the accurately named closing track “waiting.” he delivers the repeated line so blasély, like he can’t be bothered to open and close his mouth, that the phrase nearly melds into a single, mean­ingless word. beeler’s vocals, reminiscent of an angstier david byrne answering uninteresting, interrogatory questions from his parents, provide much of the urgency in ought’s sound — perhaps counter-intuitively. 
Tellingly, the band lists its music under the genre “post-haste,” which can be dissected in two conflict­ing but both applicable forms: acting with great speed: “posthaste,” or transcending beyond the concept of speed: “post-haste.” ought manage to consistently in­habit both definitions, taking longwinded explorations into unnerving minor tones that simmer under and crash over direct, punchy dialog. 
nevertheless, constants remain; beeler wears his emotions on his sleeve or, more precisely, his tongue. when he doesn’t care, he becomes dismissive and nearly incomprehensible. but when he talk-sings concerning something he feels strongly about — take his shaky, 
unhinged improvs in the closing of “new calm pt. 2”  outro and beeler freak-out in between their more up­ 
— he can incite a riot with his conviction. beeler often  front, posthaste bookends.  
demonstrates this range completely within individual  including vocal cues and deliberate talky sections that  
songs, his performances mirroring the group’s holistic  explicitly address the listener, the ep sparks a personal  
ability to transform a track over its playtime.  and intimate tone. ought’s writing style is poignant and  
lead track “pill,” probably strategically chosen as such  incorporates meta touches, sometimes referring to the  
due to its immediate strength, builds upon where the  songs themselves. This can be heard most immediately  
band left off in april with its debut album “more Than  during the opening to “new calm pt. 2,” when beeler,  
any other day.” The new song recalls the intros of the  before the song’s first line, asides, “i love this one,” as  
previous album’s two biggest tracks, “Today more Than  his band mates come in and then later when he points  
any other day” and “habit” — staggering through slug- out his own refrain. coupled with his jaded lyricism and  
gish, but with tight drums and moody, slowly strummed  tongue-in-cheek approach, beeler resides in the same  
chords. however, in “pill,” the band explores this famil­ sphere as parquet court’s andrew savage, indie veteran  
iar concept by extending it for nearly the length of the  stephen malkmus, courtney barnett and speedy ortiz’s  
five-and-a-half-minute song.  sadie dupuis, while adding a touch of something like  
The restraint shown here adds another layer to the  mark Kozelek’s layered reflective storytelling.  
band’s affected personality, creating atmosphere­ “once more with Feeling…,” like “more Than any  
piercing tension — aided by a false release and an  other day,” emits a potpourri grab bag of influences.  
“abbey road” timbre, organ-like keyboard accompani­ however, as they did with their first album, ought crafts  
ment. and once the band does succumb to a climax, it’s  its own uniquely distinct voice inhabiting a new, rigid  
much less a bang and more a swell. The intro’s elements  space tangent to its predecessors — and to much of  
remain apparent, identifiable in a neat spiraling out  modern music.  
towards the coda rather than untraceable due to a base  
sophomoric instrumental explosion.  Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu  
The similarities to ought’s previous releases run deep  
across the brooding 24 minutes of “once more.” closing  
track “waiting” heavily recalls “The weather song“ from  “Once More With Feeling...”  
“more Than any other day,” but, unlike the latter, may  Ought  
be the most straightforward track the band has recorded  
thus far. The denser “new calm pt. 2” and “new calm  Label: Constellation  
pt. 3” reference the band’s seminal, self-released ep  Tracks: “Pill,” “New Calm Pt. 2”  
“new calm,” which features earlier takes of some tracks  
later included in both their lp and new ep. These two  If you like: The Velvet Underground, Talking Heads, Joy  
tracks run long, even in the context of the ep, meander- Division, Modest Mouse, LCD Soundsystem  
ing in their journeys from point a to point b. They are  
considerably experimental in construction, with ought  
electing to sandwich both a very post-haste violin riff  


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

comedian eric andré is weird — like, really weird. 
with a solid track record of infuriating anyone who dares to interview him, andré has mastered the off-kil­ter chaotic humor. after a few minor roles in shows like “don’t Trust the b---- in apartment 23” and “Two broke girls,” andré found himself with a self-titled mock late-night talk show. now, as “The eric andré show” begins its third season on comedy central, it’s clear that i am not the only one bawling his eyes out during wacky bits like andré inhaling a plate of spaghetti during his guest interviews. 
similar to other comedy central programs, like “Tim and eric awesome show great Job!,” the show is shot with the apparent production value of middle school drama and mimics the cheesy 80s public access pro­grams — all in design, of course. 
almost as if andré is making it up as the show pro­gresses, the show exudes a very free and improvisa­tional tone. generally, each short 15-minute episode is comprised of andré violently destroying his own set, a tremendously uncomfortable celebrity guest interview and some cutaway of andré creating chaotic hilarity on unsuspecting civilians on the streets. andré’s sidekick, the hilarious hannibal buress, plays the perfect mel­low, grounded counterpart to andré’s baffling behavior. 
Though “The eric andré show” isn’t highbrow com­edy, it is far from dumb. The complete and utter ran­domness of the show is extremely entertaining, and the bizarreness of it all strikes a very basic chord of humor. andré’s completely original and painfully funny skits are strengths of the show. bits like andré dressing as a slave and running through colonial williamsburg des­perately asking for help give the show a solid backbone in pure, unadulterated laughs. Though andré describes writing his skits as conjuring “the dumbest things i can think of,” the audacity andré puts forth is applaudable, and you can’t help but laugh at his energy. 
most celebrities who visit the show leave baffled by the nightmarish backwards land andré and buress create around them — and that’s amazing to watch. andré ad­mitted that he does little to prep his guests on the oddi­ties of his show, which is painfully clear. Fortunately, season three will usher in even bigger named celebrities for andré to mystify. wiz Khalifa, nick cannon, chris rock, seth rogen and Jimmy Kimmel all reportedly stopped by during the filming of the season, which just wrapped. 
andré has already reported in an interview with the huffington post that lauren conrad was just about ready to leave after andré pulled his latest gag — he vomited and ate it. which, if nothing else, gives you a pretty good picture of the extent of andré rib-tickling insanity. 
Thankfully, andré seems content with the format (if you could call it that) of his program and no major changes have been reported. The only teaser released for the new season thus far, titled “The running of the eric andre’s,” was a simple video of a pack of eric andré lookalikes sprinting after andré and mauling him with microphones on the streets of new york city. 
clearly andré has not abandoned his strange prac­tices and avant-garde nature, which i am pleased to see. sometimes the most unconventional of things is exactly what you need in a world of television so homogeneous­ly boring. The new season of “The eric andré show” be­gins Thursday at 12:15 a.m. on comedy central. watch it and embrace the weird. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NFL playoff predictions 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 
The nFl season just wrapped up the ninth of its 17 weeks, and as the schedule eclipses the halfway point, the playoff picture is starting to take shape. Football is a crazy sport. Just ask dallas how an injury can change things. still, we have seen enough to get a feel for how teams will perform and predict which teams will make the playoffs. 
let’s start with the nFc: 
NFC North Champion: Green Bay Packers 
green bay’s bye week was perfectly timed to help aaron rodgers bounce back from a gimpy hamstring and start doing aaron rodgers-things over the last part of the season. eddie lacy is picking up steam after a slow start, and if the defense contributes anything at all, this team should be able to overcome detroit’s division lead. plus, the detroit lions will likely do detroit lions-things down the stretch and find ways to lose. They have played in four games decided by a touchdown or less, so they are living on the edge already. This could come down to the season’s final game, and the lions have to travel to lambeau Field in december.advantage:packers 
NFC East Champion: Philadelphia Eagles 
eli manning is about the only healthy quarterback in this divi­sion, but believe it or not, mark sanchez proves a strong backup option for the eagles. demarco murray and the cowboys will be a factor if Tony romo can get healthy, but philadelphia looks like a more complete team and should hold on to win the division. 
NFC South Champion: New OrleansSaints 
well, somebody has to win this division. even if the saints had never won on the road, eight home wins probably would have been enough to win this terrible divi­sion. add in the fact that the saints may have solved their road woes at carolina and may actually be able to get to a strong 10 or 11 wins. They have a huge talent edge on the rest of the division. in other words, they are sort of actually good at football. unless carolina’s defense rediscov­ers some kind of edge, the saints should run away with this. 
NFC West Champion: Arizona Cardinals 
arizona has a two game advan­tage on the defending champs but has yet to play a division game. The 49ers are banged up, the rams will be playing the spoiler role all season and the seahawks have yet to re­discover championship form. The cardinals should ride their stingy defense and quality coaching to a good second half. if they can even just split their series with the 49ers and seahawks, then they should be able to capitalize on their strong start and take the division. 
nFc wildcards: detroit lions and seattle seahawks 
These teams will be heading opposite directions: the lions let­ting a division lead slip away and the seahawks finding their groove just in time for the postseason. still, a ton of talent exists on both teams, and they should get to play football into January. 
as for the aFc: 
AFC North Champion: CincinnatiBengals 
hmmm ... basically, a toss up. These are four physical teams slug­ging it out. roethlisberger and the steelers have looked great the last two weeks, but they looked aw­ful earlier in the season. hard to believe a team that lost to Tampa bay can win a division. The bengals also have already taken down the ravens twice and should be able to hang on. The browns are better but don’t have enough offense to get over the hump. 
AFC East Champion: New England Patriots 
That 41-14 debacle at the hands of the chiefs seems like forever ago. The patriots stand 5-0 since and are back to looking like one of the league’s premier teams. The dolphins might be coming on strong, but bill belichik and Tom brady are still around here. The dolphins (or the bills) will have to mount a heroic charge to take away the division crown. 
AFC South Champion: Indianapolis Colts 
andrew luck is very good. The Jaguars, Titans and Texans are very bad. 
AFC West Champions: Denver Broncos 
The chiefs have found their game and the chargers got off to a strong start, but peyton manning still plays for the broncos and he is throwing to a ridiculously talented corps of receivers. plus, the broncos defense has been exceptional, except for the new england game. This is a talented division, but the broncos have the most talent of anyone in the league. 
AFC Wildcards: Kansas City Chiefs and Miami Dolphins 
both will be a bit surprising to see in January, but as the steelers cool off the dolphins will stay hot. alex smith will game manage his way to another post-season appearance and a shot at redemption for his last heartbreaking loss in the wildcard round. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@ nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA 

perenice wins playoff in champions Tour finale 
Associated Press 

scoTTsdale, ariz. — bernhard langer robbed the charles schwab cup championship of some of its usual drama when he wrapped up the points title a week before the champions Tour finale. 
Tom pernice Jr. and Jay haas made up for it sunday at desert mountain. 
Two holes after slashing out backward from a rocky wash channel in the desert, pernice finally finished off haas with a birdie on the fourth extra hole. The 55-year-old pernice got up-and-down from the left bunker to end it on the par-5 18th, hol­ing a 6-foot birdie putt after haas made a 12-footer for par. 
“i just said, ‘he’s going to make it, so you need to be prepared to play it on the right edge. and it rolled right in,” pernice said. “it was pretty scrappy. i hung in there. short game is part of it as well and my short game held up and carried me through.” 
pernice closed with a 3-un­der 67 — also making a 6-foot birdie putt on 18 — to match haas at 11-under 269 on the cochise course. The 60-year­old haas had a 66. 
“Jay and i have become good friends,” pernice said. “i’ve gone back and played in his charity event in greenville. i hate for anybody to lose.” 
pernice earned $440,000 in the event limited to the top 30 on the money list. he also won a playoff in iowa in June and has four career victories on the 50-and-over tour after winning twice on the pga Tour. 

“i was just thinking last night, it’s such a privilege to be able to be out here, first and foremost, to be out here playing with Freddie couples and Jay haas and Kenny perry and bernhard langer and hale irwin and Tom watson,” pernice said. “To be able to do that and compete and do what we do at our age is pretty amaz­ing that this is here for us.” 
langer closed with a 65 to tie for fourth at 9 under. The 57-year-old german star won his second charles schwab cup points title last week to earn a $1 million annuity and made $158,000 on sunday to break hale irwin’s tour record with $3,074,189. 
langer topped the money list for the sixth time in seven years. he led the tour with five victories, two of them majors, and had 12 top-three finishes in 20 starts. he also won the season points title in 2010. 
“it was a long day, longer for the team that loses in extra innings,” haas said. “Tom’s such a beautiful bunker player and pitcher of the ball and ev­erything. i knew i was going to have to make a birdie to beat him.” 
on the par-3 17th on the third extra hole, haas missed a 15-foot birdie putt. pernice made a 6-footer after missing the green to the left and hitting a flop shot. 
on 18 on the second playoff hole, haas’ 8-foot birdie also slid right, and pernice made a 4-footer for a scrambling par. he drove right into a narrow wash channel in the desert, gouged the ball backward to the fairway, hit his 246-yard ap­proach to the right of the green and set up the par putt with a long pitch. 
“Just hit a bad drive,” pernice said. “i had been aiming down the left side and kind of cutting with the wind and came up and out of it and blocked it and so the wind got it. .... luckily, i had a shot, but i had to go back­wards quite a ways because i was going in the direction of the washout.” 
haas won two weeks ago in north carolina to become the 18th player to win a champions Tour event at 60 or older. he has 17 champions Tour victo­ries after winning nine pga Tour titles. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Hoosiers’ Devin Davis faulted for accident 
Associated Press 

bloomingTon, ind. — indiana forward devin davis was mostly to blame for the car accident that sent him to a hos­pital with a head injury, police said monday. 
davis, a pedestrian, was injured early saturday when teammate emmitt holt alleged­ly drove into him. Three passen­gers in holt’s car also witnessed the accident. 
according to the police re­port, holt said he had driven davis to a parking lot at the foot­ball stadium. holt told police that when he started to drive away, davis “jumped” in front of the car. police cited “pedes­trian’s action” as the primary cause and said both players had been drinking. 
initially, davis was listed in serious condition, but he has been making progress. on sunday, team doctor larry rink said davis’ speech was “nor­mal” and he had use of all ex­tremities. Team spokesman J.d. campbell did not update davis’ condition monday. 

holt is an 18-year-old fresh­man from webster, new york, and davis is a 19-year-old soph­omore from indianapolis. 

holt was cited for illegal con­sumption, a misdemeanor, and operating under the influence of alcohol under age 21. The team said holt had a blood-alcohol level of 0.025, below the legal limit of 0.08. davis has not been cited.davis’ parents said in a statement issued by the school sunday night that “there is a road to recovery ahead.” 
“we want to thank the in­credible team at iu health bloomington hospital for taking such great care of devin,” the statement said. “we also want to express our gratitude to coach (Tom) crean, who has been by devin’s bedside for most of the past two days and to all of his coaches, teammates and the ex­tended hoosier family who have kept him in their prayers.” 
crean was expected to dis­cuss the accident during his radio show monday night. 
The injury could have a signif­icant impact on a team already inexperienced and undersized in the post entering its nov. 14 opener against mississippi valley state. The 6-foot-7 davis was expected to help solidify the middle after averaging 2.4 points and 2.6 rebounds in 8.8 minutes a game last season. only four players on the roster are taller than davis. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
paid adverTisemenT 




MEN’S INTERHALL | sTanFord 6, o’neill 6 
O’Neill ties with playoff-bound Stanford 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
a nail-biting match be­tween o’neill and stanford ended in a standstill sunday. 
The angry mob (1-2-1) and the griffins (2-1-1) closed their seasons on a 6-6 tie. The griffins domi­nated much of the first part of the game, with an early touchdown scored by junior captain, receiver and line­backer dan babiak. Through strong defensive efforts, the griffins held a lead until the second half. 
“we put in a couple stunts this past week specifically for o’neill, and we really just tried to shut down their running game,” stanford lineman and sophomore patrick mcmahon said. 
in the final two minutes of the game, the angry mob of­fense sparked when o’neill sophomore quarterback Kevin smith threw fresh­man wide receiver and cor­nerback daniel luque a 27-yard touchdown, evening the score. an interception by luque at the 50-second mark gave the angry mob further potential for an upset. 

with just 34 seconds left, the angry mob was in pos­session of the ball. however, the griffins’ defense con­tained their attack long enough to prevent a come­back win. 
“The defense kept pulling them over and over again,” stanford freshman quarter­back andrew Foster said. 
despite the tie, stanford secured a spot in the play­offs. The griffins hold the second-best record in the division, behind Keenan. 
“our offense was working well today and our defense really rallied to the ball and made some good stops,” babiak said. “i’m excited to get out and play versus the best teams [and mostly] have another chance against Keenan.” 
sunday’s game marked the end of their season for o’neill. however, senior captain linebacker and run­ning back donghoon lee said it was a good way to end his interhall career. 
“The guys came out and they were ready to go,” lee said. “They made my senior year really worth it. we had a chance to win it at the end and that’s all i can ask for. 
“it was a team effort all around. i just want to rec­ognize the seniors that all came out and played.” 
stanford will play Fisher in the first round of the playoffs sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 
NFL | colTs 40, gianTs 24 

Colts dominate Giants 
Associated Press 
easT ruTherFord, n.J. — The indianapolis colts weren’t going to have a hangover from last week’s defeat. 
andrew luck wouldn’t allow it. 
luck threw for four touch­downs and the colts’ defense kept eli manning and the giants off balance monday night in indianapolis’ 40-24 romp. 
with his franchise-record seventh consecutive 300-yard game, luck led the colts (6-3) to a lopsided win one week after a 51-34 loss to pittsburgh. unlike the way steelers quarterback ben roethlisberger toyed with their defense in that game, the colts didn’t let manning get go­ing in handing new york (3-5) its third straight defeat. 
luck hit coby Fleener for a 32-yard Td in the first half. he had scoring throws of 31 yards to T.y. hilton, 40 yards to reggie wayne and 2 yards to dwayne allen in the third period. 

adam vinatieri added four field goals and is perfect on 20 tries this year. 
it was the eighth time this season that luck had thrown for more than 300 yards and the 17th time in his three pro sea­sons. he was 25 for 46 for 354 yards. 
wayne surpassed James lofton for career yards receiv­ing and has 14,070 in his 14-sea­son career. 
giants first-round pick odell beckham Jr. had 156 yards on eight receptions, by far his best game. manning threw for 359 yards and two Tds, but most of that came with the game decided. 
luck seemed to look for Fleener on every pass in the first half. That well-established com­bination — they played together at stanford before joining the colts in 2012 — paid off on con­secutive plays for the game’s first touchdown. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | The observer 


ND Vball 
conTinued From page 16 
senior middle blocker Jeni houser supplemented Kuhn’s productivity and delivered the third double-double of her career. houser tallied a career-high 12 digs as well as 13 kills on the night, as the senior moved to 11th place in notre dame’s all-time career kill list. her evening also featured two service aces and five blocks. 
The match against boston college (9-12, 4-6) was the second time the two teams had met in two weeks. notre 

paid adverTisemenT 



paid adverTisemenT 
dame overcame a 2-0 deficit to defeat the eagles at the purcell pavilion on oct. 19. boston college had been on a slide since that match, los­ing no. 8 north carolina (3­
0) and nc state (3-1), while the irish similarly contin­ued their own three-game losing streak. 
This time around the irish mounted a similar come­back after falling behind 2-0 once again. however, the irish were unable to best the eagles twice in two weeks and fell 3-2. losing the first matches with scores of 25-21 and 25-18, notre dame won the next two sets, 21-25 and 23-25. 
after winning the third and fourth sets, notre dam ultimately dropped the final frame, 15-6. 
compared to Friday’s per­formance against georgia Tech, the match saw 22 ties and 10 lead changes. 
houser was a strong per­former for notre dame on sunday, recording her sec­ond double-double of the weekend. on sunday, she re­corded 12 digs, 10 kills, 7 as­sists, 4 blocks and a service ace. 
Fellow senior libero Kathleen severyn was an­other leader for the irish, recording 11 digs. Kuhn also matched houser and deliv­ered 12 digs. 
notre dame returns to its home purcell pavilion next sunday to host acc-rival louisville at 1 p.m. 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
during the 1-1 tie saturday. Though the irish escaped massachusetts with their undefeated road record in­tact, the late goal was eerily similar to the conclusions of some of those previous heartbreaking losses. 
The team’s convincing performances toward the end of the season seemed to indicate that notre dame had been able to maintain focus for the full two halves. 
if that trend persists through the postseason, notre dame has a legitimate chance not only to challenge for the acc championship title, but also to play far into the ncaa tournament. 

Friday’s faceoff against Florida state should be a hard-fought battle, com­petitive to the very end. let’s hope the result doesn’t come down to the referees. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 0, hope 3 
Belles fall to Hope in finale 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The saint mary’s volleyball team ended its season with a 3-0 conference loss to no. 2 hope on Friday. 
The belles (15-13, 8-8 miaa) stayed competitive with the Flying dutch (27-1, 15-1) in the early stages of the first set. They traded points early and established a 4-4 tie, before the dutch won eight of the next nine points to take a commanding 12-5 lead. hope did not relinquish that lead for the remainder of the set, claiming a 25-15 win in the first frame. 
The belles’ performance in the middle set proved far more contentious. They opened the frame with a spirited run in which they scored five of six points to claim their first of six leads. in total, the belles held six leads in the second set. in what proved to be a battle of attrition, the Flying dutch fi­nally prevailed, 25-22, in the second set. 
hope carried the momen­tum from that win into the third set, which it opened with an eight-point run. The Flying dutch ultimately clinched the match, 25-7. 
The loss to nationally-ranked hope gave the belles a final conference record of 8-8 and a share of fourth place in the miaa. The belles and alma (15-17, 8-8) share fourth place, both with 8-8 league records. 
however, the scots held the tiebreaker advantage with two wins on sept. 2 and oct. 3 in the belles-scots season series, granting them access to the final playoff seed. 
belles coach Toni elyea led the belles to 15 regular sea­son wins in her sixth year with the program — the best single-season record that the team has claimed since her arrival. she said she is con­fident the trend would be an ongoing one. 

“every year we keep bring­ing in talented players,” elyea said. “it’s been a huge improvement over the last few years. we also have peo­ple that are staying in the program for all four years and improving every single year, and that’s also a reason that is reflected in the wins column for us.” 
elyea also said she was sat­isfied with the level of com­petition in the miaa. 
“when you compete, you want to compete against the best,” elyea said. “we love that we have the number one and two team in the confer­ence. one through three are all ranked — it lets us know where we are and that we’re capable of winning. we just need to play consistently and play well to get that win. it has pushed us every year to get better.” 
before worrying about next year’s competition, though, the belles will have to turn inward to search for new leadership. senior co-captains Kati schneider and Taylor etzell will both gradu­ate this spring, leaving a void in the team’s leadership. 
“some will rise [to leader­ship] naturally,” elyea said. “but others will take a lot of work. There are a lot of fac­tors when it comes to leader­ship. They have to want that for themselves — i think they do, and i see great things for the next group of leaders on our team.” 
despite the big shoes to fill, elyea said she had high hopes for the coming season and beyond. 
“we are very capable of competing at an extreme­ly high level,” elyea said. “everyone will continue to get better, and i expect noth­ing less from our team as well.” 
Contact Brett O’Connell at      boconne1@nd.edu 


Football 
conTinued From page 16 
onwualu was making prog­ress on sunday to get back to playing. 
“he passed his first set of concussion protocol, so he looks to be able to get back to practice here,” Kelly said. 
bryant did not make ap­pearance in saturday’s game. Kelly said bryant is working through a nagging ankle injury. 
“greg bryant was not 100 percent, still fighting through that ankle,” Kelly said. 
Defense 
despite the injuries, Kelly said he was pleased with “so many things” of what he saw from younger players, like freshmen greer martini, drue Tranquill and morgan stepping up on defense. 
during the fourth quar­ter, almost half of notre dame’s defense on the field was freshmen. Kelly said the young group had some cru­cial moments that it can use moving forward. 
“we had a big fourth-down stop; they took the ball away,” Kelly said. “There were five freshmen on the field when those things hap­pened, and you just can’t duplicate that stuff. That’s all beneficial, and then all of the mistakes that were made are all teachable things that they can carry over going into arizona state.” 
navy’s triple-option of­fense presented a schemati­cal challenge to the irish on defense. Kelly said the irish rose to the occasion. 
“navy is a difficult team to defend,” Kelly said. “we went in there with a plan, and i thought we were efficient on first down.They hurt us with the quarterback scrambling. again, they’re a difficult team to defend, and our kids fought their butts off.” 


after all of the planning for navy’s offense, Kelly said notre dame will not have any trouble transitioning back to its normal defensive scheme. 
“i think [the transition] is already happening,” Kelly said. “i think when we were on the plane, the guys were already thinking about get­ting back to some base calls. ... it will be a quick transi­tion and one that we ... did some things to keep our calls active, knowing that it was going to be a quick transition.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY | miaa championships 
beeler leads saint mary’s to fifth-place finish at championship race 
Kaitlyn alessi finished close is extremely coachable and a six points behind fourth-lakes regional on nov. 15 in 
By RYAN KLAUS 

sports writer behind with times of 24:25 focused athlete.” placed alma (113) with 119 mason, ohio. for 26th place and 24:27 no. 6 calvin played host to points. “[regionals are] an oppor­
sophomore brittany beeler for 28th place, respective-the event and protected its “it was tough to lose to tunity to leave it all out on finished 12th to help saint ly. bauters said the belles’ event and national ranking alma by only six points, but the course,” bauters said. “it mary’s bring home a fifth-young runners were very im-by winning with an overall it gives us something to con-would be great to better our placed team finish at the portant saturday and have score of 27. tinue to work on,” bauters performance of a 14th place miaa championships in been crucial throughout the “Kudos to calvin and said. “we have a lot of tal-finish at this year’s regional. grand rapids, michigan, on season. (coach) brian diemer for ent to develop and hopefully i’d also love to see brittany saturday. “we are a very young their successes,” bauters that gap will close — maybe make the all-regional 
beeler finished with a time team, which is really excit-said. “i think it is always even at regionals in the big-team.” of 22:53 and earned a spot on ing,” bauters said. “many of great to be around a team ger meet environment.” The belles will compete the all-miaa second team. them are still coming into like calvin — they work hard, with the miaa champi-in the ncaa great lakes she represents the seventh their own. natalie has al-they’re very driven and have onships behind them, the regional on nov. 15 in runner in program history ready grown so much in one a great team environment.” belles have another post-mason, ohio. to make one of the two all-short year — she will be an hope finished in second season opportunity to com-conference teams. awesome runner to look for place with a score of 55, pete. saint mary’s will race Contact Ryan Klaus at     
“i’m really proud of in the next three years. she while the belles placed just next at the ncaa great rklaus1@nd.edu brittany,” belles coach 
paid adverTisemenT Jackie bauters said. “our pre-race goal was to be right where she landed, some­where between top 10-13. we still have things to work on, but she works so hard and i’m glad to see it be reflected in the second team honors.” Freshman natalie hawkes also led the belles squad with a time of 23:40 and 20th place finish. Junior allie danhof and sophomore 




ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 

234 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


9/11/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
 Happy Birthday: The sky is the limit this year. your creativity is at an all-time high, but your need to take on too much will slow you down. be innovative and choose the most unique project, concept or activity that interests you and give it your all. Focus will lead to success. romance will revive your personal life. your numbers are 5, 13, 22, 24, 31, 36, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): contractual, legal or financial problems will occur. don’t let outsiders get involved in handling your affairs. Focus on cutting corners by using unique methods that suit your daily routine. negotiate job offers professionally and sign on the dotted line. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stay on top of your responsibilities. you will learn a lot if you watch the way others handle situations. avoid a dispute by being an observer. you don’t have to buy love. a romantic gesture will improve your personal life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): work at getting along with your peers and colleagues. it’s important to be flexible and to offer assistance if you want to advance. don’t let uncertainty regarding how you earn your living lead to a costly mistake. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): put more time and effort into creative projects. be open to suggestions offered from an unusual source. love is on the rise, and mixing business with pleasure will have its advantages. listen carefully. observation is your best friend. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t give in to bullying, indulgence or overspending. Think about your future and consider the changes you need to make to secure your position personally and professionally. physical activity will help ease your stress. communication will help you get started. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take action, be a participant and make changes to legal, financial or medical matters that may arise. hard work will be necessary in order to complete projects to your specifications. love is highlighted, and socializing will lead to an interesting encounter. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): do whatever it takes to protect your home and to avoid changes within important relationships. compromise may not be a long-term solution, but it can buy you enough time to set up what needs to be done. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): do things your way and enjoy being different and using unorthodox methods to accomplish your goals. as long as you maintain a strict budget and allow others the same freedom, you will gain respect and the feeling of personal satisfaction. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t let emotional issues get you down. make whatever adjustments you can to ensure that your home and those you love are protected from any situation that appears uncertain or could lead to loss. good fortune comes from expert maneuvers. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let the changes others make unnerve you. stick to what’s worked for you in the past, but give whatever you do a unique twist to ensure that you attract interest and consideration for upcoming positions. love is in the stars. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t get down; get moving. letting what others say or do bother you is a waste of time. concentrate on what you can accomplish and present and promote what you have to offer. success is the name of the game. invest in you. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you can raise your financial intake through a smart investment. look at the current trends and manipulate your skills, services and talents to meet public needs. a personal partnership can help cut your overhead if you share costs. 


Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, intuitive and helpful. you are creative, intense and mysterious. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
AZLEB  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
ACHHT  

BETJOC SLOIAR  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Print answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BUDDY CRAMP BOUNTY STORMY Yesterday’s 
Answer: When she asked if she would be able to get a seaton the next flight, she was told to — STAND BY 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses injuries, defense 
Kelly gives details on injuries to Schmidt, Bryant and Onwualu, analyzes Navy offensive effort 
By ISA AC LORTON assistant managing editor  
irish spoke dame  coach brian sunday about injuries and  Kelly notre their  

impact on the team, most notably senior starting line­backer Joe schmidt’s injury, in his weekly teleconference. 
schmidt went out in the third quarter of notre dame’s 49-39 victory over navy on saturday with an ankle injury. after x-rays, schmidt was found to have a fractured and dislocated ankle. schmidt will have surgery today and will be out for the remainder of the sea­son, Kelly said, and the team will have to step up to fill the void left by the defensive play-caller. 
Freshman linebacker nyles morgan filled schmidt’s spot saturday and will be the starter moving forward at middle linebacker, but the play calling will most likely fall to someone else on the defense. 
“[middle linebacker] has a leadership component rela­tive to understand all of the fronts and adjustments and clearly getting lined up,” Kelly said. “so the complexi­ties of that position general­ly take on a leadership role. ... we obviously felt good about putting all that on Joe’s plate. we’re not able to do that with nyles.” 
other injuries included sophomores linebacker James onwualu and running back greg bryant. onwualu collided with junior defen­sive lineman sheldon day in the fourth quarter. onwualu did not pass concussion pro­tocols and did not return to the game. brian Kelly said 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 2, georgia Tech 3; nd 2, bosTon college 3 
notre dame defeated by two acc opponents 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame dropped both of its matches to acc foes over the weekend, losing both in five sets. 
The irish (5-18, 2-10 acc) lost, 3-2, to georgia Tech on Friday at their home purcell pavilion and fell to boston college 3-2 on the road in chestnut hill, massachusetts, on sunday afternoon. 
against the yellow Jackets (11-13, 4-7), notre dame held a 2-1 lead after three sets but dropped the final two sets, both by slim margins. notre dame posted set scores of 17-25, 25-12, 11-25, 25-23 and 15-11 against georgia Tech. The sets consisted of only eight ties and five lead changes overall, though the irish did record 10 blocks as a team. 
For notre dame, freshman outside hitter sydney Kuhn delivered another strong performance Friday night. she recorded a career-high 15 digs and 11 kills on the evening. 
see nd vball PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Elite postseason teams to test ND 

Renee Griffin 
sports writer 
The no. 9 irish seemed dominant as the regular sea­son drew to a close, winning five in a row before ending the regular season with a tie against boston college on saturday. however, the teams on notre dame’s playoff schedule will be significantly tougher than the last few. 
The offense and defense combined to outscore the final six opponents 12-1 in the string of results. That consistency will have to con­tinue as notre dame (12-4-2, 7-2-1 acc) goes up against even more elite teams in the postseason. 
The irish have come a long way since falling in back-to-back home upsets at the hands of Texas Tech and usc in the second weekend of the season. notre dame proved it was deserving of a top-10 rank when it tied no. 4 stanford, took no. 5 north carolina into double overtime, shut out no. 16 virginia Tech and kept up with no. 3 virginia until the final minute of the game. 

notre dame faces no. 2 Florida state in the acc semifinal match Friday. The seminoles (16-1-1, 9-0-1) will remind the irish what a top competitor looks like, as no. 21 clemson was the only ranked opponent notre dame faced after the oct. 5 loss to virginia. 
notre dame is equipped to keep up with any team in the country, with its wide range of players capable of scoring at any time, including senior forward lauren bohaboy, sophomore midfielder morgan andrews and fresh­man forward Karin muya. The defense also continues to strengthen, allowing only two goals in the last nine games. 
The main problem for the irish: finishing games. in both early-season losses to Texas Tech and usc, the squad lost the lead by giv­ing up two goals in the sec­ond half. against virginia, a cavalier goal in the final minute gave virginia the 2-1 victory. 
boston college evened the score in the 79th minute 
see w soccer PAGE 13 




