The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 38 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND campaign raises funds to fight Ebola 
Eck Institute initiative focuses on raising awareness, supporting African hospitals and aid workers 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The nd unite to fight ebola campaign is raising funds to send medical supplies to west africa, according to dr. Katherine Taylor, director of op­erations of the eck institute for global health. 
“first of all, our role is compas­sion,” Taylor said. “when we see this happening somewhere, and the devastating impact on the communities in west africa, we feel compelled to do something. i think we were all here looking at each other, saying ‘what can we do? how can we help?’ This is the transformation of that concern into action.” 
The university-wide cam­paign, which continues on cam­pus through oct. 17, focuses on two main goals, Taylor said. after that date, the campaign will still accept donations online from the broader notre dame community. 
“The first goal is education and awareness, and the second one is to raise funds to purchase and ship supplies directly to west africa,” she said. “… we decid­ed that we wanted to do a short burst of activity because of the urgency, just because we’d like to get the supplies there as quickly as possible. we are intending to extend the campaign, 
see ebola PAGE 5 




Honor Code appeals process depends on degree of offense 
ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
with updates on four of the five irish football players in­volved with academic dishones­ty investigations, the attention now shifts to the honor code’s appeal process and require­ments for readmission to the university. 
irish senior defensive end ishaq williams will not play in 2014 and would like to return in 2015, irish coach brian Kelly said Tuesday. senior receiver davaris daniels is “done” at notre dame, daniels said on Twitter on Tuesday, and gradu­ate student linebacker Kendall moore announced Tuesday evening on instagram that he will “respectfully leave my alma mater.” 

Junior cornerback Keivarae russell will not play this season and will most likely miss the spring semester before return­ing in June 2015, the junior said in an instagram post friday evening. 
vice president for public affair and communication paul browne confirmed friday 
see appeal PAGE 5 


unc weekend events draw season-high number of fans 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
blue skies and “perfect weather” helped notre dame welcome season-high num­bers of fans to football ac­tivities throughout the north carolina game weekend, ac­cording to mike seamon, associate vice president for campus safety. 
“for as bad of weather as it 
see unc PAGE 4 



smc dining hall adds to-go option 

By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
in  an effort to increase conve­nience for student meals as well as bolster sustainability prac­tices, saint mary’s instituted an eco-friendly take-out food op­tion in the dining hall this year. 
director of dining services barry bowles said students with busy academic schedules, in­flexible work hours, or back to back extracurricular activities will especially benefit from this change. 
“The dining hall has gone so far in sustainability efforts that 
see dining PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Why are deadlines important? 

Enrique Pajuelo 
freshman sorin college 

“it helps you be organized and disciplined.” 
Nate Foje 
senior sorin college 

“They are important so you know when to stop procrastinating.” 
Steven Scobee 
junior sorin college 
“because otherwise people would procrastinate forever.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Grant Grojean 
freshman 
sorin college 
“if we didn’t have deadlines i would be finished with everything on netflix.” 
Jamie Sullivan 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“because the dude said they are.” 
Omar Hunter 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“because the man says they are.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

emily mcconville Zach Klonsinski alex winegar 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Science Friday Taping Valerie Mejer Reading Volleyball STEM Run Mass at the Basilica 
Karla mareno bianca almada 
DeBartolo Performing Hammes Notre Dame Purcell Pavilion Hesburgh Library Basilica of the Sacred Arts Center Bookstore 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Heart 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Includes Pi K and Mole 11:45 p.m. - 12:45 p.m. 
Corrections 

Taping of the Science Reading and reflection Clemson. K Runs. Music by the Notre 
The observer regards itself as Friday radio show. on poems. Dame Folk Choir. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Grotto Trip ISI Fellowship Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass Volleyball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Bond Hall Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Purcell Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 
10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Center Arena Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
All are welcome. 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Boston 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Faith and fellowship for Notre Dame vs. Lake Music by the Women’s College. 
we can correct our error. 

all Christian faiths. Superior State. Liturgical Choir. 


science friday to tape at nd 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
The college of science’s sesqui­centennial celebration will con­tinue on wednesday night with the taping of “science friday” in the leighton concert hall of the debartolo performing arts center (dpac) at 7 p.m. to a sold-out crowd. science friday, an npr ra­dio talk show dedicated to science news and entertainment stories, airs every friday on npr affiliate stations from 2-4 p.m. esT. 
host and producer ira flatow will interview three notre dame faculty members as part of the show in addition to at least four other non-notre dame guests, ac­cording to marissa gebhard, as­sistant director of marketing and communications for the college of science and a 1998 graduate of saint mary’s college. 
The show will be divided into six segments, and the notre dame glee club will sing “sci­ence-themed songs” in between, gebhard said. 
associate professor philippe collon, who specializes in ex­perimental nuclear physics, will speak about the applications of his research on the world of art. Through his research, collon has developed a method of reveal­ing counterfeit artwork without destroying the sample taken as happens with chemical analysis, according to gebhard. 
“he uses nuclear physics to pin­point the age, date and material of artwork,” gebhard said. “collon will be joined by greg smith from the indianapolis museum of art, and together they are going to talk about combating counterfeit art.” 

collon’s work centers on “radio­nuclides,” or radioactive isotopes, which are atoms with unstable nuclei. radiocarbon dating uses relative amounts of certain types of these isotopes to date artwork and determine authenticity. 
“The field i work in is called accelerator mass spectrometry or ams for short. it basically is a very sensitive detection technique that combines accelerators and nuclear physics detection techniques to al­low the detection of radionuclides at extremely low concentrations 
(i.e. the ‘needle in the haystack’),” collon said in an email. 
“This technique has applica­tions in art and archaeology,” collon said. “i got particularly in­terested in this through the devel­opment of the ‘physics methods in art and archaelogy’ course— phys 10262—with my colleague michael wiescher. we have now been teaching this course for over eight years here at notre dame and it is a fantastic way of intro­ducing modern physics through the bias of art and archaeology to numerous students who would not traditionally be taking a mod­ern physics course.” 
Jeanne romero-severson, pro­fessor of biology, will kick off the science friday taping, gebhard said. 
“Jeanne romero-severson, who 
paid adverTisemenT 
studies plant microbiomes, will be the first segment,” gebhard said. “she does a lot of work related to the health of oak trees. her re­search has implications for out­breaks of foodborne illness linked to contaminated seed sprouts, and she’s working to combat those bacterial infections.” 
in the program’s third seg­ment, david lodge, founder and director of the notre dame environmental change initiative, will speak about the ecology of the great lakes. lodge is cur­rently on a one-year leave as a Jefferson science fellow in the 
u.s. department of state. 
“[lodge] is a world-renowned expert on invasive species,” gebhard said. “he is one of the faculty that is in the media the most of all of the notre dame faculty. he studies asian carp and some other invasive species, which is of particular interest to everyone in the great lakes area, as we spend millions and millions of dollars trying to clean them up.” 
other guests to the show will include representatives from studebaker to discuss their electric car, forensic science professor anne perez from saint Joseph’s college, who will discuss her work in foren­sic entomology and interviews with the Kellogg brothers with university of michigan professor howard markel, according to the college of science press release. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

group explores nfl and america 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
annie gilbert coleman, associ­ate professor of american studies, led a group discussion titled “america and the nfl: a couple’s Therapy session” on Tuesday eve­ning to explore the institution of professional football. The conver­sation, sponsored by the american studies club, focused on the divi­sion between the longtime success and fame of the sport and the re­cent controversies brought to light by the media. 
“i see an increasing fundamen­tal disconnect between the values we traditionally associate with professional football and these is­sues we’re hearing about on the news nowadays,” coleman said. “These two parts of the nfl seem to be polar opposites.” 
ben Zelmer, a 2013 notre dame graduate, said he associates the nfl with physical excellence and community. 
“i heard a football coach once describe american football as a modern day gladiator sport,” Zelmer said. “everyone gets to­gether and watches people in their peak physical ability compete in a very physical way. our society unites to watch our best athletes.” 
coleman said football has maintained a huge influence on modern american society and cultural attitudes toward the sport have changed over time. 
“i searched ‘america’s game’ and the nfl came up,” coleman said. “baseball used to be america’s game.” 
according to coleman, recent concerns surrounding the nfl in the media include concussions, domestic violence and bullying. 
“The nfl is a trade association,” meg handelman, senior president of the american studies club, said. “The owners want to protect their players and create rules and regu­lations that keep their players’ best interests. however, the nfl is also like a giant marketing business that could very well compromise the players’ interests in the pursuit of profits.” 
interest groups such as televi­sion networks, social media sites and fantasy football groups have increased the impact and public­ity of problems in the nfl. 
“domestic violence, for exam­ple, isn’t new,” said handelman. “The ray rice incident has be­come such a big deal because there’s a video. it brings more at­tention to domestic violence in a new way.” 
coleman said the increasing worry surrounding concussions could possibly lead to a change in the football industry in the future. 
“at the turn of the century, the rules of football were changed to be less violent,” coleman said. “There was resistance, but eventu­ally people accepted the changes. it’s not impossible for this to hap­pen again.” 
according to handelman, the ultimate goal of the discussion was to help stimulate football fans to think critically and thoughtfully. 
“There’s an entirely different side to football than the one we see on Tv,” coleman said. “it’s more than just entertainment. The football industry can play a part in some important societal issues.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 

STuDENT GOvERNmENT WEEklY uPDATE 



Dining 
conTinued from page 1 
i wanted an environmentally friendly option that meets the needs of different types of stu­dents,” bowles said. “overall it helps everyone who likes to have a hot meal because they can get in and out of the dining hall in ten minutes.” 
with the stresses of college life, students may not always consider the importance of reusing materi­als, but the plasticware in the din­ing hall is made of potato starch and the cups are biodegradable, bowles said. Therefore, anyone who pays the 99 cents to take out a meal plays a role in bettering the planet, he said. finding the right materials and organizing the pro­gram, however, was not the easi­est task. The sodexo food office worked together to source biode­gradable items, bowles said. 
The saint mary’s community seems equally enthusiastic about noble family dining hall’s new approach, senior amanda gilbert said, as it appeals to a wide variety of students and allows them to eat on their own time rather than within scheduled hours. 
“sometimes you just want to eat alone without people staring at you, or you want to eat while you study,” gilbert said. “This op­tion makes it very convenient for those who want to study in the library or another space.” 
bowles said he is pleased with students’ generally positive re­sponses to the new program. 
“i have stopped students and actively talked to them, and it’s really helping me out,” he said. “it’s useful to understand every­one’s needs.” 
bowles said he also credits the administration for playing a ma­jor role throughout the transition to include the to-go option, which has provided students with close to 1,000 take-out materials since it began offering them on aug. 25. 
gilbert said the to-go option doesn’t detract from the experi­ence of sitting down to eat with friends, but rather the saint mary’s community is taking ad­vantage of a environmentally sound option without losing the social experience. 
“we all have times where we want to just get a meal and eat quickly,” gilbert said. 
saint mary’s strives to accom­modate the busy schedules of all its community members, and this new to-go initiative is cer­tainly no exception, bowles said. 
“people deserve the opportu­nity to eat on their own time,” bowles said. “The take-out op­tion was a necessary step because students, faculty, and staff can all benefit from it in their own ways.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
uNC 
conTinued from page 1 

was for the stanford game last week, it was the exact opposite this week, as it could not have been a more perfect day on saturday for the unc game,” seamon said. “… as expected given the perfect weather, there were literally thousands of peo­ple who came to campus to en­joy the home football weekend atmosphere. 
“we saw an uptick in the number of people on campus as we estimated about 110,000 were here to watch the game, visit the grotto and the basilica, go to the bookstore, hear the band play their pre-game con­cert on the bond hall steps, see the player walk to the stadium and tailgate before the game.” 
seamon said 6,150 fans took the tunnel tour at notre dame stadium on friday and 1,516 visited the labar practice complex, both of which amount to season records. he said 8,250 fans attended the pep rally, and the number of guests at friday’s football luncheon remained consistent with 1,050 people in attendance. 
seamon said notre dame fans continued to represent the university and its football culture well by being “very welcoming to our guests and visitors from the opposing school.” 
“we’ve received numerous emails and letters from the north carolina fans telling us how welcomed they felt when they visited campus,” he said. “That welcoming spirit by ev­eryone on campus, including our students, is a testament of what it means to be part of the notre dame family. 
“This welcoming attitude is one of the main reasons why the university has such a special and unique reputa­tion as one of the top places in the country to watch a college football game.” 


notre dame security police (ndsp) officers arrested nine individuals saturday, accord­ing to ndsp chief phil Johnson. 
“Three arrests were for pub­lic intoxication or public or­der related offenses,” he said. “four people were arrested for shoplifting. 
“one man was arrested for at­tempted theft and resisting law enforcement, and one man was arrested for public intoxication and possession of marijuana.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Ebola  outreach, a springfield, illinois-based “medical  said. “students have played a role  Appeal  
conTinued from page 1  surplus recovery organiza­ in the awareness campaign as  conTinued from page 1  
tion focused on meeting the  well as the fundraising,” she  
particularly to alumni, fol- healthcare needs of individu­ said.  
lowing the close of the cam­ als in developing nations,”  Taylor said contributions  
paign here on campus.”  according to the agency’s  can be brought to the eck  as detailed in the honor code.  
The donations from the nd  website.  institute in 120 brownson  
unite to fight ebola cam- Taylor said the hospital  hall or made online at blogs.  
paign will support medical  sisters mission outreach  nd.edu/unite. Thursday, the  
aid workers in liberia and  will coordinate the ship- campaign will host a prayer  the notification  
sierra leone, Taylor said.  ment of supplies to liberia  service at the grotto at 8:30  
“There are several personal  and sierra leone. The eck  p.m.  offenses.  
contacts that the university  institute, Kellogg institute  “This week is going to be  
of notre dame has with orga­ for international studies and  our final push, and we hope  
nizations in both liberia and  the notre dame initiative  that anyone that hasn’t con- 
sierra leone,” Taylor said. “in  for global development have  tributed will find ways to  
liberia there is a young wom­ also supported the campaign,  contribute,” she said. “we  
an, yassah lavelah, a liberian  she said.  hope to be able to get these  
national, who participated  “These are the two places  funds converted into supplies  
in the mandela washington  we’re targeting, and we in- and get them headed to west  
fellowship for young african  tend to work with one of our  africa as soon as possible. i  
leaders at the university of  partners, hospital mission  think everyone understands  
notre dame in 2014.  sisters outreach,” she said.  how urgent the situation is.  
“she and her mother run a  “They get medical supplies  we just want to act as quickly  
clinic in monrovia, liberia.  to remote areas,” she said.  as we can.”  
it’s the ma v. maternity clinic,  “Through them we will make  Taylor said the success of  “at his or her sole discretion.”  
and she made a direct appeal  a donation, and they are al­ the campaign will not only  
to some of us here, who have  ready working with people  provide aid to ebola patients  ited to: evidence  
kept in touch with her, to see if  at these two sites to see what  in west africa but will also  after the honesty  
we can provide supplies. They  should go in the containers  have global implications and  
haven’t received any supplies  and how we’re going to get  reflect notre dame’s commit- the judgment that  
so far. we’ve gotten pictures  them to them.”  ment to being a force for good  
from her, of them attending to  Taylor said the campaign  in the world.  
patients essentially wearing  has sponsored a number of  “i think we all do under- 
rain jackets as their personal  events on campus for the  stand now that the epidemic  preliminary 
protective equipment. so ob- past two weeks, including  needs to be stopped in west  
viously this is a very a danger- two talks — one of which fea­ africa, or it’s going to con­ 
ous situation for her and her  tured mark ferdig, a mercy  tinue to be a concern for the  
mother.”  corps senior team leader and  rest of the world,” she said. “as  committee that  
The donations from the  brother of biology professor  the global health institute,  
campaign will also support  michael ferdig, and biology  we understand the global na­ 
a hospital in sierra leone,  professor rob stahelin, who  ture of the problem, and that  
Taylor said.  researches ebola.  it’s going to require the whole  code states.  
“The second site is very well  “we’ve had professors giv­ world to come together to  
known by one of the notre  ing lectures; we’ve estab­ solve this problem.”  
dame professors, catherine  lished a facebook page and a  “it will be good for notre  minor offense, “the 
bolten, at the Kroc institute  blog page,” Taylor said. “Two  dame to stand up and be  
[for international peace  gentlemen from the armed  counted as an institution,  
studies],” Taylor said. “she’s  forces health surveillance  a catholic institution, that  
worked in sierra leone for  center and the walter reed  works together to make a  
the better part of the last 12  army institute for research  difference, so that we can  
years and has been connected  gave a talk … all about ebola  be proud of what we’ve  of the honesty committee.”  
with a hospital there. They’re  and the response.”  done,” Taylor said. “i’d like  
also in desperate need of  The campaign has part- to challenge everyone to get  
assistance.”  nered with undergraduate  involved.”  original allegation,”  
Taylor said the campaign  student groups including  fore making a  
has teamed up with the  nd fighting nTds, nd8 and  Contact Catherine Owers at  
hospital sisters mission  Timmy global health, Taylor  cowers@nd.edu  

that the appeal process for the five players would be the same 
The honor code distinguish­es between major, minor and flagrant offenses and outlines 
and appeal process separately for flagrant 
according to the code, stu­dents have the right to appeal the honesty committee’s deci­sion that a student is responsible for offense and/or the penalty attached to the dean of the col­lege involved. for a major or minor offense, he or she must appeal “no later than seven days from the date notification of the decision and penalty was sent by the committee,” although the dean could extend this deadline 
“grounds for appeal are lim­
discovered 

committee hearing which is relevant to 
a violation has occurred or to the evalua­tion of its gravity; the presence of a procedural defect in the
 investigation or honesty committee hearing; or evidence of personal bias on the part of members of the honesty 
likely influ­enced the committee’s decision that a violation has occurred or its assignment of a penalty,” the 
To appeal the decision or penalty involving a major or
 student must provide a detailed written statement of the reasons for the appeal both to the dean of the college or school in which the of­fense occurred and to the chair 
The dean “should not con­duct a new hearing on the but be-decision, he or she “is required to speak with the chair of the honesty 

paid adverTisemenT 
committee to understand fully the committee’s reasons for its original decision and to discuss the dean’s reasons for consider­ing a change in that decision,” the code states 
The dean deciding the ap­peal could: overrule the finding of the honesty committee that a violation occurred and dis­miss the charge in its entirety; remand the case to the original honesty committee for a new hearing or follow-up “either be­cause of new evidence or pro­cedural defect;” create a new honesty committee to consider the alleged violation if “there is evidence that personal bias may have affected the original committee’s decision;” agree with the decision but decrease the severity of the penalty; or agree with both the decision and the penalty, affirming the decision. 
for flagrant offenses, the case proceeds automatically on appeal to the dean, the code states. The student can appear before the dean to discuss the appeal, and the dean has the same five options when evaluat­ing appeals of flagrant offenses as he/she does for major or mi­nor offenses. 
if a student has been found responsible for repeated viola­tions, the standard penalty is dismissal from the university, according to the code. 
“dismissal is separation from the university for at least one semester,” the code states. “unless otherwise specified, the student is eligible to apply for readmission to notre dame, but readmission is not automatic. 
“permanent dismissal is separation from the university with no opportunity to apply for readmission.” 
To be readmitted, a dismissed student must submit an appli­cation and his or her readmis­sion must be approved by the dean of the college involved and the associate provost chairing the university code of honor committee (currently hugh page, vice president and associ­ate provost for undergraduate affairs and dean of the first year of studies). 
if the dismissal is permanent, the student has the right to a re­view “of any aspect of the case for any reason” by the office of the president, the code states. decisions of the president’s office will be final. 
in a statement oct. 6, browne acknowledged that “it can be difficult for students, regard­less of culpability, who are sub­ject to such reviews, especially when public scrutiny becomes so magnified for those who are student-athletes,” and said “we are working to resolve these sit­uations as quickly as possible.” 
These cases provided “a complex set of circumstances that required thoroughness,” browne said friday, and “ap­propriate parties were working as expeditiously as possible on them.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COlumN 

‘The americans’ 
Emmet Farnan 
photographer 

The average american of today has an 
overwhelming amount of Tv shows to 
choose from when taking a break from ev­
eryday life. with many television providers 
offering packages that include nearly 500 
channels and with somewhere around 400 
original series being produced each year, 
it is a difficult task to find a television show 
worth following these days. granted, one 
solution to this problem is to get netflix, for 
it’s the ideal route to binge watching gossip 
girl until 7 a.m. instead of finishing that 
philosophy reading. 

nonetheless, there is still hope for televi­
sion shows to watch this upcoming year to 
fill up the one-hour break from school you 
need each week. after all, with the exception 
of some great series such as house of cards, 
all the shows you are streaming online orig­
inally aired sometime on television. 
Traditionally, the “worthwhile” original 
series to follow were limited to the major us 
broadcasting networks such as abc, cbs, 
foX and nbc, but times are changing. in 
2008, amc released a show unlike any other 
– breaking bad. anyone who has watched the series, will confirm that it is one of their favorite Tv series of all time, and it rightfully won 111 awards over its five-season lifetime. breaking bad’s incredible success proved a minimum of two things: first, that chemis­try can be pretty valuable after high school, and secondly, that Tv series with remark­able writing can be found off the traditional major broadcasting channels. 
This brings me to The americans, an fX original created and produced by a former cia agent, Joe weisberg. set in the cold war era, the show follows a seemingly standard american family who happen to be two russian spies helping “The motherland.” The show is everything you could imagine in a spy thriller and then some. i won’t lie, i only watched the first episode two years ago after i saw in the commercials that the female lead was the smoking hot Keri russell. but after 10 minutes of viewing, i was hooked on the show’s premise. 
as the series progresses, the spy couple has to balance carrying out their duties as spies via a myriad of alternate personas, appearing as a typical american family to neighbors and being parents to their two kids who are unaware of their parents’ al­ternate lives. filled with enough action for any macho man and enough emotion for a girls night in, the writers of the series strike interesting chords within any viewer. an unexpected effect begins to take hold: you begin rooting for russians who are trying to undermine america. The result is a captivat­ing moral dilemma that can only be solved by waiting until the next episode to maybe cheer for the us for once… or maybe not. 
The third season should air in January 2015 and should most definitely be your favorite drama of the spring semester. 
Contact Emmet Farnan at                    efarnan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Candy wall crush test 

Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 

my friends and i have been developing a theory for quite some time now. Though what we propose may be viewed as a rather unfounded claim or too trivial for university-funded research, it could be quite valuable for this school’s student body. we believe there is a lot you can tell about people sim­ply based on the contents of their candy wall bags from the huddle. we’ve developed this idea much further than just identifying an individual as “sweet” or “sour.” a glimpse into someone’s paper bag of candy provides a preview of his or her most fundamental characteristics. one particular as­sortment of sweets can serve as the window to the soul. 
bearing our proposal in mind, the huddle’s candy wall seems the perfect place to take that special nd crush on a first date. This outing will give you the inside scoop (pun to­tally intended) on your date’s personality and may even fore­tell the future of a relationship with this special somebody. The other night my friends and i took a 1 a.m. trip to lafun to explore each available sweet treat and interview some candy wall customers, asking questions like, “what would you like to see in your significant other’s bag?” 
one student answered that every time he goes to the can­dy wall, he likes to experiment with different assortments and try new things. he hopes his crush might have a similar approach. 
Take what you will from this. it could mean nothing, but i think a lot can be deduced from this student’s particular candy wall preferences. 
a bit of light research and many groundless assumptions have lead me to develop a basic overview of what various sweet assortments could insinuate about a person. i’ve out­lined a few of these below. 
only chocolates: you are on a date with one sultry soul. your nd crush most likely has a complex and rich char­acter and is probably worth getting to know on a deeper level. however, if you aren’t prepared for savory nights of profound talks, red wine and adele playing softly in the background, you may want to make this your last candy wall rendezvous. 
The sour, sugarcoated and colorful: sour patch Kids, gummy worms and peach rings are sure signs of extrover­sion and outgoingness. This individual has tons of en­ergy but isn’t the most attentive, and may have difficulty 
EDITORIAl CARTOON 

concentrating. your candy wall crush may not be the best person to study with, but is definitely a fun time on the weekends! club fever’s dance floor should be the next meet­ing spot. 
large amount of candy corn: This person is going to be fun to date for a while, but after spending too much time with this individual, you may get sick of it…conceivably to the point of nausea. yikes! Too many candy corns is a sure sign that this relationship may not be of the long-term vari­ety. aim to keep this fling seasonal. 
swedish fish: if your “bae” selects a sizeable amount of swedish fish, this could be a sign that you’re on a date with someone a bit basic. These gummies are easily the most rudimentary candies the huddle has to offer, a bit bland and unoriginal. nevertheless, you’re going to need further evidence before diagnosing your candy wall date with “the basic.” wearing lulu lemon yoga pants or vineyard vines? suggesting stopping by starbucks for non-fat vanilla lattes after the huddle? These additional factors can also indicate basic-ness. 
The prepackaged, wrapped stuff: This individual prefers to play it safe and is always on top of everything. Though maybe not that easy-going, there are some definite positives to dating a cautious person.  for example, this relationship could lead to the development of some great time manage­ment and organizational skills! 
Too much of one thing: your date has a propensity for put­ting all their eggs in one basket. in other words, he or she could end up being totally dependent on you and things could get clingy. look closely for any hint of variety. if your date fills the bag with both malt balls and Jelly bean raspberry, you’re probably in the clear, as these individuals are simply very confident in what they like. if there is liter­ally only one type of treat in their sack, you may want to take a step back—this is the first date, after all. nothing serious. 
Just a bag of blow pops: This is just really bizarre. i, per­sonally, would stay away. 
but who knows … could be your thing. 
Paige Affinito is a junior Accounting and English major. She has found that humor is much easier to capture in 140 char­acters than in 700 words. She can be reached at paffinit@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Concerned about condoms 
Charlie Ducey 
english channeled 

when i first arrived in oxford, england, i found my­self walking through hurricane-grade rain with 100+ pounds of luggage. Though i enjoyed the help of a fel­low notre dame student, the luggage-based workout and torrential downpour combination was not the best way to start my year abroad. 
after discovering that the student with whom i ar­rived lived 12 flights of (albeit small) stairs up a tower at new college oxford, the ascension of which required three sets of purple roller bag tricep curls at 12 reps each, i scuttled back to my own room at oriel college in the rain. luckily, my room was only a mere two stories up a rickety staircase. 
on the desk in my room, i was at first delighted to find a small bag of what were ostensibly “goodies,” what i assumed would be english baked goods or postage stamps or maybe a wifi password. instead, i found the following: promotional material for a nearby burrito restaurant (likely the endorser of the whole “goodie bag” deal), a stamp-on tattoo for a baguette shop (likely a co-sponsor), two information cards with relevant phone numbers, two balloons and a stick of fudge. 
and something else which, naively, i thought were just two connected teabags. but, to my predicted dread, they were actually two durex natural rubber latex condoms. 
i am concerned. 

why am i concerned over two silly little condoms, no more perilous per se than the two similarly elastic balloons? i am upset because i, a college student in the twenty-first century, am presumed through stereotype and dangerous  assumption to want access to these two “natural”  rubber condoms. That is, i am presumed to be entirely interested in fornication and that, apparent­ly, is more important to address  in a “goodie bag” than, say, a wifi password or a decent snack item. 
now, am i just another sexually prude nd catholic peeved about birth control? maybe, but i don’t think so. i think that i’m deeply worried and frankly offended by the stereotypes directed at me as young man. imagine, if you will, the following scenario: 
young men like to relax, right? have some down time? well, what better way to relax than with a camel ciga­rette? sure, not everyone smokes, but i’m sure a lot of british college students would want access to two free camel cigarettes. hey, why don’t we encourage them to smoke by placing the two delectable death sticks in their welcome bags? 
Too strong of a metaphor? what if i, the hedonistic, morally misguided male college student, received a commemorative oriel college shot class, complete with graduated markings for each ‘standard drink,’ in my “goodie bag” along with directions to the nearest bar? would that be a welcome option? 
The point, quite simply, is this: we should not allow stereotypes that describe some individuals in a particu­lar demographic dictate our expectations for all people of that demographic. giving oriel college students condoms in their welcome bags simply reinforces ste­reotypes of young collegiate men as lady-slaying sexual conquistadors. as the oriel college guide naively states: “university is a time to explore your body, including your sexuality.” but is collegiate sex really as calm, tame and limited in its range of consequences as an ‘explor­atory’ walk in the park? 
why else are they giving me condoms? so i can blow them up along with the balloons for festive decoration? if the “goodie bag” on my desk was meant to be any in­dicator of who i am expected to be as a college student, then i really ought to tattoo myself, eat baguettes and low-quality mexican food, blow up balloons, engage in casual socially-endorsed protected sex and cleanse my pallet with a stick of fudge. 
The standards that we as a college, as a society, set for people, especially young people, can powerfully affect who those people become. research concerning self-fulfilling prophecies in education is unfortunately clear: the expectations we place on youth greatly in­fluence their outcomes, as seen specifically in a 1983 Journal of educational psychology study by Jere brophy, among countless others. supplying young people with condoms without them even asking communicates quite simply that they are expected to have casual sex with contraception as a failsafe. 
is it too much to ask to hold college students to a higher standard, or at the very least, trust them to have the responsibility to go to a clinic or welfare of­fice to endorse some prepaid voucher for contraceptive products? 
i know that the “goodie bag” was probably not a con­scious attempt to define me, but it would be nice if we exercised a greater deal of caution in how we apply ste­reotypical expectations to young people. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Ezra Pound (English) and Gottfried Benn (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, U.K. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

changes to campus ministry 
when’s the last time you called a friend from the university-issued telephone in your dorm room?  when’s the last time you walked across campus jam­ming out on your sony walkman?  are you 0-for-2?  when’s the last time you and your friends got together to watch the newest episode of friends? believe it or not, previous generations of domers used to do all three and worse, they had to use three different de­vices to make it happen.  The humanity! 
if you answered never to all of my previous ques­tions, this article is for you.  why? you recognize that notre dame is an evolving place that changes as its students change.  The simple fact is that what worked for students in the 80s, 90s and 00s looks dif­ferent than what current students expect and hope for today. 
since i began working in campus ministry this past august, i have witnessed some exceptional cre­ativity that came about by embracing the change. staff members and students alike have worked tire­lessly to develop new programs and rebuild existing ones that help the notre dame family grow in faith. These programs include the new anchor leadership program, for students who hope to better serve cam­pus and their parish communities, and the expansion of Theology on Tap and alpha, for students who just want to learn more about their faith in general. 
while i am proud of the work that has been accom­plished so far, there is more work to be done.  my hope for campus ministry is that we can meet the needs of students today.  my dream for campus ministry is that we might be partners with students to consider new possibilities and explore them together. 
To make that dream a reality, i have asked members of the campus ministry undergraduate and gradu­ate staff to engage in a new spirituality study, which will take place during the upcoming spring semester, to explore the emerging spiritual needs of students. This initiative will allow us to both evaluate our cur­rent programs and consider new opportunities to help students in their faith journey.  we are embrac­ing the change! 
it is unclear at this point what the results of our spirituality study will bring about.  we could very well add new programs and subtract others – it all de­pends on your input.  any significant changes will be announced near the end of the current academic year and implemented in the 2015-2016 academic year. 
along with the study, we will make some immedi­ate changes to our retreats program.  specifically, we have decided to cancel the two freshman retreats next spring semester, because of the amount of time and preparation they require, to better explore other opportunities.  don’t be too bummed, members of the first year class. we still have great opportunities for you for in the spring.  Think about joining the compass formation program, sign up for a spring break pilgrimage, swing over to como for eucharistic adoration and/or join a cross examination group. campus ministry will not leave you all by yourself in the cold during the spring semester – literally, just come inside.  freshmen who were waiting to register for one of the spring retreats can still register for the fall freshman retreat taking place oct. 31 – nov. 1. (register at campusministry.nd.edu/retreats). 
we need your feedback.  To schedule a one-on­one appointment or to be a part of one of our fo­cus groups, please email ministry@nd.edu. Times change.  be part of today’s campus ministry. 
Fr.  Pete McCormick 
associate director campus ministry oct. 13 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

Think about the 1920s. if you’re like me, you probably think flappers, swing dancing and everything related to “The great gatsby.” my perception of the decade is wholly focused towards new york city and paris; the so-called “lost generation” defines my romanticized view of what the time period was like. i hardly ever bother to consider what was happening outside of europe or the united states. 
in liz rosenberg’s novel “The moonlight palace,” she explores what life was like in 1920s singapore. her pro­tagonist, seventeen-year-old agnes, is the descendant of sultan hussein, the man who “sold” singapore to britain. she grows up in a palace where she is raised by her great-uncle (the last male heir of the hussein line) and her great-grandparents, a chinese woman and british colonel. 
for agnes’ family, the 1920s are a time of declin­ing prosperity. The deal sultan hussein made with the british government is no longer valid, and they no longer hold any sort of power. They live off the military pension of “british grandfather” and the income they get from male boarders. 
The book is framed as a coming-of-age passage for agnes. adults have protected her as the last child of this aristocratic family all her life. They attempt to keep the truth of their financial strife from her and hide the 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

michael winterbottom’s “The Trip to italy” will be showing oct. 24 and 25, at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., in the browning Theatre of the debartolo performing arts Theatre.  Tickets are $4-$7.  with the coming of the 2014 film to campus, scene will take a look at the movie’s predecessor, “The Trip,” which is available for streaming on netflix. 
released in 2010, “The Trip” stars english actors steve coogan and rob brydon.  The two comedians play semi-fictionalized versions of themselves on a funded tour through the restaurants of northern england for the british newspaper “The observer" (no relation, unfortunately).  directed by english changing political issues at hand. 
This bubble they’ve created for agnes bursts when one of their boarders attempts to blow up their palace in an act of terrorism against the colonial power of britain. agnes is horrified, unable to entirely understand the boy’s motivations and equally unable to understand what the consequences will be for her and her family. 
still attempting to protect her, the "british grandfather" strikes a deal with the colonial powers to save the life of the would-be suicide bomber’s sidekick. This deal puts at stake the palace agnes has grown up in. 
The palace is an important pseudo-character in agnes’ story. she loves it as much as she loves any mem­ber of her family, and its loss would be detrimental to her. she sees it as a physical representation of her family and her ancestral past. 
it is interesting that this symbol of her personal his­tory is such a complicated symbol of colonialism in singapore. her family cannot afford to lose the pal­ace, as it is the last thing they have left from their days as members of the ruling class . They no longer have power and are being forced to bow to the wishes of the militaristic powers now taking over their country. still, for agnes and her family, the ownership of the palace seems to reaffirm their place in life. 
part of their fear of losing the palace is tied up in a fear of not knowing what they will do in the future. The palace is falling apart and at some point, they discuss 
filmmaker michael winterbottom, “The Trip” marks the second collaboration between the three men, con­tinuing the stars’ one-off portrayals established in the brilliant 2006 work “a cock and bull story.”  The film-within-a-film provided the inception for the self-centered, volatile celebrity versions of both actors, and “The Trip” sees their welcome return, providing them a much more relaxed pace and environment to explore. 
“The Trip” originally aired on bbc Two as six thirty-minute episodes of a series in 2010.  it was also edited and adapted to a feature-length film for a worldwide release in the same year, with both editions earning widespread critical acclaim.  The movie’s success comes in large part due to the two players’ commit­ments to the exaggerated versions of themselves into moving out to find a more modern place. agnes, of course, objects strongly — she is as attached to the pal­ace being a symbol of her family’s past as she is to the heroic perception she has been given of her aristocratic ancestors. 
The interesting part about agnes’ coming-of-age sto­ry is that, in the end, she is not much more aware of the issues facing her country. sure, she comes to terms with the need to let go of the past (and the palace, in order to preserve it), but rosenberg leaves us no real sense of where agnes and her family will go from there. 
regardless, the final tone of the story is hopeful. agnes looks forward to the changing times in singapore and her place there. she has her family and, for now, it seems as though her past and her palace will not be destroyed. 
in reference to my personal perceptions of the 1920s, this uncertainty leads me back to my romanticized no­tions of what it might have been like to live in that time. i always seem to forget that the end of the 1920s were not as golden as the beginning may have seemed. They were a time of extreme change, when people were realizing the benefits of an industrialized world and choosing to take advantage of them. 
“The moonlight palace” brings me back to that very concept. underneath agnes’ story is that current of change. it’s not clear what that change will bring, but it is clear that it must be accepted and embraced. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
which they escape, along with their strong chemistry and their improvisational and impression skills. 
in fact, the series and film’s attention and praise helped bring it back for a second series and film, this time taking place across italy.  “The Trip to italy” de­buted earlier in 2014 and made its way to the states in august.  it has been celebrated similarly to its prede­cessors, and it will be on-campus in browning Theatre the second weekend of fall break. 
should your fall break feel slightly underwhelming, or should you feel the need to escape to europe for a little over an hour during the next week, watch “The Trip” with us and prepare for our full-length review running Tuesday, oct. 28. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


5. “lose Control” missy Elliot 12. “Wakin' On A Pretty Day” kurt 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
vile 
scene writer 

okay, you deserve this. you just did a sol-
There are various strategies to getting id 16 minutes and 37 seconds of studying. now that you have been abruptly awoken through midterm week, some healthier and lose control. if you’re in your dorm room: by yeezus, continue your middle-of-the-night saner than others. go crazy. if you’re anywhere else: go crazy in rejuvenation by pretending you have just 
i tend to, regrettably, go the little-sleep-a controlled fashion, a la Taylor swift in her awoken “on a pretty day anywhere besides the lots-of-coffee route. i also throw in rewards seat at the 2014 vmas. hesburgh library in south bend, indiana.” to keep me going: candy, dance sessions in The song continues for nine minutes and 31 my dorm room, showers (desperate times 6. “unaccompanied Cello Suite No.1” seconds, but the spellbinding instrumentals call for desperate measures), half-priced Yo-Yo ma combined with vile’s crooning never stale. abp runs, netflix sessions and more candy. unfortunately, these rewards usually re-Time to get back to work. now i may only 13. “lovers’ carvings” Bibio quire a break from my studies (and health-know yo-yo ma from that “arthur” episode contentiousness) to indulge. fortunately, where d.w. has to go to his concert and mis-The reiterative intro leads into a groovy, i am here to present a calorie-free reward takenly refers to him as “yo mama,” how-mollifying sound attuned to invigorate your than can be appreciated while studying: a ever, this song never fails to make me feel senses. playlist. sophisticated and therefor prepared to pour 
with dreary weather furthering this over books. 14. “Jubel” klingande week’s already dismal mood, studying to a purely instrumental or bon iver lullaby-7. “Desire lines” Deerhunter The drums, lively beats and stimulating esque playlist will leave you knocked out in saxophone will leave you head bobbing along no time. This midterm week calls for tracks The mesmerizing guitar riff repeated in an exceptional mood as the repeated lyrics, that will provide ample motivation to keep during the second-half of the song will “save me” ring too true to your situation as you awake and alive in the wee hours of the tranquilize you into a state where differen-one of the last to remain sitting in hesburgh’s morning at club hes. tial equations can become your friends. fishbowl. 
8. “Genesis” Grimes 15. “Where Is my mind?” Pixies 
1. “Adult Diversion” Alvvays 
The track’s whistle-like sounds and it’s that time of night when only paid-
with its sunny beats and loopy chords, grimes’s unique, echoic vocals make for the programming graces the television (not that this track will start you out in a great mood perfect upbeat study companion. you have had time to so much as glance at a to delve into your studies. Tv in weeks). you start to regret not getting 
9. “Our love” Caribou two croissants at the abp half-price sale two 
2. “The Staunton lick” lemon Jelly hours ago. you try saying “croissant” in dif-The futuristic title track off caribou’s ferent accents. you continue on to rap “i am 
This song begins with a miniature guitar oct. 7 album, this song provides the perfect a god” under your breath. you try taking the lesson — if you brought your guitar with backdrop for a late-time cram session. pixies’ lyrics to heart and switch up your pos­you to the library, you obviously weren’t iting in the chair “with your feet in the air and planning to study very hard anyway, so 10. “Hardest Geometry Problem In you head on the ground.” you get some weird strum away a few chords and provide your The World” mark mothersbaugh looks. you question your sanity. you trudge peers with some entertainment. The track on. continues into a hypnotizing instrumental The fast-paced violin and background piece with an intriguing overlay of reiter-chimes on this song from the soundtrack to 16. “Descent Into madness (feat. ated tunes. wes anderson’s “rushmore” is there to aid Thundercat)” Flying lotus 
you in solving the hardest geometry, calcu­
3. “April’s Song” Real Estate lus or linear equation in the world. as the lyrics, “can't you see the walls are closing in/closer to the end/welcome to the 
continuing with the up-tempo instru-11. “Send It up” kanye West descent/into madness,” from this track off mental music to keep you in a concentrated flying lotus’s oct. 6 album, “you’re dead!” yet uplifted mindset, real estate carries in classic Kanye wes anderson fashion, eerily mimic your situation: go to sleep before through with this synthy diddy. we move from “rushmore” to “yeezus.” This the album title applies to your life as well. 
track is my go to pump-up for when the clock 
4. “Tornado” Jonsi hits 2 a.m. and you’re still in club hes. The si-listen to this playlist and more from ren noise in the background combined with our scene staff on our spotify account, 
with a uniquely soothing voice and Kanye’s nonsensical, narcissistic lyrics makes observerscene. strong instrumental backing, this track de-for the perfect library session revival. “yeezus livers the calm before the storm. (and you) just rose again.” Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AuTHORITY 

fontaine boasts world-class record 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the third in a 10-part series in which our writers debate what is the most unbreakable record in sports. Follow along with the conver­sation on Twitter using the hashtag #UnbreakableRecord 
barry bonds’ 762 home runs may lead the mlb in most home runs ever hit in a career, but technically there are oth­ers who have hit more in pro­fessional baseball. sadaharu oh amassed 868 home runs over his career in the Japanese nippon professional baseball league. brett favre has 71,838 passing yards in the nfl, but damon allen of the canadian football league put up 72,381. ucla may have had an 88 con­secutive-game win streak, but that’s nothing compared to the globetrotters’ 8,829 straight victories spanning 24 years from 1971-1995. 
it is easy to say pete rose’s career hit record of 4,256 hits never will be broken when one doesn’t take into consideration that ichiro suzuki didn’t en­ter mlb until he was 27. rose played for 24 seasons in the mlb, which means he aver­aged 177.3 hits per season and 
1.19 hits a game. in 14 seasons, ichiro has tallied 2,844 hits, which averages to 203.14 hits per season and 1.29 per game. This is all speculation about what if ichiro had come into the mlb earlier, but it puts rose’s record into perspective. 
The problem with these sports records is that they are not done on the world stage. They are limited to one coun­try and one league and do not take every other professional league or athlete in the respec­tive sport into consideration. imagine if bonds, favre or ucla had to play against only all-star teams; they probably would not do as well. 
This is why Just fontaine’s 13-goal performance at the 1958 fifa world cup is the most unbreakable record of all time. against the world’s great­est teams, in a world-inclusive tournament, displaying the best talent football (soccer) has to offer, fontaine put up 13 goals in six games. he aver­aged more than two goals a game. 
in his only world cup ap­pearance, fontaine went off on a scoring spree for france, which eventu­ally took third. he had three goals against paraguay, two against yugoslavia, one against scotland, two against northern ireland, one against brazil and four against the defending champions west germany in the third-place match. along with this record, fontaine nabbed the most consecutive games with a goal (six), most games with at least two goals (four) and most hat tricks (two) in a world cup. 
france scored 23 goals in the tournament, so fontaine’s 13 was more than half of his country’s goal production, about 57 percent. fontaine scored more goals individu­ally than every other team’s combined goals for the tour­nament, except for the cham­pion, brazil, which had 16 goals as a team. second-place sweden and fourth-place west germany both had 12 team goals for the tournament. fontaine was unstoppable in 1958. 
gerd müller of germany had 10 goals in 1970 and ronaldo of brazil had eight in 2002. These are the two closest players since fontaine’s magical world cup. everyone in the world has had a shot at this record, and yet no one has come close. 
This performance was done in fontaine’s only world cup appearance. yet, he still is the fourth all-time scorer in fifa world cup history. miraslov Klose of germany is the top scorer with 16 goals, ronaldo has 15 and müller has 14. Klose and ronaldo appeared in four and three world cups, respec­tively, while müller appeared in two. fontaine accomplished in one world cup what most can’t do in a lifetime. pele, who often is considered the best soccer player ever and who also appeared in four world cups, rounds out the top-five goal scorers with 12. 
unfortunately, fontaine had to cut his career short due to recurring injury at the age of 
28. The guys around him in the record books all had mul­tiple attempts to make his­tory; fontaine had only one. records like emmett smith’s rushing record of 18,355 rush­ing yards or cy young’s 511 wins or Jerry rice’s 22,895 receiving yards were due to lengthy and healthy careers. if fontaine had had more oppor­tunities, there is no doubt he would be atop the list of fifa world cup goal scorers. but he had only one. 
fifty-six years and 14 world cup competitions later, fontaine holds the record for most goals in a single tourna­ment. and for the world, it likely will stay that way. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TRACk 

Prosecutor says Pistorius offered Steenkamps money 
Associated Press 

preToria, south africa — oscar pistorius offered $34,000 to the family of girl­friend reeva steenkamp after he killed her, but they rejected it because they did not want “blood money,” a prosecutor said Tuesday at the sentencing hearing for the double-amputee athlete. 
chief prosecutor gerrie nel also referred to separate monthly payments of $550 that pistorius apparently did make to steenkamp’s parents after they asked for help. nel said those would be paid back in full. 
The revelations emerged while nel was cross-exam­ining a social worker over what pistorius’ punish­ment should be for shooting steenkamp. The social work­er testified that pistorius should be placed under house arrest, rather than sent to prison, after his con­viction for culpable homi­cide, or negligent killing. 
social worker annette vergeer, one of four wit­nesses called by the defense, said south african jails are violent and overcrowded and that the athlete would be under duress because of his disability and fragile mental state resulting from the night he fired four times through a toilet door in his home, killing steenkamp. pistorius testified he mis­took her for an intruder and denied prosecution asser­tions that he shot her during an argument. 
additionally, vergeer said, pistorius — who in 2012 was the first amputee athlete to run at the olympics — has the potential to be a pro­ductive member of society again. a sentence of house arrest and work at a school for disabled children would be more appropriate, she said. 
prison “will not assist him but will break him as a per­son,” she said. 
prosecutor nel challenged vergeer, saying her knowl­edge of the south african prison system was limited and out of date. he also asked why she didn’t mention in her report on pistorius that she knew the family of the woman he killed turned down money. 
outside the courtroom, a lawyer for steenkamp’s parents said they had asked him to contact pistorius’ attorneys weeks after the feb. 14, 2013 shooting be­cause they were struggling financially. pistorius offered them monthly payments and asked they be kept confiden­tial, steenkamp lawyer dup de bruyn said. 
yet steenkamp’s mother June referred to the other of­fer of $34,000 that the family rejected as “blood money” and asked prosecutor nel to call it that in court, de bruyn said. 
“The words ‘blood money’ are her words,” de bruyn said. 
Judge Thokozile masipa found pistorius, 27, not guilty of murder, conclud­ing he acted hastily and with excessive force, but didn’t intend to kill steenkamp, a 29-year-old model. The 
judge  has  wide  latitude  
when  deciding  on  a  sen­ 
tence.  pistorius could re­ 

ceive a fine and a suspended jail term or as many as 15 years in prison. 

PGA | pga grand slam of golf 
Kaymer leads in bermuda 
Associated Press 

souThampTon, bermuda 
— u.s. open champion martin Kaymer seized con­trol with a tap-in birdie fol­lowed by an eagle on his way to a 6-under 65 and a two-shot lead over bubba watson in the pga grand slam of golf on Tuesday. 
british open and pga champion rory mcilroy fell back after a strong start and had a 69. Jim furyk, the al­ternate in the 36-hole exhibi­tion for the year’s four major champions, was seven shots behind after a 73. 
Kaymer was about as flawless as when he won at pinehurst no. 2 in the sum­mer. his lone mistake was a three-putt bogey on the par-3 13th, though that hardly got in the way of his five birdies 

FOR RENT 

Commencement rental - next to campus and Eddy Street Commons. Walk to everything. Email for addition­al details. nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
and an eagle. The final round is wednesday at port royal. 
“it’s just important that you don’t relax, that you try to keep going, because i have to play against players that are not playing on the challenge Tour,” Kaymer said, referring 
to  europe’s  developmental  
circuit.  
Kaymer is  no. 12 in the  
world,  the  lowest-ranked  

player in the field of major champions. 
he built a quick lead with birdies on the opening two holes, and his round picked up momentum with two shots on the sixth and sev­enth holes. his wedge from 120 yards on no. 6 stopped 2 inches from the hole. Kaymer followed with an 8-iron from 186 yards to 6 feet for an eagle. 
“once i hit it, it felt really good,” he said of the shot at no. 6. “i just didn’t think it was long enough. and it wasn’t — it was 2 inches short.” 
Kaymer missed only two greens in regulation, and he drove the green on the dogleg left, 355-yard 10th hole for a two-putt birdie. 
watson was one shot be­hind when everyone except Kaymer made bogey on the par-3 16th. 
mcilroy was 3 under through seven holes and doing his best to stay with Kaymer until a pair of three-putt bogeys approaching the turn. 
“i started pretty well, and then the two bogeys on 8 and 9 sort of took the wind out of my sails a little bit,” mcilroy said. “and i just found it hard to get going after that.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Number of Heisman Trophy winners  Florida: 3  
per school:  Michigan: 3  
Notre Dame: 7  Nebraska: 3  
Ohio State: 7  Auburn: 3  
USC: 7  Florida State: 3  
Oklahoma: 5  Georgia: 2  
Army: 3  Miami: 2  



mlB | gianTs 5, cardinals 4 (10) 
giants beat cardinals on choate error, grab series lead 
Associated Press 
san francisco — once the giants finally got a bunt down, the rest was easy. 
a wild throw by reliever randy choate on a bunt al­lowed brandon crawford to score the winning run in the bottom of the 10th inning, lift­ing the san francisco giants over the st. louis cardinals 5-4 on Tuesday for a 2-1 lead in the nl championship series. 
crawford drew an eight-pitch walk from choate to begin the inning, ending a stretch of 16 straight giants retired since Tim hudson’s two-out single in the fourth. after failing on two sacrifice attempts, Juan perez singled to bring up gregor blanco. 
blanco fouled off a bunt try, too, but then pushed one to the left side of the mound and the left-handed choate’s sidearmed throw sailed past lunging sec­ond baseman Kolten wong, who was covering first base. 
“we don’t do anything easy,” giants manager bruce bochy said. “we might have got a little lucky there with perez when he couldn’t get a bunt down and he gets a base hit. but blanco laid down a beauty. ... i don’t know if that’s luck as much as great bunt, great speed to put pres­sure on them.” 

randal grichuk tied it with a solo homer in the seventh that chased hudson. 
game 4 in the best-of-seven series is wednesday night, with ryan vogelsong pitching for the giants against fellow righty shelby miller. 
This walkoff win came 12 years to the day after Kenny lofton’s single in the ninth in­ning ended the 2002 nlcs against the cardinals and sent the giants to the world series. 
playing without injured catcher yadier molina, the cardinals had their chances. They squandered wong’s dou­ble in the second before he de­livered a wind-aided, two-run triple in the fourth. 
Javier lopez got the first two outs of the 10th before Jon Jay’s single, just the third hit by a left-handed batter against lopez since he joined san francisco in 2010. Two of those are by Jay this series. 
sergio romo entered and retired matt holliday on a full-count grounder to third that pablo sandoval snared and fired to first. 
molina, nursing a strained left oblique sustained in game 2 sunday, began warming up 
paid adverTisemenT 
Trevor rosenthal in the bullpen in the ninth but never played. 
a.J. pierzynski went hitless in four at-bats starting in molina’s place for st. louis’ first postsea­son games back at aT&T park since losing games 6 and 7 of the 2012 nlcs, which it had led 3-1. san francisco went on to capture its second world series title in three years. 
Journeyman Travis ishikawa hit a three-run double in the first to stake hudson to a 4-0 lead in his first postseason start beyond the division series in a 16-year career. 
hudson struck out five in 6 1-3 innings before giving way to Jeremy affeldt. 
st. louis, last in the nl with 105 home runs during the reg­ular season, has 12 in seven playoff games — eight in the seventh inning or later. The cardinals connected in the seventh, eighth and ninth in sunday’s 5-4 win. 
hunter pence’s rbi double off John lackey got things started in the first, the first time the giants scored in the initial in­ning this postseason. buster posey and sandoval hit con­secutive two-out singles and ishikawa followed an inten­tional walk to brandon belt to load the bases with his double. 

SmC CROSS COuNTRY 
Belles prepare for Rumble in Oberlin 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will travel to oberlin, ohio, to compete in the oberlin inter-regional rumble on saturday. 
The belles head into the week­end coming off a fourth-place finish at the benedictine eagle invitational. at the invitational, five belles runners achieved personal best times and belles coach Jackie bauters thinks saint mary’s can build off of this momentum. 
“i’m hoping we have solid, similar performances from the past weekend,” bauters said. “i’m hoping that we’re going in rested and mentally prepared. i feel a lot of what we did well last week was being mentally ready to race and working off of that. i feel like getting through that mental bar­rier was huge. i think now it’s stay the course and continuing to improve.” 
for the belles, this is first time this season they have raced on back-to-back weekends, and bauters said rest will be the key. 
“we’re trying to make sure [the team gets] a little bit more rest this week,” bauters said. “[The team] looked good yes­terday, they didn’t look like they were still tired from friday. ... hopefully we’ll get some quality work in today and take the rest of the week pretty easy so we’re feeling fresh for saturday.” 
at the rumble, saint mary’s will compete against a few high-ly-ranked teams, including no. 5 oberlin college. bauters said she is eager to see her team compete against high-powered programs. 
“we’re excited to race against some really great teams,” bauters said. “our racing strategy will be a little bit different. ... There’s a lot more women in the race, but the caliber should only help us in the long run.” 
The belles look to gain some momentum saturday before going into the miaa championship, which is a little more than two weeks away, bauters said. he added the championship is something the team has on its mind. 
“yesterday, we talked about the fact that [the champion­ship is] only three short weeks away,” bauters said. “we talked about the need for us to do all the little things right on a day­to-day basis so that we’re there, healthy and prepared. There are three though weeks mentally and physically, and just keeping it fresh in your mind so you’re prepared for it when it comes is important.” 
The inter-regional rumble will take place this saturday at 11 
a.m. in oberlin, ohio. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBAll 
spartan defense a work in progress 
Associated Press 
easT lansing, mich. — The pieces are in place. now michigan state’s defense just needs a bit of fine-tuning. 
“i think we’re playing oK,” coach mark dantonio said Tuesday. “statistically, we have given up some plays, but we have won the football games.” 
The spartans (5-1, 2-0 big Ten) need to allow fewer “explosive plays,” dantonio said, defining those as runs of 15 yards or more and passes of 20 yards or more. and that work starts with slow­ing the nation’s leading rusher, indiana’s Tevin coleman, when the spartans travel to indiana (3-3, 0-2) on saturday. 
last weekend, michigan state’s defense allowed 14 points in the 4th quarter, including a 52-yard touchdown run, and 340 yards during the 45-31 win at purdue. The team didn’t perform as well as it did one week prior against nebraska, perhaps the best show­ing of the season. 
“i think we had more energy against nebraska,” sophomore linebacker riley bullough said. “i think we’ve just got to finish. we did a pretty good job, we’ve just got to keep our momentum rolling from the first three quarters and we’ll be fine.” 
The spartans actively pursued coleman as a defensive back in high school. in last season’s meet­ing with michigan state, coleman looked just fine at tailback, break­ing free for a 64-yard run just over a minute into the game on the hoosiers’ first possession, putting indiana up 7-0. 
That play serves as a reminder of what the hoosiers’ star running back is capable of this week. 
“we can see that from last year and we can see it from this year in how he’s been playing,” senior middle linebacker Taiwan Jones said. “we know we gotta go in, eliminate their big plays on offense in general and continue playing michigan state football.” 
in the end, michigan state beat indiana 42-28 last year, but those 28 points were tied for the most the spartans gave up all season. 




ROWING 

Team readies for Charles Regatta 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame will head east to compete in the 50th head of the charles regatta in cambridge, massachusetts, this weekend. 
The regatta, which has been held annually since 1965, lasts for two days and consists of two races: the draw for championship eight and the draw for champion­ship four. it hosts some of the best crew teams from around the world, with competitors ranging from alabama to ox ford. 
“i think it will be a great learning experience for the athletes,” irish coach martin stone said. “They have the opportunity to compete against some of the best row-ers/coxswains in the world.” 
The regatta is notre dame’s first true race of the fall sea­son after it raced michigan and michigan state on sept. 14 in an exhibition regatta in belleview, michigan. 
stone said the key for the irish will be to focus on their own times instead of the abilities of the other teams attending the regatta. 
“we just need to focus on making our boats go as fast as possible,” stone said. “we only have control over our speed and cannot do any­thing about the other teams. some of the other teams are among the fastest in the world. others have tradi­tionally been the fastest at the ncaa championships. The teams in the events we are racing have tremendous speed. i think all of our row­ers will race at a high level.” 
in the draw for champion­ship eight race, the irish will compete against several uni­versity teams, including top squads like brown, virginia and princeton, along with international teams like cambridge and oxford. 
The race also features sev­eral club crews, including the cambridge boat club and radcliffe crew. rounding out the stiff competition, the reigning world cham­pion u.s. women’s eight will start three spots ahead of the irish in the champion­ship eight event. 

The draw for champion­ship four race includes boats from virginia, syracuse and yale. also competing is the don rowing club, as well as the u.s. national Team. 
notre dame will travel to cambridge this weekend for the all-day competi­tions on the charles river in cambridge, massachusetts. 
Contact Michael Ivey at                  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

NHl | islanders 6, rangers 3 
islanders win first new york matchup of the year 
Associated Press 

new yorK — Kyle okposo scored his 100th nhl goal to snap a tie 48 seconds into the third period, and the undefeated new york islanders netted four goals on seven shots in the final frame to beat the sliding new york rangers 6-3 on Tuesday night. 
The islanders, who opened with a home-and-home sweep of carolina, improved to 3-0 when they broke loose for four goals in the first 10:59 of the third to send the rangers (1-3) to their third straight loss. okposo made the most of the second costly turn­over by defenseman michael Kostka to score his first of the season. 
brock nelson made it 4-2 at 4:50 with his fourth goal, and mikhail grabovski connected 30 seconds later to make it a three-goal edge. ryan strome assisted on those two goals that left rangers goalie henrik lundqvist on his knees and shaking his head. 
nick leddy finished the bar­rage with 9:01 left to make it 6-2. Johnny boychuk scored in the first period, and John Tavares tied it in the second for the islanders. Jaroslav halak was sharp in mak­ing 40 saves. 
lundqvist was routed for the second straight game. he al­lowed five goals in the second period and six overall on sunday to Toronto in the home opener before being pulled. it is the first time he has allowed at least five goals in consecutive starts. 
rick nash scored for the fourth straight game for the rangers, and derick brassard gave them their second lead of the night in the second period. nash netted his second of the game and sixth of the season to make it 6-3 with 
2:10 left. The rangers held a 43­27 shots edge but have been out­scored 17-8 during their skid. 
The rangers pressured halak throughout the second period, yet managed only one goal against him despite holding a 21-8 shots advantage. 

paid adverTisemenT 



m Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
prepared.” 
The first half ended in a scoreless draw. graduate student senior leon brown took notre dame’s first shot on goal just wide of the left post in the seventh minute. The wildcats responded with a direct shot on goal by junior forward Joey calistri, but graduate student goal­keeper patrick wall made the save. hodan had a first-half scoring opportunity when he ricocheted the ball off the cross bar on a corner kick. 
notre dame’s next best op­portunity to score surfaced with senior forward vince cicciarelli’s series of runs, starting in the 27th minute. a diving header initiated his first chance at scoring, which he followed with two subsequent shots on goal in the next two minutes. 
“i thought vince was ter­rific in the first half,” clark said. “vince had three great chances, great runs by him and great passes. The only thing for vince is, it would be nice if he finished one of these, and it would take a little pressure off … but it was great he was making the runs, and it is great we are finding him.” 
after a back-and-forth play in the opening 15 minutes of the second half, notre dame substituted freshman for­ward Jon gallagher in for brown in 60th minute. six minutes later, northwestern sophomore defender nathan dearth took gallagher down in the box. 
hodan took the penalty kick and netted it in the bot­tom right corner to put the irish up, 1-0. hodan has tal­lied three goals in the past three games for the irish, with a total of four on the season. 
“i thought we moved the ball pretty well [tonight],” hodan said. “we created some chances, and we just found open space. we’ve been playing well these past few games, and we’ve been finding ways to win, which is important come tournament time.” 
despite a close northwestern shot in the last 10 seconds of play, the irish held the wildcats at bay, 1-0. 
overall, notre dame out-shot the wildcats, 15-5, and led in shots on goal, 4-2. clark said even though the irish attack slowed fol­lowing hodan’s goal, the attack showed a strong per­formance throughout the match. 
“i thought leon played well. … he’s got so much experience, [and] it’s re­ally very helpful,” clark said. “Then, Jon came on, and he drew the penalty for the goal. in a funny way, all the strikers contributed to some extent throughout the ga me.” 
The irish defense stood its ground as well. wall made two saves to post his fifth shutout of the season. 
“it was good for the de­fense to get a shutout,” clark said. “pat wasn’t over­worked, but when he was called on, he had a vital save right at the death. These are the shots on the ground that can sometimes slip in. [The shutout] was good for pat and the whole defense.” 
now on a two-game win­ning streak, the irish head to durham, north carolina, to take on duke on friday at 8 p.m. 8 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


ND WOmEN’S SWImmING 

Irish travel south for pair of meets over break 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 

no. 24 notre dame will look to build on its early-season success when it travels south to atlanta and auburn, alabama, this weekend. 
friday will see the irish (1-0) swimming against host georgia Tech and south carolina before they head west to take on no. 15 auburn and vanderbilt on saturday. 
“we’re into october now, so we’ve got some worn out girls,” irish assistant coach ryan van gunten said. “Their tired, but they’re competing. They’re a de­termined group of girls.” 
notre dame has had two strong showings thus far, win­ning a dual meet it hosted against michigan state on oct. 3, 182-118, before placing sec­ond to no. 16 ohio state in the four-team dennis stark relays hosted last friday at the rolfs aquatic center. 
irish senior emma reaney leads the way for the swimmers with four first-place event fin­ishes, after winning the 100- and 200-yard breaststroke races as well as being a part of the first place 200-yard medley relay team against the spartans. she then added another first place in the 300-yard butterfly relay team alongside fellow seniors bridget casey and courtney whyte, who was also a part of the 200-yard medley relay team against michigan state. casey won the 200-yard individual butterfly race the weekend prior as well. 
The diving duo of juniors lindsey streepey and emma gaboury teamed up to sweep the gold medals in the 1-meter diving relay and 3-meter syn­chronized diving last weekend at the stark relays. This sweep followed steepey’s individual victory of the diving events against michigan state. 
“we have very experienced divers who have set lofty goals for themselves,” van gunten said. “They’ve been training like they want to achieve those goals, too, so that has been great to see so far.” 
This is the first road trip of the year for notre dame, after it spent the last two weekends at home. in addition to continuing the hard early-season training sessions in the pool, the week will be especially busy for the irish, as they grind through mid­term exam week. van gunten said he knows the week will be tough for the girls, but he feels confident they will be able to put on a good showing this weekend. 
“i haven’t seen anything in their energy or attitude this week in practice so far to show that they are letting it affect them too much,” van gunten said. “i just want to see them use great strat­egy in their races and give it their all and compete. i know it’s kind of cliché, but that’s what it is, they’ve got to compete. They’re going to be tired, but i don’t want them to sit back and let the other swimmers dictate the races. 
“we have to be fast. we’ll be facing an acc school in georgia Tech and an sec school on friday and then two more sec schools on saturday, so the competition is going to be very good.” 
with interim head coach Tim welsh out of town for the week, van gunten said it had been pretty busy around the office, so he had not had the time to break down the times and results from the other teams’ early season meets. while there may be some shifting of line-ups to possibly use any advantages the irish have, van gunten said this early in the season, they are keeping the bigger picture in mind. 
“really at this time, we are still getting a feel for where we’re at physically right now,” van gunten said. “we’re just going to go out and see where we’re at. we just need to keep working hard here in the early season to get to where we want to be.” 
The irish will square off with georgia Tech and south carolina on friday at 4 p.m. at the campus recreation center in atlanta and then will meet auburn and vanderbilt the next afternoon at 2 p.m. at the James 
e. martin aquatic center in auburn, alabama. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 




Football 
conTinued from page 16 
Kelly said Tuesday that williams told him he would like to return in 2015. williams played in each of his first three seasons in south bend, so the defen­sive end has one more sea­son of remaining eligibility. during his standard Tuesday teleconference early in the afternoon, Kelly said he had not seen davaris daniels’ tweet and said williams and russell are the only players who had spoken to him about their decisions. Kelly said, to his knowledge, williams and russell are not allowed to stay in school for the current fall semester. 
moore, who graduated in may from the college of arts and letters with a de­gree in film, Television and Theatre (fTT) and was tak­ing graduate courses, said notre dame’s decision is “disappointing.” 
“notre dame has rendered its decisions,” moore wrote on instagram. “while it is disappointing, i will respect­fully leave my alma mater as a proud may 2014 graduate of the institution that i have respectfully loved and given my best efforts during my college career. 
“regardless of this an­nounced outcome, my personal and ethical in­tegrity remain intact and i have honored my collegiate journey from the begin­ning straight through to this end and i will take on the next chapters in my life with the same progressive commitment to excellence, hard work and relentless determination toward un­limited success. 

“… i want to thank my family, friends and fans for the support. i want to thank notre dame for the oppor­tunity and i wish my team­mates and this program all of the success in the world.” 
all five players are still enrolled at notre dame, a university spokesman said Tuesday. daniels, williams, russell and moore had been held out of practice and com­petition since aug. 15 during the probe into “suspected academic dishonesty.” 
notre dame announced aug. 28 that irish senior safety eilar hardy would be withheld from practice and competition, as well. 
notre dame announced its investigation aug. 15. The university said “evidence that students had submitted papers and homework that had been written for them by others” was initially detect­ed at the end of the summer session and referred to the compliance office in ath­letics July 29. notre dame said the office of general counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
Kelly said “nobody” has spoken to him about the concept of vacating victories still being in play. 
“it hasn’t been addressed to me in a formal setting and talked about as here’s the next step, here’s what we’re going to do,” Kelly said. “i haven’t had that meet­ing with [irish director of athletics] Jack swarbrick about what is the next step if there is a next step.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued from page 14 
have that this season.” 
romagnolo said all the opponents in the upcoming week deserve attention and concentration. 
Though notre dame has enjoyed success in recent weeks, romagnolo empha­sized that the team has to take the season one game at a time and not lose the tough mentality they aim for. 
“it’s important for us to re­member that we need to show up every day,” romagnolo said. “we have pretty high confidence right now, but getting wins is about con­tinuing to bring that edge when we step on the field and asserting our will on our opponent.” 
The irish will travel to syracuse to take on the orange (5-7-3, 2-4-0 acc) on saturday at 5 p.m., then will return home to alumni stadium to face clemson (10­2-2, 3-2-1 acc) on oct. 23 at 7 p.m. and louisville (5-6­2, 2-2-2 acc) on oct. 26 at 1 p.m. 1 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at      rgriffi6@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


ROSIE BIEHL | The Observer 

Irish freshman forward Karin Muya passes against Baylor on Sept. 
12.Muya scored one of ND’s five goals against Miami last weekend. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 32 Petting zoo 60 What 17-, 26-1 Stealth 
sound or 45-Across might say upon6 Bird or human 33 Long Island meeting 17-, 26-town
11 Kind of nut or 45-Across? 
36 It may follow

14 Falcon-headed 62 Prefix with
directions

Egyptian god politics
37 Spot for a 63 Frontier abode15 Central Florida 
summer nap

city 64 Japanese menu
40 Baton Rouge item16 Bargain bin 
campus, for

abbr. 65 Designer inits.
short 17 Persian 66 In reserve
41 Chocolatemathematician source 67 “Co ___?”

known for his poetry 43 Lupino of “HighSierra” DOWN
19 Hoops org. 44 Boilermaker 1 Food,
20 Big name in 

component colloquially
lexicography 45 Noted conductor 2 “Quo Vadis” 
21 They’re made to 

whose son settingbe destroyed played TV’s 3 Fine steed 23 Exit-the-program Colonel Klink 4 Flipperedkey 
49 Film villain with fish-eater with a 24 Certain decree prosthetic hands double coat 
25 Java servers 51 Blossom visitor 5 “Shame on you!” 26 Ukrainian-born 52 Wriggler in the 6 Male swine actress who 
water 7 Less than 
was a Bond girl cordial
53 Base for some
in “Quantum of muffins 8 E-commerceSolace” site owned by55 Pearl sets

31 Giamatti of eBay“Sideways” 59 TiVo, e.g. 
9 “Idylls of theKing” maiden
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Butler’s 


expletive 
11 Accessory forthe fastidious 
dresser 
12 Music genre 
13 Green stuff 
18 Priam’s wife 
22 Arctic seabirds 
24 With much room 
to spare 
26 Crude acronym 
27 “Doctor Zhivago”
role 
28 Million Mom March issue 
29 St. Louis pro 

HIGHlY PuNlIkElY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SuDOku | The mepham group 


Level: 
1 
DOmE NuTS | aleXandria wellman 

8/29/12 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by Doug Peterson  
30 Suffix with beat or neat  44 Its capital isMinsk  55 New Year’s Eve word  
34 “Interesting …” 35 Run smoothly 37 Sweltering 38 Rhyming tribute 39 Began stirring 42 Get from ___ (advanceslightly)  46 White House family 47 Obi-Wan ___ 48 Examine carefully 49 Evasive 50 Carries on 54 Costa ___  56 One out on a limb? 57 Qatar’s capital 58 Sportsequipment thatdoesn’t fit in carry-on luggage 61 Jest with  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t fold under pressure. stick to your game plan and put any negativity behind you. pursue your plans passionately and make unexpected alterations as you go along to bypass any interference you foresee. create your own opportunities and take full credit for your successes. you can get ahead if you are persistent and believe in your abilities. your numbers are 1, 5, 13, 23, 26, 31, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make decisions that will spice up your life and add a little adventure to your day. spending time with someone you love, starting a new class or visiting a destination you haven’t been to before will wake the spirit within you. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): communication will help you find solutions to any problem you face with a personal or professional partner. a change regarding an investment will pay off. don’t hesitate to let your imagination wander. Take precautions when dealing with peers. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t be fooled by someone’s vague response to your questions. either someone is on your team or not. focus on the people who give back and are charged up by the plans you have and the options you offer. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): look for greater stability by being original and progressive regarding the changes that need to be made. if you continue to spin your wheels, nothing will get done. size up your situation and make your move. don’t let an uncertain relationship dictate your decision. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): spontaneity will lead to fun and games. enjoy putting your best foot forward and embracing any playful challenge that comes your way. love is in the stars and romance will improve your personal life. a change will be welcome. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your private affairs a secret and you will avoid an emotional situation that can hinder your job prospects. anger solves nothing, but getting your chores out of the way will ease discord. a change in your finances must be handled with care. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let emotions ruin your day. make positive changes that will help keep the peace. change may be required, but it’s the way you go about it that will make the difference. being sympathetic will help you win favors. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): check out different lifestyle choices and make the choice that intrigues you the most. Keep your plans a secret if you suspect someone will interfere. once you have everything in place, it will be difficult for anyone to stand in your way. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put more thought and effort into your work and getting ahead and you will find a way to help your assets grow and job prospects open up. love is on the rise and a change of heart will lead to an interesting encounter. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your distance from anyone who appears to be unpredictable. you are best to protect your reputation, your ideas and your emotional well-being. focus on making unusual changes to the way you do your work and you will stabilize your position. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): contracts, settlements and medical and financial matters can all be addressed in a timely and effective manner. you stand to get ahead if you don’t let your emotions get in the way. look, see and do. love is in the stars. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t make changes, but accept the inevitable and protect your position, reputation and your assets. refuse to get into a no-win situation with someone looking for a fight. look inward and focus on self-improvement. 


Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, ambitious and creative. you are entertaining and intelligent. 
JumBlE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by David L. Hoyt and Jeff Knurek 


Jumbles: WHARF TRICK SHIELD SPRUCEYesterday’s 
Answer: The underwater casino featured — FISH AND CHIPS 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBAll 

Williams, Daniels, Moore announce fates 
Kelly said he has only talked with Williams, Russell about returning next year; Eilar Hardy still quiet 

By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
Three more decisions came to light Tuesday re­garding the five irish play­ers who have been withheld from practice and competi­tion since august. 
irish senior defensive end ishaq williams will not play in 2014 and would like to return in 2015, irish head coach brian Kelly said Tuesday. senior receiver davaris daniels is “done” at notre dame, daniels said on Twitter on Tuesday. irish graduate student line­backer Kendall moore an­nounced Tuesday evening on instagram that he will “respectfully leave my alma mater” and referred to today as “this end” to his “colle­giate journey.” 
daniels tweeted, “my time here is done” and said he is not looking to transfer. 
“nd was my team. nd is where my heart was,” daniels wrote on Twitter. “unfortunately my time here is done, ready for my future.” 
“Thanks to everyone who supported, i appreciate it and now it’s time to strap up for bigger things!” daniels had previously tweeted. 
daniels’ father, phillip, said in a since-deleted Tweet that his son is “done at notre dame and will weigh his options for the future.” phillip daniels later tweeted that “there is an option for davaris to return in 2015 and that is being considered as well.” daniels redshirted in 2011 and played in 2012 and 2013. he has remaining eligibility. 
irish junior cornerback Keivarae russell will not play this season and will most likely miss the spring semester before returning in June 2015, the junior said in an instagram post friday evening. 
see fooTball PAGE 14 
ND WOmEN’S SOCCER 

nd to face three acc foes over break 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
fall break isn’t restful for everyone, as the no. 13 irish will face three acc oppo­nents over the next week — syracuse on saturday, no. 21 clemson on oct. 23 and louisville on oct. 26. 
notre dame (9-4-1, 4-2-0 acc) is coming off a domi­nant 5-0 win against miami last sunday. irish coach Theresa romagnolo said she is hopeful the offensive progress would continue. 
“we were starting to do some really great things up front [against miami],” romagnolo said. “we did it against pitt [in a 2-0 oct. 9 win] too, but we hadn’t been able to finish as much. we put things together against miami, and we had a lot of success up front. we’re just continuing to work on speed of play, movement up the field and playing well on the front line.” 
“i think we can’t over­look anybody in this league 
— they’re all good teams,” romagnolo said. “so i’m going to say syracuse right now [is the biggest chal­lenge] because they’re our next opponent, and we have to focus on what’s first.” 
against miami, five dif­ferent players managed to score a goal: freshman for­ward Karin muya, sopho­more midfielder morgan andrews, senior forward Karin simonian, senior for­ward lauren bohaboy and junior forward anna maria gilbertson. 
That game brought the total number of irish play­ers who have scored at least one goal this season to 10. romagnolo said the team’s depth on attack will be cru­cial to getting wins this week and beyond. 
“i think it’s huge [to have so many players contrib­uting],” romagnolo said. “anytime you want to have a good season or a good post­season, you’re going to need a lot of depth and players off the bench that can come in and have an impact right away. i think we definitely 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

mEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, norThwesTern 0 
Hodan goal leads Notre Dame over Northwestern 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

The rainy skies cleared up just in time for an irish vic­tory last night. 
no. 11 notre dame beat no. 19 northwestern, 1-0, Tuesday at alumni stadium. The irish (7-3-2, 3-1-1 acc) won off a penalty kick from junior midfielder patrick hodan in the 66th minute. 
The win marks irish coach bobby clark’s first win against the wildcats (6-2-4, 1-1-2 big Ten) during his 14­year tenure at notre dame. 
“That was a difficult mid­week game when you think of midterms going on, and the guys are pretty busy, and to come out here and get a result from a team that has only lost once,” clark said. “They are a very good team, [and] that’s actually the first time i have ever beaten northwestern in my times playing them. 
“i knew it was going to be difficult, and their coach Tim lenahan does a really good job and has them well 
see m soccer PAGE 13 





