

ThE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


next five years after their inau-snubbing them.” Ohio State. After lying dormant Notre Dame kicker Chuck Male 
By MIKE MONACO 

Senior Sports Writer gural clash in 1887. Not once Notre Dame rose to national since 1943, talks between Notre said. 
did Notre Dame win. Michigan prominence in the 1920s under Dame and Michigan started up “It was pandemonium; the 
With the lights shining down outscored its local foe by a com-Rockne — without Michigan again in the late 1960s. fans were going crazy,” he said. Saturday night inside an over-bined score of 121-16 through the and its conference cohorts. But Notre Dame athletic direc-“It was just really exciting to be flowing Notre Dame Stadium, first eight meetings. the Irish still made one last-tor Edward “Moose” Krause part of that, and it was really ex-the Irish will align on the west But in 1909, Notre Dame gasp effort at joining its regional and Canham, looking for a citing for college football to have sideline, the Wolverines on the claimed an 11-3 victory, earn-counterparts, making an unsuc-way to fill his university’s then-that rivalry reignited.” east strip. One-hundred and six-ing the first of its 16 wins in the cessful last push in 1926, accord-101,000-seat stadium, agreed The following September, ty feet will separate Notre Dame series. The two teams, however, ing to Kryk. in January 1969 to a four-game Notre Dame and Michigan met and Michigan. would not meet again until 1942. “That’s when Notre Dame series that would begin in at Michigan Stadium for the 
But the two schools are inex-Kryk said that, for Michigan, went, ‘Alright then, we’re going September 1978. first time since 1943. As in the tricably linked — somewhere year before, the Irish entered the along the 150-mile stretch of 
game, their season opener, as the Midwest roads from Michigan underdog. Stadium in Ann Arbor to Notre Male ended up providing all Dame Stadium in South Bend. the scoring for an Irish offense 
Just six ten-thousandths sepa-that was in the process of re-rate the programs in all-time placing Montana. The walk-on winning percentage for the best booted four field goals to give mark in NCAA history. Notre Dame a 12-10 lead. Still, 
Both schools feature blue and Male’s efforts would have been a yellow-based second color in for naught if not for a block by their logos and uniforms, a rival-Irish linebacker Bob Crable on ry typified somewhere between Michigan kicker Bryan Virgil’s maize and gold, with the color-last-second, game-winning field wheel balance seemingly swing-goal attempt. ing each year. Crable’s field-goal block didn’t 
Two teams so close. come in the traditional form, 
But when the Stadium rocks however, as he made the block by and the whistle blares around leaping on the back of Michigan 
7:42 p.m., Notre Dame and center Mike Trgovac and stop-Michigan will collide for the final ping the ball with his hip. scheduled time. “Literally when [Trgovac] 
Until they meet again. snapped the ball, his two hands went on the ground, so [he] act-The Beginnings ed as a step, and as the guards Notre Dame and Michigan are leaned in to take care of what meeting for the 42nd time, mak-was coming over the top, they ing the series just the eighth-lon-pushed me up as well,” Crable gest in Irish history. said. “… [The ball] hit me in the 
But Notre Dame’s history with hip, and the worst part of it be-Michigan dates all the way back came the landing. When I was up to 1887, when the Wolverines there, the ball hit, and I was pro-topped the yet-to-be-named jected out. … My feet were on the Irish, 8-0, in South Bend in some-center, but my body was out in thing that was more tutorial than front, and I came down right on full-fledged contest, according to my head. Luckily, I didn’t break football historian John Kryk. my neck.” 
“Michigan literally taught Although Notre Dame and Notre Dame how to play in 1887,” Michigan hadn’t played for a few said Kryk, who wrote “Natural decades preceding the “Reunion Enemies: The Notre Dame-game,” Male said the Irish play-Michigan Football Feud.” “A ers of the late 1970s recognized couple of former Notre Dame stu-the Wolverines as a top rival. dents had gone off to Michigan, “When you looked at the and they were keeping in touch schedule, it was one of our target with buddies at Notre Dame, games, the Michigan game,” he especially with sports-minded there was no glory in play-to be an independent. We’re go-A Rivalry Resumed said. Brother Paul, and they arranged ing Notre Dame at that point. ing to embrace it,’” Kryk said. The two programs recon-The intensity of the Michigan that first game.” Michigan and its conference vened their series at Notre Dame series was further fueled by the 
From there, Kryk said, Notre partners essentially decided Feuding Over Football Stadium on Sept. 23, 1978 in geographic closeness of both Dame ramped up its desire to to “blow Notre Dame off the Following Notre Dame’s victo-a matchup between the No. 5 teams, Male said. play this new game, one that course” by not playing them, ry in 1909 and before the renewal Wolverines and No. 14 Irish, “You had a situation where we would eventually become a key Kryk said. in 1978, the two teams met just the defending national cham-didn’t even fly, took a bus to the component of the institution. But Stuck in northern Indiana twice — in 1942 and 1943. pions. With quarterback Joe game, it was that close,” he said. the teams were at completely dif-and craving football, Notre Feuds between Rockne and Montana at the helm, Notre “You mixed in a fanbase with lots ferent junctures, with Michigan Dame had to venture outside the Fielding Yost, Frank Leahy and Dame jumped to a 14-7 halftime of fans that were loyal and liked already a Midwest power, Notre Midwest to fill its schedule. Fritz Crisler extended the hia-lead, but Michigan added three both teams because of the geo-Dame not yet even its fledgling “That’s why Notre Dame be-tus until Don Canham headed unanswered touchdowns in the graphic proximity, and it really punching bag. came the national school be-the Michigan athletic depart-second half to cruise to a 28-14 made for an interesting rivalry.” 
“They suddenly wanted to be cause they had to go outside the ment in 1968. victory. While the atmosphere sur­what Michigan was, a power at Midwest in the teens and then Michigan’s attendance at While it wasn’t as close as rounding the resumption of that time,” said Kryk, who is a in the early 20s of [former Irish football games was dwindling many matchups in series his-the Notre Dame-Michigan se­national NFL columnist for the coach Knute] Rockne to find any-— relatively speaking, of course tory, the atmosphere surround-ries was lively on both sides, the Toronto Sun. one worth playing,” Kryk said. — according to Kryk, to about ing the 1978 matchup, known scene at Michigan Stadium pro-
The eager Irish met with the “And it was because Michigan 65,000 for games against teams as the “Reunion Game,” showed vided some unique challenges Wolverines six times over the and their Big Ten partners were not named Michigan State and that the rivalry was back, former for the Irish, Crable said. 



“Wherever you go, you’ve got those situations where you’ve got the crowds, you’ve got obnoxious people, you’ve got drunk people, you’ve got all different charac­ters that exist in the stadium,” he said. “But at Michigan, it seems like it was exaggerated — every­thing was exaggerated.” 
The Holtz Years 
Lou holtz took over the Notre Dame program in 1986 and steered the Irish for 11 seasons, the first nine of which featured dates with Michigan. 
Both teams were ranked in eight of the matchups. On five occasions, both teams were slot­ted in the top 10. 
“I didn’t think twice about it,” holtz said by phone this week. “Our schedule was ranked the toughest in the country almost every year I was there. When I went to Notre Dame, [University executive] Father Joyce made this abundantly clear.” 
The only year either team was unranked was 1986, when the Irish opened the campaign against the No. 3 Wolverines at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“We outplayed them badly,” holtz said. 
holtz recalled how Michigan quarterback Jim harbaugh threw a late fade for a touch­down, only for Irish quarter­back Steve Beuerlein to bring Notre Dame right back down the field. Inside Michigan terri­tory, Beuerlein rolled to his left and fired to the back of the end zone for tight end Joel Williams. Williams landed close to the back line of the end zone, and the pass was ruled incomplete. Irish kicker John Carney missed a field goal on the last play of the game, and the Wolverines won 24-23. 
“That was devastating to lose that game,” holtz said. “I remem­ber so much about that game. … If they had replay then, we win the game.” 
Two years later, back at Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish waltzed into the season as the No. 13 team in the nation set to face the No. 9 Wolverines under the lights 
—
 portable lights hauled in for the occasion. 

In order to win, holtz and the Irish had to rely on the unlikeli­est of heroes, 5-foot-5 walk-on kicker Reggie ho. In the opening act of a national championship season — Notre Dame’s last title 

— 
ho drilled four field goals, the last of which split the uprights with 1:19 remaining in regula­tion and propelled Notre Dame to win No. 1. 


“Coach holtz, he prepared us for a lot of pressure situations,” ho said this week by phone. “Fortunately, I made the first one. I said whenever I’m called upon again to go out, I’ll try to make the next one.” 
The next Michigan-Notre Dame matchup followed in 1989 and pitted the No. 1 Irish against the No. 2 Wolverines. Irish flank­er Raghib “Rocket” Ismail blazed back two kickoff returns for touchdowns to top Michigan, 24­19, on its own turf. 
“I remember saying to the team, ‘I don’t think they’ll kick it off again to Rocket, but then again they’re arrogant so be alert for either a regular kickoff or a squib kick,’” holtz recalled. “Gee, he kicked a perfect kick. Rocket caught it all on the run and we went on to win that game.” 

When the teams met two years later in Ann Arbor, it was Michigan’s own dynamic receiv­er and return man, Desmond howard, with the highlight play. In the fourth quarter, the No. 3 Wolverines clung to a 17-14 ad­vantage. But Michigan faced 4th-and-1. 
“Fou r t h-a nd-si x-i nc he s,” holtz corrects himself. 
The rest is, well, history. howard snagged the touchdown in the back of the end zone. 
“They didn’t have enough con­fidence to run six inches,” holtz griped. 
In holtz’s final game against Michigan in 1994, No. 6 Michigan outlasted No. 3 Notre Dame, 26­24, at Notre Dame Stadium. The matchup also marked then-de­fensive coordinator and eventual head coach Bob Davie’s first taste of the rivalry. 
Notre Dame stormed ahead with a few minutes left in the game, but Wolverines quarter­back Todd Collins led Michigan down the field, and kicker Remy hamilton buried a game-win­ning field goal. 
“I’ll never forget just the mo­mentum in that stadium as we took the lead and then you could hear a pin drop when that kid kicked that long field goal to beat us,” said Davie, who spent eight seasons coaching at Notre Dame. 
holtz, some 20 years removed from his final Michigan-Notre Dame game, had nothing but praise for the rivalry. 
“They were always great games,” holtz said. “I loved [Michigan head coach] Bo Schembechler. And Michigan and Notre Dame were so similar, we recruited the same caliber of people.” 
Stacking Up the Rivalries 
There’s a duality in the Michigan-Notre Dame rivalry. The teams first met in 1887. But they also have only played 41 times. Still, there’s an impressive power to the rivalry. 
“Nationally it was at the time, until the mid-90s … one of the most important college foot­ball rivalries,” Kryk said. “And that’s saying something when they hadn’t even played by the late-70s.” 
So what is it about this rivalry? 

“It’s not the intensity,” holtz said. “It’s not the hatred that some rivalries have. … [Former Ohio State head coach] Woody hayes wouldn’t even wear anything that came close to Michigan’s colors. South Carolina-Clemson, Alabama-Auburn. Those are bit­ter rivalries.” 
Michigan-Notre Dame is dif­ferent, holtz argues. 
“It’s a country that’s going to miss it,” he said. “It’s not nec­essarily Notre Dame fans. But the country is going to miss it. Because it’s one game that ev­erybody looked forward to ev­ery year. You knew it was on the schedule.” 
Soon after his five-year stint as Notre Dame’s head coach concluded in 2001, Davie joined ESPN as a college football analyst, allowing him to travel around the country, sampling a smatter­ing of the sport’s best rivalry. 
how does Michigan-Notre Dame stack up? 
“I think it’s an older rivalry,” Davie said, pausing to explain himself. 
“The stadiums were older, and it just reeked of tradition,” said Davie, slowly enunciating each syllable for effect, as if he smells it again. 
“Just the smell in Notre Dame Stadium, the grass, the grass of what it smelled like — that may sound corny to some people — but that’s the thing I miss most about Notre Dame, just the old­ness of it, how old it all seemed,” Davie said. 
Saturday’s game, though, will be the first played on FieldTurf at Notre Dame Stadium, heralding the final chapter of the rivalry’s history — for now, at least. 
The Future of the Rivalry 
Following Saturday’s tilt, Notre Dame and Michigan don’t have another scheduled game on the docket. A request to speak with Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick was not returned. 
“Everybody knows how big this rivalry is,” Michigan gradu­ate student quarterback Devin Gardner said Monday. “It sucks that it has to go and it’s not appre­ciated by everybody.” 
Notre Dame announced its 2014, 2015 and 2016 schedules in December, debuting the first workings of a five-game ACC commitment, one that has tight­ened the available permutations for Notre Dame’s schedule. 
“We have really limited inven­tory going forward,” Swarbrick told The Observer in December. “We’ve tried to protect enough in­ventory so we can still do an SEC 



Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, 247Sports 
Class of 2015 offensive lineman Jerry Tillery is scheduled to visit Notre Dame this weekend, according to Blue and Gold Illustrated’s Tom Loy. 



A different game plan for autumn weekends from the College of Arts and Letters 
You are invited to join in discussion with some of Notre Dame’s most engaging faculty in the Saturday Scholar Series on “home game” Saturdays. Each lecture and Q&A, sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, is presented in the Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium at 12 noon, unless otherwise noted. No tickets required. 

“The Empty Chair by the Hearth: Archaeological Insights into Irish-America” 
Ian Kuijt
Professor and Director of Graduate Studies, Department of Anthropology 
19th century Irish immigration pulled apart island families and communities, and simultaneously created the foundation for new lives in North America. Drawing upon archaeological and video ethnographic research on Inishark, County Galway, this talk will explore the pathways of trans-Atlantic emigration, the foundation of new American communities, and the means by which memory among islanders is connected to the sea, home and hearth. 


4 p.m. Saturday, September 6, 2014 
Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium 
Lecture and Q&A free and open to the public. No tickets required. 




" 8.30.14 (vs. Rice) 
Jerusalem’s Future: Peace or Apocalypse? 
Atalia Omer, Associate Professor of Religion, Conflict and Peace Studies, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Department of Sociology 

" 9.6.14 (vs. University of Michigan) 7:30 p.m. game; 4 p.m. lecture 
The Empty Chair by the Hearth: Archaeological Insights into Irish-America 
Ian Kuijt, Professor and Director of Graduate Studies, Department of Anthropology 

" 10.4.14 (vs. Stanford University) 
Online Learning and the Future of Higher Education 
Elliott Visconsi, Chief Academic Digital Officer, Office of the Provost; Associate Professor, Department of English; Concurrent Associate Professor of Law 

" 10.11.14 (vs. North Carolina) 
Evolution, Humans and Other Animals: Theology and 
Anthropology in Dialogue 
Celia Deane-Drummond, Professor, Department of Theology 

" 11.15.14 (vs. Northwestern) 
What’s All the Fuss about Digital Humanities? 
Matt Wilkens, Assistant Professor, Department of English 

" 11.22.14 (vs. Louisville) 
Beyond Civility: Addressing the Crisis in American Public Discourse 
John Duffy, The O’Malley Director of the University Writing Program; Associate Professor, Department of English 
To view the entire Saturday Scholars Series visit: saturdayscholar.nd.edu 


RECRUITING 



Irish host slew of nation’s top prospects 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
As if Notre Dame wasn’t going to be crowded enough this week­end for the primetime matchup between two rivals playing their final scheduled meeting, the Irish are set to host roughly 24 recruits over the weekend. 
Notre Dame will welcome mostly a combination of class of 2015 commitments, class of 2015 targets and class of 2016 targets. The expected group could swell to __ members, replete with “big names,” according to Irish re­cruiting analyst Tom Loy. 
Loy, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Blue and Gold Illustrated, part of the 247Sports network, said none of the names really get much bigger than Plano, Texas, native Soso Jamabo, a four-star running back and the No. 45 overall play­er in the nation, per 247Sports’ Composite Rankings. 
“he’s been the top guy for a very long time for running backs coach Tony Alford,” Loy said. “For a while he didn’t seem like a realistic shot as the relation­ship was developing between Jamabo, Alford and [Irish de­fensive backs coach and Texas specialist] Kerry Cooks. [Then] things started really heating up.” 
Loy said there’s a chance Jamabo could make a decision this weekend, but he expects the running back’s recruitment to stretch to October. 
As for someone who could pledge to Notre Dame this week­end, Loy said he would not be surprised if linebacker Tevon Coney left this week as commit­ment No. 18 in Notre Dame’s class of 2015. 

Meanwhile, linebacker/defen­sive end Porter Gustin became one of the most recent additions to the mass of visitors. Loy de­scribed the No. 67 overall pros­pect in the class of 2015 — per 247Sports — as a “freak athlete.” 
“Right now he’s definitely fa­voring USC,” Loy said. “USC is the school he grew up cheering for, grew up watching. he’s been to campus, been to the games. This is Notre Dame’s one shot to blow him away” 
With all the hype surrounding the rivalry weekend, Loy agreed there is an opportunity to blow away recruits — to an extent. 
“I don’t think it sways kids as much as they like to believe, as fans like to believe,” Loy said. “But you get a victory, a wild locker room, you get a crazy campus, all the fans going crazy, it can definitely do a lot to help their chances. But in the end these kids are smart.” 
Loy said many of the prospects will still look beyond one rivalry win or loss, or one night on a fer­vent campus. 
“They do look at it, but it’s not as important as basically looking at the pros and cons of actually being a student-athlete at Notre Dame,” Loy said. “And that’s where Notre Dame really sells itself.” 
But at the same time, Loy ar­gued, the recruits do enjoy be­ing blown away. It’s a challenge for the staff to balance all the various recruits in one week­end, Loy said, and avoid having certain prospects leave feeling board, according to Loy, will discounted. For instance, the both be visiting South Bend top two quarterbacks — Malik this weekend. Loy said it’s im­henry and Shea Patterson — portant to actively recruit both, on Notre Dame’s class of 2016 even though it could eventually be a “first-come, first-served” scenario. 



“If you let a top guy leave with­out showing him enough love, that’s a problem,” Loy said. “But in the end, this is Notre Dame, and they’re recruiting a certain type of kid. … If you’re looking for a kid that’s looking for the right thing, there’s no way they’re go­ing to leave this weekend with­out being pretty impressed by Notre Dame.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at aowens@ blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ ndsmcobserv­er 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Working together with a continuing commitment to excellence in business education 
• 
Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership 

• 
Mendoza Business Advisory Council 

• 
Mendoza Accountancy Advisory Board 

• 
Deloitte & Touche Professor of Accountancy 

• 
Deloitte Foundation Professor of Accountancy 

• 
600+ Notre Dame Alumni at Deloitte 

• 
Develop, place, and hire the best and brightest Notre Dame graduates... earning Deloitte recognition as the top employer on campus 



Dedicated to making a difference together 
As used in this document, “Deloitte” means Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Please see www.deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. 
Copyright © 2014 Deloitte Development LLC. All rights reserved. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 



COMMENTARY 



Rivalry game will test Notre Dame’s mettle 


Samantha Zuba 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Notre Dame won’t waste much time getting into the big games on its schedule this season. 
have you recovered from tailgating and the win over Rice last weekend yet? You have mere hours to gear up for Michigan and the night game. From there, the schedule will have little mer­cy on the Irish (1-0). 
Make this game day count because there is no set date for the rivalry with Michigan (1-0) to resume. Come Saturday, the players all will try to make this one count, even if the official line is that this game is another one on the schedule, just as important as Rice. 
That’s nonsense. 
Beating a rival does matter. There is a special atmosphere on campus and in Notre Dame Stadium when a rival comes to town. Fans definitely feel it. And players know it’s there, whether they will acknowledge it in an interview or not. 
The Michigan game matters more than the matchup against talented, up-and-coming Rice. 
Rice is a good team, so this has little to do with whether or not unranked Michigan is better than the Owls, although a win against Michigan likely means more in the polls. 
That’s not the most impor­tant factor in the Notre Dame-Michigan game. 
A win against the Wolverines proves the Irish can deal with distractions and win. 
The extra energy and pressure that comes with a rivalry game can wither even a talented team. Players sometimes try too hard and play out of control. They may take unnecessary risks try­ing to make the big play or, on the other hand, shy away from the chance, cracking under the pressure to be heroes and beat the rival. 
A good team finds a way to harness rivalry energy, focus and win. If Notre Dame wants to be a contender, it has to show it’s that kind of team. 
When the stadium rocks Saturday and the lights come on, the Irish have to show up and play calm, even if they’re amped up. Especially if they’re amped up. 
Over the last few seasons, there has been no shortage of distractions, some due to unfor­tunate circumstances, others due to unfortunate judgment. This season is no different, with five players being held out due to an investigation into suspected academic dishonesty. 
But Notre Dame has to rise above that. The Irish got a good start against Rice, with Everett Golson returning from his suspension to throw two touchdowns and rush for three. he came into the game under a lot of pressure to play like the “ProdiGolson” in his return, and he coolly delivered a great performance. 
Take that example and run with it, Notre Dame. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

As the Irish move forward, they will have to continue an­swering questions about off­the-field issues until they are resolved. While they wait, they have to play — against challeng­ing opponents. 
They will deal with the hype of rivalry games and a looming matchup with No. 1 Florida State. If they climb in the polls, they will face higher expectations and doubts about whether they de­serve their ranking. If they inch closer to the playoffs, they will have to answer questions about whether they are ready to be a championship team. 
Notre Dame can start answer­ing those questions Saturday when it takes the field against the Wolverines. 
Last season, the No. 14 Irish lost to No. 17 Michigan, 41-30, at the Big house. 
It was the beginning of an unraveling that culminated in a sloppy 28-21 loss to Pittsburgh in November. 
If Notre Dame wants to play in a meaningful bowl game, it needs to make a different statement this year against the Wolverines. Like last season, the Irish play Michigan in the second game of the season after beating a team nicknamed the Owls — last year Temple, this year Rice. 
Saturday’s game gives Notre Dame the chance to put last sea­son in the past and prove it has more mettle this time around. 
This game matters. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





Observer File Photo 
WOLVERINES PASSING 
Wolverines graduate student quarter- WOLVERINES OFFENSIVE COACHING  
back Devin Gardner teams up with junior  Once again, it’s a matchup of new co- 
receiver Devin Funchess to form what Irish  ordinators on both sides of the ball, with  
head coach Brian Kelly calls a “dynamic”  Michigan offensive coordinator Doug  
duo. Funchess tallied seven receptions for 95  Nussmeier opposing Irish defensive coor­ 
yards and three touchdowns in Michigan’s  dinator Brian VanGorder.  
season-opening 52-14 dismantling of  These two met in 2012, when Nussmeier’s  
Appalachian State.  Alabama squad rolled to a 49-0 victory over  
The competition wasn’t impressive, but  VanGorder’s Auburn defense. This week,  
Funchess’ ability is. The 6-foot-5 former  Kelly praised Nussmeier’s offenses, laud- 
tight end is a matchup problem for the Irish.  ing their strong concepts, and this year’s  
Cornerbacks Cole Luke (5-foot-11) and Cody  group on the offensive line.  
Riggs (5-foot-9) don’t stack up size-wise.  Nussmeier’s track record likely speaks  
Beyond Funchess, the Wolverines don’t  louder than that of VanGorder, but any- 
have too many proven pass-catchers. But  thing can happen Saturday. 
that didn’t matter much for Rice, who ex­ 
ploited breakdowns in Notre Dame’s sec­      EDGE: MICHIGAN  
ondary for passing plays of 53, 30, 26 and 26  
yards, respectively.  WOLVERINES SPECIAL TEAMS 
The Irish safeties will have to shore things      Kelly specifically made note of  
up quickly to ensure there isn’t a repeat of  Wolverines punter Will hagerup this  
the 2013 game, when Gardner shredded  week, praising the redshirt senior, who  
Notre Dame for 294 yards and four touch- averaged 45.03 yards per punt in 2012, the  
downs through the air. Former Wolverines  best single-season average in Michigan  
receiver Jeremy Gallon racked up 184 re- history. 
ceiving yards and three scores in last year’s             Senior kicker Matt Wile is relatively  
matchup. inexperienced, having only attempted 10  
field goals (with six makes).  
     EDGE: MICHIGAN  Junior return man Dennis Norfleet is  
already slotted second in Michigan histo- 
WOLVERINES RUSHING  ry with 1,801 kick return yards, including  
Michigan running backs Derrick Green  the 36 he picked up on one jaunt Saturday  
(170 yards against Appalachian State) and  against Appalachian State. 
De’Veon Smith (115) ran wild in the season            Until Notre Dame proves — on a  
opener, but, again, that was not against Irish- consistent basis — it has shored up its  
esque competition. Michigan head coach  special-teams play, the Wolverines pos- 
Brady hoke slowed things down, somewhat,  sess the advantage.  
saying, “we just played one football game.”  
Michigan’s offensive line is inexperienced.  EDGE: MICHIGAN  
Its tackles, Mason Cole and Ben Braden,  
made their first career starts Saturday, and  
the other three projected starters enter the  WOLVERINES SCHEDULE (0-0)  
weekend with just a combined 15 career  Aug. 30   Appalachian State (W 52-14)  
starts.  Sept. 6 @ Notre Dame  
Kelly was pleased with how Notre Dame’s  Sept. 13 Miami (Ohio)   
front four held the line and played physically,  Sept. 20   Utah  
but will that young group duplicate its per- Sept. 27 Minnesota  
formance against better backs?  Oct. 4 @ Rutgers  
how will undersized linebackers like Joe  Oct. 11 Penn State  
Schmidt and James Onwualu hold up when  Oct. 25 @ Michigan State  
the 220-pound Green is barreling toward  Nov. 1       Indiana  
them? Nov. 8 @ Northwestern  
Nov. 22 Maryland  
     EDGE: EVEN  Nov. 29 @ Ohio State  

Observer File Photo 






HEAD TO 
7:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

MICHIGAN 


(So.) Derrick Green 

RB
(So.) De’Veon Smith 4 
(Gr.) Devin Gardner 

QB
(So.) Shane Morris 7 
(Jr.) Devin Funchess
 (R-So.) Amara Darboh 
(Jr.) A.J. Williams 
(R-Fr.) Khalid hill 
(Fr.) Mason Cole 
(R-So.) Erik Magnuson 
(R-So.) Erik Magnuson
(So.) Kyle Bosch 
(R-Jr.) Jack Miller 
(R-Fr.) Patrick Kugler 
(R-Sr.) Joey Burzynski
(So.) Kyle Bosch 
(R-So.) Ben Braden 
(R-Fr.) Logan Tuley-Tillman 
(Jr.) Dennis Norfleet 
(R-So.) Bo Dever 
(R-So.) Jehu Chesson 
(Fr.) Freddy Canteen 




78 

65 

57 

65 

72 

3 

17 
WR 
TE LT LG C RG RT 
WR WR 
(Sr.) Raymon Taylor


LCB 
(So.) Jourdan Lewis 26 
(r.) Royce Jenkins-Stone

SLB 
(Jr.) James Ross III 15 

(R-So.) Jeremy Clark 

(Sr.) Frank Clark 
S 


(So.) Dymonte Thomas 25 (Jr.) Mario Ojemudia 53 
DE 

(R-So.) Willie Henry


DT
(R-So.) Matthew Godin 99
(R-Sr.) Jake Ryan
MLB 
(Sr.) Desmond Morgan 48 


Mike Monaco 
Senior Sports Writer 
Both teams rolled in their season openers. Got it. 
But what do we glean from the respective thumpings? 
For Michigan, Devin Funchess is a monster match-up nightmare on the perimeter, but the interior of the Wolverines’ defensive front struggled at times. For Notre Dame, Everett Golson looked dominant. The secondary, in particular the safeties, wavered with communication and allowed four explosive plays. 
So what gives Saturday? Well, if we’ve learned anything from this rivalry, it’s that the rivalry game will be close down the stretch. 
But in the end, Notre Dame’s offense looks to have the upper hand — thanks in part to its line — and a raucous home crowd will do enough to aid the youthful Irish defense. FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 35, Michigan 28 


Brian Hartnett 
Managing Editor 
Michigan and Notre Dame both easily dispatched non-power conference opponents last weekend. Now, it’s time for their last meeting in the foreseeable future, a game that will have even more meaning than their usual intense matchups. 
Like those past games, there’s no reason to think this one won’t be close. Both teams are coming off disappointing seasons and have holes to fill before they can return to col­lege football’s elite. 
The two Devins, Gardner and Funchess, will give Notre Dame trouble, while Everett Golson and Greg Bryant, among others, will challenge the Wolverines. 
I think the game will come down to defense, and Notre Dame’s front seven will be able to generate just enough pres­sure against Michigan’s inexperienced offensive line and vulnerable ground game. FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 27, Michigan 24 
(R-So.) Ryan Glasgow(Fr.) Bryan Mone 90 DT  
(Jr.) Jarrod Wilson (R-So.) AJ Pearson 18 S  (Sr.) Brennen Beyer(So.) Taco Charlton 33 DE  
(Jr.) Joe Bolden (Sr.) Desmond Morgan 48 WLB  
(R-Jr.) Blake Countess (R-So.) Terry Richardson 13 RCB  
(Sr.) Matt Wile (R-So.) Kenny Allen 91  (R-So.) Kenny AllenPK (So.) Shane Morris 7 H  
(R-Sr.) Will Hagerup (Sr.) Matt Wile 45  (Jr.) Dennis Norfleet P (R-Jr.) Justice hayes 5 KR  
(Fr.) Jabrill Peppers(Jr.) Dennis Norfleet 23  (R-Fr.) Scott SypniewskiPR (Fr.) Andrew Robinson 49 LS  

















Samantha Zuba 
Assistant Managing Editor 
     Notre Dame proved it could score in a big way when it put up 48 points against Rice, with Everett Golson looking sharp. Michigan proved it could score in a big way when it beat Appalachian State, 52-14. This game will come down to whichever defense can make timely stops of the other high-powered offense.
      The Irish defense made mistakes early in the first half against Rice but settled down. It will need to lock in against Devin Gardner, who threw for 173 yards, efficiently completing 13 of 14 passes against Appalachian State. The Wolverines also rushed for a combined 350 yards. Notre Dame’s defense has the edge over Michigan’s offensive line and will prevent Michigan from activating its rushing attack. 
FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 35, Michigan 24 






TO HEAD 

ON NBC 

Cody Riggs (Gr.) 
CB 
19 Nick Watkins (Fr.) 

Jaylon Smith (So.) 
WLB 
48 Greer Martini (Fr.) 


Romeo Okwara (Jr.) 
DE 
98 Andrew Trumbetti (Fr.) 


Elijah Shumate (Jr.) 
S 


23 Drue Tranquill (Fr.) 
Sheldon Day (Jr.) 

DT 
53 Justin Utupo (Gr.) 

Joe Schmidt (Sr.) 


ILB 
5 Nyles Morgan (Fr.) 
Jarron Jones (Jr.) 

DT 
75 Daniel Cage (Fr.) 


Max Redfield (So.) 

S 
41 Matthias Farley (Sr.) 
Isaac Rochell (So.) 

DE 
92 Grant Blankenship (Fr.) 

James Onwualu (So.) 
SLB 
31 John Turner (Jr.) 


Cole Luke (So.) 
CB 
12 Devin Butler (So.) 

Chris Brown (Jr.) 

WR 
7 Will Fuller (So.) 

Amir Carlisle (Sr.) 

WR 
20 C.J. Prosise (Jr.) 

Steve Elmer (So.) 

RT 
70 hunter Bivin (So.) 



Cam
 McDaniel (Sr.) 

Christian
 Lombard (Gr.) RB 



25 Tarean Folston (So.) 

RG 
75 Mark harrell (Jr.) 1 Greg Bryant (So.) 



Everett
 Golson (Sr.) 

Nick
 Martin (Sr.) 



QB

C 
75 Mark harrell(Jr.) 8 Malik Zaire (So.) 

Conor Hanratty (Sr.) 

LG 
77 Matt hegarty (Sr.) 

Ronnie Stanley (Jr.) 

LT 
68 Mike McGlinchey (So.) 

Ben Koyack (Sr.) 

TE 
80 Durham Smythe (So.) 

Corey Robinson (So.) 

WR 
11 Justin Brent (Fr.) 


Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 

Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 
KO 
PK 
85 Tyler Newsome (Fr.) 
Amir Carlisle (Sr.) 


Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 
KR 
P

33 Cam McDaniel (Sr.) 85 Tyler Newsome (Fr.) 

Cody
 Riggs (Gr.) 

Scott
 Daly (Jr.) 



LS 
PR 

1 Greg Bryant (So.) 






KEVIN SONG | The Observer  Observer File Photo  
IRISH PASSING  
Everett Golson only completed 14 passes  IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
in Saturday’s season opener against Rice,      Notre Dame’s offense looked explosive  
but Golson and the Irish provided enough  Saturday, but how will defenses begin to  
fireworks to stay more than efficient.  adjust as they see more film of Golson and  
If Golson performs anywhere close to  the Irish? Then, in turn, how will Notre  
the level at which he played against the  Dame adapt?  
Owls, the Irish passing attack should be  here, Notre Dame’s depth and variety  
potent. Notre Dame benefits from a vari­ works in its favor, as the Irish have a wealth  
ety of options in the receiving game, even  of ways to move the chains. It’s up to Irish  
though there isn’t one proven, bona fide  offensive coordinator Mike Denbrock and  
pass-catcher.  Kelly to push the right buttons against  
On the other side, the Wolverines  Michigan’s veteran defensive coordinator  
boast experienced cornerbacks in senior  Greg Mattison. 
Raymon Taylor and redshirt junior Blake        Kelly said Notre Dame will need to  
Countess. Countess nabbed a pair of inter- do an especially good job of protecting  
ceptions last year against the Irish, spur- Golson, as Mattison and the Wolverines  
ring his six-interception campaign that  prefer to attack and bring pressure  
culminated with a first-team All-Big Ten  defensively. 
selection. Taylor snagged four intercep­ 
tions of his own in 2013.     EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
highly touted freshman cornerback  
Jabrill Peppers, who is slated as the start- IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
ing nickel back, missed the second half      Well, Notre Dame fans certainly saw a  
Saturday with an ankle injury. hoke,  different Irish squad when it came to spe­ 
however, said Monday he doesn’t think  cial teams Saturday. The return game was  
Peppers will be a question mark. “I think  finally just that — a return game. 
he will be ready to play,” hoke said to re­       But Kelly said Tuesday the Irish are  
porters in Ann Arbor, Mich. probably “getting a little too much credit  
for it and probably took a little too much in  
     EDGE: NOTRE DAME  defending it in years past.” The head coach  
did praise his team’s effort, something he  
IRISH RUSHING  naturally hopes continues throughout the  
For the first time since November  season. Riggs and Bryant will continue to  
1996, Notre Dame had five different play- handle punt-return duties.  
ers  — Golson, sophomore quarterback           The early returns looked positive. But  
Malik Zaire, sophomore running backs Greg  more data points are needed before we  
Bryant and Tarean Folston and senior run- dub this area a strength of the Irish. 
ning back Cam McDaniel — amass at least  
40 rushing yards Saturday.       EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
 Notre Dame sliced up the Rice defense  
to the tune of 281 rushing yards and effec­ 
tively made Owls standout defensive tackle  IRISH SCHEDULE (1-0)  
Christian Covington a non-factor.  Aug. 30 Rice (W 48-17)  
Expect the Irish to turn to the running game  Sept. 6 Michigan  
again against the Wolverines, especially with  Sept. 13 vs. Purdue  
some self-professed issues along the interior  Sept. 27 Syracuse  
of the Michigan defensive front, according  Oct. 4 Stanford  
to hoke. Wolverines defensive tackles Willie  Oct. 11 North Carolina  
henry (seven) and Ryan Glasgow (one) have  Oct. 18 @ Florida State  
a combined eight career starts, and neither  Nov. 1 vs. Navy  
interior lineman cracks 300 pounds. Nov. 8 @ Arizona State  
      Between McDaniel, Bryant and Folston,  Nov. 15 Northwestern  
the Irish should find success on the ground.  Nov. 22 Louisville  
EDGE: NOTRE DAME  Nov. 29 @ USC  




Isaac Lorton 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Although Notre Dame defeated Rice, 48-17, there were some major issues of concern in the Irish secondary. Yes, graduate student safety Austin Collinsworth was injured the Thursday prior to the game, but Michigan is no Rice, and Notre Dame will not be able to get by on athleticism alone. The Wolverines will not drop passes like Rice did. Michigan receiver Devin Funchess is a deep threat at all times, and quarterback Devin Gardner will run all over the Irish if he is left with too much space. Both offenses will produce, and the outcome of the game will come down to which defense steps up and makes crucial stops. In this huge home matchup, the Irish defense will step up and the Irish will come out on top. FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 31, Michigan 28 

Mary Green 
Sports Editor 

Everett Golson’s return to the field for the Irish was im­pressive and so were Notre Dame’s Week One offensive numbers — 48 points, 576 total yards. 
But Michigan’s numbers — 52 points, 560 total yards 
— were just as noteworthy in its win against Appalachian State. Lucky for the Irish, the Wolverines primarily used their running game to put those numbers up. That will be key for a home-team win. 
Notre Dame’s secondary struggled at times to stop deep passes, but the linebackers, led by Joe Schmidt and Jaylon Smith, were able to contain the Owls’ rushing attack. 
That defensive strategy — along with a rowdy crowd at Notre Dame Stadium that’s ready to close the series out with a win — will fuel the Irish to a win Saturday. FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 31, Michigan 27 




NOTRE DAME SECONDARY 



Young group responds to calls to communicate 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing Editor 
For many in Notre Dame’s clubhouse, there was little to worry about following the team’s 48-17 win over Rice on Saturday. 
Behind senior quarterback Everett Golson’s five touch­downs, the Irish offense racked up 576 total yards. 
Notre Dame’s young front seven held Rice’s offense to an average of 3.5 yards per play on the ground. 
Even the Irish special teams recorded 80 yards in punt returns and 49 yards in kickoff returns. 
With such successes in multiple facets of the game, most of the worry shifted to the Notre Dame secondary, which allowed 226 yards and four plays of more than 25 yards. 
“There’s things we’ve got importance of communi­cation in his Tuesday press conference. 
“Without giving too much away, suffice it to say we have to be more demonstra­tive and take more control [in the secondary],” he said. 
Sophomore cornerback Cole Luke said Wednesday that better communica­tion has been emphasized throughout practices since the Rice game. 
“Coaches have [talked about it], and that’s also something we have to take accountability for from the back four,” he said. “We’ve been trying to stress it a lot ourselves, hand signals and whatnot, but that’s some­thing we’re working on.” 
Notre Dame’s secondary may have an excuse for its communication struggles 
— lack of familiarity. The eight players listed in Notre 

“I don’t know about everybody else, but for me, it’s after the first play, everything’s gone, and I’m kind of loose after that.” 
Cole Luke 
Irish sophomore cornerback 



starts at safety last season. Farley notched an intercep­tion in the second quarter of Saturday’s win. 
“Matthias is a guy that can do a lot of jobs for us,” Kelly said in his Sunday telecon­ference. “he’s a valuable player for us.” 
Farley, however, didn’t re­ceive the start Saturday, as he was slotted behind soph­omore safety Max Redfield. Starting opposite Redfield at the safety spot was junior Elijah Shumate, who was forced into action two days before the Rice game when graduate student safety and captain Austin Collinsworth tore his MCL. 
Although Kelly singled out Shumate and Redfield as players who need to im­prove their communication in in his Sunday telecon­ference, graduate student cornerback Cody Riggs said he was impressed with the performance of the two new starters. 
“I think they did a really good job,” Riggs said follow­ing Saturday’s game. “Elijah and Max played really well, which is what I expect­ed. They had really great camps. They played exactly to their abilities.” 
Riggs has 27 collegiate starts under his belt, albeit just one with the Irish. he appeared in 40 games for Florida over four seasons. Luke said he has picked up several techniques from the former SEC starter. 
“Cody’s been a big help,” he said. “Obviously com­ing from the SEC, playing against a lot of great receiv­ers, he’s a great guy, but he’s added another dynamic to our defense, plays fast, shifty.” 
Luke rounds out the secondary starters, as he made his first start against Rice. Kelly singled out Luke’s poise in his Sunday teleconference. 
“[Cole] didn’t seem to be affected by his first start,” he said. “I thought he played with confidence. Really just liked his demeanor.” 
Luke said he will try to carry over that cool de­meanor to Notre Dame’s matchup against Michigan on Saturday. 
“I don’t know about ev­erybody else, but for me, it’s after the first play, every­thing’s gone, and I’m kind of loose after that,” Luke said. “… Someone has to step up, and it’s my time to step up.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
to get better at, obviously,” Irish head coach Brian Kelly said in his postgame press conference Saturday. “Our communication in the back end of the defense was at times a problem, which re­sulted in some big plays.” 
Kelly reiterated the Dame’s two-deep at the cor­nerback and safety positions made a combined 13 starts last season. 
The team’s most expe­rienced player in the sec­ondary, senior cornerback Matthias Farley, switched positions after making eight 






WEI LIN | The Observer 

Notre Dame and Michigan will square off for the 42nd time in series history Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. In games at the Stadium, each team has tallied nine wins. Notre Dame and Michigan have tied once at Notre Dame Stadium. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





WR Funchess presents matchup problem 
Observer File Photo 

Wolverines junior receiver Devin Funchess, pictured here against Notre Dame in Michigan’s 41-30 win in 2013 at Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor, Mich., notched seven receptions for 95 yards and three touchdowns in Michigan’s season-opening win over Appalachian State. 
in the upper echelons of historic with Gardner and Funchess, a .he will be a matchup problem will play me differently because
By MIKE MONACO 

Senior Sports Writer Michigan wide receivers with 1-2 combination that is very dy-for everybody he plays this year,” they saw what I did in the first the likes of Desmond howard, namic,” Kelly said. “We will have Kelly said. game.” 
On Saturday at Michigan Braylon Edwards and Anthony to find ways obviously to slow Despite being double-teamed AlthoughFunchessplays of-Stadium, Devin FunchessCarter, who all wore No. 1. [Funchess] down, and he’s going in the Appalachian State game, fense the majority of the game showed his play matches the “he can probably be the to be difficult, and Gardner has Funchess caught a jump ball and is called upon as a downfield No. 1 jersey he now wears. The best receiver ever to play here,” 
threat, he still has the energy to Wolverines junior receiver to-Gardner said. 
be part of the punt return team.“He can probably be the best receiver ever to Wolverine coach Bradyhoke
taled seven catches for 95 yards Last season’s Big Ten tight end and three touchdowns, earn-of the year, Funchess had 49 re­

play here.” said he will not hold Funchess or ing himself a spot resting on ceptions for 748 yards and six 
any starter off of special teams for

Devin Gardner 
the bench as Michigan finished touchdowns, playing both tight fear of injury because they could

Wolverines graduate student quarterback 
rolling over Appalachian State end and wide out. This season, 

get injured at any time anyway, 52-14. he amassed these num-now solely a wideout, Funchess 
and Funchess wants to be on the bers all before halftime and set a already is making a splash. played great against us.” over two Mountaineer defend-field as much as possible. Michigan record for most touch-Irish coach Brian Kelly said The 6-foot-5 Funchessers in the back of the endzone for “I took [Funchess] off the punt down receptions in a season the Irish defense must be wary proved too difficult to cover for one of his touchdowns. Funchess return because I thought, well, opener. of Funchess and have spent time Appalachian State, and Kelly acknowledged his size advan-he’s doing enough,” hoke said. 
Two days later, Michigan this week focusing on how to de-said Funchess has the talent to tage but added Notre Dame will “he got mad at me, so I put him graduate student quarterback fend against his connection with challenge any team. aim to minimize it. back on. We made a decision Devin Gardner said Funchess Gardner. “Funchess being on the perim-“I do see the size matchup,” that if you aren’t good enough to has the talent to position himself “We’re playing an offense eter is a matchup problem, and Funchess said. “But I think they start on offense and defense, you 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT aren’t good enough to start on special teams.” 
Funchess will attempt to dem­onstrate his impact as a starter on special teams and offense this Saturday against Notre Dame, but more importantly, he will try to prove again — this time against a historic rival — that he is worthy to wear the No. 1 Michigan jersey. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Follow us on
O 
Twitter.

 

 

 

 
@NDobsphoto 

 

 

 








Kelly: ‘No update’ on five withheld players 


By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Brian Kelly said he did not have any updates on the five players being held out of practice and competition fol­lowing Notre Dame’s investiga­tion into “suspected academic dishonesty” at his weekly press conference Tuesday. 
Kelly said the players have not been made a part of meetings and said everything is status quo. 
“We haven’t made that change [with their involvement in meet­ings] because I haven’t got any updates relative to where we are in the process and the timing of that,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said Thursday he has been informed that Notre Dame’s investigation has been closed. The University an­nounced Aug. 15 that junior cor­nerback KeiVarae Russell, senior receiver DaVaris Daniels, senior defensive end Ishaq Williams and graduate student linebacker Kendall Moore were being kept out of practice and competi­tion. Notre Dame announced Thursday a fifth player is also be­ing held out, and a University of­ficial later confirmed the player is senior safety Eilar hardy. 
Meeting with Michigan 
When Notre Dame and Michigan kick off under the lights at Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday night, the two historic programs will be meeting for the 42nd time. Since the teams squared off in 1978, the Irish and the Wolverines have played ev­ery year except 1983, 1984, 1995, 1996, 2000 and 2001. 
“I think we all know the kind of game we’re gonna play here with this opponent,” Kelly said. “Each team knows each other very well. Certainly they’ve been great games.” 
Kelly highlighted Wolverines graduate student quarterback Devin Gardner, who the head coach said “has played great against us,” and junior receiver Devin Funchess. 
“[That’s] a one-two combi­nation that is very dynamic,” Kelly said. “Funchess now being on the perimeter is a matchup problem, and he’ll be a matchup problem for everybody that he plays this year.” 
As for the rivalry talk sur­rounding a series that doesn’t have another meeting currently scheduled, Kelly steered clear of anything controversial, even asking, “how did I do?” after one rivalry-themed question. 
Notre Dame (.7332) ranks first in all-time winning percentage, while Michigan (.7326) checks in game and that’s why regardless of what the teams’ records are and what the personnel looks like, there is just great pride in both programs.” 

Personnel Updates 
Sophomore receiver Torii hunter Jr. (groin) has made good progress, according to Kelly, and was scheduled to partake in in­dividual drills Tuesday as he re­mains ahead of schedule. 
“If things go well, we will con­tinue to progress him through the week, and if he has a great week he could be in a situation where potentially he could play next week,” Kelly said. 
Senior linebacker Jarrett Grace (leg) continues to make signifi­cant progress in his movement and other body mechanics, Kelly said, but he’s still “a few weeks away” from being 100 percent. 
“he’s not at 100 percent, but 
he’s getting better each and ev­
ery day,” Kelly said. Sophomore receiver Corey 
fractionally behind. The winner Of the last 29 games between Robinson (thumb) is a little 
of Saturday’s tilt will claim first the two programs, the con-bit sore after playing Saturday 
place. test has been decided by seven against Rice, according to Kelly, “It’s something, certainly, that points or fewer 18 times. The but “everything looked great af­
we talk about in recruiting, in Wolverines have outscored the ter the game.” 
terms of the elite programs and Irish, 110-98, combined in Kelly’s “he’s one of those kids that 
the tradition of our program,” four seasons in South Bend. thought that was a great chal-
Kelly said of the elite winning Why so many close games? lenge in his life that he wanted to 
percentage. “It doesn’t help us “I think two programs that undertake,” Kelly said. “he was 
right now, but certainly it’s some-have such great pride that they’re going to play and find a way to 
thing that when you’re talking going to battle and fight to the succeed.” 
about the great programs of all very end,” Kelly said. “There is an 
time it’s something that we’re immense amount of pride, both Contact Mike Monaco at 
very proud of.” teams want to win this football jmonaco@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
!"##$%&'($ 
!"#$%&'()*'+),'-#.'/$0%-/'1#)/.'+.$/-'*$2/' 3)4.'$,)5%*'$%*',.40%*'5/'-#$-'1.'-))'$,.' 3$66.*'-)'7.'/$0%-/89 ' ' '''''''''''')$*+,+-./$*"/$ 









>$=#-*>#?#%@*A#++#0*B(%% 

!"#$%$&'()*()+*,$-#.*!"$/(0*123')(0*4"#*5(')4* 
C-D*1)4"$)E*A'(/7-$)#@*FDGD@*G"DHD*I()+'+(4#@* H#6(-4/#)4*$J*!"#$%$&E@*K$4-#*H(/# * 
5#64#/7#-*8 



KARLA MORENO | The Observer KARLA MORENO | The Observer 
Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson drops back to pass in Notre Dame’s 13-6 win over Michigan on Former Irish tight end Tyler Eifert aims to gain yards after a catch in Sept. 22, 2012. Golson and the Irish will face the Wolverines on Saturday. Notre Dame’s 13-6 victory over Michigan on Sept. 22, 2012. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



