The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 114 | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student government leadership changes 
Vidal, Devine take office, offer vision for upcoming year 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
Four years ago, lauren vidal and matthew devine never would have guessed they would be students at notre dame, but now the incom­ing student body president and vice president, both juniors, recognize that many once-insignificant deci­sions led them to where they are now, devine said. 
“we were just reflecting on how important choices are,” he said. “you make one decision, and we never would be sitting here today.” 
vidal said she had not considered applying to the university until the 
see vidal PAGE 7 



Coccia, Joyce reflect on their time in office, bid farewell 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
as their term in office comes to an end Tuesday, student body presi­dent alex coccia and vice president nancy Joyce said they only wish they had more time. 
although his term as president is over, coccia said he believes incom­ing student body president and vice president lauren vidal and matt devine will pick up right where his administration left off. 
“we just really wish he had more time to continue working on things, but lauren and matt have been very gracious in looking at some of the 
see coccia PAGE 6 


nd names honorees 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame will honor seven leaders in business, the church, community outreach, educa­tion, engineering and the arts as recipients of honorary degrees from the university at its 169th commencement ceremony may 18, according to a university press release. 
retired oil executive w. douglas Ford and harvard university professor evelyn hu will receive honorary doctor of engineering degrees, and biolo­gist and higher education leader sally mason and cardinal sean patrick o’malley, archbishop of boston will receive doctor of laws degrees, the release stated. 
notre dame will also honor choreographer Judith Jamison with an honorary doctorate of fine arts and surgeon and activ­ist ray hammond with a degree in humane letters, according to the press release. They will join principal speaker christopher 
see degrees PAGE 4 




Scholar confronts stereotypes 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
The saint mary’s center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) hosted Fulbright chinese teach­ing assistant Zhenman ye to present a discourse on the cultural differences and stereotypes of the east and west on monday. 
ye said when she was ini­tially asked to give a pre­sentation, she had many ideas she wanted to bring to light because china is such a diverse nation. 
“There are so many as­pects that interest people about chinese culture such as calligraphy, painting, music, dance, art, chinese food and well, chinese ev­erything,” ye said. 
much of her discourse was inspired by illustra­tions from the infographic portrait book, “east meets west,” by yang liu. 
“[liu] drew pictures to show the cultural differences between east and west,” ye said. “i’m showing [these] pictures now because they involve every aspect of our differ­ing lives. 

“in each picture she tries to express or show an idea.” 
ye displayed illustra­tions from liu’s book and asked the audience what they thought liu was try­ing to portray. The first illustration showed a thin straight line on the west side and a jumbled up and complex line on the east side. 
“This is how we express ideas. The western way is more direct or straight­forward when it comes to communication, whereas the eastern way has many other aspects involved,” she said. 
“For example every time my friend and i go to the dining hall, i ask her if 
see sTereoTypes PAGE 7 


Student arrested following break-in 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor  
police dame fmccurren  arrested reshman early  notre brian sunday  

morning for allegedly break­ing into and vandalizing a south bend wellness facil­ity, Therapeutic indulgence, saturday night, accord­ing to a wsbT report and mccurren’s attorney stan wruble. 
“it would be premature to [comment] at this time since the investigation is ongo­ing,” wruble, an adjunct law professor at notre dame, said in an email to The observer on monday night. “…i can confirm that brian was arrested sunday and re­leased from the county jail late this afternoon. 
“it is my understanding that no formal charges have been filed as of yet, despite other media reports to the contrary. i would expect 
see arresT PAGE 6 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 women’s basKeTball PAGE 20 FooTball PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnett@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is your favorite warm weather activity? 

Madison Faller 


Arielle Sims 
junior 

freshman 
cavanaugh hall 

pasquerilla east hall 
“playing waterpolo.” 

“lying in the park.” 
Josh Dempsey 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“lathering myself in tanning lotion and then sometimes tanning.” 
Mollie Effler 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“outdoor concerts.” 


Erin Foldesi 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“something behind a boat.” 
Laura Powderly 
senior 
off campus 
“reading outside.” 

Today’s Staff 
News Sports 

Want your event included here? 
Kelly Konya Joseph monardo Jack rooney renee griffin 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
henry gens 
Graphics Scene 

erin rice erin mcauliffe 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Photo Viewpoint 

caroline genco austin Taliaferro 
Michiana Oil MFA Reading Zen Meditation Islam Week Lecture Men’s Lacrosse Pipelines The Pool, Central High Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Center Arlotta Stadium 
Corrections 

Eck Visitors Center Apartments Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. in the march 27 edition of The observer 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Dr. Mahmoud on Jesus The Irish take on the in the article “dslc workshops address Panel discussion. MFA students read. Open to all students. and Mary in Islam. Duke Blue Devils. 
intersectionality, diversity,” speaker Kevin powell was misidentified. powell is a 
Seven Wonders of Perks of Being a Forum on Women in I Was Born for This Parseghian Cup: ND 
political activist. in the march 31 edition 
the Muslim World Wallflower Leadership DeBartolo Performing Rugby vs. Arizona 
of The observer, the club coordination 
Montgomery Hesburgh Library Mendoza College of Arts Center Stinson Rugby Field 
council’s club divisions were misnamed. 
Auditorium 7 p.m.-8:15 p.m. Business 5 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
They are academic, athletic, cultural, 
5:30p.m.-7 p.m. Lecture by author 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Opening of the titular $25 will be donated to 
performing arts, special interest and social 
Documentary Stephen Chbosky. Lecture on women in art exhibit. NPC research for every 
service. The observer regrets these errors. 
screening, free pizza. the life of the Church. attendee. Be there. 


Habitat builds 20th home 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
notre dame habitat for humanity is committed to build­ing one home every year for a needy family in the south bend area. 
This year, the club built a home for James and Janice plump, their daughter and grandson. pat laskowski, senior economics and applied mathematics major and co-president of notre dame habitat for humanity, said the plump family has never before owned a home. 
laskowski said his favorite part of habitat is being able to work with the family all year. 
“after a whole year of working with somebody, you get to know them so well,” laskowski said. “They are just so overwhelmed with joy and happiness to finally have this home and you’re there to share it with them. That’s an ex­perience i cannot match with any­thing else.” 
a unique part of habitat for humanity is the involvement of the family, laskowski said. The family has to put in 300 “sweat hours” working on their own homes and the homes of other habitat families. The family works alongside twenty volunteers from notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross during each build, ac­cording to the habitat website. 
This year’s home is located in southwest south bend among several other habitat houses, laskowski said. 
“it’s actually in the neighbor­hood of habitat homes which is ac­tually really exciting,” laskowski said. “you can be there and you can say ‘oh, i remember that habitat build and that habitat build.’ it’s a great community of people who love their homes.” 
laskowski said each home costs $60,000 and the club has to finance over half of the money to the st. Joseph county habitat for humanity affiliate. To do so, the club spends most of the year fundraising. 
laskowski said the club does a “Jail’n’bail” where you can pay for a friend to get arrested and bailed out of a “jail” on south Quad. part of the funds from Keenan hall’s muddy sunday event also goes to the club. Their next fundraiser is 



paid adverTisemenT 
a pizza eating competition in two weeks. 
Though the build for last saturday was cancelled, pat said the house would still be officially completed may 3rd, when it would be blessed and handed over to the family. 
notre dame habitat for humanity is special, laskowski said. it is unlike any other college habitat program and he hopes to see that continue for years to come. 
“we are the longest current running collegiate chapter in the united states,” laskowski said. “This is our twentieth house in a row, so twenty years, twenty hous­es. … i’d like to see us continue that and to never see that falter.” 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 

Nurse connects spirituality, health 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 

on monday, professor and director of nursing linda paskiewicz discussed the distinctions and con­nections between spiritual concerns and healthcare. The lecture was part of the weekly spirituality monday series at saint mary’s, di­
rector of the  center for  
spirituality  elizabeth  
groppe said.  
“[spirituality  monday’s  

are] an opportunity for faculty, staff and students of saint mary’s to gath­er together to reflect on the relationship between spirituality and different academic disciplines and professional practices,” groppe said. 
in a clinically-based and regimented area of study such as nursing, the lines can be blurred when it comes to the distinc­tions between spiritual­ity and clinical healthcare, paskiewicz said.  an under­standing of both develops over time. 
“i use myself as an ex­ample,” paskiewicz said. “when i was in high school, there were not a lot of ca­reer trajectories that were available for women. women could go to a nurs­ing program or ‘nurses training,’ as it was called then. women could go to beauty school. women could become teachers, or women could get married. 
“well, i decided if those were going to be my choic­es, the one i would pick for myself would be nursing. i just thought, ‘i think this is where i need to be.’ i had no sense … at that point of the spirituality, the big concept of spirituality, although i went to church and sunday school. That sense of this spiritual self was not part of myself at all.” 
paskiewicz said she was first introduced to the nursing profession after she graduated high school at the age of seventeen. 
“i worked as a nursing assistant at an inner-city hospital [in chicago],” paskiewicz said. “i knew nothing about nursing except for cherry ames books.” 
one of her first patient connections was with a woman who resembled her grandmother. paskiewicz said she used to stop by and chat with the patient even when not assigned to her room. over time, paskiewicz started to build relationships and to under­stand nursing on a more spiritual level. 
“i think, very early on, not fully understand­ing the experience, i got to be friends with people like the chaplain who was there and spent some time just trying to talk through my feelings about working with patients,” paskiewicz said. “and, very slowly, i began to have a much bet­ter appreciation of the whole mind, body [and] spirit connection. 
“i like to think my begin­ning sense of understand­ing connectedness helped me to earn an award for the best clinical nurse in my class, but somehow, in hindsight … i thought maybe i am different, and maybe this is affirming to me that my way of think­ing and being with people is different.” 
paskiewicz said she then examined her own spiri­tual development through the lens of childbirth, a di­vision of nursing in which she spent much of her ca­reer before she became in­volved in education.
 “i think that the spiri­tual connection can begin to develop between women and their babies long be­fore the baby is born, and so to minimalize the time the baby is in the womb is a great mistake,” she said. “it’s an expansion of the mind and creation into a new life that is important.” 
in  order  to  organize  
her  thoughts,  paskiewicz  
laid  out  her  five  spiri­ 
tual  steps  she  uses  when  

practicing nursing. her steps include meaning, the idea of becoming and connectedness. 
“it’s very fun to see other nurses here as well, so they can contribute because think that each of us come to develop … the impor­tance of spiritual connec­tion not only to ourselves but to others we serve,” paskiewicz said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Students promote Islam 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
in order to fight misconcep­tions about the muslim faith and educate people about specific aspects of islam, the notre dame muslim students association (msa-nd) is host­ing its first islam awareness week from Tuesday to Friday of this week. 
s.m. moududul islam, msa­nd secretary, said the or­ganization began planning the week last semester, us­ing other universities’ islam awareness weeks as mod­els. he said the goal of the week, which is funded by a graduate student life grant, campus ministry, the islamic society of michiana south bend mosque, the center for social concerns and the Kroc institute for international studies, is to provide a series of unified events that allow the notre dame community to ask detailed questions about the muslim faith. 
“The idea of islam awareness week is to have multiple events within a week so that we can draw the at­tention of the people here on campus and let them know about islam, and also to let the people ask questions,” islam said. “we are having different talks and different … events at which there can be close inter­action between the audience and the speaker. it is good to have that forum where you can ask questions.” 
msa-nd vice president md. itrat bin shams said the week would also be an opportunity to learn about certain facets of islam, such as the pilgrimage to mecca and the concept of the hijab, in more detail. 
“[The goal is] to let people know about specific aspects of islam, some things that are maybe known to us but not to people who believe in other faiths,” shams said. 
The week will begin with two events focused on hajj, the fifth pillar of islam, in which muslims make a pil­grimage to the holy city of mecca. on Tuesday, there will be a screening of the docu­mentary, “seven wonders of the muslim world,” which features seven mosques in the islamic world and tells the sto­ry of seven pilgrims’ journey to mecca. 
on wednesday, during campus ministry’s regu­lar “prayer from around the world,” dr. a. rashied omar, a research scholar of islamic studies and peace building at the Kroc institute, will give a talk on hajj. 
“we always see the image of the Kaaba in mecca on Tv, but we don’t exactly know any people who are non-muslim who know what is going on there,” islam said. “so the idea is to have a lecture, and in ad­dition to the lecture we are having a video demonstration on the pilgrimage to mecca … [dr. a. rashied omar] will be discussing the spiritual aspect as well as the rituals.” 
directly following omar’s lecture will be a dinner titled “i believe in . . .” which will consist of small-group dis­cussions of each participant’s faith. 
on Friday, msa-nd will provide transportation for 12 students to the mosque at the islamic society of michiana for a prayer service. 
“some students from notre dame can come with us to see how we perform our prayer and also, there’s a speech just before the prayer by the imam, the leader in the mosque,” shams said. “They can see the whole picture. The mosque, for us, for muslims, is not only the place for the prayer, [but] it is [also] a community center, so they can see how these things connect with each other.” 
The week will culminate with a lecture by hisham mahmoud, an instructor of arabic at harvard university and prominent scholar of islam on Friday evening. mahmoud will discuss the im­portance of Jesus and mary in the islamic tradition. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Degrees 
conTinued From page 1 

patten, chancellor of the university of oxford and chair of the bbc trust, to re­ceive their recognition, the release stated. 
Ford, a retired executive in the oil industry and member of the notre dame class of 1966, worked as chief execu­tive of refining and market­ing for british petroleum (bp) and provided the funds to establish the Ford Family program in human development studies and solidarity at notre dame, ac­cording to the press release. he currently serves on notre dame’s board of Trustees. 
a professor of applied physics and electrical en­
gineering  at  harvard  
university,  hu  researches  
nanoscale  electronic  and  

photonic devices, accord­ing to the press release. she has developed products from her research by co-directing the california nanosystems institute and co-founding cambrios and siluria, two startup companies that de­velop novel materials for electronic devices. 
mason, the 20th president of the university of iowa, researches developmental biology, genetics and bio­chemistry of pigment cells. she has supported sustain­ability initiatives and fought to increase enrollment and retention at iowa, the release stated. 
dedicating his pasto­ral outreach to latino and haitian immigrants, o’malley, the archbish­op of boston founded the centro catolico hispano in washington d.c. he cur­rently serves on a council of eight cardinals appointed by pope Francis to assist with church governance and this year joins the inaugural pontifical commission for the protection of minors, ac­cording to the press release. 
artistic director emerita of alvin ailey american dance Theater, Jamison led the company for 21 years, starred in a broadway mu­sical and founded her own dance company. she suc­ceeded ailey as the director of his company and estab­lished the group’s perma­nent home and international tour circuit, the press release stated. 
hammond, “a harvard­trained surgeon and urban community leader,” founded bethel african methodist episcopal church in boston, where he serves as pastor, the press release stated. hammond has held leader­ship positions with outreach groups in boston and written papers and articles focusing on social concerns, includ­ing academic achievement and violence prevention. 
patten will deliver the commencement address and receive an honorary de­gree, according to a Jan. 15 university press release. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Coccia 
conTinued From page 1 
projects that we have still been developing and that they’ll want to continue,” coccia said. 
Joyce said she felt her and coccia’s administration started important initiatives that will continue after they leave office. 
“i think the only regret would be that we really can’t see some of [our projects] all the way through,” she said. “i think we’ve laid the groundwork and have set it up for next year.” 
coccia said one such issue he wanted to progress more is medi­cal amnesty for students, par­ticularly with regard to alcohol consumption. 
“i think issue-wise … i wish we could have pushed [the discus­sion on medical amnesty] a little bit further, but we are happy to see where the conversation has progressed,” he said. 
“where we’re coming from as representatives of the student body is that our first priority …  is student safety and students get­ting the medical attention that they need if they so need it. 
Joyce said in a more general sense, she felt her and coccia’s administration made student government more accessible and pertinent to student life. 
This past year student govern­ment achieved smaller, more con­crete goals, coccia said, but they also confronted problems more directly concerning all students, most notably the issue of sexual violence. 
“There’s obviously the tangible successes like the coffee cart in debartolo,” he said. “i think we also realize that student govern­ment could address larger student life issues than just something like the coffee cart. 
coccia said he is proud to have spearheaded the one is Too many campaign, a student government initiative aimed at sexual assault prevention and healing,  which mobilized the student body and brought the issue to the forefront of student discussion. 
“i think the one is Too many campaign was important be­cause … it touched, very directly, at least over 3,000 people,” he said. “we recognize that the pledge it­self is not enough, but our hope was that it would raise the level of awareness and dialogue about the issue of sexual violence and about what our role in prevention is.” 
both coccia and Joyce said they will live and work in washington, 
d.c. following graduation, coccia working with either a non-profit organization or government agency through the Truman scholarship, and Joyce with de­fense consulting firm avascent group. 
Joyce said she wanted to extend her personal thanks to the stu­dent body for their engagement over the past year. 
“it’s really been a pleasure,” she said. “i have enjoyed this experi­ence and the opportunity to rep­resent some of the best and the brightest in the country.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at  jrooney1@nd.edu 
Arrest 
conTinued From page 1 
formal  charges  to  be  filed  
soon.”  
wsbT  reported  monday  
that  police  arrested  

mccurren on charges of bur­glary, vandalism and under­age drinking. 
Kim miller, esthetician at Therapeutic indulgence, told The observer that massage therapist natalie harling arrived sunday for an ap­pointment at the facility and discovered the break-in. 
“[harling] showed up at 
8:30 or 9 o’clock and noticed that our front door was kind of messed up and our side door was pretty banged up as well, and when she did get in there was powder all over the ground,” miller said. “… The police went upstairs and they found the guy in the kitchen passed out where he was sur­rounded by hot pockets and drumstick ice cream. 
“he had gotten into our freezer and just had a hey­day. he was apparently very 
“I think that we were just blown away by how bizarre it was. We’ve all been laughing about it because it’s just so insane.” 
Kim Miller 
esthetician 
Therapeutic Indulgence 
hungry. There was a frozen dinner in the oven that was burning and the smoke de­tector was going off.” 
miller said the intruder attempted to enter the busi­ness, which is located in a “historical house,” from mul­tiple access points. 

“he eventually got into the house because he tried all of our entrances and couldn’t get through,” she said. “our Jefferson boulevard entrance 
— he took a 100 pound con­crete flower pot, threw it trough the glass door and en­tered our enclosed porch. 
“There’s a second door, and we lock that, so he couldn’t get through the second door. he decided to take a hammer and beat his way through the wall, an interior wall to get into the place, so that whole wall is just completely obliterated.” 
miller said the intruder sprayed a fire extinguisher throughout the building but left the business’s valuables unmoved. 
“he didn’t damage any­thing as far as our comput­ers; he didn’t try to get our money,” she said. “our desk is completely untouched. basically it was like a rampage. he went on a de­structive rampage.” 
miller said the man whom police escorted from the building was “completely messed up” and “wasn’t aware of what was happening.” 
she said the employees of Therapeutic indulgence had conflicting reactions to the alleged break-in and vandalism. 
“i think that we were just blown away by how bizarre it was,” she said. “we’ve all been laughing about it be­cause it’s just so insane, ab­
solutely  crazy,  completely  
pointless,  just  mindless  
destruction.”  

miller said Therapeutic indulgence will continue to operate but may relocate temporarily to the second floor of the emporium build­ing in south bend. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Vidal 
conTinued From page 1 
day before the application dead­line. she said other schools re­cruited her for athletics but she ultimately based her decision on notre dame’s strong community. 
“i applied the last day [the ap­plication] was due,” she said. “i was going a different route. i was being recruited to play sports. 
“i was about to go to go else­where. i was basically going … i got here for spring [visitation, a weekend recruitment program for prospective minority stu­dents], and it just changed the game.” 
“The community was really, really impressive and i thought, ‘if there’s one place that’s going to bring me a little closer to the person i really want to be, this whole person, it’s going this insti­tution,’” she said. 
devine said he had “no con­nection” to notre dame except one football game until his visit to campus for a scholarship finalist weekend left him with a lasting impression. 

“i remember leaving the press box, and it was really late at night, and i ended up wandering over to the grotto,” he said. “so did about 10 of the other people that i was with, and people just kept coming … and, no joke, three in the morning, it’s freezing outside, and all of us are holding candles praying that we’ll just end up when we’re supposed to end up.” 
The pair’s vision for the coming year incorporates their experi­ences with the notre dame com­munity, vidal said. devine said they want student government to be accessible to every student and to incorporate ideas from across campus. 
vidal said she and devine see notre dame as an institution with a breadth of knowledge and resources that student govern­ment can and should use to facili­tate dialogue and action on issues that the student body considers important. 
“you think of an issue like sex­ual assault on campus, so you think of it as a very student-led conversation in terms of student leadership trying to solve [it] … but it’s unique when you step back and you think, we are at a premier university,” vidal said. 
devine said he and vidal will focus first on “visible initiatives” such as founding the student nighttime auxiliary patrol (snap), a supplement to the safewalk program, and initiating quad markets, which would bring food products and crafts from farmers markets to notre dame’s quads. 
he said acting as a representa­tive of the student body presents a unique challenge to faithfully serving the campus community. 
“The thing i’m most excited about is also the thing i’m most afraid of too: representing the student body’s opinion, especial­ly the atmosphere at the time,” he said. “[i will be] able to use that voice, express students’ opinions effectively and give a very accu­rate temperature of the discus­sion of the time. “ 
vidal said she and other mem­bers of her administration had met with the administration of former student body president alex coccia and former vice president nancy Joyce, both se­niors, to facilitate the transition process. 
“They’ve been great,” she said. “obviously we need to attribute a lot of credit to them. They’ve been good at catching us up to speed and giving us information on is­sues as opposed to just logistics, so they’ve really involved us in the conversation, and we’re really grateful for that.” 
devine said he and vidal ex­pect to hit the ground running when they take office april 1. 
“april 1 is not the start date; it’s just a continuation,” he said. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at      lsteven1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Stereotypes 
conTinued From page 1 
wants something to drink, ice cream or dessert. my asking her shows that i am the one who actually wants it.” 
ye said this is a way for her to be polite and humble by putting others needs before her own. 
“being direct can some­times be good, but most of the time [it] is offensive,” she said. 
The next illustration ye showed was a single person on the west side and a group of people on the east. she said this represented the individualism western cul­tures have and the collec­tivism the chinese have. 
“we are very group-ori­ented people [in china],” ye said. “we value collectivism and group work very much.” 
another illustration ye used represented the differ­ing authoritative roles be­tween east and west. 
“since westerners value individualism, they often like to be the center of atten­tion, but since easterners so much value collectivism, we try to minimize ourselves,” she said. 
another aspect ye finds unique to the west is the dynamic between students and teachers. 
“at first, i was shocked by the interaction [between] students and their teach­er. students challenge the teacher, whereas in china, students are submissive because they want to show respect to the teacher,” she said. 
other cultural differ­ences ye brought to light were the significance of the weather on peoples’ moods in the west, and the amount of noise westerners enjoy while eating.
 “our fancy restaurants [in china] are very noisy, [but] it is the opposite in america,” she said. 
ye also noted how many easterners view beau­ty much differently than westerners. 
“in china, we have the op­posite notion of beauty,” she said. “we think the paler your skin is, the more beau­tiful you are. you will find self-whitening products in­stead of self-tanning.” 
The major thing ye will miss about living in america is the fresh air and enthusi­asm for environmentalism. although many people may judge others based on these stereotypes, it is important to be compassionate to­wards all cultures and as­pects of humanity. 
“you need to show your respect and understanding of different cultures,” she said. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hipster backpack 

Jodi Lo 
associate photo editor 

my photo editor and i had a talk the other week about his backpack. it wasn’t something special or unique, in fact, it was a red herschel back­pack, a growingly common sight on the notre dame campus. however, even though it has become a common sight, i still didn’t quite understand why people bought this backpack. wei, our photo editor, was telling me that it was a normal backpack and that he bought his backpack before it became popular on campus. popular on campus — hipster much? That makes sense, i mean wei is as hipster as any student at notre dame can be. but this acknowledgement led me to question: “exactly what does it mean to be hipster?” 
wei and i talked a little bit more and we finally concluded that be­ing hipster is similar to playing “The game” back in middle and high school. if you, for a moment, think that you are a hipster, then you most certainly are not. by the way, you just lost “The game”. 
urban dictionary has an alterna­tive definition i will sum up for you. They say hipsters are pretty much people with an actual physical ap­pearance of tight pants and shaggy hair. 
i always felt like that definition was rather archaic, since fashion changes all the time. Tight pants became fashionable after my sophomore year in high school and i definitely remember chad michael murray pulling off the shaggy hair in Freaky Friday with lindsay lohan. Those people in my high school were defi­nitely not hipsters, no matter what definition was applied to them and chad michael murray played a janitor in high school, which is not hipster. 
reddit has its own definition of what a hipster is and how to de­fine hipsters. in a meme, redditors describe a hipster by the unique activities that they do, for in­stance, bringing a typewriter into a starbucks, having crazy tattoos or working as a barista. 
in the end, there are just too many definitions of what a hipster is for the general population to unanimously agree upon one definition. This am­biguity in the definition of a hipster is particularly interesting because being a hipster seems rather intrinsic to all of us. This conclusion has led me to the belief that it doesn’t mat­ter what the definition of a hipster is, especially since hipsters don’t like being defined. what matters is that my local barista “hipster” will hope­fully be serving me coffee tomorrow morning. 
Contact Jodi Lo at jlo1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
minimum wage not two-sided 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 
often, political battles in washington seem to continue on with no possible compromise in sight. 
The minimum wage is not one of those battles. 
sometimes, the political issues of one week’s news cycle are so abstract they make you wonder whether they will really affect your life. 
The minimum wage is not one of those issues. 
and many times, d.c.’s debates are so frivolous, they make you wonder why the topic even deserves the ink that’s used to write about them. 
The minimum wage is not one of those debates. 
The minimum wage debate is a consequential one, a debate whose outcome will affect the economy and the everyday lives of many americans. and it’s a debate that, perhaps most surprising of all, is conducive to compromises that will offer something to those on both sides of the issue. 
The problem thus far has been that neither republicans nor democrats are interested in listen­ing to what their opponents have to say on the issue; they’re concerned more with the party talking points than finding common ground. 
it begs the question — if two sides are talking, yet neither side is lis­tening, is it really a debate at all? 
on the democrats’ side, president obama has pushed for a minimum wage hike from its current level of $7.25 an hour to $10.10 an hour for several months now. 
“it’s time to give america a raise,” the president is fond of saying, as if it were that easy. he’s also fond of saying that no person who works full time should have to raise a fam­ily in poverty, a statement that is harder to disagree with. 
what democrats and the presi­dent won’t address are republicans’ concerns that the minimum wage hike they’re asking for could cost up to 500,000 american jobs, as the nonpartisan congressional budget office reported last month. 
democrats are all too eager to paint republicans as insensitive to the realities and struggles of work­ing class americans. yet it falls on deaf ears when republicans insist that they do care about hard work­ing americans, which is precisely why they want to save a half a mil­lion of their jobs. 
The gop’s concern that a mini­mum wage hike will lead to an increase in unemployment in an economy where unemployment remains stubbornly high is a genu­ine one. as many republicans have said, the issue can be boiled down to simple economics: as the price of something (employment) becomes more expensive, you are able to of­fer less of it. The gop is right to be concerned over higher unemploy­ment in a still fragile economy. 
still, the conversation does not end there and cannot end there, as much as some members of the gop might like for that to hap­pen. republicans in congress have largely ignored the reality that $7.25 is not a living wage in america to­day. boosting the minimum wage by nearly three dollars might not be the answer, but allowing an indi­vidual in the world’s richest nation to work full time and make $15,000 a year is not an acceptable alterna­tive either. 

of course, there are real alterna­tives to keeping the minimum wage at its current level and boosting it to $10.10, although it’s often hard to remember that, given democrats’ and republicans’ insistence that it’s their way or the high way. 
one common sense option is a smaller minimum wage hike to $9.00 an hour, as neil King’s article in the wall street Journal suggested on Feb. 24. 
a $9.00 minimum wage would lift nearly 300,000 people out of pov­erty while raising the incomes of 7.6 million people and would consti­tute the largest minimum wage hike in nearly 40 years, all while causing virtually no pain to the economy, according to the article. 
another alternative to the $10.10 minimum wage is promoting the earned income Tax credit (eiTc) to target low-wage workers, an option conor durkin detailed in his viewpoint piece on Feb. 19 (“Finding a better solution than $10.10”). 
There are alternatives out there that offer something to both par­ties. however, as long as both parties continue to stick to their talking points and refuse to engage in a real debate, those alternatives will never be realized. 
The minimum wage is not a two-sided issue. republicans and democrats alike would be well served if they stop acting like it. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Putting on a show for prospective students 
Bianca Almada 
This is real life 

This past weekend was spring visitation weekend, in which over 200 high-achieving prospective students from ethnic minority back­grounds take part in an all-expenses paid visit to the notre dame campus. This past weekend also featured two excellent notre dame events that celebrate diversity, multicultural­ism and the talents of the student body — latin expressions presented by the latino student alliance (for­merly known as la alianza) and the black cultural arts council (bcac) fashion show. 
it is no coincidence that all of these events are always planned for the same weekend. The prospective students are taken to the shows en masse, gaining exposure to the mi­nority communities at notre dame during their recruiting trip in hopes of making notre dame a more ap­pealing college option for them. 
both latin expressions and the bcac Fashion show showcase and foster appreciation for the diversity present among the students at notre dame, featuring portions including dance, music, poetry, fashion and more. most notably, the two events serve as capstones for each organi­zation. as two of the largest events of the year for the latino student alliance and the black cultural arts council, they highlight the talent and importance of their members and offer an opportunity for mem­bers to celebrate their community and show the rest of the student body and visitors how special it can be. prospective students are intro­duced and welcomed into the beauti­ful and diverse cultural communities on campus, which is usually a very positive experience for them. 
however, i fear that the structure of such minority recruitment events, specifically spring visitation, pro­vide prospective students with a false image of what the notre dame experience is actually like for mi­norities. spring visitation students visit campus during what is arguably the biggest weekend of the year for these minority organizations. The celebration of diversity on this par­ticular weekend is huge and atypical of most other weekends on campus. Though notre dame’s minority or­ganizations and communities are wonderful and growing, they are nowhere near as larger-than-life and prominent among the rest of campus as the events of the weekend make them out to be, which is extremely unfortunate. spring visitation makes notre dame out to be a campus with a thriving minority population and with a student body that celebrates it on a regular basis, but that is, frank­ly, not the case. 
anyone who looks at university statistics or even just glances around campus can see that notre dame has a low amount of diversity — minority students account for less than 25 percent of the student body. minority students often speak out about the tinges of racism that they have experienced on campus from other students. social groups are of­ten unofficially formed along racial lines, with many minority students forming their own communities apart from the “mainstream” notre dame culture. culturally related events are most often attend by only the minority students themselves and their friends, while the rest of campus remains either unaware or apathetic. 
it is absolutely necessary for the university administration to attempt to improve the diversity issue, and it is great to see that events such as spring visitation weekend are aimed at doing just that. however, i fear that presenting a less-than-true image of the university to prospec­tive students in order to persuade them to attend may only lead to their unhappiness later on after they commit, as they realize that the “real” notre dame is not the notre dame of spring visitation weekend. obviously, it is the job of recruiters to portray the university in a posi­tive light. and, obviously, a school with a smaller diversity student pop­ulation and poorer integration rela­tions will not be attractive to many minority students for a number of reasons, especially when these high achieving students are considering other schools of equal or greater cali­ber with better diversity statistics and relations. 

so what is the solution? 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and Journalism,Ethics and Democracy She can be contacted at bal­mada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The gentlemen’s dorm  
i would like to take this opportuni- They always treat me with respect,  haag. he is truly a blessing in my life  you do for me and for giving me the  
ty to again say thank you to the men  as i do to them, and they help me get  and my family’s life. did i mention he  strength to not to give up.  
of st. edward’s hall. no matter how  through my day. i care for each of the  is one of the best rectors on campus?  god bless you.  
bad my morning starts off, whether i  students as if he were my own son.  while i have thanked you before in  
am running late or have spilled cof- They are true gentlemen and have  previous years, i would like to thank  
fee all over myself, it gets better when  been since i started here.  you once more, gentlemen of st. ed’s  maem detaksone  
i see the smiling faces of the students  beyond the wonderful student resi­ and Fr. ralph, for letting me be able  notre dame employee  
and hear them say, “good morning,  dents of st. ed’s, another man i would  to say that i enjoy waking up each  st. edward’s hall  
maem.”  like to give thanks to is Fr. ralph  day to go to work. Thank you for all  april 1  
UWIRE  

Failure to intervene in north Korea is a crime 
Seth Dorman 
The maine campus 

“[north Korea] is a human para­dise in which Jesus would have noth­ing to do even if he came,” according to an article on north Korea’s state-run website. supreme leader Kim Jong un, it adds, embraces his peo­ple in “ever shining arms of eternal life and happiness.” 
but the united nations human rights council disagrees, as evi­denced by a report filed recently describing prison camps through­out the nation that rival those of hitler and stalin in their scope and brutality. on Friday, the council called for action to be taken against north Korea, submitting a resolu­tion which, if successful, would hold north Korean government officials liable to arrest outside their borders. according to world magazine, “Thirty member na­tions of the human rights council voted in favor the resolution, and 11 abstained. china, russia, cuba, pakistan, vietnam and venezuela voted against it.” 
north Korea’s united nations ambassador so se pyong told the council, “in [north Korea] we have a proverb saying ‘mind your own business.’ one needs to see his or her face in the mirror to check how nasty it is before talking about the others.” 
in situations such as these, mind­ing our own business would be a crime, mr. pyong. china, russia, cuba, pakistan, vietnam and venezuela are wrong in their treat­ment of their citizens. of course there are times when minding our own business is exactly what we ought to do. There are times we didn’t mind our own business and ought to have. we cannot police the world — any organization with power and authority to do so is too powerful and too authoritative and will inevitably become more corrupt than those it polices. This, however, is one of those instances when it is wrong not to act: many are call­ing it “the worst human tragedy in the world.” starvation is rampant. Timothy Kang, who escaped from the prisons, described prisoners that looked like “skeletons barely cov­ered with skin.” inmates catch rats and snakes and ask their guards for permission to eat them. some moth­ers are malnourished to the point where they cannot feed their infants, and the babies die. Forced abor­tions and infanticide is common. one female inmate was raped by a platoon leader; after the baby was born, the mother and her newborn were locked in a detention house. The mother soon went missing. The infant was fed to dogs. These and numerous other atrocities have been reported by over 300 escaped witnesses. in light of this, we are obliged to act. 

“Thou shalt not kill” does not only forbid: by implication, it de­mands. it requires that we do all we lawfully can to preserve life. The united nations must recognize this and take action, or it will become complicit in the crimes. now that our knowledge of crimes we have guessed at for decades is certain, failure to intervene is tacit approval. To know what is happening, to be able to intervene, and then to abdi­cate this responsibility is to be guilty of murder. 
This article was originally published on March 31 for The Maine Campus, the daily student newspaper of The University of Maine. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
senior scene writer 
you had me at “wes anderson.” 

one of last fall’s highlights on saturday night live was a sketch featuring the fake trailer for “The coterie of midnight intruders,” which parodied anderson’s movies and their idiosyncratic and stylistically-unique nature. it featured a one-off joke quoting a fake new york Times review of the film, saying, “you had me at wes anderson.” 
i hate to say it, but going into anderson’s latest actual movie, “grand budapest hotel,” i shared the mindset. it was a wes anderson movie, and therefore i would like it. i may like it less than other wes anderson movies, but i will still enjoy the film. 
my bias aside though, it’s safe to say that this is one of anderson’s most accessible, funniest and most spectacu­lar films, with a story and style that reaches beyond the familiar anderson quirks. 
The quirks are there, no doubt — overhead shots; bright, crayon-y colors; symmetrical framing; preco­cious children; dysfunctional families; and, above all, a whimsical, deadpan sense of humor that doesn’t always make you laugh but can always be recognized as funny, either in the moment or in retrospect. 
but “grand budapest hotel” feels like, if not the least andersonian of his films, then at least the most movie-like of his movies. The plot moves between decades, as an aging writer in the present recalls his time as a young writer in 1968 meeting an old man in a once-famous ho­tel, the grand budapest, recalling his time as a boy in the 

By MARISA IATI 
senior scene writer 

Editor’s note: This is the final installment in a series of columns chronicling the journey to the Holy Half Marathon on March 29. 
Three weeks ago, i was making plans to run away for this past weekend. 
i knew the holy half marathon was saturday, and i had decided that, despite several weeks of preparing, i was not going to run it. i had spent most of those weeks unwilling to train in the freezing temperatures, unable to bring myself to run inside and discouraged by on-and-off shin pain. 
when i wasn’t running, i was frustrated. when i was running, i was still frustrated. upon realizing that i grimaced every time someone mentioned running, the holy half or anything even tangentially related to athleticism, i decided to take a step back. The race had transformed from a fun and challenging goal to a source of feelings of inadequacy, and so it had become no longer worth it. 
in accordance with my tendency to be too hard on my­self, i was not-so-secretly bitter about the situation. until ERIN RICE | The Observer then-famous hotel in 1932. 
okay so yeah, the movie is pretty wes anderson-y. but the movie delves deep into its characters and plot, as the eccentric and anachronistically proper concierge of the hotel, monsieur gustave h. (ralph Fiennes, in one of the funniest roles of his career), becomes wrapped up in the murder investigation of one of the hotel’s best clients and a close confidant of his, a rich and equally eccentric old woman. 
we follow the mystery through the eyes of the young Zero moustafa, a young and precocious immigrant and lobby boy in the hotel, who adores gustave and follows his every order, no matter how ridiculous. 
The movie runs through a string of ludicrous and vi­brant characters, from the overmatched executor of the old woman’s will played by Jeff goldblum, her vulgar jerk of a son played by adrien brody, the understanding and rational german officer played by edward norton, the bruising enforcer played by willem dafoe, the conniving prisoner played by harvey Keitel and, of course, appear­ances from bill murray, Jason schwartzman and owen wilson. 
despite all these famous faces and instantly memo­rable characters, though, the central conflict of the film rests in the efforts of gustave and Zero to escape the forc­es chasing them down and hold onto a priceless painting they stole from the old woman’s estate. well technically it was willed to gustave, but it’s a whole thing in the movie. 
during their time on the run, with gustave constantly trying to get back to his beloved hotel and Zero trying to get back to the young girl he loves and has promised 
four days beforehand, i was so determined to escape the entire event that i looked into flights home to new Jersey for the weekend. 
my dad, however, was having none of it. as parents are wont to do, he reminded me that running away from my problems (no pun intended) would solve nothing. 
“what is it that will really define your success on this project?” he asked me. 
angsty 20-something that i am, i reacted by refusing to speak to him for several days. it wasn’t until i learned that the holy half committee was looking for volunteers that i returned to his question. 
what would define my success on this project? 
as i had known deep down all along, planning my escape from south bend certainly wouldn’t do it. but maybe giving of myself in another way could. 
i signed myself up to volunteer at the race, and for an hour and a half saturday morning, i stood about a quar­ter of a mile from the finish line, pointing runners toward the end and cheering louder than i knew possible. 
i watched hundreds of people run by: classmates, co­workers at this newspaper, roommates of past and pres­ent, former dorm-mates and people who looked vaguely familiar — some of my closest friends and many other people whom i may never meet. 
i smiled as people in costumes passed me — shout-out to marry (another precocious child, played by saoirse ronan), anderson gives us insight into the intense lone­liness and that accompanies gustave and his lifestyle. Zero adores him, but we can see what total devotion to servitude, mixed with endless vanity, can lead to in life. Zero devotes himself to his new love, but we find out even that can’t promise endless joy. 

The most powerful moment, for me, comes at the very end, as a rebuttal to a point made in the opening minutes of the movie. at the beginning of the movie, the writer re­calls seeing the old man, who we find out later to be Zero, in the hotel, and though all the people in the hotel are alone, he is the first one to seem truly lonely. anderson shows us at the end of the film though, that sometimes loneliness is the price to be paid for love and happiness, and mushy and sentimental as that may sound, heck, i liked it. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“Grand Budapest Hotel” Wes Anderson 
Fox Searchlight Productions If you like: Awkwardness coated in saturated colors. 

to the guy in the pig suit; you were my favorite. i laughed when people reacted to my “you’re almost there!” with “Thank god!” and i’d be lying if i said i didn’t tear up a bit when a man and two little boys started running alongside a woman whom i presume was their wife and mom for the last leg of the race. at some point, i started to equate their success with my own. 
i didn’t run a single step saturday morning, unless you count the part of volunteering when i skipped around in circles to keep warm. (i refuse to be ashamed about that.) 
still, the half marathon proved valuable for me in ways i couldn’t have predicted. 
i recognized how much good comes from urging other people on as they pursue their goals and ambitions. 
i learned that sometimes we are meant to be the run­ners and other times, we are meant to be the cheerlead­ers yelling until we lose our voices. 
i realized that there’s nothing wrong with deciding that one aspiration no longer serves you and pursuing another instead. 
as it turns out, what ultimately matters is that instead of running away from things, we run toward them. 
Marisa Iati can be contacted at miati@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By Meghan Cleary 
scene writer 

everybody has a strategy to get through his or her mondays. perhaps there is also a tactic for Tuesdays, wednesdays or just the week in its entirety. in order to keep self-morale at its peak, my strategy is to keep my headphones in my ears at any moment possible. getting from haggar hall to debartolo hall requires a well-paced metronome of tune and a mood-setting melody. 
without a doubt, whilst crossing quads, my favorite playlists are filled with songs that put a smirk on my face and a pace to my step. The selection of music sends one message reverberating through my body: “you have today in the palm of your hand; nobody can mess with you.” over the past few months, these playlists have been filled with gritty hip-hop and ominous glitch-hop instrumentals. The search in a promising change of pace seemed hopeless — until saturday night at legends, when Tyler bryant & the shakedown came to town. Their performance catalyzed a full-blown delve into their repertoire that has officially taken claim of my intimidation-factor, get-me-through-the-day playlist. 
legends’ venue laid the perfect set-up for Tyler bryant & the shakedown. This band reminded me of the value of intimacy between the performer and au­dience. often, big names lose connection to their fan base through barriers such as front-row ropes and little contact with the audience — for example, just driving through a set and taking no time to share their story. Tyler bryant & the shakedown encouraged one philoso­phy: a true shakedown doesn’t take kindly to barriers. 
The full set touched upon my favorite variations of rock music. “downtown Tonight” and “poor boy’s dream” kept the swing and heart of blues alive and well. songs like “don’t come cheap” and “lipstick wonder woman” combined this feel with a style of classic rock that is incredibly rare to come by nowadays. This com­bination of musical style, along with their unique and energetic presence, made for the perfect performance. 
all four of the band members took the opportunity to get just inches away from the people they were playing for. Tyler bryant, lead vocalist and guitarist, introduced each group member, which prompted each member to perform a memorable and remarkable solo. 
noah denney, bassist, pulled strings throughout the entire performance that notably led each song’s sense of emotion. The emotional output was on a wide spec­trum; denney laid down the perfect foundation for each and any circumstance. needless to say, denney’s bass solo took on an emotion of its own, provoking the inevitable response hip sways and head nods. 
graham whitford, guitarist, took solo to a new level. remember that intimidation factor i mentioned ear­lier? This guitar solo embodies that. The movement in whitford’s hands, and the sound emitting from his guitar, was completely entrancing. True talent on such a complex instrument is not easy to come by — but was palpably present in whitford. 

next was caleb crosby, drummer for the band. crosby did not take the backseat for his solo. crosby brought his drum front and center, lifted his arms and took the stage with his incredible capacity to build mu­sic. any section, piece or part of the drum was an op­portunity to make music. after giving the audience a pseudo-ending to his solo, crosby headed for the audi­ence and jumped to the floor, hitting his sticks against the linoleum, dropping the audience’s jaws at the quick-paced and creative continuation. 
Tyler bryant & the shakedown brought a phenom­enal performance. Their musical content is powerful. The sounds they take hold of shed light of performers such as stevie ray vaughan and The steepwater band. listeners could let their hair loose and throw their hands around. riffs on the guitar would make listeners turn to each other and nod in extraordinary approval. aside from my time as a live music enthusiast, and hav­ing built a steady list of live performances outside of the university, i am a nightclub staff member at legends. This has allowed me to see a great deal of musicians. Tyler bryant & the shakedown’s show was hands down the best rock performance i have seen live in years. To see this group again would be a real treat, and i recom­mend everybody take the chance to do so at least once. 
Contact Meghan Cleary at  mcleary2@nd.edu 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

hannibal buress has been having the year of his life. The writer, comedian and actor currently stars in two critically-acclaimed cable series (“broad city,” “The eric andre show”), has a role in the upcoming seth rogen movie “neighbors” and may have his own pilot picked up by comedy central this spring. it is among these dizzy­ing surroundings that buress follows up his previous two excellent stand-up specials with “hannibal buress: live from chicago.” despite his extensive work in the industry, in “live from chicago” nothing seems to faze his notori­ously collected comedic demeanor. 
hannibal buress takes all his jokes at a very even level, treating the absurd and mundane equally, finding humor in each. sometimes he restrains his more absurd stories with rational analysis, once out of the moment. it sounds like a backwards premise, to present comedy beginning in the absurdity and gradually scaling back to look at it sen­sibly, but buress’s ability to discover practical reactions in his very relaxed façade is it’s own kind of ridiculousness. The best way to describe his comedic style might come from buress’s own words, as he explains his thought pro­cess when he’s high: “when i’m on weed, i over-analyze ev­erything.” Though probably not to the exaggerated extent as when he’s under the influence, you can tell buress really breaks down and examines all of his talking points. 
This course of direction lends itself heavily to buress’s story-telling-centric brand of stand-up. he dissects his life experiences, mining the minutiae — including scroll­ing through Facebook and interacting with fans on social media — for little, common ticks on which to riff. in so, a lot of buress’s funniest moments on “live from chicago” come from dialog-based punch lines resultant from his ex­periences; he previously worked as a writer on “30 rock,” and his voice, though not as outlandish, sometimes paral­lels the show’s tone in having the perfectly fitting witty re­sponse for seemingly everything. 
other standout bits have buress confronting a bar owner about a rat in their bathroom and explaining how in new orleans you can hire a band to walk around the streets behind you. “That’s the best ipod ever,” he claims as he elaborates that you would quickly find yourself in your own parade, with people just joining your police-aided route around the city. his analysis is quite logical and, as a result, his realizations are as funny as the jokes he tells while getting to them. his total deconstruction of profes­sional boxing’s procedural nature compared to viral vid­eos of impromptu fights, for instance, intertwines the two aspects completely. in some cases he even dissects his own jokes after or as he tells them — which, rather than detracts from, heightens their effectiveness. 

Though these conventions comprise most of the “live from chicago” special, hannibal buress mixes in a cou­ple unpredicted, inventive gags in between. varying from standard storytelling, buress sets a punch line to a musi­cal cue and lip-synchs one of his own bits, as homages to rappers and performers who hype their own pre-recorded music at concerts. There may be something to say about the infatuation some stand-ups have with rap, or perhaps even parallels to draw between the two mediums, but as these bits stand, they are simply clever, admiring pokes — and really funny at that. 
in his closing material, buress details his personal expe­rience with a commonly covered premise, the timeshare presentation trap, to slightly underwhelming results for a finale. still, his insight and calm delivery never falter. Just as in his best material, his apt conclusions make it so that you just want to hear whatever it is he has to talk about — mesmerized by the unpredictable, yet reasonable, things prone to come from his brain. 
The uncut and uncensored special “Hannibal Buress: Live from Chicago” is available for streaming and download for $5 at direct.cc.com 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Not up to NCAA to pay players 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
last week, the national labor relations board ruled that play­ers on the northwestern football team were employees of the uni­versity — not just student ath­letes — and they therefore have the right to form their own labor union. right now, the college athletes players association, which is being funded by the united steelworkers, is pushing for better medical coverage for former and current student ath­letes, as well as a cut of commer­cial sponsorships and aid to help former athletes graduate. 
although the capa is not currently asking for salaries for student athletes, many commentators see the recent decision as a step toward pay­ing college athletes beyond the scholarships they currently receive. although the idea of paying players (legally, not just in the form of fake campus jobs and free cars) has been tossed around for years, it is clear that athletic departments across the country will not be able to ig­nore the issue for much longer. 
as is often the case when two factions fight over money, both groups risk coming out of this legal fight looking rather bad. The ncaa, which remains a strict and capricious enforcer of amateurism, is so dysfunc­tional and draconian that even mark emmert’s mother could not give the organization a positive review. college athletic departments surely do not want to spend the coin to pay their players if they do not have to, but it is hard to believe so many are hurting for money when we see shiny new weight training facilities and basketball coaches making more money than governors. 
The student athletes — the same ones we all cheer for saturday afternoons — might initially seem more sympathet­ic, and anyone who’s watched espn in the past year or so knows that much of the sports media complex has sided with the players. but we should re­member that most citizens in this country do not have their own sports talk radio show, and many of them spend a lot more time worrying about their own children’s college tuition payments than about big 12 basketball. These people might be casual sports fans, but i doubt they will be able to muster much sympathy for athletes who are already getting a college educa­tion for free. 
but there are two parties who have managed to stay out of the fray, despite the fact that they are largely responsible for it: the nFl and the nba. sure, the nba technically has the d-league, but pretty much any athlete who enjoys a successful career in professional football or basket­ball gets a few years of training in a college program. The ncaa can tout the virtues of amateur­ism, but it is more than happy to let universities function as a minor league for both the nFl and nba. 
i love college sports as much as anyone, but even i have to admit that it makes no sense to force a talented cornerback to pretend he wants to study soci­ology for three years before he can move on to the nFl. 
in nearly every other sys­tem, leagues are charged with training their own talent. most soccer clubs around the world have teams for each age group and promote players through the system when they are ready to advance. in north america, baseball and hockey players can choose between the minor leagues and a college program. most of the very best take large signing bonuses and the prom­ise of a quick promotion to main club, while the more academi­cally-inclined might hedge their bets by getting a college educa­tion while improving their skills and hoping to grow a few extra inches. 
The nFl and nba might be taking advantage of colleges as a training ground for their future stars, but the ncaa is hardly an unwilling victim. There’s media attention – and money – in the stars of tomorrow. all the same, the ncaa has been very clear that a full scholarship is the maximum reward student ath­letes can receive. if a young ath­lete prefers paychecks to books, that is fine, but it should be the nFl and nba that should find a place for him, not the ncaa. 
Contact  Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB | whiTe sox 5, Twins 3 

White Sox take down Minnesota Twins 
Associated Press 
alejandro de aza hit two homers, and Jose abreu had two hits in his major league debut to back chris sale and lead the chicago white sox to a 5-3 sea­son-opening victory over the minnesota Twins on monday. 
sale got the win, pitching five-hit ball into the eighth. 
paul Konerko got a loud ova­tion before what was likely his final opener, although he wasn’t in the lineup. The white sox started the season with a win after losing 99 games last season. 
abreu doubled on the first pitch he saw leading off the second inning against ricky nolasco and scored on de aza’s two-run homer to give chicago a 2-0 lead. 
he also drove in the go ahead run with a single during a two-run third after minnesota’s Kurt suzuki tied it with a two-run single in the top half. 
de aza made it 5-2 with a solo shot just over the right-field wall in the sixth inning for his first career multihomer game. it was also the first for chicago on opening day since Jim Thome at cleveland in 2008, and the first by a white sox player in a season opener at home since 1960, when minnie minoso hit two against the Kansas city athletics. 

That was enough for sale, who allowed three runs and struck out eight and walked one. The two-time all-star came out with a 5-2 lead after giving up a leadoff double to aaron hicks in the eighth and striking out eduardo escobar. 
ronald belisario allowed a two-out rbi single to suzuki before donnie veal retired Joe mauer on a grounder. 
matt lindstrom came on in the ninth after being an­nounced as the closer by man­ager robin ventura before the game. The right-hander gave up a one-out double to chris colabello before striking out Trevor plouffe and retiring oswaldo arcia on a grounder to the mound for his first save since april 2011 when he was with colorado. 
nolasco took the loss in a shaky debut with minnesota. one of the top free agent pitch­ers last winter, nolasco gave up five runs and 10 hits in six innings. 
The Twins are trying to pick themselves up after back-to­back 96-loss seasons and drop­ping a staggering 291 games the past three years. 
There was a glitch before the game with their replay sys­tem as two blown fuses dis­abled a pair of monitors in the minnesota clubhouse. That was fixed in time for the first pitch, but things didn’t get much bet­ter for the Twins. 
The white sox, who believe they are poised to make a jump this year, struck early and an­swered quickly after minnesota tied it. 
abreu, signed to a $68 mil­lion, six-year deal in the offsea­son, and de aza provided the big hits. 
MLB | cardinals 1, reds 0 

home run gives st. louis opening day win over reds 
Associated Press 
yadier molina’s homer broke a seventh-inning tie and drew another round of loud boos while he rounded the bases on monday, leading the st. louis cardinals to a 1-0 victory over the cincinnati reds. 
The reds were blanked on opening day for the first time since 1953, ending the second-longest streak of scor­ing in at least one run in sea­son openers in major league history. The phillies went 62 years without being blanked in an opener from 1911-72. 
adam wainwright used his refined sinker to finally get the best of the reds, who have hit him like no other team. wainwright allowed three hits in seven innings, fanning nine. 
st. louis escaped a threat in the eighth. Trevor rosenthal retired all three batters in the ninth, finishing a three-hitter for the defending national league champions. 
bryan price lost his man­aging debut with cincinnati, which opened the season with eight players on the disabled list, its most since 2007. 


during pregame introduc­tions, molina got by far the loudest boos from the crowd of 43,134 — the second-larg­est for a regular-season game in great american ball park history. Fans still haven’t for­given the five-time all star catcher for a 2010 brawl at home plate with brandon phillips. 
They were booing again af­ter his first-pitch homer in the seventh, his second career off Johnny cueto. it was one of only three hits off cueto in seven innings. 
The combination of wainwright and molina was enough. 
wainwright won 19 games and finished second in the nl cy young award voting last season, when he had his big­gest trouble with the reds. he went 1-3 in four starts with a 
7.77 era against cincinnati, getting knocked around so much that he called it a “head-scratcher.” 
wainwright (1-0) refined a sinker in spring train­ing and was in control on a breezy, 64-degree afternoon. he fanned new reds leadoff came in the eighth, when the cardinals committed two er­rors. phillips became the first reds runner to reached third base, but was caught in a run­down on Jay bruce’s ground­er. carlos martinez fanned Todd Frazier for the final out, stranding a runner at third. 
hitter  billy hamilton  four  
times.  
The  reds’  best  chance  

cueto’s third straight open-ing-day start was a reminder that it’s a matter of staying healthy. he was on the dis­abled list three times last sea­son, limited to 11 starts. he changed his delivery slightly to try to avoid injury, and was on the mark on opening day until molina connected. 
There were no close plays that merited replays. 
one noticeable change: price will do more defensive shifting. when lefty matt adams came to bat, Frazier moved from third base to the second baseman’s normal po­sition while phillips moved into short right field. adams went the other way, getting a single and a double in his first two at-bats — the only hits off cueto (0-1) through six innings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MLB | brewers 2, braves 0 

Milwaukee tops Atlanta in Braun’s return 
Associated Press 
milwauKee — ryan braun stepped into the bat­ter’s box, admittedly a bit anxious. The sellout crowd at miller park quickly put him at ease, showering him with a standing ovation. 
First day back on the job after a drug suspension was already a day to remember for the brewers slugger. Then he added another unique footnote to his career. 
braun went 1 for 4 and stole a base that helped set up a two-run inning, and later was ruled out in the first call overturned under baseball’s expanded replay system as milwaukee beat the atlanta braves 2-0 on monday in a season opener. 
The former mvp was re­turning from suspension for the final 65 games last year in the biogenesis dop­ing scandal. played his first game as a right fielder, too. 
what a way to start the season. 
“it was special. it was an emotional moment for me,” braun said. 
braun said the ovation af­fected him. he flied out to left. 
“swung at some pitches that i typically don’t swing at, but it’s something that i’m very thankful for and very appreciative,” braun said. 
among the 45,691 peo­ple in attendance was commissioner bud selig. i wish everybody well,” selig Two years ago, braun be-said. came the first mlb player later, braun had his in­to get a suspension for per-field single to lead off the formance-enhancing drugs sixth overturned to out af­overturned. originally ter the call was challenged banned for 50 games, he by braves manager Fredi 

“Fans are fans. That’s the way it’s supposed to be. He’s their hometown player and it was a wonderful reaction. I wish everybody well.” 
Bud Selig 

commissioner MLB  
filed a grievance and won. “Fans are fans. That’s the way it’s supposed to be. he’s their hometown player and it was a wonderful reaction.  gonzalez league basplay format. The reviseconds.  under eballew  ’s ntook  mew ajor  re­58  

paid adverTisemenT 


“i had a pretty good idea that i was out,” braun said, drawing laughs. “For all of us, we just hope they get it right, and they did get it right.” 
yovani gallardo (1-0) tossed six shutout innings for the win. he allowed just four hits in becoming the first pitcher in franchise his­tory to make five straight opening day starts. 
a braves lineup being relied on to help overcome the ad­versity to the injury-plagued pitching staff was silenced. andrelton simmons finished with two hits. 
“you go up there, your third at-bat and (gallardo) will throw you something com­pletely different,” said clean­up hitter chris Johnson, who went 1 for 4 with a double. “where did that come from? ... he’s one of the tougher guys in the league.” 
in a bit of a surprise, Francisco rodriguez struck out two in the ninth for his 305th career save. The vet­eran righty looked fine about two weeks after accidentally stepping on a cactus during spring training. 
manager ron roenicke said he turned to rodriguez be­cause Jim henderson, who had 28 saves last season, was having a little trouble of late with his stuff. he hoped a couple outings outside the ninth would help henderson get straightened out. 
with injuries to pitchers including Kris medlen and brandon beachy, atlanta started Julio Teheran (0-1) af­ter a nice spring. he allowed seven hits in six innings. 
“For his first start, for his first opening day, i thought he did a terrific job,” gonzalez said. 
but all eyes in miller park were on braun to start after the 2011 nl mvp played his first game since July 21. he was banned the next day. 
it seemed like all was for­given for most in attendance. 
braun’s hit and steal set up a two-run double by aramis ramirez in the fourth. 
“it’s special, we all know what he went through last year,” ramirez said. “For the fans to do that, it was very special.” 
braun and ramirez also missed time last season be­cause of injuries. 
with their third- and fourth-place hitters back, the brewers like their chanc­es with an offense that also features the speedy carlos gomez and Jean segura at the top of the order. if the rest of the starting rotation throws like gallardo, milwaukee could challenge st. louis, cincinnati and pittsburgh in the nl central. 

The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MLB | phil 14, Tex 10 
phillies outscore rangers 
Associated Press 
arlingTon, Texas  — Jimmy rollins had a grand slam dur­ing his memorable opening day for the philadelphia phillies, who needed a lot of runs to get usually reliable ace cliff lee a victory in his return to Texas. 
rollins hit his 200th career homer and pinch-hitter John mayberry Jr. had a tiebreak­ing two-run double that put the phillies ahead for good in a wild 14-10 victory over the rangers on monday. 
rollins matched cal ripken’s major league record by starting his 14th consecutive opener at shortstop for the same fran­chise. he also became the 19th player in major league history with at least 400 doubles, 100 triples and 200 homers. 
“J-roll, with the big pop early, just really set the tone and got things going,” phillies manager ryne sandberg said. “i think it was contagious after that.” 
The phillies had 17 hits and their most runs in a season opener since 1900. it was more than enough to make up for a rough outing for lee (1-0), who was unable to protect a 6-0 lead after rollins homered in the second inning. 
rollins, whose wife is expect­ing their second child, flew to Texas on sunday, a day after the rest of the team did. 
“i didn’t want to come here and then have to fly to philadelphia,” rollins said. “The baby has let me go out and play ball for a few more days.” 
marlon byrd and cody asche also homered for the phillies, who beat the boston beaneaters 19-17 in their 1900 opener. 
converted rangers reliever Tanner scheppers gave up seven runs over four innings. but the game was tied when scheppers threw his last pitch. 
mayberry, a first-round draft pick by the rangers in 2005 who never played for the big league club and was traded three years later, got his tiebreaking hit in the fifth against pedro Figueroa (0-1) for a 9-7 lead. 
lee matched his career high by allowing eight runs and struck out only one, but the left-hander made it through five innings in another less­than-stellar opener for him in the rangers’ home ballpark. 
“i don’t like being on the pitching side of that, but for­tunately we outscored them and got the win, the main thing,” said lee, who had a sol­id spring. “Jimmy hitting that grand slam busted it open. and we kept adding it on and we needed it, as it turned out.” 
SMC TENNIS | smc 8, Trine 1 

Doubles teams succeed in victory 
in the three singles by drop­ping just two games on her way to a 6-2, 6-0 victory, and elliott took a 6-1, 6-2 decision at four singles. Fetters won a 6-1, 6-0 match at number five singles and Kiefer won in the sixth spot, 6-2, 6-2. 
The belles will return to ac­tion against indiana wesleyan today after last week’s non-conference contest against the wildcats was postponed due to weather. campbell said the tilt with division-i indiana wesleyan would not be an easy matchup. 
“it is always tough playing a team that has players on scholarship,” he said. “They are ranked nationally and a perennial power in their conference.  we want to win, 
paid adverTisemenT 
but the main priority is get­ting better for our conference battles” 
The belles’ next confer­ence match will take place on april 9 against albion, last year’s third-place conference finisher. 
“albion is always strong and will be a tough opponent upcoming, so our focus is im­proving every match in dou­bles and continue to hit more quality shots every match, ev­ery point,” campbell said. 
“it will take a concentrated effort every match and every practice we have over the next 25 days. The season moves re­ally fast for us at this point.” 
Contact Cornelius McGrath at cmgrat2@nd.edu 
looked better,” belles coach dale campbell said. “The doubles wins were all convincing. 
“margaret Faller and andrea Fetters are now 4-0 in doubles and the no. 1 and no. 2 teams are both improving. we have worked more on dou­bles in practice, and it seems to be paying off.” 
saint mary’s was nearly as successful in the singles portion, winning five out of a possible six matches. mary catherine Faller suffered the only loss for the belles on the day, falling 6-1, 6-0 in the one singles match of the after­noon. at the two spot, sexton won in a super tiebreaker, 6-2, 2-6, 1-0 (10-5). belles junior Jackie Kjolhede earned a win 


By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports writer 
over the weekend, saint mary’s triumphed 8-1 over Trine in its second miaa match of the spring season. 
The belles (6-3, 2-0 miaa) began saturday’s contest by winning all three of their doubles matchups. The junior pairing of audrey Kiefer and shannon elliott led the way with an 8-2 win. The sopho­more pairing of margaret Faller and andrea Fetters quickly followed suit with an­other 8-2 victory, while senior mary catherine Faller and junior Kayle sexton captured an 8-3 win of their own in the first doubles position. 
“all of the doubles teams 



SMC SOFTBALL 

Weather prevents weekend games 
Observer Staff Report 
The belles postponed their second double header in a row sunday, adding two games against north park to the pair of contests against manchester already on the rescheduling list. it has been over a week since the belles (8-4) have seen ac­tion. They swept dominican on march 23. 
saint mary’s has two more non-conferences game before beginning conference play on april 5. The belles return to action today against carthage (6-4). carthage, ranked no. 22 in division iii by national Fastpitch coaches association in the preseason, won its last game against colby college, 4-1. early this season, the lady reds are being led by freshman pitcher darian pelsor who leads carthage in batting average of those who have had at least 15 at-bats, doubles and total bases and is tied for the team league in slugging percentage. in addi­tion, pelsor has made four ap­pearances and two starts on the mound this season. 
in the last meeting between the two teams, carthage swept the belles in the 2012 season, racking up a run differential of 20-5 in the two games. This sea­son, the belles have opened up a six-game winning streak that includes a .350 team batting av­erage and only six earned runs allowed. 
senior pitcher and captain callie selner has been the lead­er of the saint mary’s team so far, leading the team in batting average (.448) and doubles (8). selner has made her mark in the saint mary’s softball record books both batting and pitch­ing. selner is fifth in career rbis with 93, and is only nine rbis behind laura richter (1993­1996) for the program’s second spot in the category. she also ranks first in career wins (41) and second in career strikeouts (327). selner broke the record for most wins in a single sea­son with 17 in 2012. sophomore outfielder Jillian busfield has also made her mark on the belles team ranking fifth on the all-time hom-erun rankings, and last season as a freshman, busfield broke the single-sea­son record for most home runs with 11. 
now with four games yet to be rescheduled, the belles will compete against carthage in Kenosha, wisc., on Tuesday at 
2:30p.m. 
MEN’S SWIMMING | ncaa championships 

irish wrap up season with ncaa championships 


Observer Staff Report 
notre dame’s season came to a close saturday at the ncaa championships, as the irish finished 30th out of 48 teams. 
despite the low team finish, the irish managed to compile 14 points during the cham­pionship meet, the second-most for a notre dame team at the ncaa finals in pro­gram history, behind only the 2012 team’s showing of 15. 
The conclusion of the meet marks the conclusion of head coach Tim welsh’s tenure with the program, after a pe­riod of 29 years coaching the irish. during welsh’s tenure, a total of 23 qualifiers trav­eled to the ncaa champion­ships, with 20 of those bids coming since the 2011 sea­son. in addition, welsh has helped six irish swimmers earn all-america honors dur­ing the previous four ncaa championship meets. 

The irish received several strong individual perfor­mances over the weekend. irish senior Frank dyer set a program record in the 500­yard freestyle with a time of 4:17.13 and earned all­america honors with his time in the 200-yard freestyle. dyer finished with a time of 
1:33.43 in the event, which was good enough to place fifth overall at the tourna­ment. dyer finishes his ca­reer holding the notre dame program records in the 50-, 100-, 200-, 500- and 1000­yard freestyle events, along with the 100-yard butterfly. he is also a member of four different record-holding re­lay teams. 
irish freshman Joe coumos finished off his first collegiate season as only the third men’s diver in notre dame program history to qualify for the ncaa meet. coumos finished 19th in the 1-meter dive with a score of 324.10. 
The irish also received strong showings from a pair of junior all-americans, as well. Zach stephens finished his season in the 200-yard breaststroke, an event in which he had previously set a new program record with a time of 1:53.34 during the acc championship meet last month. stephens would touch the wall at the ncaa championship meet with a time of 1:55.74, which was good enough for 26th place finish. John williamson put together a strong showing in his signature event, as well, the 200-yard butterfly, with a time of 1:44.01. williamson placed 24th in the event. 


SMC LACROSSE 

illinois Tech game moved 
season. 
in its first year as a var­sity program, saint mary’s will continue to search for its first win against Kalamazoo on wednesday and, conditions permit­
ting,  against  the  win­ 
less  illinois Tech  squad  
saturday.  

Observer Staff Report 
originally scheduled to square off this past sunday afternoon, saint mary’s and illinois Tech will in­stead play this saturday at 
1:30 p.m. after their game was postponed due to un­playable field conditions. 

The cancellation came after a week of cold weath­er and heavy rain hit the field at saint mary’s. 
before they take on the hawks (0-7), the belles (0­
6) will travel to Kalamazoo on wednesday to face the hornets (2-4) in their first conference matchup of the 


TRACK & FIELD | Texas relays and vicTor lopeZ inviTaTional 
Outdoor season begins with Texas meets 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame opened its outdoor season with a pair of meets in Texas this past weekend, putting up strong showings at the Texas relays in austin, Texas and the victor lopez invitational in houston. 
The irish faced some ad­justments in their first outdoor competition, but according to freshman hur­dler conner stapleton, the weather more than made up for it. 
“it was different because we’ve been training inside, and indoor tracks and out­door tracks are just different in length,” stapleton said. “The coaches try to prepare us as much as they can, to simulate how it feels on an outdoor track, but there’s only so much you can do. but it was nice, beautiful weather in houston. i mean, i couldn’t imagine any bet­ter weather.” 
at the first meet, the Texas relays, 18 irish athletes made the trek to compete against opponents from the 
likes of  penn  state,  Texas  
and  duke,  among  other  
schools.  The  main  event  

over the meet’s first several days was the men’s decath­lon, where notre dame se­nior Ted glasnow finished in seventh place out of 15 competitors. his score of 7,299 was enough to give him the top-10 finish he needed to qualify nation­ally. glasnow’s position was particularly bolstered by his first-place finish in the pole vault section of the decathlon (4.40 meters). 
other standouts at the Texas relays included both genders’ 4x400-meter relays. The women’s team of junior Jade barber, senior michelle brown, junior amber lalla and sophomore margaret bamgbose finished sec­ond with a time of 3:35.91. Freshman harvey smith, junior chris giesting, se­nior patrick Feeney and se­nior Jarrod buchanon took fourth place in the event after finishing in 3:08.60. after they achieved all­american status in the in­door season, stapleton said the 4x400-meter relay team, particularly Feeney and giesting, have become the example the entire team hopes to replicate. 
“chris [giesting] and pat [Feeney] have probably turned in their best sea­sons,” stapleton said. “The two of them kind of just lead the team, and we just try to pick up the pieces where we can. we try to train as hard as they train, and follow what they do.” 
meanwhile, at the victor lopez invitational, the irish were able to find success in some events new to the out­door season. in the women’s discus, sophomore throw­er lena madison came in fifth place (41.11 meters), and freshman thrower indi Jackson was close behind, finishing in seventh (40.56 meters). in another women’s field event, senior thrower amanda chamblee’s jav­elin toss of 40.49 meters was good enough for second place. 
back on the track, the irish managed a one-two finish in the men’s 400-me­ter hurdles, and a victory in the women’s 400-meter hurdles as well. sophomore michelle rotondo claimed victory with a 1:00.75 time, while stapleton (53.64) and sophomore aaron dunn 
(54.04) paced the men’s event. The race marked stapleton’s first college vic­tory, but the freshman said it was only a single step on the path to his ultimate goals. 


“it feels good,” stapleton said. “i don’t want to hype it up like i’m a big superstar now, cause i’m not. i know i have a long way to go. i ran a conservative race and just did what i can. i hope to im­prove off that time, which i think i will.” 
The irish will return to the track next weekend, when they travel to the stanford invitational in stanford, calif. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 



Corrigan 
conTinued From page 20 
something we’ll always have that we got to share.” 
will echoed his fathers’ sentiments, adding that he embraces the chance to see him every day. 
“he was always a role mod­el for me growing up,” he said. “having him around ev­ery day is really great. i stop by the office almost every day to talk to him as a dad, not a coach, which is pretty cool.” 
This is not to say that hav­
“Having him around every day is really great. I stop by the office almost every day to talk about him as a dad, not a coach, which is pretty cool.” 
Will Corrigan 
Irish junior midfielder 
ing his dad as a coach has not come with some adjustments for the younger corrigan, particularly when his team­mates air complaints about the coaching staff. 
“it’s hard in the locker room when guys are saying, ‘why did coach make us do this today?’ or ‘why did we run so much?’,” will said. “That whole aspect was challeng­ing for me, but it’s gotten a lot better.” 
coach corrigan under­stands the difficulties that his son faces his with his team­mates. There is also the is­sue of where the line stops for him being a dad and where it begins for him as coach. The elder corrigan said he has not found the issues to be diffi­cult to resolve, however. 
“when we’re on the field, i treat him no different than anybody else,” coach corrigan said. “That’s not to say i treat everybody the same. you learn what guys respond to and what they don’t, and while there’s a cer­tain amount of pushing and prodding you really tailor it to what a guy responds to — i think i do that with will on the field the same as every­body else.” 
since both are now trying to help the irish win their first-ever national champi­onship, lacrosse is always a hot topic at home during the summer. 
“we talk about lacrosse [at home] but it’s not like he forc­es me into it — i almost force him into it,” will said. “we’ve both always loved the game, so we try to figure out how can i get better and how the team can get better. The one thing i will say is it’s not as fun when you’re on vacation and your coach is with you and he knows if you’re work­ing out or not.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 20 
momentum and all that stuff begins and ends with the guy on the mound,” irish coach mik aoki said. “nick did a good job last week of staying in the strike zone and making them earn their way on base. if we’re able to do that, hopefully, we’ll be in a good place.” 


The win over valparaiso was just notre dame’s sixth win in march. The irish are 6-12 in the month. 
This time around, notre dame will hand the ball to junior right-hander scott Kerrigan. Kerrigan (0-1, 5.06 era) opened the season in the weekend rotation but has not made a start since Feb. 23 against santa clara. 
“i think a lot of it is that he’s earned his way back into it,” aoki said. “i think he’s done an excellent job of kind of battling his way back into that role. he’s pitched really well. he pitched well [sunday] in that first game.” 
in his two starts in February, Kerrigan allowed 10 runs (five earned) on seven hits in just 3 1/3 innings. since then, in appearances against virginia Tech and wake Forest, he has gone 7 1/3 innings and allowed one run on four hits. 
“i thought he pitched really well last week against virginia Tech,” aoki said. “i think any intrasquad games we’ve had, he’s worked himself back into it. i think he’s been throwing the ball really well so i think that’s a big part of it.” 
valparaiso will counter with valparaiso sophomore right-hander ellis Foreman. Foreman (1-1, 4.24) took the loss against the irish last week when he gave up four runs on nine hits in sev­en innings. 
last week, the irish struck quickly against Foreman in the first inning. Just seven pitches in, the irish scored on junior first baseman blaise lezynski’s rbi single. Four pitches lat­er, they added another when freshman second baseman cavan biggio drove in lezynski with a sacrifice fly. 
Freshman third baseman Kyle Fiala, sophomore left field­er Zak Kutsulis and freshman catcher ryan lidge all picked up two hits against Foreman. 
The crusaders have had nine games cancelled this season, including two horizon league weekend series. valparaiso has played just six games since march 9. 
Tuesday’s game, which will be played in Four winds Field, was originally scheduled for 
5:35 p.m. but has since been moved to 8:05 p.m. because of the south bend silver hawks’ media day and practice. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Football 
conTinued From page 20 
around the guys and making sure everybody’s comfortable around each other, just basically overall building a unit that plays together.” 
day said he knows his role on this year’s defensive line will require him to take on more leadership responsibilities as an upperclassman. 
“i feel like, with my play, i kind of set an example, or i hope that i do, and that people can follow me and kind of see what direc­tion i’m trying to take this unit,” day said. 
The necessity of adjustments means that some players will have to move to different posi­tions on the line. senior defen­sive lineman chase hounshell has shifted this spring to play­ing defensive tackle. 
“i came in at the defensive-end position,” hounshell said. “obviously, though, we were in a different defense last year, so this year, it’s based on who we have, our personnel. we have [senior outside line­backer] ishaq [williams] at the end; we have [junior outside linebacker] romeo [okwara]. we got some other guys. we got [senior outside linebacker] anthony rabasa, early-enrollee [freshman defensive lineman andrew] Trumbetti has been absolutely phenomenal, he’s been great, so [defensive tackle is] kind of where the team need­ed me. so i said, ‘all right, let’s do it.’” 
at least one thing is certain for the defensive line, and it is a principle that has molded the line over the past few years, according to day: the line will learn to communicate best by spending a lot of time together away from the field. 
“i feel like it’s definitely been carried on throughout the years, especially with Kap [for­mer defensive lineman Kapron lewis-moore] kind of bringing me under his wing, Tyler bring­ing me under his wing, louis, Tuitt, just guys like that, always just trying to get around each other, maybe grab something to eat, always trying to communi­cate with each other,” day said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
W Basketball 
conTinued From page 20 
Final Four, but when skylar graduated, i don’t think any­one expected that we would be back,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think it says a lot about this team and their mental toughness and the grit that they got togeth­er and had this unbelievable season.” 
The irish celebration was somewhat tempered by the uncertain status of senior forward natalie achonwa, who was taken down by a hard foul from baylor soph­omore forward chardonae Fuqua’ and left the game with an injured knee with 
4:51 remaining in the sec­ond half. 
“it sucked the air right out of the room,” mcgraw said. “we don’t know what it is yet. That was just a really hard foul, one of many hard fouls in the game, and you hate to see a player go down like that.” 
mcgraw said achonwa will have an mri on Tuesday to determine the extent of the injury. but achonwa has proven she can be use­ful to her team when she’s not playing . as she stood up from the floor to head to the locker room, she caught the attention of her teammates and forcefully reminded them they were playing to protect their home court. The irish (35-0, 16-0 acc), who were leading by 11 at the time of the foul, finished out the game with a 13-5 run. 
although the home crowd helped the irish jump to an early lead against oklahoma state on saturday, the lady bears (32-5, 19-2 big 12) did not show jitters in the open­ing minutes monday night. Junior forward sune agbuke and senior guard odyssey sims scored the first bas­kets of the night, which were soon followed by a layup from achonwa and a jump shot from sophomore guard Jewell loyd. The two teams traded the lead back and fourth until loyd tied the score at 21-21 at 8:44 with a layup that marked the start of a personal eight-point run. 

“i was just trying to get something going, find some energy,” loyd said. “i kind of took what the defense gave me, and i credit my team­mates for finding me and pressing me enough to take those shots.” 
as the first half wound down, the irish stretched the lead to as many as 13 points, in part because they hit 11 of 13 free throws. The lady bears, who were called for 13 fouls in the first half, went to the line only three times in the first period. The irish committed only five first-half fouls, but because senior guard Kayla mcbride was called for two of them, she spent all but four min­utes of the first half on the bench. with mcbride look­ing on, loyd scored 21 points . she finished the night with 30 . and notre dame went into the locker room leading 44-32. 
“it doesn’t surprise me at all,” mcbride said of loyd’s offensive outburst. “it’s something that i expect of them; they’re talented play­ers, and it just says a lot about this entire team that when i’m out i don’t really have to worry about it be­cause we have so many play­ers who are willing to step up.” 
but the lady bears showed signs of life early in the sec­ond period. sims scored nine points in four minutes to open the half, including a 3-pointer that narrowed the lead to 46-41. sims finished the night with 33 points and six assists. 
“she’s good,” loyd said at the post-game press confer­ence, eliciting a laugh from her coach. “she knows how to split a defense, and i think it was a team effort tonight to stop her, and i think we did a pretty good job.” 
“our goal was to hold her under 40,” mcgraw added. 
although the lady bears pulled themselves back into the game in the second half, at 13:30 baylor coach Kim mulkey took issue with a foul called on sims and grabbed the ball as it rolled to the bench. The referees is­sued a technical foul on the bench, and mulkey had to be restrained by players and assistant coaches. mcbride took . and made . both free throws to put the irish up, 55-46. 
but the lady bears were not quite done. with 7:30 re­maining in the game, sims stole the ball and passed it to sophomore guard nina davis, who threw in a layup to cut the irish lead to 65-60. Just a few plays later, how­ever, irish freshman guard lindsay allen got a steal of her own and raced down-court. sims wrapped her arms around allen and was called for her fourth foul of the game. allen hit both free throws to put notre dame 
up by nine, and the  irish  
never looked back.  
notre  dame  will  head  

south to nashville, Tenn., for the national semifinal game  sunday at bridgestone arena. The irish will face either fourth-seeded maryland or no. 3 seed louisville, who play for the louisville regional champi­onship Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: make the calls, own your destiny and choose what works for you. stop taking a back seat to those making demands and start following a path that leads to your victory, not someone else’s gain. once you begin to move in a positive direction, you will start to relax and enjoy what life has to offer. your numbers are 6, 10, 19, 23, 32, 38, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): work hard. use your energy wisely and you will manage to stay out of trouble and avoid an emotional argument. a passionate encounter will help relieve tension and enhance your home and personal life. don’t overdo, but be sure to do enough. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stick close to home. be agreeable, but don’t let anyone take you for granted. Keep the momentum flowing and your goal in sight. an experience will leave you perplexed but closer to making a 
decision. do your own thing and avoid distractions. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can make professional progress if you don’t let your emotions interfere with the choices you make. proceed to make changes based on facts, not impulse. your professional and personal life must be kept separate. love and romance are highlighted. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep your guard up and your fingers crossed. you’ll have to be smart and a little shrewd if you want to outsmart someone exposing competitive do-or-die tendencies. now is not the time to be nice; it’s the time to win. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ve got all the moves. show what you have to offer and you will enhance your life both personally and professionally. make changes that will improve your surroundings and encourage you to try something new. all eyes are on you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look for an opportunity and you will find one. Taking on responsibility will improve your chance to advance. an emotional issue regarding a partnership is likely to surface. Follow your intuition and you will make a good choice. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Questioning is good but procrastinating is not. size up your situation and act accordingly. if you don’t make moves that count, you will continue to spin your wheels. pour your heart and soul into whatever you do. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): show your enthusiasm. prepare to do the work and take the credit. don’t hesitate to take an alternative route in order to reach your goal. secretive action will allow you greater freedom to follow through and finish what you start without interference. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): set your goals, but be reasonable and honest as you move forward. bravado can work wonders when trying to solicit help, but if you embellish, you will lose an opportunity that you were counting on. socializing will be fruitful. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll have to be ready to counter any opposition you face. don’t let your emotions come between you and making a good decision. less talk and more action will help, but don’t disregard your intuition -- it’s likely to be on target. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): use past experience and connections to help you get to where you want to go. invest your time, effort and money in something that will help you develop whatever you need to help you reach new highs, standards and destinations. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): repress your feelings if it will help you achieve what’s expected of you. being responsible first and foremost will say a lot about the person you are and how reliable you can be. build greater support by doing what’s required. 

Birthday Baby: you are energetic and entertaining. you are a doer and a leader. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 88, baylor 69 
Nashville bound 
Irish defeat Lady Bears in Elite Eight to advance to fourth-straight Final Four 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
who said girls play nice? 
it took about 35 minutes of rough-and-tumble play for no. 1-seed notre dame to break away from the second-seeded lady bears, but when all was said and done, the irish claimed an 88-69 win and their fourth-straight trip to the Final Four. 
“when [former irish guard] skylar [diggins] came in, people expected that we would be in the 
see w basKeTball PAGE 18 


BASEBALL 
host nd looks to end skid 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
senior sports writer 
notre dame will try to snap a three-game losing streak Tuesday night when it hosts valparaiso for the second time in less than a week. 
wednesday the irish (9-17, 1-11 acc) topped the crusaders (9-11, 1-2 horizon), 4-1, behind six strong innings from sopho­more right-hander nick mccarty. mccarty picked up his first win of the season by allowing just three hits and a run while strik­ing out five. 
“i think in this game, 
see baseball PAGE 17 
FOOTBALL 

defensive line takes new shape 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA  By BRIAN PLAMONDON  
assistant managing editor 4-3 The irish defense played in a  defense before former de­ sports writer  
right now, the irish defen­fen sive coordinator bob diaco  growing up in indiana,  
sive line is a unit in flux. but the tra nsitioned notre dame to a 3-4  irish junior midfielder will  
flexible mentality of a group for  the 2010 season. This spring,  corrigan never faced a par- 
adjusting to new faces and the cur rent defensive coordinator  ticularly high level of competi­ 
graduation of seniors fits right in bri an vangorder has worked on  tion when it came to lacrosse.  
with the philosophy behind a 4-3 bri nging the irish back to the 4-3  he actually was better at ten- 
defense. set.  nis in middle school, being  
with its emphasis on reactions “ it’s definitely been a good  told that he could certainly  
and dynamic adjustment, the time,”  junior defensive line- pursue that sport in college.  
new 4-3 defensive scheme allows ma n sheldon day said. “coach  by the time high school rolled  
notre dame to showcase its ver­va ngorder is doing a great job  around, however, he realized  
satility and athleticism, junior wit h making sure that we’re  he enjoyed playing lacrosse  
defensive lineman Jarron Jones lea rning the defense, just trying  even more — and he wanted  
said during player media avail-to  make sure everything we do is  to play for his dad, irish coach  
ability Friday. kin d of up-to-par, and i definitely  Kevin corrigan, now in his  
“i think it’s better for us be-fee l like he’s doing a great job.”  26th season with the program.  
cause we get to pin our ears a s notre dame’s defensive line  “neither of us thought i  
back and attack the gap,” Jones adj usts to the different scheme,  could play at [notre dame’s]  
said. “it’s pretty much a bunch it m ust also adjust to a new unit  level,” will corrigan said with  
of responsibility and more reac­dy namic. several key players,  a laugh. “he said if i want to  
tion, and it actually lets us show inc luding former defensive line- come here, i have a spot, but  
off our actual talents. not to say men  stephon Tuitt and louis  i probably won’t play for a few  
that being in a 3-4 that wasn’t nix , declared for the draft after  years. Kind of worked out for  
the case, but playing in a 4-3 is the  conclusion of last season.  both our benefits that i was  
more of a looser defense than a “ in my case, i feel like it’s about  better than we expected.”  
3-4. a 3-4 is more disciplined be­bui lding another unit,” day said.  will has since become a re- 
cause you have to play two gaps, “w e lost Tuitt and nix to the  liable and versatile player for  
whereas with the 4-3, you only dra ft, and it’s just about building  notre dame, making smart  
have to play one. you only have the  chemistry again, just getting  decisions with the ball while  
one rush lane. it’s a lot more on  contributing to the team’s of- 
blitzing concepts. it’s a lot more  see FooTball PAGE 18  fensive output. in 39 games (16  

fun.” 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Corrigan develops in his father’s program 

starts) his first three seasons, he has scored 11 goals while adding 11 assists. part of his success can be attributed to his familiarity with the team and coaching style, spending countless hours around them as a kid. his father certainly thinks so, and he has also en­joyed every minute having his son on the team. 
“i’m coaching a young adult,” Kevin corrigan said. “i’m not coaching a little kid 
— there’s no real drama for he and i. and that i get to be a part of his college athletic ex­perience is a pretty neat thing, because it’s something that he and i care a lot about and its 
see corrigan PAGE 17 


ND Women’s Basketball vs. Baylor  W 88-69  ND Softball vs. Michigan State  Wed., 6 p.m.  ND Softball at DePaul  Fri., 6 p.m.  
ND Women’s Soccer vs. Chicago Red Stars  Wed., 7 p.m.  Baseball at Florida State  Fri., 6 p.m.  
ND Softball vs. Ball State  8:05 p.m.  Men’s Tennis at Wake Forest  Fri., 3 p.m.  Track & Field at Stanford Invitational  Fri., All day  
Baseball vs. Valparaiso  4 p.m.  ND Women’s Tennis vs. Maryland  Fri., 4 p.m.  ND Women’s Golf  Fri.-Sun.  






