The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 11 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students react to Michigan shut-out 
Notre Dame defeats Michigan, 31-0, in last scheduled meeting 
By WEI LIN 
photo editor 
notre dame fans were in for a surprise when they entered the stadium saturday night for the game against michigan, where the irish emerged victorious in a 31-0 shut out against the wolverines. 
although notre dame sup­porters came with high hopes of winning, no one expected the shutout. 
“i heard we were only favored by about three points or so, so i thought it was going to be a close game,” freshman chandler casey said. 
The idea of a shutout became more apparent as the game progressed. 
“i was not expecting michigan to not get any points, but after the first quarter, i was expecting we’d do really well,” sophomore and notre dame marching band member ben schultz said. 
as this was the final game be­tween the university of notre dame and the university of michigan for the foreseeable fu­ture, many students were disap­pointed to see the end, but were pleased with the outcome. 
“last year, it was a bad game overall,” junior liliana sanchez said. “however, this year we ended it on our terms, and i’m really happy about that. our house, our rules.” 
Freshman Quinn brown agreed that the shut out was a great way to end the rivalry. 
“This being the first and last notre dame-michigan game that i’ll be able to see here, that was an awesome way to go out, especially in our home stadi­um,” he said. 
although brown said he was sad to end the rivalry, he added that he was hopeful for the fu­ture of notre dame’s football games. 
“it’s a little sad that i don’t get to see more of these games,” he said, “but we have other great teams that we’re going to be playing that we’ve added to the schedule so it’ll be exciting to possibly see some new rivalries form.” 
many students felt the band was integral to the lively atmo­sphere in the stadium. 
“i love the marching band,” 
see FooTball PAGE 5 



dempsey speaks on national security 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff gen. martin e. dempsey, the nation’s high­est ranking military offi­cer, came to notre dame on saturday to deliver the Jack Kelly and gail weiss lecture in national security and address america’s most crucial nation­al security issues. 
dempsey spoke to a stand­ing-room-only crowd in the carey auditorium of the hesburgh library for 
see securiTy PAGE 5 





Professor publishes book 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
Following years of work, dr. vera profit, professor of german and comparative literature, re­leased her book “The devil next door” on aug. 8. profit, who said the book explores the problem of evil, described her writing as an attempt to “help people live bet­ter and more efficient lives.” 
“The basic premise is how do you recognize an evil person?” she said. “evil is hard to recog­nize. evil is a progression, and we tend not to see the first, sec­ond, third steps, but the final.” 
profit said she was inspired by m. scott peck’s book “people of the lie.” 
“in 1984, i read ‘people of the lie,’ which so changed the way i looked at life, that not only did i read the text, i read all the materi­al that was listed in the footnotes because i wanted the complete context,” she said. “[peck] can state complex ideas in a totally approachable manner. 
“This book was so fascinating that i couldn’t turn the pages fast enough. The book was about the hope for healing human evil. what he did was blend theology and science.” 
see booK PAGE 5 


St. Mary’s resumes ‘Justice Fridays’ lectures 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
This past Friday, the Justice education program at saint mary’s college began its year­long “Justice Fridays” lecture se­ries with an afternoon discussion about misconceptions and ste­reotypes women face. 
discussion leader and senior Jessica richmond said the goal of the meeting was to discuss labels placed on women. 
“i found myself facing labels and misconceptions once i hit high school … and the demean­ing hold they take on women is a step in the wrong direction for our society,” she said. “i’m just one story. i want to hear other’s stories and brain storm ways to take a stand to these horrific terms and phrases used against women.” 
after watching a brief video about the stereotypes women hold in society, program attend­ees shared labels, such as “tom­boy,” “ditzy” and “promiscuous,” which they have experienced personally. labels such as these are concrete examples of the barriers fellow students are up against, richmond said. 
“we can still be strong women with a man beside us, but when people come up with a strong 
see JusTice PAGE 5 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
How would you describe the win over Michigan? 

Caitlin Crommett 


Victor Roh 
senior 

junior 
off-campus 

off-campus 
“electric.” 

“The shirt.” 
Donald Dye 


Jeffrey Wang 
junior 

junior 
off-campus 

off-campus 
“hey hey hey goodbye.” 

“a perfect way to end the series.” 
Kevin Frost 


D.J.Boyce 
junior 

senior 
o’neill hall 

off-campus 
“beatdown for ages.” 

“go irish. beat bobcats.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra Zack Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Kayla mullen greg hadley Katie mccarty mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Soccer Free Flu Vaccines Fall Career Expo Faculty and Staff Volleyball 
michael yu gabriella leskur 
Alumni Stadium Stepan Center Joyce Center Mass Purcell Pavilion. 6 p.m. 12 p.m.- 9 p.m. 4 p.m. Log Chapel 4:30 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. The Irish take on Student I.D. required. Including 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. Part of the Shamrock 
Corrections 

Kentucky. postgraduate service. In memory of 9/11. Invitational. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Blood Drive Four:7 Catholic Basilica Server Artist Talk: Sue Coe Women’s Soccer 
strives for the highest standards 
Hayes-Healy Center Fellowship Training Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
10 a.m.- 2 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall Basilica of the Sacred 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
Appointments are 8:15 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Heart Open to the public. Notre Dame vs. Baylor. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
encouraged. Worship and small 8:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
group reflection. Open to all. 
we can correct our error. 



ND-Georgetown project receives $1.1 million grant 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
notre dame’s center for civil and human rights received a $1.1 million grant from the Templeton religion Trust last month to conduct research on christian persecution around the world. 
The project, titled  “under caesar’s sword: how christian communities respond to repression,” is a joint project with georgetown university and includes a team of more than fifteen research schol­ars from universities around the nation, including interna­tional relations professor dr. daniel philpott and assistant professor of political science Fr. robert dowd. 
philpott said the university’s involvement is a significant demonstration of commit­ment to understanding the violation of religious rights across the globe. 
“i think it’s very important for a catholic university to be in solidarity with christians who are being persecuted around the world,” he said. “This is a notre dame-georgetown ini­tiative, and it’s a way for these two catholic universities to cooperate on something that’s very important for the church.” 

The project will focus spe­cifically on past case studies of christian persecution and the various strategies christian communities have used to re­spond to religious persecution, philpott said. The team plans to conduct research in more than 30 countries, including sri lanka, pakistan, india, egypt, nigeria and syria. philpott said the countries in the study represent the most egregious cases of religious persecution in the 21st century. 
“The persecution of christians is widespread in the world,” he said. “To take the violation of religious free­dom as a broader human right, the pew Forum estimates that 76 percent of the popula­tion lives under a government that strongly denies religious freedom. 
“if you take that, 80 percent of acts of religious discrimi­nation are committed against christians. as i like to say, christians are the ‘lion’s share of the lions den.’” 
philpott said the project will have a timespan of three years, with the first year dedi­cated to research and travel and following years dedicated to disseminating research 
paid adverTisemenT 
results in important interna­tional forums in an effort to increase awareness. Forums will include a major interna­tional conference in rome on the 50th anniversary of the second vatican council’s dec­laration on religious freedom, a public launch of the report in washington d.c., a docu­mentary and a distribution of informative curricula among 5,000 parishes. 
The project aims to cre­ate greater awareness and response in international and human rights organiza­tions, philpott said, as well as create a sense of solidarity among catholics who remain unaware of the human rights violations faced by christians across the world. 
“we hope that out of this awareness will come actual responses of solidarity and assistance for persecuted christians,” he said. “it would be a terrible thing to forget about them or to ignore them, and it’s part of our very identi­ty and mission to be in solidar­ity to tell their story, recognize their plight, and do everything we can to help them.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

professor lectures  on catholic education 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
university of pennsylvania professor of political science John diiulio gave a lecture Friday afternoon titled “The ‘silent epidemic’ revisited: can catholic educators reignite the Fight to improve urban schools?” in which he argued catholic schools can help solve the pressing edu­cation issues in the united states, but only if catholic leaders wholly dedicate themselves to the cause. 
The lecture was the first in the Father Tim scully, csc lectures on education in the service of citizenship, named in honor of the found­er of the alliance for catholic education (ace). diiulio said more people must approach educational shortcomings with the same intensity as scully. 
“if we had more catholic leaders and educators at all levels like our own [Fr. Tim scully] … if we had more catholic leaders who prac­ticed, as Fr. Tim does every­day, what pope Francis has preached about combatting the sinful inequalities in edu­cation and other domains,” diiulio said. “Then i submit to you we would not still be cop­ing with the species of prob­lems [we have in american education].” 
in addition to the high dropout rates for minority students and the well-doc­umented achievement gap, diiulio said the “achievement trap,” which arises out of in­come disparity, often dooms low-income students. 
“The only variable that you can point to in the lineup of suspects to why this is hap­pening is the fact that they are low-income children,” he said. “in other words, they’re at the top of their class in grades one, two, three and even into [fourth], but only 56 percent of these high-achieving, low-income stu­dents maintain their status as high-achievers through fifth grade.” 
diiulio, who also served as the first director of the white house office of Faith-based and community initiatives under president george w. bush, said the statistics sur­rounding the achievement trap are shameful. 
“The rate at which these high-achieving, low-income children are in that ‘silent epidemic’ population is as­tounding,” he said. “it’s con­victing. we ought to feel convicted by it.” 
The problem is well docu­mented enough, diiulio said, that educators know how to combat it. 
“we know, for example, that in addition to the three r’s, we need the 4 r’s: read­ing, writing, arithmetic but also relationships and rela­tionship building,” he said. “we know that school-based mentoring, whether it’s done by big brothers, big sisters of america or by any credible, decent, up-close-and-person­al mentoring organization … we know, in theory, that it makes a demonstrative posi­tive difference in closing the achievement gap, in disarm­ing the achievement trap, in turning 10th graders who might drop out who don’t.” 
diiulio said the present day is a “gettysburg moment,” and in order to win the figu­rative war, catholic educators must shake old mindsets. 
“The catholic leadership approach to the silent epi­demic, to the achievement trap, to the achievement gap which has hovered over us for 50-plus years, can be reig­nited,” he said. “They can be a major force for addressing the problems of urban education at large. They can do that … [with] less talking, more do­ing, less catholic chauvinism and romanticism about par­ish days gone by. 
“The great sadness is that way too many catholic lead­ers and educators, at least in the university business, … are either not interested, not in the fight or are in it in a narrowly, institutionally, self-interested way. The prob­lem is that too many of them approach the effort to sup­port and strengthen catholic schools as if it were a catholic world end in itself.” 
in order to effectively use catholic education as a uni­versal educational career, catholics must work with those who most need help, diiulio said. 
“catholic schools which have been lost cannot be saved, supported and strengthened without sav­ing all those who need those schools,” he said. “i’m not just talking morally and spiritu­ally, i’m talking practically [and] i’m talking politically. catholic schools cannot be saved unless the effort to save them involves an ef­fort to save all the children who could benefit the most, most particularly in urban america, from those schools.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Football 
conTinued From page 1 
casey said. “The marching band accounts for half of the game day experience.” 
“[The band] always helps lead the student section chants and the victory march, which gets the crowded pumped,” brown said. “i think they are very vital to the energy of the stadium.” 
before the momentous game, the u.s. navy seal parachuting Team, leap Frogs, parachuted into the notre dame stadium. Two of the four navy seals descended into the center of the field, one carrying a notre dame flag and the other an american flag. as the parachut­ers descended, both irish and wolverine fans were caught off-guard and in awe. 
“i had no idea what was going on at first,” sanchez said. “but then when i finally realized they were going to jump and land near the stadium, i couldn’t be­lieve it.” 
sanchez said she was ex­cited that the notre dame fans sang “na na hey hey Kiss him 
Book 
conTinued From page 1 
profit said peck’s book in­spired her to teach a course on the subject. 
“i then created a course called evil and the lie in modern european prose right after reading this book,” she said. “it has always been ex­tremely well received. you study goodness from the other side when you study evil. because the course was so well received and many students told me it was a life-changing course, i decided to write the book after the course.” 
The book looks at the prob­lem of individual evil for the most part, profit said. 
“i took some of the ques­tions that peck raises, used his clinical experience, read copious amounts of ancillary material and formulated eight characteristics which define individual evil,” she said. “There are two types of evil – group and individual – which are both discreet and a blend­ed phenomenon. i name the goodbye.” 
“i was planning in my head to do that, but the fact that every­one joined in at the same time was perfect,” she said. 
Fans from the university of michigan expressed their opin­ions of the notre dame football experience as well. 
“The experience for a person who comes from [the university of michigan] was great,” wolverine fan abby schultz said. “people welcomed us to campus.” 
emma bozek-Jarvis, also a university of michigan fan, said that not only were the ushers kind, there were “actual [notre dame] students as well who were very nice to us.” 
“i think it’s a great way to end the rivalry. i think it’s nice since it’ll get michigan fans to be quiet for a little bit,” ben schultz said as he alluded to the “chicken dance” song that was played after notre dame’s loss against michigan last year at the big house. “we can end it with a bang and not as chickens.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
eight characteristics of evil and trace them though two novels, one written by a swiss writer and one oscar wilde’s ‘The picture of dorian grey.’ i also propose eight character­istics of group evil.” 
profit said her book is meant to help other people. 
“i am trying to help other people not waste their life try­ing to reinvent the wheel,” she said. “we can learn a lot from other people’s examples. we can save ourselves and other people a lot of trouble. 
“writing a book is a scary position because you have no control over how it will be received. you can give it your best shot and let it go. you have to do it despite your misgivings. The person who learns the most is not the per­son who reads the book, but the person who writes it. it was worth it to me because i learned so much. if it makes you look at life just a little dif­ferently than before, then it was worth it.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Security 
conTinued From page 1 
approximately 20 minutes be­fore taking questions from the audience for another 40 min­utes. in his prepared remarks, he broke down america’s se­curity challenges into two “heavyweights,” china and russia, two “middleweights,” iran and north Korea, two networks of violent extrem­ism and trans-national orga­nized crime and one cyber domain. 
dempsey said america will eventually need to refocus its security efforts to the pacific region. 
“you’ve heard a lot about our rebalance to the pacific,” he said. “That’s not a choice, frankly, it’s an imperative. … by 2050, there will be nine billion people on the planet. seven billion of them will live between china and india. 
“we’ve got to rebalance our efforts to the pacific. The question is how quickly and how, and it’s not just mili­tary. … we’ll eventually do that, [but] it’s hard to do that when you’re thinking about the isis threat or about a reas­serting russia in europe. it is imperative.” 
in iran, dempsey said the u.s. must address more than just iranian nuclear ambitions. 
“what gets most of the no­toriety is iran’s nuclear aspi­rations,” he said. “you’re well aware of the negotiations that are ongoing to try to diplo­matically and economically … convince iran that it would not be in their best interest. we’re making some progress. 
“it’s not just about nuclear weapons with iran. They are [also] one of the world’s lead­ing exporters of arms.” 
with 28,000 soldiers on the Korean peninsula, dempsey said that region is also a pri­mary security priority. 
“The security of the penin­sula is not just a matter of an alliance obligation, it’s also the fact that we have enor­mous economic ties to south Korea,” he said. “we’ve got a huge stake in maintain­ing stability on the Korean peninsula in supporting our republic of Korea allies. That got harder when the youngest leader on the planet became the leader of [north Korea]. he’s an erratic fellow, and he’s unpredictable. 

“we’ve got our eye on [north Korea] and we’re using all of the instruments of military and national power … to make sure north Korea doesn’t achieve its intentions.” 
dempsey said isis presents the most attention-grabbing 
“As we look at 
these threats in 
the Middle East, 
notably from 
radical Islamists 
... you just have to 

be very thoughtful 
about it so we 

apply the right tool 
at the right time 
and over the right 
length of time in 
order to make the 
difference.” 
Martin Dempsey 
chairman 
Joint Chiefs of Staff 

current threat to american security, but is part of a larger issue. 
“[isis is] part of a network of radical movements that use terrorism as a tactic,” he said. “we kind of lump them in and say they’re all terrorism, but they’ve all got different agen­das. They work together when it suits their need, and they don’t when it doesn’t, and you can’t paint them all with one brush. 
“as we look at these threats in the middle east, notably from radical islamists … you just have to be very thought­ful about it so we apply the right tool at the time and over the right length of time in or­der to make the difference.” 
The international criminal network, dempsey said, may present more of an ultimate threat to american security, though it does not receive as much attention as terrorist networks. 
“[The transnational or­ganized criminal] network might actually be more dan­gerous at the end of the day, though it’s hard to make that case,” he said. “That network is often thought of, in policy terms, as a drug network, [but] it’s more than just a drug network. it’s a railroad, and you know a railroad will carry whatever it is paid to carry. it’ll carry drugs, it’ll carry arms, it’ll carry unaccom­panied children, it’ll carry weapons of mass destruction, it’ll carry terrorists. 
“in that network there is a connection between the in­credible money generated by that network into the terrorist networks i described before. it’s hard for us to actually track it. … one of the things we have difficulty seeing is the connection between the financial power of this crimi­nal network and the power … and ideology of the terrorist network. but that connection is there and we continue to learn more about it and frank­ly we haven’t done enough against that network.” 
dempsey said the cyber domain, while providing a wealth of information and connectivity, poses a poten­tial issue for national security. 
“cyber is among the most misunderstood words, i think, in the american english lan­guage,” he said. “we love it because it empowers us and it provides us with information that is mind-numbing. 
“now you’re connected all the time, everywhere, with access to almost everything, and that’s wonderful. in so doing, you have exposed some of your privacy, and i think you know that. but, we’ve got issues at the national level of trying to understand and rec­oncile several of our values: freedom of information, pri­vacy and security. … Frankly, we’ve made modest progress, but not nearly enough prog­ress on [security standards and information sharing].” 
dempsey also took audi­ence questions on future risks to american security, poten­tial ways to dismantle isis, russia’s use of military force in ukraine and advice for roTc cadets in attendance. To the cadets, he said to pay attention to the development of democracy and never for­get that their commitment is not to themselves, but to their country. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Justice 
conTinued From page 1 

voice, they are often criticized,” she said, “i don’t view myself as ornamental. i have my mind and so much more to offer.” 
media is the source of many misconceptions, richmond said. in order to change what media is portraying, we must first think about the labels we give our­selves, she said. 
“media only portrays what we want to see, and if we say that what they are showing is not okay then eventually it will change,” she said, “we have to start small, with our inner circles. 
“i think as a saint mary’s women we are empowered and we empower each other, which is phenomenal … now it is time to turn this out into the com­munities we reside in to make a change.” 
First-year student Kendall smith said she enjoyed the dis­cussion and the stories shared by her classmates. 
“i was really impressed with how many different opinions came up,” she said. “it was really comforting to know that other girls have the same ideas.” 
The “Justice Fridays” program series is designed by saint mary’s Justice education students and will continue all year, philoso­phy professor adrienne lyles­chockley said. it allows students to combat issues they feel pas­sionate about while enacting the mission of the Justice education program in making the world a more just and peaceful place, she said. 
“‘Justice Fridays’ are designed to stimulate a campus-wide dia­logue on ways to identify and combat injustice, and on meth­ods of advancing social justice,” she said. “by facilitating dia­logues that encourage students to think in comprehensive and sys­temic ways, ‘Justice Fridays’ and the Justice education program enable students to understand and analyze the experiences of the disenfranchised, to con­structively respond to unjust situations and to develop con­crete and sustainable methods of advancing justice.” 

speakers from the school and surrounding community will facilitate future discussions on topics including gender, racial, environmental, legal and eco­nomic justice, chockley said. The meetings occur from 12­
12:50 p.m. in the student center and are open to the public. Those interested in suggesting topics of discussion can contact chockley at achockley@saintmarys.edu. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@stmarys.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The marvel of 3d Tv 
Keri O’Mara 
graphics editor 

3d television is the way of the future. you heard it here first. 
i am the first to admit, i was skepti­cal. i would even go so far as to say i was a hater. when someone would use the words “3d” and “television” side-by-side in the same sentence, i would laugh condescend­ingly, muttering something about youth and technology. 
That was the old me. on aug. 16, i placed Jvc Ximenaview 3d glasses on for the first time, and my life will never be the same. i am the proud owner of what one might consider the most impressive feat of technology of our time: a three-dimensional television. any one of my friends can tell you that i’ve spent the past month as a fervent advocate of 3d televi­sion. every conversation eventually leads to my shameless bragging about this stereo­scopic wonder as if it were a beloved first-born child. i’ve successfully converted dozens of others into admirers of this impressive piece of equipment, and don’t plan on stopping any time soon. 
The beauty of 3d Tv is its transformative abilities – it can turn your living room into a world of adventure. want to take a trip to the san diego Zoo to watch gorillas eat their breakfast? sure, sounds like a plan. or maybe learn how to surfboard with Tahitians? i’d love to. snowboard down some of the highest peaks in the world? go for it. all of the above journeys (and more!) are available through the netflix category specifically developed for televisions with 3d viewing capabilities. 
There’s something liberating about the novelty of escapism offered by our Tv set. The three-dimensional aspect takes this to the next level, inviting us to be directly immersed into the scenes before our eyes. it removes the barrier of the Tv screen and instead trans­ports us into a world of possibility. whether you want to travel to a tropical beach destina­tion or get a backstage look at a ballet perfor­mance, the possibilities are endless. 
i will admit that my passion for the world of 3d Tv is excessive, and my devotion to this object has reached the level of idolatry. however, i will also argue that my enthu­siasm is justified. anyone who puts on the glasses and experiences what this technology has to offer would agree that it is changing the way we experience television, and opens the door to future innovations in the television industry. 
i hope to continue spreading the joy that this experience can bring to the world, and hope that some day you too can give 3d Tv a try; you won’t be disappointed. 
Contact Keri O’Mara at komara@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rethinking rationality 

Christopher Newton 
stepping out of The cave 
First things first, i’m a realist. 
within international relations, realism rests on several basic assumptions. The primary actors in the international system are states whose most fundamental concern is survival. states are thought to be cohesive in their policy making and rational. often, states must defend themselves and pursue their own self-interest if they are to endure. 
most of this is not terribly controversial. what causes much disagreement and is the subject of ongoing debates in aca­demia, d.c. and beyond is the assumption of rationality. 
what does it mean to be a rational state? are all states truly rational? 
many people find it odd to talk of iran, north Korea or russia as rational. if we move beyond states and consider other actors in the international system, such as hamas or the islamic state, talk of rationality often raises an eyebrow or two. despite what one may think, these states, to which i add a number of non-state actors, are rational. declaring them irrational does little besides signal an inability to understand their motivations and goals. 
rational action entails using reason to move towards the completion of a goal. if the goal is graduate school, then taking the gre would be a rational action. if one assumes that states, and a number of non-state actors, are rational, then under­standing their actions is about understanding their goals. what goal could a given action, such as firing rockets at israeli cities despite a massive military imbalance, help to achieve? what is a given actor seeking to gain? 
in international politics, the goals are not always obvious, nor are the thought processes behind a given policy. it can be difficult to tease out why a state is behaving the way it is, prompting many to simply label the actions irrational. 
if you have been having difficulty understanding the ac­tions of russia in ukraine or hamas in the gaza strip, then you are not alone. Former national security adviser and, later secretary of state, henry Kissinger, like many, was caught off guard by the egyptian invasion of israel in 1973. he was forced to concede that “our definition of rationality did not take se­riously the notion of starting an unwinnable war to restore self-respect.” at the time, egypt was thought to be militarily inferior to israel and was highly unlikely to win any armed confrontation. egypt pushed ahead, however, and the yom Kippur war resulted in a massive military loss for egypt. The american conception of rationality at the time did not allow for 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

this possibility to be seriously considered. The military loss was not the only result, however. The war drastically altered the political landscape and eventually resulted in the united states brokering a deal in which the sinai peninsula was returned to egypt. off the battlefield, a seemingly irrational war later re­sulted in a change in politics and the accomplishment of major egyptian goals. 
with a rational actor framework in mind, hamas’ more recent actions begin to make more sense. hamas, labelled a terrorist organization by many governments, has governed the gaza strip since 2006 after a violent break with the palestinian authority, the governing body of the west bank. while the palestinian authority pursues more peaceful methods of seek­ing statehood, hamas frequently employs violence, including firing rockets into israel and suicide bombings. israel will al­ways win any military confrontation, however. 
The recent round of violence in the gaza strip resulted in massive losses for hamas. israel dominated the battlefield and again, the actions of hamas seem illogical and irrational at first glance. The fall of the muslim brotherhood government in egypt, disagreements with hezbollah and iran regarding the syrian civil war, and an economically crippling blockade of the gaza strip have all slowly forced hamas into a corner. it has been rapidly running out of options. To paraphrase german military theorist carl von clausewitz, war is politics by other means, and hamas needed a political change to survive. when israel began rounding up hamas activists following the murder of three israeli teenagers in June, hamas was forced to make a decision, and, seeking survival, rockets began flying. 
hamas may have suffered a tactical loss but won a strate­gic victory. it gained international sympathy for the broader palestinian cause while further isolating israel, brought the egyptian government in as a mediator, and continues to gov­ern the gaza strip. while it remains to be seen if hamas will genuinely benefit in the long run, its motivations for seeking a change in the political environment make its initiation of con­flict less surprising. 
states, and many non-state actors, are rational actors. it is only a matter of considering what goals they seek to achieve and how a given policy choice relates to that goal. as is often the case with international politics, this is easier said than done. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Tim Scanlan 

as we headed back to campus in august, the conflict in gaza had already taken over 1,400 lives. The recent violence has showcased the need for policy changes in the re­gion to the entire world. 
as the largest player on the world stage, the united states has been attempting to influence the politics of israel since its founding in 1948. The reasons for the u.s. support of israel are widely understood – it is one of the only true democracies in the middle east, and israel and the 
u.s. share many of the same foreign policy goals. with this in mind, military trade has always been a key part of u.s.-israel relations, as israel has fought multiple wars against its neighbors, some of which have called for the destruction of the entire country. 
Today, israel has lasting treaties with those neighbors. now, the fighting is almost exclusively with the palestinian people. The most re­cent conflict comes at a time when the u.s. and the united nations are both calling for a peaceful transition to a two-state solution, where palestinians could have au­tonomy in gaza and the west bank. complicating matters are the inter­nal politics of palestine itself. 
The us recognizes the palestinian authority (pa), a secular, peace-ori­ented organization that is attempt­ing to work with israel toward a resolution. in 2006, however, hamas swept elections in the gaza strip 
– the u.s. recognizes hamas as a terrorist organization. The weapons the united states sells to israel right now are supposed to protect the israeli people – mainly from rocket attacks that have marked offensive action by hamas in the past. 
of the many lives lost since fight­ing began, the vast majority of them have been palestinian citizens. israel continues to blockade the gaza strip, even with eased restric­tion calming some international criticism. 
in the u.s., the white house and state department have condemned israeli military actions over the last two months, but military-to­military arms trades, even those of offensively-capable missiles, have continued as normal. 
Just as recent israeli military ac­tion has received criticism, so has 
u.s. support of israel. as israel receives more and more criticism from the international community – as well as from a growing population within the united states – does the u.s. con­tinue to benefit from supporting the israeli military? i argue that these gains still exist, but they are seri­ously at risk. 
The united states has continuous­ly advocated for democracy around the world, and for the past 66 years, israel has been part of the advance­ment of democracy. in order to sup­port the existence of israel and the dream of democracy in the middle east, america committed special resources and knowledge to israel’s militar y. 
now though, israel is seen as the aggressor and no longer the be­leaguered nation in the midst of enemies. The death of palestinian civilians by the hundreds is a black mark on israel and on the hopes of democracy in the region. a system where u.s. officials condemn israeli actions in public, but military-to­military deals still take place be­hind the scenes is not sustainable. 
The key to balancing u.s. support of democracy with condemnation of certain military actions is through tighter control of the arms trade with israel. if the obama adminis­tration hopes to exert any influence on its ally, the exchange of offensive military weapons must be used as the bartering tool. every time civil­ians are killed in israeli operations, more people are driven into the arms of hamas, and away from the peace-seeking establishment of the palestinian authority. This is the process the u.s. and israel must work to stop. 
The threat of hamas and others in the region dictates the continued sale of weapons to israel. This con­tinuous process opens an important avenue of negotiation for the u.s. to influence israeli action in palestine. The united states can retain a spe­cial relationship with israel, and israel can maintain its regional military supremacy. de-escalating violence will have the opposite af­fect that aggressive military action has – it will move palestinians away from hamas again, and toward a peaceful resolution within a two-state solution. 
Tim Scanlon can be reached at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Billy McMahon 
in the past two months, the state of israel has dropped an estimated 20,000 tons of explosives on the gaza strip, kill­ing in excess of 2,000 people, most of them civilians. a ceasefire agreement has been reached, but given israel’s chronic viola­tion of the similar 2012 ceasefire through its continued blockade of gaza, there is no hope for lasting peace. 
meanwhile, the 2014 u.s. budget allot­ted $3.1 billion in military aid to israel. The united states vetoes every u.n. security council resolution against israel and threatens any who would intervene. every bomb that is dropped, every school that is destroyed, every civilian that is killed is as much the work of the united states as  it is of israel. 
israel and the united states use the promise of the “peace process” to de­nounce any palestinian who would use violence in pursuit of liberation. This is the crime of hamas, we are told. palestine’s land is occupied, its people are starved, israel disgraces the very ceasefire it signed, but to lift a gun or to fire a rocket is criminal. This position is a disease even amongst americans who consider them­selves pro-palestine. peaceful protest is touted as the answer, while “militant” sounds uncomfortably close to “terrorist.” 
but that is no answer. should the palestinians take the words of gandhi, who said that when faced with the holocaust, the Jews should have thrown themselves from cliffs in order to draw the world’s attention? or are some things are worth fighting for? violent resistance against oppression is no crime  – occupa­tion is the crime. 
look to south africa to see how these types of regimes fall. The cia aided in capturing nelson mandela, the “violent terrorist,” but his militants continued to fight. The international boycott of south africa applied useful pressure, but the armed rebels were the existen­tial threat that forced the elite’s hand. in 1991, mandela himself gave credit to cuba’s military defeat of south africa for “destroy[ing] the myth of the invincibility of the white oppressor” and making his release possible. protest and boycott is useful, but some oppressors must be shot. 
another favorite tactic of israel is to stress the islamist extremism of hamas. yet those who wish to resist will join whoever is doing so, regardless of ideol­ogy. who could take the place of hamas? Fatah is moderate and secular, but it has staked everything on the peace process. every time israel delays a solu­tion, it discredits Fatah more and more. The popular Front for the liberation of palestine (pFlp) champions workers’ and women’s rights, but campaigns by the u.s. and britain to destroy the middle eastern left have marginalized the group. we don’t have to support hamas’s ideology, but its right to stand up to israel must be recognized. 

The united states arms israel while try­ing to broker a two-state solution through the peace process. but the two-state solu­tion is dead, and israel killed it. every day, more palestinian land is seized and given to israeli settlers, in order to break up a cohesive palestinian homeland in the west bank. Former israeli prime minister golda meir denied the very right of palestinians to exist as a people by saying, “There were no such thing as palestinians [when israel was established] ... They did not exist.” by killing palestinians and destroying palestine itself, israel is com­mitted to nothing less than genocide. 
not three weeks ago, israeli major-general giora eiland called for starving gaza into submission, a tactic that the 
u.s. has denounced as a war crime in syria. a 2008 israeli military document revealed the military’s plan to limit gaza’s food intake to 2279 calories per person per day. For reference, the average calorie intake in israel is 3540/day, while in north Korea, a country denounced for starving its people, it is 2150/day. 
as israel and egypt, with heavy u.s. support, destroy the tunnels that act as lifelines for gazans, we can see the hor­rors of the blockade in the malnutrition of gaza’s people. here is a driving factor of conflict – profound economic inequality. common israelis are enticed into join­ing settlements with the promise of land and wealth and told to blame their woes on the enemy. dispossessed palestinians have nothing to lose in joining the fight. For lasting peace, wealth cannot be con­centrated at the top, nor across a border. 
will the united states break the block­ade, or force israel’s hand? no. but if it stops the military aid and holds back its veto in the u.n. security council, then the rest of the world can work toward a solution, whether that’s an independent palestine or a unified binational state. 
supporters of israel claim the u.s. needs it as an ally in the region. This was the rationale for supporting right-wing dictatorships in latin america, and now the region is filled with anti-imperialist leftist governments. 
injustice cannot last forever, and when the walls come tumbling down, the world will remember who stood for liberation and who stood for oppression. 
Billy McMahon can be reached at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

[Editor’s note: This article is part of a series called “Weekly Watch,” in which a Scene writer reviews a movie or show available on an instant streaming service each week]. 
The first episode of “boJack horseman” plays it rela­tively safe, albeit in a smart manner. with its premiere, the adult-audience, animated comedy spends most of its running time expounding rather than exhausting. The script is not interested in diluting its characters to cheap punch lines and paper-thin dimensionality. raphael bob-waksburg, writer and creator of the series, clearly had a vision for his show’s first season planned out in advance and takes measures in “boJack horseman: the boJack horseman story, chapter one” to lay the neces­sary groundwork for later, continued payoff. 
The episode opens with a faux charlie rose inter­view with the titular character.  we quickly learn about boJack horseman’s past in the limelight, as well as what early success on a 90s television show has shaped him into in the present. boJack is bitter and sour, but there is more than a touch of self-deprecation and destructive­ness to his current state, too. we also learn from this first scene that boJack is part horse and part human — not directly because it is never given any real thought or mention, but just look at him. This all helps set the premise of the series’ first season; boJack reveals he is writing a tell-all memoir, seemingly his last chance to maintain his stature. likewise, we get a sense of the 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

when recapping some of the biggest pop culture mo­ments of this summer in scene for this semester’s first issue, i couldn’t resist putting the laughably bad made­for-Tv movie “sharknado 2” on the list. sure, it wasn’t quality programming in the traditional sense, but it didn’t claim to be — the syFy network made the low-budget, self-aware mess of a movie not to improve its repertoire, but as a collective inside joke with a group of celebrities and their fans. 
with a slew of cameos and a cast of has-beens, “sharknado 2” reveled in its terrible plot and writing. The creators of the shark-meets-tornado sequel employed the same formula used in the original “sharknado,” when they had struck gold as viewers live-tweeted the film, raking in millions more viewers who then live-tweeted in turn. by the “sharknado 2” premiere, more people men­tioned the movie than had tweeted about miley cyrus at the 2013 vmas, according to syFy. 
syFy wasn’t always creating tongue-in-check original programming. back when the channel was called sciFi, the network was more focused on true science-fiction shows and movies — some not of the highest quality — but as monster-horror films began to get more and more attention, the channel evolved from being laughed at to laughing with its audience. movies got more absurd, and syFy went from sincerely mediocre to deliberately world he will do it in: one in which humans and anthro­pomorphized animals cohabitate, but, nonetheless, maintain their kind’s respective characteristics and mannerisms. 
From there, we get a rundown of the main players and storylines that will compose the season. There’s Todd, boJack’s not-roommate; diane, boJack’s not-ghostwriter; and mr. peanutbutter, boJack’s not-friend. consequently, much of the episode’s runtime slogs through exposition and introductions, although it does feature hints to the scale of joke building at work.  For instance, in perhaps the first episode’s best gag, and the show’s most immediate reward, princess carolyn, the cutesy-named cat boJack dates, dumps him, and the call he receives seconds after their split plays off of that information instantly.  in addition to the writers never missing a joke based on their show’s environment (see: princess carolyn’s name), the rate of return on these first few episode character and plot setups only increas­es as the show goes on. 
Therefore, early on, boJack’s jackassery tends to annoy and weigh down the plot, creating a crutch the show can always fall back on. This generates a concern for a fairly standard exploration of fame — specifically in televi­sion — from the series, and a slightly uneven season on the whole.  however, as we get more familiar with him throughout the course of the first season, boJack gives more and more revealing glimpses into his childhood and rise to fame. as a result, his actions become easier to understand and accept, but at the same time, all the more difficult to watch. paralleling this, the show simi­larly spirals out from the standard around the halfway 
ridiculous. 
other shows have certainly been keen on this style of ironically bad television, such as history network’s “ancient aliens” or Travel channel’s “ghost adventures.” These shows and this style, of course, are also inextrica­bly linked to internet culture, with memes and satires of the shows scattered throughout the web, but no network appeared to take advantage of irony-loving social media users and awful, low-budget programming the way syFy did. That was until lifetime network premiered “The unauthorized saved by The bell story,” which, along with its accompanying hashtag on the bottom of the screen, debuted last monday. 
Just like the “sharknado” franchise, “unauthorized” was low-budget and pulled no terrible punches in its act­ing, costumes and subject matter, which gave a drama­tized behind-the-scenes history of the 90s series “saved by the bell.” while the movie’s narrator, a fictional dustin diamond, insisted that “saved by the bell” was an iconic television show, there is little doubt that the movie’s bottom line was to get watchers to talk about just how bad the film was. 
here’s the thing about this self-aware, half-baked pro­gramming: while it certainly works at gaining attention (my Twitter timeline was saturated with #unauthorized tweets), ironically bad movies and television shows are still, well, bad. even worse, they’re bad on purpose, banking on the fact that we, the audience, will revel in their poor quality. and while it certainly could be that movies like “sharknado” and “unauthorized” are point in the series. at this turn, the show folds unto it­self, with self-referential plots and nonlinear storytelling that exponentially escalate the payoffs compared to the amount of groundwork laid in episode one. 

while, alone, this first episode is not overtly funny, it must be restated that it develops a background for the rest of the season. bob-waksburg knows his show streams on netflix. he knows how viewers tend to watch television shows on netflix. unless they absolutely can­not stand the twenty-something minute opener, they will keep watching the show for at least a little while longer — and the name-dropping cast certainly aids in retaining an audience. after all, once the first episode ends, netflix gives a mere ten-second countdown to step away from the second installment and to not see the masterfully directed and scored opening theme, cour­tesy of the drum half of The black Keys, patrick carney. 
by the end of the season, entire episodes reference stories that have occurred before them and build upon the constantly growing universe established earlier. in the final episode, the show comes nearly full circle, with another character mimicking boJack’s previously uncovered career decisions. raphael bob-waksburg and company have planned so well that they ordered a second season pickup nary days after the first one was released, and they already have the launching groundwork laid for another densely-populated twelve episodes. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
so-bad-they’re-good, achieving some sort of post-ironic nirvana in the style of comedians like Tim heidecker and eric wareheim on adult swim, there’s no guarantee that awful filmmaking will somehow be entertaining. 
it seems that syFy and the history network have, in some way, made this realization. The two networks have started to return to more genuine programming, like history’s new mini-series, “houdini.” but lifetime is both bad at and late to the game, and “unauthorized” and the upcoming, horrendous-looking “brittany murphy story” show it. 
it could be that ironically-bad dramas don’t work sim­ply due to their genre — it’s much easier to create a farce out of a disaster movie than it is an ensemble drama full of teen actors — but lifetime is also revealing just how cheap bad filmmaking and fishing for a Twitter trend really is. “unauthorized” knew it was comically bad, and maybe it was entertaining to collectively make fun of it on the internet, but when considering just how little thought, time or substance went into something like “unauthorized,” that enjoyment is significantly damp­ened. when you realize that something is poorly done not to enhance a joke, tell a story or make a point, but only to get its hashtag trending — which happens to be some seriously cost-effective advertising —  you see net­works like lifetime are really getting the last laugh. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


Notre Dame 31, mICHIGaN 0 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | NDsmCobserver.Com 
The grand finale 

No. 16 Notre Dame pummels Michigan, 31-0, in the final scheduled meeting 
Notre Dame’s balance could lead it to success in 2014 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
It’s not 2012 anymore. 
but for Notre Dame, maybe that’s not a bad thing. 
I don’t mean to devalue a 12-1 season that resulted in Notre Dame’s first national champi­onship appearance in nearly a quarter century. 
rather, I use it to point out how good teams can come in all different styles, schemes and dynamics. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly said as much in his postgame press conference when he talked about what drives this season’s team. 
Kelly referenced everett Golson as the team’s major driver and referenced the team’s youth, but he ended up going back to the idea of balance. 
“When we won 12 games, it was definitely a defensive group that kind of led that,” he said. “this [group], they feed off of each other on both sides of the ball.” 
Now, it’s incredibly prema­ture to declare this year’s Notre Dame squad a great team. so far, the Irish have beaten a middle-of-the-pack mid-major team in rice and a michigan squad that in spite of its suc­cess against Notre Dame in recent years, was still unranked and unproven. any judgments about this year’s Notre Dame squad should not be made un­til after the team visits Florida state in mid-october. 
but it’s not premature to evaluate the Irish using obser­vations and statistics from their first two games. 
and such observations and statistics show that just as Kelly said, the Irish have been feed­ing off of each other, creating a balanced attack on both sides of the ball. 
make no mistake, everett Golson is the main driver be­hind Notre Dame’s offense. saturday night, the senior signal-caller hardly resembled the timid first-year starter who was pulled in the second quarter against michigan in 
see baLaNCe PAGE 3 

By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
and so it ends. 
after 41 games defined by thrilling back-and-forth battles between two of college football’s most storied programs, No. 16 Notre Dame slammed the door shut on its rivalry with michigan on saturday night, roaring to a 31-0 victory at Notre Dame stadium. 
With the series between the two teams going on an indefi­nite hiatus, the matchup had a special significance for Irish head coach brian Kelly and his players, even though Kelly said in his pre-game press confer­ences that he was treating the game like any other. 
“It feels great … It’s something that we’re very proud of,” Kelly said after the game. “I would be lying if [I told] you that it doesn’t feel great to shut out michigan, 31-0.” 
It was the first time in series history the Irish (2-0) shut out the Wolverines (1-1), and the first time michigan failed to score in a game since 1984. 
“We wanted it bad,” senior quarterback everett Golson said. “I think that we wanted to just be successful every time we step on the field. I like to think 
PLAYERS OF THE GAME 
ELIJAH SHUMATE AND MAX REDFIELD 
IRISH SAFETIES 
one week after struggling against rice, the duo of safeties led Notre Dame’s strong defensive effort against michigan. shumate, a junior, recorded 10 tackles, a pass breakup and an interception. redfield, a sophomore, added six tackles and his first career college intercep­tion in his third career start. 
that it added a little bit extra mo­tivation being the last time we played them.” 
a week after tying the Notre Dame quarterback record for rushing touchdowns in a game against rice, Golson gained only two yards in three attempts on the ground saturday. through the air, however, he posted one of the best games of his colle­giate career, completing 23 of 34 passes for 226 yards and three touchdowns. 
Golson was helped out by career days from sophomore receiver Will Fuller and senior receiver amir Carlisle. Fuller led all Irish receivers with nine catches, including a 24-yard toss down the sideline he grabbed for a touchdown with 34 sec­onds remaining in the first half to put the Irish up 21-0. 
“[everett and I have] just been practicing hard all spring, ever since he got here, so I think we have a little chemistry, and it’s great to have it with him,” Fuller said. “We can be real dangerous.” 
Carlisle, who played primar­ily as a running back last season, 
see DomINaNCe PAGE 2 
Irish defense shuts out Michigan, forces four turnovers 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports Writer 
It was not the arm of Notre Dame senior quarterback everett Golson or michigan graduate student quarterback Devin Gardner that defined the end of the famed Notre Dame­michigan rivalry. It was the in­tensity of the Irish defense. 
michigan (1-1) came into the game saturday night af­ter scoring 52 points against appalachian state the previous weekend. against No. 16 Notre Dame (2-0), the Wolverines scored zero. 
Notre Dame’s defenders re­corded three interceptions, two forced fumbles, nine quarter­back hurries and two sacks in its 31-0 victory over the Wolverines. 
“obviously, shutting out any opponent in college football is an enormous task with offenses today,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “a great performance by our defense. Great perfor­mance by our coaches. the preparation was outstanding.” 
It was the first time in the 42 meetings between the two pro­grams that the Irish shut out michigan. 
“It felt amazing,” sophomore linebacker Jaylon smith said. “they haven’t had a goose egg since 1984. so that alone — we’re setting our own stan­dards here, and it’s an amazing feeling.” 
before saturday night, a ma­jor question was whether or not michigan’s offense could be contained. Gardner is on the school’s top-10 lists for career passing yards, career passing touchdowns, career completions, career efficien­cy and career total offense. michigan junior receiver Devin Funchess had three touchdown receptions against appalachian state, while michigan recorded 350 rushing yards in its season opener. 
senior linebacker Joe schmidt, who had seven tack­les and a forced fumble, said the Irish defense wasn’t too shocked by the shutout. 
“I think as a defensive player, you have to see this coming,” schmidt said. “You want to 
see DeFeNse PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

It would be difficult for everett Golson to surpass the effort from his season opener, but he came close, throwing three touchdowns. He completed 23 of 34 passes and would have had more completions if not for some dropped passes. He stayed away from designed runs, only rushing three times. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Notre Dame ran into the teeth of a strong michigan front seven 31 times and ended up with 54 total yards and no rushes of more than six yards to show for it. Cam mcDaniel scored on a one-yard touchdown run and added two catch­es for first downs. Greg bryant and tarean Folston com­bined for only 42 yards on 20 carries. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller had a solid game for the second week in a row, and amir Carlisle showed he may be a strong threat at the slot position. the Irish used speed to their advantage and got some separation from the michigan secondary. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Notre Dame struggled with run blocking and gaining a push against the michigan defensive line and lineback­ers. Golson was sacked once and scrambled a few times, but for the most part, had time to find receivers and make throws. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

after michigan recorded 350 rushing yards in its opener, the Irish surrendered only 100 rushing yards on 35 michi­gan carries. the line brought pressure on Devin Gardner and recorded two sacks and one forced fumble. 
LINEBACKERS 

Notre Dame’s linebackers played fast and physical. Jay­lon smith tied for the team lead with 10 tackles, while Joe schmidt recorded seven and forced a fumble. the unit largely limited short passes over the middle. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Notre Dame’s defensive backs recorded three intercep­tions — one apiece for max redfield, elijah shumate and Cody riggs. shumate recorded 10 tackles, while redfield added six. the Irish only allowed two pass plays of longer than 20 yards. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kyle brindza continued his strong season, making both of his field goal attempts and rendering nearly every kickoff unreturnable. the Irish punt coverage team surrendered zero yards for the second straight week.  a miscue on a punt return by Cody riggs nearly gave michigan the ball in the Irish red zone, but the unit did record 26 yards in punt returns. 
COACHING 

brian Kelly and his staff understood the significance of the game and came prepared to play. Defensive coordinator brian vanGorder threw all kinds of blitzes and schemes at michigan’s offense. offensively, the Irish exploited several mismatches in the vulnerable michigan secondary. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.56 

While the statistics revealed an even game, there’s no denying that Notre Dame looked like the more dominant team saturday night. the Irish defense played fast and pressured michigan’s offense all night. Notre Dame’s offense struggled on the ground, but was efficient and precise through the air. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
EVERETT GOLSON HITS WILL FULLER FOR A 24-YARD TOUCHDOWN 
the Irish had the ball on their own 44-yard line with 1:24 left in the first half, no timeouts and michigan set to receive the second-half kickoff. Golson engineered a six play, 56-yard drive in only 50 seconds capped by a 24-yard strike to Fuller that put the game out of reach. 
Dominance 
CoNtINueD From PaGe 1 
grabbed seven passes, includ­ing the first two touchdowns of his Notre Dame career. He put the Irish up 14-0 with 3:58 left in the second quarter, then put the game almost completely out of reach at the end of the third quar­ter with a 12-yard score to make it 28-0. He ended the game with 61 yards receiving, a high for his college career. 
“I am just trying to get better on a daily basis,” Carlisle said. “Next week is a new week, so I have to put this in the past and work on getting better as a team and get­ting better individually.” 
the Irish started the game slowly, possessing the ball just twice in the opening quarter. In its first drive, the offensive unit ran the ball three straight times with sophomore running back tarean Folston to get a first down, but stalled out when Golson attempted three straight throws and came up six yards short of the first-down marker. after that, the running game struggled, producing 44 yards on 28 attempts. 
“the way they decided to play the game — there was six, seven guys [on the line],” Kelly said. “If somebody is going to play the game so one-sided defensively, we’re going to throw the foot­ball. and we probably missed a number of opportunities that we would like to have back, but we think 31 points against michigan is still not bad.” 
Despite their trouble pounding the ball on the ground, the Irish did get a rushing score thanks to a one-yard rush from senior run­ning back Cam mcDaniel, and Kelly said he remained commit­ted to running the ball. 
“We’ll continue to run it, even in a loaded box, because I think our backs are gifted enough to make some people miss in there,” he said. “We were able to hit some quick slants off some play action. … so we’ll continue to run it even if the numbers are not there.” 


the Wolverines, on the other hand, started off the game with their longest drive of the day, by number of plays. Graduate stu­dent quarterback Devin Gardner completed his first six passes and drove his team from its own 24­yard line into field-goal range. senior kicker matt Wile, however, missed wide right on a 46-yard attempt and gave the ball back to Notre Dame on its own 29-yard line. 
“We crossed the 50 [yard line], and they were going to bring more pressure,” michigan head coach brady Hoke said of the Irish defense. “You’ve got to give them a lot of credit.” 
after a quick start, Gardner cooled off, completing 13 of 26 passes and throwing three in­terceptions in the second half. He also fumbled the ball after attempting a pump fake and hit­ting the helmet of Irish senior linebacker Joe schmidt. Notre Dame sophomore defensive linemen Isaac rochell recovered the loose ball. While the Irish only scored three points off the michigan turnovers, Gardner said they made a significant im­pact on the course of the game. 
“We lost a lot of momentum,” he said. “Football is a game of momentum, and we lost a lot of it.” 
In the second quarter, the Irish attack picked up steam as Golson began to pick apart the michigan secondary. on Notre Dame’s sec­ond scoring drive, which lasted five minutes and 14 seconds, the senior completed six passes on seven attempts. Golson ended the half with 169 yards on 16-of­21 passing. 
“I think it all started when [Golson] really got an oppor­tunity to learn how to protect himself,” Kelly said. “I think once that clicked for him … when he felt comfortable there and protecting himself, that’s he’s re­ally started to grow and develop as a quarterback.” 
“I think that he’s matured,” Hoke said of Golson. “He’s a much better quarterback than he was two years ago.” 
one of michigan’s bright spots was junior receiver Devin Funchess, who collected nine catches and accounted for 107 of michigan’s 189 receiving yards. Late in the game, however, Funchess went to the trainer’s table with an apparent right knee injury. He would return to the game but was unable to prevent Gardner’s final interception of the night, which came on what appeared to be the last play of the game. 
Irish junior safety elijah shumate caught a last-second heave and raced it all the way back for a touchdown, which would have been the first of his college career. the score was called back, however, because of a penalty on sophomore safety max redfield, who had an inter­ception earlier in the game. 
several michigan players had already run into the tunnel be­fore the flag was announced and had to run back on the field for the final play of the game, while Notre Dame fans celebrated the win. 
“It’s embarassing,” michigan junior center Jack miller said. “Definitely not the way we want­ed to end the series and perform tonight, but it is over.” 
“We don’t want to lose,” Irish sophomore linebacker Jaylon smith said. “especially at home. With a great crowd [of] 80,000 plus, [it was] just an amazing feeling out there tonight.” 
after starting the season 2-0 at home, the Irish will play Purdue at Lucas oil stadium in Indianapolis on saturday as part of the annual shamrock series. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



Defense 
CoNtINueD From PaGe 1 
believe that this is something that you can accomplish ev­ery time that you go out on the field.” 
most of the game statistics were not nearly as lopsided as the 31-0 score. michigan actu­ally possessed the ball for more time and gained nine more yards overall than Notre Dame did. 
Where Notre Dame re­ally dominated on the statis­tics sheet were turnovers and red zone performance. the Wolverines were unable to get into the red zone at all, and four of their drives ended with an Irish takeaway. 
much of the success in the secondary and overall defense could be attributed to consis­tent penetration and contain­ment by the defensive line, Kelly said. 
Balance 
CoNtINueD From PaGe 1 
2012. He appeared poised and confident, deftly avoiding the Wolverines pass rush and find­ing receivers with accuracy. 
those receivers, who en­tered the season as a collective question mark, have fed off Golson’s energy and stepped up in their own right. Will Fuller has emerged as No. 5’s favorite target thus far, and amir Carlisle has appeared to put last year’s pass-catching struggles behind him. 
and despite their struggles saturday night, it would be shortsighted not to mention Notre Dame’s three running backs, whose potential for big plays keeps defenses honest. 
these position groups have combined to produce an Irish offense averaging nearly 40 points per game, a marked im­provement over the unit that averaged approximately 27 points per game last season. 
as Kelly said, though, it’s not just about the offense — the defense has created momen­tum of its own. 

“once we were able to really get a hold of the run game and getting it to third down, we felt like we were going to be in pretty good shape, because we were able to do a lot of things to confuse what they were see­ing,” Kelly said. “so, stopping the running game and having a good control over the running game really set up a lot of things for us tonight.” 
the secondary, with the help from the linemen up front, forced two turnovers despite the absence of players like junior cornerback Keivarae russell and graduate student safety austin Collinsworth. sophomore safety max redfield and graduate student corner­back Cody riggs, for instance, recorded one interception each. 
Keeping an offense locked down for a full four quarters is a rare feat, one that requires an energized and motivated 
and that brings me back to 2012. 
that season’s defense was characterized by senior lead­ership — manti te’o, Kapron Lewis-moore and Zeke motta, among others. It featured a formidable defensive line, led by two players taken in the first three rounds of this year’s NFL draft. It played with a “bend, don’t break” mentality that prevented big plays, and it stepped up on the biggest of stages — the stanford and usC games of that season come to mind. 
this season’s defense fea­tures an underclassmen-heavy lineup, which has already in­cluded eight freshmen. three of these freshmen play on the defensive line. Defensive co­ordinator brian vanGorder’s scheme emphasizes aggres­siveness and pressure, giving it a high risk, high reward feel. It’s not yet seen how the de­fense will fare on the biggest stages. 
but despite their differences, both defenses got the job done against michigan. they both held mobile quarterbacks, defense, smith said. He added that the high energy is not out of character for a team like the Irish. 
“It’s just something that we live by,” smith said. “You get what you earn. We had to earn it. We weren’t giving in. We were up 21 or 28, at halftime, and it was all about the next play. eradicating everything. Zero, zero.” 
there was one other intan­gible that smith mentioned as playing a role in the team’s de­termination — the Notre Dame stadium atmosphere in the final scheduled game against michigan. 
“that atmosphere was great. It was surreal,” smith said. “Last year we were in the big House playing michigan. so to actu­ally be home, seeing all your family there, it was amazing.” 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Denard robinson in 2012 and Devin Gardner this year, in check and forced turnovers 
— six in 2012, four saturday night. and neither unit sur­rendered a touchdown to the Wolverines. 
Which brings me back to my original point. In today’s era of college football, there is no exact blueprint for suc­cess. offenses can be based on a power running game or an open spread aerial attack. Defenses can be highly ag­gressive or more technical and passive, but either one can succeed. 
and that is good news for this year’s Notre Dame team. It won’t be the 2012 squad — its scheme, personnel and, yes, even special teams (in a good way) are different. 
but that doesn’t mean it can’t be as successful as that team was. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Irish end shutout streak 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s shutout of michigan broke the Wolverines’ NCaa-best streak of 365 games without being held to zero points. the game also marked the first time the Irish shut out michigan in 42 meetings be­tween the two schools. the win gave Notre Dame an all-time re­cord of 876-305-42 (.733), which tied it with texas for second place in all-time Football bowl subdivision victories. 
Special teams have special performance 
senior kicker Kyle brindza converted all four of his ex­tra point attempts against michigan, extending his streak to 59 completed extra points in a row. He also had touchbacks on five of his six kickoffs, giv­ing him 12 touchbacks on 15 at­tempts for the season. brindza kicked his 46th career field goal in the fourth quarter, ty­ing him for second with former Irish kicker Nick setta on Notre Dame’s all-time list of most field goals kicked. With 26 re­turn yards saturday, the Notre Dame punt return team has gained 106 punt return yards in two games. the Irish return team gained 106 total yards in 13 games last season. 

A game of firsts 

a legion of less-experi­enced players had an impact for the first time against the Wolverines. sophomore safe­ty max redfield had his first career interception, while graduate student cornerback Cody riggs had his first in­terception in an Irish uni­form. senior receiver amir Carlisle scored his first two touchdowns at Notre Dame, while sophomore linebacker James onwualu recorded his first career punt return. Linebacker Kolin Hill be­came the 11th freshman to get a taste of playing time this season, and the eighth fresh­man on the defensive side of the ball to play. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  0  0  0  0  
7  14  7  3  31  






NOTRE DAME 7, MICHIGAN 0 
Cam mcDaniel 1-yard run (brindza kick) 

1:50 remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 71 yards, 3:45 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, MICHIGAN 0 
amir Carlisle 1-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

3:58 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 5:14 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, MICHIGAN 0 
Will Fuller 24-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

0:34 remaining 

Drive: Six play, 56 yards, 0:50 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, MICHIGAN 0 
amir Carlisle 12-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

3:02remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 61 yards, 3:37 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 31, MICHIGAN 0 
Kyle brindza 43-yard field goal 

12:03 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, zero yards, 2:07 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
100 
54 
PASSING YARDS 
189 
226 

Time of Possession 
26:56 
PASSING 
Golson 23-34-226 
RUSHING 
McDaniel 8-25 Bryant 8-19 Folston 9-17 Zaire 2-9 Golson 3--14 
RECEIVING 
Fuller 9-89 Carlisle 7-61 Robinson 1-22 Prosise 1-18 McDaniel 2-17 Koyack 2-14 Brown 1-5 
TACKLES 
Smith 10 Shumate 10 Schmidt 7 Jones 6 Redfield 6 Day 5 
INTERCEPTIONS 
Shumate 1 Redfield 1 Riggs 1 
TACKLES FOR LOSS 
Hill 1.5 Smith 1 Jones 1 Farley 1 Tranquill, Okwara, Utupo 1 

Time of Possession 
33:04 
Gardner 19-32-189 
Smith 7-30 Green 13-25 Hayes 2-20 Norfleet 2-20 Gardner 11-5 
Funchess 9-107 Chesson 3-30 Darboh 2-23 Norfleet 3-16 Hill 1-9 Kerridge 1-4 
Ryan 11 Bolden 10 Hollowell 6 Countess 4 Wilson 4 Beyer 4 
QUARTERBACK HURRIES 
Glasgow 1 Henry 1 
Hollowell  1  
Beyer  1  
Charlton  1  
Clark  1  
Taylor, Hurst Jr.  1  



tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | NDsmCobserver.Com 


AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson hands off to sophomore running back Tarean Folston during Notre Dame’s 31-0 win over Michigan on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish and the Wolverines squared off in their final scheduled meeting Saturday night. 
For the first time in the history of the Michigan-Notre Dame series, 
which began in 1887, the Irish shut out the Wolverines, winning 31-0. Although Michigan outgained Notre Dame, 289 yards to 280 yards, 
SEND-OFF 
the Wolverines never entered the red zone. Michigan graduate student quarterback Devin Gardner threw three interceptions — including 
SHUTOUT 
one to Irish junior safety Elijah Shumate in the game’s final seconds. 





The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


with two victories at home under its belt, the notre dame football team certainly doesn’t need any help from us this season. still, the scene staff is here with some advice to make future home victories even sweet­er: song suggestions for students, fans and athletes alike to jam out to during games. while nothing could ever replace all of the best music from our own march­ing band, as long as music is being played on the loud speakers, these songs are our picks for the next “seven nation army” or “crazy Train.”  These are our favorite songs that are sure to get the irish pumped up for an­other victory. 
“D-Boyz” – Rich Boy featuring Mannie Fresh 
By MIKO MALABUTE 

i’m going to be honest: as of very recently, i wasn’t familiar with this song at all. in fact, i first heard about it two hours prior to writing this “staff pick.” but here’s the thing: if matthias Farley and everett golson are telling you that they want to hear the crowd chant “d-boyz,” and they close out an epic rivalry era against the michigan wolverines by handing the team its first shutout loss since 1984, routing them by 31 (ahem, 37) points, then you go ahead and play “d-boyz” and chant it until you can chant no more. i’m not saying we should pattern ourselves after the seattle seahawks, but here’s my final thought: seattle has its whole “12th man” and “legion of boom” thing going on, and the seahawks are the defending champions of professional football. so let’s embrace this and have this song playing after each dominating defensive performance. d-boyz. 
“Say a Little Prayer” – Aretha Franklin 
By MADDIE DALY 

as a catholic university with a major football pro­gram, we are one of the few schools that can sing this song seriously during a game and use it to our advan­tage. “say a little prayer” would bring the fans together, regardless of whether the score is 31-0 in notre dame’s favor or not. in case we forgot to say that pre-game prayer, singing this song will remind everyone to put in a good word with the man upstairs. it’s an oldie, yet still a well-known classic, and alumni and students alike can sing along and use this song to pump up the team to push for the win. 
“Rock You Like a Hurricane” – Scorpions 
By DAN BARABASI 
a star of barney stinson’s “get pumped playlist,” this scorpions anthem describes the notre dame football spirit, ready to rock foes “like a hurricane.” we “wake up early morning/the sun comes out” as we begin to tailgate. Then, as “the night is calling” we file into the stadium, as hungry wolves who “run the show” against puny opponents.This classic rock song will even keep the faculty section on their feet “til the storm breaks loose.” 
“IDONTGIVEA****” – Rabbit Junk 
By JOHN DARR 
There’s a really easy way to trick people into chanting: play a song that features other people chanting. rabbit Junk’s new single is a bombardment of shredding guitar and screaming synths — think a maximalist version of Treats-era sleigh bells — backing up a crowd that roars “oh yeah!” every two seconds. if the chanting vocals and melodic arrangement weren’t as gripping, “idonTgivea****” would be downright obnoxious. but wait — aren’t we talking about a notre dame foot­ball game? notre dame fans, obnoxious? no way. it’s perfect. 
“Attak” – Rustie ft. Danny Brown 
By MATT McMAHON 
in high school, i was in charge of cultivating my 

soccer team’s pump-up album, which we played at home games. i retroactively feel like a failure because i didn’t time travel to a future (namely, earlier this year) when scottish electronic producer rustie’s absolutely insane “attack” came into existence to put it on the playlist. in a mere seven notes, this song hits harder than anything ever heard in notre dame stadium, hereby known as “attak” by rustie ft. danny brown stadium. when danny brown comes in, it’s his most psychotic delivery since his own birth.  To whoever is in charge of the music during football games: learn from my time-travel shortcomings and play “attak” when­ever someone foolishly sits down. 
“Lose Control” – Missy Elliot 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 

First of all, missy elliot. second of all, ciara. if that isn’t reason enough to bump “lose control” through the stadium, the jam also adds some female artists to the male-dominated sport/experience/playlist. it even embodies the traditional stadium anthem lyrics (“wave your hands, scream louder”), and the lyrics rub our superiority in the other team’s face (“we on fiya!”). The women even instruct us on how to perform those demanding cheers with weird arm motions, singing “move your arm to the left, girl/now move your arm to the right, girl.” This song easily transitions from the club to the seventh-grade dance floor to the notre dame stadium — an act of versatility that only missy elliot could accomplish. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu, John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu, Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu, Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu, Dan Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu and Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

it’s never too early for heisman talk 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
after just two weeks of college football, we’ve ex­perienced countless jaw-dropping plays, a couple of critical upsets and a few players that have left the rest of the college football world wondering whether or not they’re even human. it is really early in the season, but it’s never too early to start looking at who has the most realistic chance at tak­ing home college football’s most prized trophy: the heisman. 
after watching more hours of film than ron Jaworski, i’ve come up with a list of players, from most quali­fied to least, that best fit the heisman’s description of the most outstanding player in the country, excluding our own athletes here at south bend. 
Todd Gurley, Running back, Georgia 
Todd gurley has been looking for the heisman since he stepped on the field as a freshman, but this year will be his first real chance to take home the award. as of late, the running back po­sition hasn’t received much love from heisman voters. The last four winners were all quarterbacks, with the last running back to win it being former alabama run­ning back mark ingram. 
gurley has a shot at being the second to win it in the last six years. he’s the most explosive back that i’ve seen since reggie bush. in just one game this year against clemson, gurley carried the ball a mere 15 times and ran for 198 yards to go along with three touchdowns and a 100-yard kick return that also went for a touchdown. gurley can really do it all. he’s a 6-foot-1, 226 pound bruising back that has the speed and elusiveness to make almost anyone miss at any given moment. georgia is going spend all season competing for the sec title and that’s going to be credit­ed to gurley’s play through­out the season. 
MarcusMariota, Quarterback, Oregon 
another player who’s usually on the heisman preseason watch list is ju­nior quarterback marcus mariota. This duck has been lights out statistically since his first year as a starter in 2012. he’s one of my favorite players to watch because of his elite dual-threat abil­ity. some guys are able to throw and run the ball well, but mariota does both with excellence week in and week out. after beating both dinky south dakota and last year’s rose bowl champions in michigan state, mariota has thrown for 585 yards and six scores through the air along with 85 yards and a touchdown on the ground. chip Kelly had a lot to do with oregon’s success in recent history but without mariota, oregon just isn’t the same team. 
Kenny Hill, Quarterback, Texas A&M 
Kenny Football, or as he said he wants to be called, Kenny Trill, has been able to fill into the shoes of Johnny cleveland with ease. in his debut as an aggie, hill threw for a school-record 511 yards against preseason no. 9 south carolina, showing the rest of america that Texas a&m is still a powerhouse team even without Johnny manziel. after his second game, when hill completely decimated lamar, 73-0, the aggies rocketed up the ap poll from no. 21 to no. 7. hill has become a force to be reckoned with and he’s surely caught the attention of heisman voters. as of right now, hill is a poten­tial heisman candidate, but until he helps the aggies beat alabama, he won’t be considered a finalist for the award at season’s end. 
i wanted to come up with a fourth player to put on the list, but there really isn’t anyone else who comes from a relevant conference that stands out. instead i came up with a list of guys that could become potential candidates as the season progresses. 
eric Kendricks, linebacker, ucla; ameer abdullah, running back, nebraska; bryce petty, quarterback, baylor; Jameis winston, quarterback, Florida state; amari cooper, wide receiver, alabama. 
like every season, there will probably be a couple of guys that come out of nowhere to make their way into the heisman watch, but these are the guys i think have the best chance of making it to new york as a finalist in december. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | bills 23, bears 20 (oT); panThers 20, buccaneers 14 
Buffalo takes down Chicago with overtime FG 
Associated Press 
chicago — Fred Jackson showed no signs of slowing down as he raced along the sideline, and the buffalo bills might be ready to kick things into a higher gear, too. 
a stunning overtime victory over the bears was a good start. 
Jackson set up dan carpenter’s field goal in overtime with a 38­yard run to the 1 and the buffalo bills surprised chicago 23-20 on sunday. 
The veteran running back ran for just 61 yards, but he came through with a big one at the end. 
“i am old, but i can still play,” the 33-year-old Jackson said. 
The bears had just punted to open the extra period and buffalo took over on its own 22 to start the winning possession. The bills got the ball to the chicago 39 when the 33-year-old Jackson turned toward the left side and broke off his big run, pushing safety chris conte out of the way twice inside the 10 before being knocked out of bounds at the 1. 
buffalo’s eJ manuel backed up 3 yards and put the ball in the middle of the field. after a delay of game, carpenter won it with a 27-yarder. 
it was a good start for the bills as they enter a new era following the death of founding father and hall of Fame owner ralph wilson. They’re trying to end a 14-year playoff drought and they started by knocking off a team eyeing a run to the postseason. 
“it’s so difficult to win on the road in this league, espe­cially on opening day i think it’s even tougher,” bills coach doug marrone said. “i’m proud of them. it was different, i’m not going to lie to you. it was different in that locker room before the game.” 
Jackson said, “it was a great statement win for us to put all that stuff behind and focus on the season.” 
This was not what the bears had in mind. They got little pressure from a revamped defense despite the addition of five-time pro bowl end Jared allen, and there were some questionable decisions at times by Jay cutler, who got picked off twice while throwing for 349 yards and two touchdowns. 
The bears trailed 17-7 at the half after buffalo scored 17 unan­swered points and came up short down the stretch after tying it. 
The bills looked like they might pull this one out in regulation with 

FOR RENT 
IRISH CROSSING TWNHM For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Text or call John 281-635-2019 

a 20-17 lead after dan carpenter kicked a 33-yard field goal. 
That came after cutler threw across his body and tried to squeeze a pass to martellus bennett on a third-and-1 at the buffalo 34. Kyle williams came away with his first career inter­ception, instead. 
but the bears answered after the bills grabbed the lead. 
They drove from the 20 to the buffalo 19, and cutler threw an incomplete pass to brandon marshall in the end zone before robbie gould tied it with a 37-yard field goal with 30 seconds left in regulation. 
“you guys are going to be as negative as possible,” a surly cutler said. “but we’ve got a lot of games left, we did a lot of good things. obviously we made mis­takes today and we’ve got to clean them up and got to keep it going.” 
manuel completed 16 of 22 passes for 173 yards for buffalo. he also had a 2-yard touchdown run in the first quarter. 
robert woods added 78 yards receiving. 
chicago’s matt Forte ran for 82 yards and had 87 receiving. brandon marshall caught eight passes for 71 yards and a touch­down. alshon Jeffery also had 71 yards receiving, although he spent most of the second half on the sideline because of a ham­string injury. 
bennett had 70 yards receiv­ing and a Td, but left guard matt slauson and center roberto garza left the game with ankle injuries. 
it wasn’t a great afternoon for a revamped defense, either. allen, the star addition in the offsea­son overhaul, was a nonfactor in his bears debut. but Trestman thought it was a good day overall for that group — Jackson’s long run aside. 
“at the end of the day you keep them in the 17 to 20-point range, that should be enough for us to win,” he said. “and if we hang onto the football, take care of it we would have been in a good posi­tion to do that.” 
Panthers 20, Buccaneers 14 

Tampa, Fla. — cam newton watched from the sideline as his backup handled the Tampa bay buccaneers. 
derek anderson filled in nice­ly for the injured two-time pro bowl quarterback, throwing for 230 yards and two touchdowns sunday in carolina’s 20-14 season-opening victory. 
despite rallying with two late touchdowns, it was an ugly debut for the bucs under coach lovie smith. The defense applied little pressure on anderson, and an offense that was one of the worst in the nFl a year ago showed few signs of improvement until mid­way through the fourth quarter. 
with newton cheering on his teammates after being held out because of a rib injury suffered in preseason, anderson com­pleted 24 of 34 passes with no interceptions and one sack. The 10th-year pro tossed for Tds of 5 yards to greg olsen and 26 yards to rookie Kelvin benjamin. 
carolina’s defense did its part, too. 
The panthers sacked Josh mccown three times and in­tercepted smith’s hand-picked quarterback twice, both times on ill-advised throws. 
mccown, a career backup coming off his best season as a pro in throwing for 13 Tds ver­sus one interception filling in for an injured Jay cutler in chicago a year ago, was 22 of 35 for 183 yards and two Tds. much of his production came after the panthers built a 17-0 lead mid­way through the third quarter. 
luke Kuechly had one of carolina’s three sacks and forced a fumble that set up graham gano’s 33-yard field goal in the final minute. The bucs pulled within 17-14 on mccown’s Td throws of 19 yards to chris owusu and 6 yards to bobby rainey. 
The bucs got the ball back trailing by a field goal with 1:36 to go. but Kuechly, the 2013 nFl defensive player of the year — forced rainey to fumble after a short reception on the next play, spoiling any hopes for a comeback. 
olsen finished with eight re­ceptions for 83 yards. benjamin had six for 92 yards. 
newton led a pair of lopsided victories over Tampa bay a year ago, when the panthers tied a franchise record with 12 vic­tories. The first player selected in the 2011 draft posted career highs in completion percent­age, touchdowns passing and passer rating. he injured his ribs aug. 22 at new england, sat out carolina’s preseason finale and was limited in practice last week after initially saying he was con­fident he’d play.` 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Anyway, like I was sayin’, shrimp pineapple shrimp, lemon shrimp, co-is the fruit of the sea. You can bar-conut shrimp, pepper shrimp, shrimp becue it, boil it, broil it, bake it, soup, shrimp stew, shrimp salad, saute it. Dey’s uh, shrimp-kabobs, shrimp and potatoes, shrimp burger, shrimp creole, shrimp gumbo. Pan shrimp sandwich. That- that’s about fried, deep fried, stir-fried. There’s it. 


NFL | Falcons 37, sainTs 34 

Falcons defeat Saints in OT behind Ryan’s record day 
Associated Press 
aTlanTa — matt ryan has turned in plenty of impressive performances for the atlanta Falcons. 
This was probably his best one yet. 
Throwing for a franchise-re­cord 448 yards and showing some rarely used mobility to keep plays going, ryan led the Falcons to a 37-34 overtime victory over the new orleans saints in another thriller between the nFc south rivals sunday. 
matt bryant kicked a tying 51­yard field goal on the final play of regulation and won the season opener with a 52-yarder after the saints fumbled the ball away on the second play of overtime. 
but this was mostly about ryan, who completed 31 of 43 with three touchdowns and eclipsed the team passing record of 431 yards set by chris chandler in 2001. ryan also ran three times for 15 yards and dodged the saints’ pressure most of the day, going down only one time after taking a career-high 44 sacks last season. 
“he’s played a lot of games, made a lot of plays for us,” coach mike smith said. “but i was re­ally impressed with his ability to extend some plays by moving around in the pocket. and he was very, very accurate. when you have (568 yards) of total offense and 448 through the air, your quarterback is playing well.” 

For good measure, ryan eclipsed the team record for ca­reer Td passes. he is now at 156, breaking the mark of 154 held by steve bartkowski. 
The Falcons beat new orleans for just the fourth time in their last 17 meetings. This one was particularly sweet for atlanta coming off a miserable 4-12 sea­son, its first losing campaign since 2007. 
“it’s a good start,” ryan said. “but it’s a long season.” 
The teams combined for 17 points in the final 2:50 of the fourth. The saints got the ball first in overtime, but marques colston was stripped from behind by william moore after catching a first-down pass over the middle. 
Joplu bartu recovered the fum­ble at the saints 38. moore flexed his muscles from his knees in the middle of the field, while colston slammed his helmet in disgust when he got back to the sideline, brushing away a teammate who tried to console him. 
“you’ve only got two eyes. you can’t see behind you,” moore said of his play on colston. “i’m going to continue to work on that and hopefully i can get some more throughout the season.” 
The game fit right in with a di­visional series in which nine of the previous 12 meetings were decided by eight points or less. 
“That’s a tough game to lose,” saint coach sean payton said. “every once in a while, you get in one of these games where the score goes back and forth. The smallest of details, especially in overtime, magnifies any little mistake.” 
The Falcons (1-0), who twice trailed from 13 points in the first half, went ahead on Jacquizz rodgers’ dazzling 17-yard run with 2:50 remaining. The dimin­utive back cut this way and that for a 31-27 lead. back came drew brees and the saints (0-1), need­ing only 90 seconds to go 71 yards. mark ingram powered over from the 3 for his second touchdown to make it 34-31 with 1:20 left. 
That was enough time for ryan. he completed three passes on the tying drive, the big one a 21-yarder to devin hester that set up bryant’s tying kick. 
hester, who has starred as a re­turn specialist, showed he’s still got some skills as a receiver. after not catching even one pass for chicago last season, the 31-year­old had five receptions for 99 yards. 
paid adverTisemenT 


NFL | 49ers 28, cowboys 17 

49ers defense blitzes cowboys 
Associated Press 
arlingTon, Texas — colin Kaepernick looked ready to lead the san Francisco 49ers to another nFc championship game. Tony romo looked rusty for the dallas cowboys. 
Kaepernick threw two touchdown passes to vernon davis, one right after the first of three interceptions by romo, and the 49ers opened the season with a 28-17 win over the sloppy cowboys on sunday. 
The 49ers (1-0) also got a 35-yard fumble return on the second play of the game when chris culliver picked up a loose ball stripped from demarco murray. They led 21-3 after the first quarter despite running just four of­fensive plays. 
coming off a spotty pre­season for his offense, Kaepernick was efficient, going 16 of 23 for 201 yards without an interception. 
romo was playing his first meaningful game for the cowboys (0-1) since back surgery in december. 
san Francisco’s second­ary made up for a front sev­en missing the suspended aldon smith and the injured navorro bowman. safety eric reid returned the first interception 48 yards to the dallas 2, setting up Kaepernick’s second scoring toss to davis. 
The dallas defense was supposed to be the problem after the league’s worst unit from a year ago released franchise sacks leader demarcus ware in a salary cap move and lost middle linebacker sean lee to a sea­son-ending knee injury in the offseason. 
instead it was the dallas offense that caused most of the trouble for the cowboys as 49ers coach Jim harbaugh, the only coach since the 1970 merger to lead a team to a conference title game in each of his first three seasons, improved to 4-0 in season openers. 
romo looked like a quar­terback who was limited in the offseason and training camp, not a good start for a team trying to avoid tying a franchise record with a fifth straight year of missing the playoffs. 
he didn’t see reid on a throw to dez bryant, then didn’t see wide-open re­ceiver dwayne harris for an easy touchdown. instead he forced a pass to Jason witten that was intercepted by patrick willis in the end zone. 
The interceptions kept coming even after start­ing san Francisco corner-backs Tramaine brock (toe) and culliver (concussion) had been knocked out of the game. backup perrish cox had his second career pick when romo threw deep to dez bryant in double coverage. 
it didn’t take Kaepernick long to put that rough pre­season behind him, leading the 49ers 80 yards in just three plays on their first possession. he stepped out of an ankle tackle by Jeremy mincey and threw 29 yards on the run to davis, who jug­gled the ball as the crossed the goal line before holding on for a 14-3 lead. 
The 49ers also had an ef­ficient drive in their 2-min­ute offense to finish the first half, with Kaepernick throwing for 39 yards lead­ing to carlos hyde’s 4-yard scoring run for a 28-3 half­time lead. 
when romo wasn’t throw­ing interceptions, the dallas offense was getting false-start penalties and using timeouts to avoid delay-of­game penalties. 
part of the problem was the noise from large swaths of red-clad 49ers fans see­ing their team for the first time in the regular season in the $1.2 billion home of the cowboys. 
murray bounced back from the fumble on his first carry of the season to get 71 yards in the first quarter and 118 with a touchdown for the game. 
but he didn’t get the ball on second-and-1 from the san Francisco 2 with a chance to tie the score early. instead, romo was sacked and dallas settled for a field goal. 




GOLF | gopher inviTaTional 
Irish start second day in 10th place 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish stand in 10th place after two rounds at the gopher invitational at windsong Farm golf club in independence, minn. on sunday. 
notre dame finished 39-over­par through the first two rounds of the tournament, hosted by minnesota. The irish posted a first-round score of 302 and second-round score of 305 for a team total of 602. The team heads into day two placed 10th out of a 15-team field, and the irish look to improve that rank­ing with tomorrow’s round.
 “we need to play the way we did last week, which is with comfort and confidence,” irish coach James Kubinski said. “we seemed to become uncomfort­able far too easily today. we’re a growing team. we took a step backward but with a nice round tomorrow, we have an opportu­nity to post a solid finish in the tournament.” 
Though the irish are focused on moving up the leaderboard, the squad’s underclassmen played two solid rounds that car­ried the irish through the first day. Freshman Thomas steve leads the irish after the first 36 holes with a five-over-par score of 147 (76-71-147) that puts him in a tie for 17th. 
“i was extremely impressed by Thomas, our freshman, in not only leading our team in scor­ing today but for the way he did it,” Kubinski said. “he showed a lot of heart out there, after a slow start. as the day went on though, he became more comfortable. he didn’t have his best game to­day but still showed enough grit and resolve to post five birdies over his last nine holes.” 
like his coach, senior patrick 
grahek  said  he was proud of  
steve’s  performance  on  the  
course.  

“it was great to see our under­classmen really step up and per­form well today,” grahek said. “our freshman Thomas steve … is playing some very solid golf.” 
close behind steve, fellow un­derclassmen sophomore matt rushton ended the day tied in 22nd place with a six-over-par score of 148 (73-78-148). grahek (72-181) led the squad’s upper­classman through the first day, securing an eleven-over-par finish and tie for 40th place. sophomore blake barens (81-79­
160) and junior cory sciupider followed (81-80-161) grahek and are tied for 61st and 63rd place, respectively. 
baylor ended day one at the top of the leaderboard with a four-over-par score of 572, fol­lowing a first round 289 and second round 283. california (293-289-582), minnesota (294-295-589), charlotte (296­294-590) and Kent state (291­302-593) rounded out the top five. coming off a team vic­tory at the notre dame Kickoff challenge last week, the irish are prepared and capable of competing in such a talented field of competitors, grahek said. 
“we are one of the most tal­ented teams in every field we play in, but playing to our po­tential is something we need to work on,” grahek said. “we, as a team, need to develop our practice of exhibiting patience out on the course. once we can find our comfort zones and play our own games, we will succeed as a team.” 
playing up to its potential wasn’t notre dame’s only chal­lenge yesterday. The course itself was a test for the irish, grahek said. 
“conditions [on the course] were tough today,” grahek said. “There were tucked pins, strong winds and fast greens.” 
now familiar with the course, the irish head into the third and final round of the tournament today. grahek said the team is focused on building upon yesterday’s performance and knowledge of the course. 
“[Today] we are going to come out with a lot more con­fidence and purpose with what we are trying to do,” he said. “The golf course is fairly in­timidating, so staying focused is key.” 
The irish compete in the last 18 holes of the 2014 gopher invitational at windsong Farm golf club today. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 



ND CROSS COUNTRY | crusader open 
Irish men win their own crusade in Valparaiso 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
For the 12th straight year, notre dame kicked off its season Friday with the crusader open in valparaiso, ind., winning the men’s team title. 
The irish were led by sopho­mores chris marco and Jacob dumford, both of whom raced sparingly last year. marco and dumford finished the four-kilo­meter race in under 11:10, the only runners to do so that day, and grabbed the top two spots. 
“it was encouraging to see soph­omores chris marco and Jacob dumford lead us to the win,” irish coach matt sparks said. “Those are two guys we will need to help us later in the season.” 
dumford and marco led a notre dame squad made up al­most entirely of underclassmen, many of whom were racing for the first time in their collegiate ca­reers. nine men made the trip to valparaiso, including five sopho­mores, three freshmen and one junior. 
The irish placed all five of their scoring runners inside the top 10 and posted a final score of 24 points, which put the team eight points ahead of runner-up iupui and 61 points in front of the host valparaiso. 
“The highlight of the meet was the men’s team coming home with the win,” sparks said. “having only spent two weeks practicing with this group, i was not sure what to expect out of the younger athletes.” 
Freshmen John Flannery, Kevin pulliam, calvin Kraft and william dolan all made their irish debuts and placed in the top seven for notre dame. sophomore Kris moran also competed for the the first time in a notre dame singlet. 
on the women’s side, the irish only raced four athletes and failed to record a team score. individually, however, freshman sydney Foreman finished fourth in her first collegiate race and led all irish finishers. Three of the four notre dame runners were freshmen. 
none of the projected varsity runners for either the men’s or women’s squad made the trip to race, instead staying home and participating in a hard workout, sparks said. 
“we are confident in the fitness of the upperclassman men and women who did not compete and used the weekend to train,” sparks said. “This meet was an opportu­nity for underclassman to be ac­countable for the team’s success.” 
western michigan took the women’s team title with 34 points, followed closely by iupui, who fell four points short of a tie. 
The irish do not race again until the national catholic championships on sept. 19. notre dame will host the 35th edition of the event at the notre dame golf course. both the men’s and wom­en’s teams have won five straight titles, with the women taking home a share of the championship for the past nine years. 
sparks said he feels confident his team can repeat as champions again. 
“we do have a couple of athletes that will be nursing some injuries, but we will race all healthy ath­letes — men and women — at the national catholic meet,” sparks said. “we have a strong tradition of running well at the national catholic meet, and we are working to continue that trend.” 
The irish take to the course again on sept. 19 for the national catholic championships at notre dame golf course. 
Contact Greg Hadley at      ghadley@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, oliveT 1; smc 3, albion 0 
belles sweep conference foes 

Observer Staff Report 

saint mary’s kicked off their home conference sched­ule in style, following up its four-set win against olivet on Friday with an impressive 3-0 victory over rival albion on saturday. The pair of wins for the belles marks the first time the team has started with two straight home conference victories. 
against the comets (2­5, 1-2), the belles (3-4, 2-1 miaa) rallied after losing the opening set, 25-23. after tying the game 21-21 and 22­22, the team could not hold on, but came back strong in a back-and-forth second set. despite 11 ties, the belles strung together six unan­swered points and held on for the set victory. 
after that, saint mary’s came from behind again to win the third set, 27-25, and clinched the victory after never trailing in the fourth set, 25-22. 
Though the belles were ini­tially down 14-11 in the first set against albion (0-7, o-3), they rallied to tie it at 16-16, before ripping off four points in a row to go ahead 20-16. despite the brits getting the next two points, saint mary’s would go on another four-point run that would give them a comfortable 25-19 opening victory. 
The second set featured more of the same, with the brits notching a five-point burst at one point to take an 18-13 lead. however, the belles responded with a torrid stretch in which they scored eight points in a row. From there, the brits were unable to tie it back up, as the belles held off several late runs to take the second set by a count of 25-22. 
after playing relatively even with the brits, 5-4, to open up the third and final set, the belles opened up of­fensively and scored 11 of the next 14 points to take a com­manding lead of 16-7. albion never got closer than that, as the belles cruised to a 25-14 victory in the set and subse­quently the match. 
several players stood out for the belles. sophomore lexi grady had a team-high 16 assists, while sophomore meaghan gibbons led all players with 15 digs. seven players on the belle side tal­lied at least three kills, with junior Katie hecklinski lead­ing the team with seven. senior melanie Kuczek added six blocks, on a day where nine belles had at least one block. 
saint mary’s next match will be against conference ri­val Trine, who is coming off of a 3-2 victory over Kalamazoo on saturday.  The Thunder are led by junior Taylor rabel, who put up a double-dou­ble against the hornets, re­cording 18 kills and 11 digs. Freshman mikayla carpenter recorded a career-high 31 digs and the Thunder improved their record to 5-1 and 1-1 in the miaa. 
The belles play the Thunder at home, with a scheduled game time of 7 p.m. 

paid adverTisemenT 

Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
michigan did lead notre dame in hitting percent­age, .206-.124 and benefit-ted from the irish racking up nine more attack errors and five more service errors. 
Fry was once again the statistical leader for the irish as she recorded a team high 11 kills, three aces, five blocks and three digs. 
washington state finished the weekend as champi­ons of the annual golden dome invitational, clinch­ing the title with a 3-1 vic­tory over western michigan on saturday. bettinson took home the tournament mvp honors. 
notre dame continues its home schedule next weekend at the shamrock invitational, when the irish will welcome Tcu, northeastern and northern iowa to the purcell pavilion as they continue to seek their first victory of the 2014 campaign. 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
in a ‘w’ felt good.” 
The irish (2-0-1) had the ear­ly push to start the game, as senior midfielder nick besler sent a header inches over the crossbar only minutes in. notre dame would find the back of the net in the 15th minute as graduate student forward leon brown took a pass from besler at the top of the penalty box and drilled it past dartmouth junior goal­keeper stefan cleveland. The tally was brown’s second in only the third regular season game for the irish. 
“it’s great to get the goal, it’s a terrific goal,” irish coach bobby clark said. “but from that moment on i felt that [dartmouth] started to come into the game.” 
soon after, big green se­nior defender hugh danilack fired a response shot from 20 yards out as the crowd was resettling into their seats, but irish graduate student goal­keeper patrick wall found the shot through the mass of legs and bodies in front of him and smothered it. wall would finish with two saves for the game. 
notre dame would add to their lead in the 42nd min­ute as junior midfielder evan panken and freshman for­ward Jeffrey Farina worked a give-and-go deep into the dartmouth penalty box be­fore panken buried his first score of the season. 
again dartmouth would at­tempt a quick answer. after wall knocked away a pass, big green freshman midfielder giorgio gorini would head a cross off the far post. The ball redirected off the frame right along the goal line before be­ing cleared by sophomore de­fenseman brandon aubrey, keeping the irish lead at 2-0 going into halftime. 
The big green would final­ly break through in the 54th minute when gorini slammed home a loose ball from only a couple yards out. 
“They got the goal back and you say, ‘This is a game,’” clark said. 
The irish would regain the two-goal advantage only five minutes later when panken sent a through-ball forward to cicciarelli, who muscled past the defender marking him to gain control of the ball and bury it low near-post. 
“early in the game we had almost the exact same run-in and [panken] just hit it a little too hard past me,” cicciarelli said. “when he saw me mak­ing that run again he played me a perfect ball. The defend­er had no idea i was coming, so i just used my big body and moved him out of the way. 
“To come back and put one in pretty quickly definitely took away their momentum and that’s how we’ve got to re­spond every time.” 
“it was good that both start­ing strikers, both seniors [brown and cicciarelli] got goals,” clark said. “i think that was terrific. … as a striker it’s always good to get the first goal of the season.” 
notre dame would add to its lead with an own goal by dartmouth on a cross by junior midfielder connor Klekota that deflected off a de­fender and into the net. 
although the score ended up lopsided, the irish felt they played a poor game overall and were disappointed in their performance. 
“we definitely didn’t play our best,” cicciarelli said. “but we just need to gut out games and show some grit and show people we’re going to battle to win no matter what and i think we did a great job of that at least.” 
“it was a very good result, but i never felt comfortable in the whole game,” clark said. “To be truthful, i was a bit disappointed with the way the team played … but when you don’t play as well as you’d like you have to give some credit to your opponent. This was always going to be a difficult game for us because [dartmouth coach and former notre dame assistant chad riley] knows exactly what we do. 
“The grass was a little long, as this game hadn’t been an­ticipated to be played [today], so maybe that maybe slowed our passes down, but it’s the same for both teams.” 
due to the weather Friday, the final day of the tournament was pushed back from sunday to monday, when notre dame will look to clinch at least a share of its second consecu­tive berticelli memorial cham­pionship, meeting Kentucky on the alumni stadium pitch at 6 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

appearance for the irish, set up the first goal of the game with a cross to sophomore midfielder morgan andrews, who buried the ball in the back of the net from 15 yards out. 
after allowing Texas Tech and usc back into games with four second-half goals combined, notre dame came out aggressive in the second period, picking up three yel­low cards and forcing broncos goalkeeper andi Tostanoski to make four saves. 
muya gave the irish some breathing room in the 82nd minute with an unassisted goal, the first of her collegiate career. muya, the only inter­national player on the notre dame roster, was making her first start with the squad since coming over from england. 
“her first game was Friday because she wasn’t cleared by the ncaa yet,” geyer said. “she had a goal and an as­sist, so it was really promis­ing to see that, her clicking and doing all those things right away. our other fresh­men that play also have been making an impact, which is great.” 
The irish repeated their gutsy performance two days later in palo alto, calif., against the cardinal (4-0­1). sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little recorded a sea­son-high six saves and the defense weathered a four-shot barrage in the overtime 
period. 
“we did a good job play­ing the whole game and not giving up easy goals,” geyer said. “we went the full 90 minutes on Friday and 120 minutes today, which is something we weren’t able to do last weekend.” 
with the team back on track, geyer said she thinks the irish have the ability to play with any team in the country. 
“[i’m] not really surprised [that] we played well, be­cause i think we’re good and we’re going to have a good year,” geyer said. “we just got unraveled last weekend and now we’ve kind of put everything back together.” 
notre dame returns home this weekend for matchups with baylor and Toledo on Friday and sunday, respec­tively. after that, the squad enters conference play, which will provide the big­gest challenge of the season, geyer said. The acc cur­rently has four teams ranked in the top 15. 
“[it was] definitely two good results on the road, especially coming off two losses last weekend,” geyer said. “it gives us a little bit more confidence going into the start of the acc season when we start playing a lot of tough opponents.” 
The irish take the pitch at alumni stadium this Friday to take on baylor at 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


EMILY MCCONVILLE | The Observer 

Irish sophomore midfielder Morgan Andrews goes up for a contested header in Notre Dame’s 2-1 loss to Texas Tech on Aug. 29. 



Happy Birthday: pursue your dreams. Follow your heart and let your intuition guide you. an unexpected change in your financial situation is apparent if you give your all to the pursuits that bring you the most satisfaction. base your decisions on what will bring you the highest rewards instead of doing things that help others. This is a “me first” year. your numbers are 8, 14, 21, 29, 36, 40, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): expand your interests and friendships and you will discover options you didn’t realize you had. an emotional situation may be based on false information. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions that can lead to alienation. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): be careful not to go over budget or to take on more than you can handle. stick to simple pleasures and avoid indulgences that can be costly. Focus on love, self-improvement and stabilizing your position. seek knowledge and hone your skills. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t believe everything you hear and tread carefully when discussing personal preferences. Treating the people you are emotionally connected to will help you avoid complaints, jealousy and revenge. protect your reputation by offering honesty, regardless of the consequences. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your intuition to guide you through any trouble you encounter at home or with a partner. your straightforward approach to life and the way you handle personal affairs will provide you with the strength to counter anyone trying to dismantle your plans.. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): ylook for opportunities to learn, travel or interact with stimulating people. don’t let anyone pressure you to take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. look for alternative ways to live if it will encourage happiness and peace of mind. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t take anything for granted. ask questions and get answers before you make a decision that can affect a partnership. Find ways to increase your assets using cautious calculations. having a plan and strategy in place will help prevent mistakes. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take the liberty to do things that please you. it’s fine to be a peacekeeper, but once in a while you have to give in to your needs. make plans to have some fun with someone who makes you feel special. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): do what you can to help someone facing confused or uncertain times. your loyalty and desire to make a difference will put you in the spotlight, bringing about some awesome opportunities to explore new possibilities for professional advancement. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make plans and have fun, but don’t let the reactions and authenticity of someone’s response toward you mislead you. ulterior motives are likely to be behind a gesture of friendliness someone offers you. be careful who you share personal information with. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): if you cannot make up your mind, retreat. Take however much time you require to avoid making a mistake. money will come to you from an unusual source. don’t share information regarding your gains. bide your time. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have an intuitive view when it comes to personal finances, health or legal matters. Follow your gut feelings and make whatever changes are necessary to get what you want. opportunity is heading your way, so don’t hesitate to take it. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There are all sorts of things you can do to protect your interests and to help your assets grow in value. your intuition is strong, but your emotions will cause uncertainty. a realistic assessment will lead to victory. 


Birthday Baby: you are disciplined and thoughtful. you are clever, caring and helpful. 

SUDOKU | The mepham group JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 4, darTmouTh 1 
Irish battle weather, Big Green to earn tourney win 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
it took a few hours longer than anticipated for no. 2 notre dame to begin the de­fense of its mike berticelli memorial Tournament title. The originally scheduled Friday night game against dartmouth was pushed back to saturday afternoon due to bad weather, but as thou­sands of football fans walked past alumni stadium, the host squad rolled past the big green (0-1-0) by a score of 4-1. 
“all day we all had our minds set on the game, and then to see that storm and get it cancelled and not know what to do kind of ruined our night,” irish senior forward vince cicciarelli said. “but to bounce back the way we did today and be able to put something together and put 
see m soccer PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, scu 0; nd 0, sTanFord 0 
nd wraps up west coast swing 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 

a week after losing two close matches and plum­meting in the national rankings, no. 25 notre dame flew across the coun­try and restored part of its lost confidence, thanks to a 2-0 victory over no. 16 santa clara and a 0-0 draw to fourth-ranked stanford. 
with the unbeaten trip in california under their belts, the irish (3-2-1) ex­pect to see their ranking bounce back, sophomore midfielder/forward emily geyer said. 
“i would be surprised if our ranking didn’t go up,” geyer said. “i think we de­serve better than 25[th].” 
The win and tie came after the irish lost both matches, 2-1, in the notre dame invitational on aug. 29 and 31 to no. 10 Texas Tech and usc. The losses early in the season un­der new coach Theresa romagnolo could have set the team’s confidence back, but geyer said the irish never wavered. 
“refocusing on what our goals were for this sea­son [is what helped us bounce back], and i guess just moving on and letting go of what happened last weekend and showing that we’re better than that,” she said. “i think we had a rough patch but we showed this weekend that we can bounce back and get over that and continue our up­ward trend.” 
against  santa  clara (3­ 
2-0), the  irish came out  
shooting,  recording  sev­ 

en shots in the first half. Freshman forward Karin muya, in her first 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

ND VOLLEYBALL | washingTon sTaTe 3, nd 1; iupui 3, nd 0; wesTern michigan 3, nd 0 
Notre Dame endures tough Golden Dome Invite 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame dropped all three of their weekend matches and won only one set in the home-opening golden dome invitational at the purcell pavilion. The irish (0-5) lost to washington state, 3-1, Friday, iupui, 3-0, saturday and western michigan, 3-0, sunday. Their match with the cougars (5­
1) on Friday evening was the most competitive for the irish. after winning the first set 25-23, the irish lost the next three sets. 11 lead changes and 22 ties marked the match. washington state senior middle blocker chelsey bettinson led both teams with 22 kills. For the irish, freshman sydney Kuhn notched 14 kills, the high mark for any notre dame player. she also re­corded the highest hitting percentage for notre dame (.382). 
The lowest point of the weekend occurred when graduate student outside hit­ter nicole smith injured her ankle against the cougars. she was not able to play for the rest of the tournament. 
on saturday afternoon, iupui rolled right past the irish in three consecutive sets with scores of 25-13, 25­21 and 25-23. notre dame was stuck in a scoring funk throughout the match, hit­ting just .138 for the after­noon and recording only 34 kills. in stark contrast, iupui earned 42 kills, 11 blocks, and recorded a .231 hitting percentage in their winning performance. Freshman middle blocker sam Fry lead the irish with eight kills. 
iupui broke out in front from the start saturday, hit­ting .306 while notre dame hit .045 in the 25-13 open­ing set rout. The set also featured a 12-2 iupui scor­ing run. as the match went on, the irish kept closing the gap, ending the contest with the closest set of the night. The score was tied at 14 with control of the serve to notre dame, before the Jaguars pulled away, 25-23. 
in sunday’s finale, notre dame was once again swept, losing in three sets with scores of 25-22, 25-20 and 25-21. The match was closer than the score revealed how­ever, as the irish had higher totals in kills, assists, ser­vice aces, digs and blocks than the broncos. western 
see volleyball PAGE 13 


ZACHARY LLORENS | The Observer 

Notre Dame senior middle blocker Jeni Houser tries to get a piece of a kill attempt during a match against Duke on Oct. 2. Houser leads the Irish in kills so far this season. 



