The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 32 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Town hall addresses campus construction 
Executive VP asks for patience with inconveniences brought about by Campus Crossroads plans 
By ELENA GACEK 
news writer 
at monday’s fall 2014 town hall meeting, university president Fr. John Jenkins congratulated staff and faculty on glowing reaccredita­tion feedback and highlighted the mission of the recently announced Keough school of global affairs, while executive vice president John affleck-graves asked for pa­tience in the face of the inconve­niences the campus crossroads project will soon bring to campus. 
“i want to start out just by re­minding you of why we’re doing this, because there seems to be a lot of confusion,” affleck-graves said. “laFortune [student center] is just not big enough to accommodate all the things we need for students.” 
after analyzing where students spend the majority of their time, it became apparent that “that area around the stadium is the real heart of our academic enterprise, and around that we have our resi­dential zone,” affleck-graves said. 
“most schools have come to this conclusion, and taken down the stadium and moved it off campus 
— but i wasn’t brave enough to suggest that,” affleck-graves said. “so why don’t we put [the student center] next to the stadium?” 
affleck-graves summarized the different facilities that will be housed in the new setup, empha­sizing their potential to further in­crease the university’s academic mission and overall excellence. but until they’re completed, construc­tion will restrict access to that area of campus. 
“For three years, we’re going to have a very tough, tough construc­tion zone on the south side of cam­pus, and it’s going to impact all of us,” affleck-graves said. “we will start work on the east and the west building — the student center and the anthropology building, imme­diately after the louisville game this year. 
“unfortunately, we have to take the trees down for the construction project, but we can save over 100 of them, so we will move them to places where we have lost trees in storms this past summer and last winter.” 
affleck-graves showed a dia­gram with temporary fences immediately surrounding the southern half of the stadium. 
“we’re going to put up a tempo­rary fence so that we can do some tree removal and shoring up of the foundation,” he said. “This is going to be fairly restrictive. and then, unfortunately, after the louisville game it’s going to get even worse.” 
affleck-graves showed another diagram, in which a much larger fenced-off area stretched from the 
see Town hall PAGE 5 

CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves speaks at the fall town hall meeting in Washington Hall on Monday. 



Forum considers religious education 

By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
The second installment of the notre dame Forum “what do notre dame graduates need to know?” evaluated the role of the­ology at catholic universities monday, featuring huisking pro­fessor of theology at notre dame cyril o’regan and chairwoman of boston college’s theology department catherine cornille. 
o’regan said although many be­lieve that theological and secular education cannot coexist, it is not only possible but necessary to in­clude both in a catholic university education. 
“There was a sense that all forces secular put pressure on the wheth­er and how ‘catholic’ ... and 
see Forum PAGE 4 


nd, smc offer resources for mental well-being 
By EMILY McCONVILLE and RONI DARLING 
news writers 

Editor’s note: This is the second installment in a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recognition of National Mental Health Awareness Week. 
more than 25 percent of american college students were treated for a mental health con­dition in 2012, according to the american college health association. The 2010 national survey of counseling center directors reported counseling centers saw an increase in mental health issues on campuses. 
in an effort to respond to these trends and meet the needs of all students, both notre dame and saint mary’s provide resources for students experiencing mental illness. 
dr. bill stackman, associate vice president for student affairs at notre dame, said the university’s goal is to provide “holistic care” that incorporates mental health issues into a larger conversation on well-being, including physical health and academic success. 
“mental health and emotional 
see resources PAGE 4 


Music professors tour Asia 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 

Three notre dame music pro­fessors will spend the next two weeks on a tour of east asia, of­fering performances and infor­mation sessions in an effort to recruit prospective students and raise the profile of the depart­ment of music. 
From oct. 7 to 19, professor of music peter smith, assistant professional specialist Tricia park and associate professor of music John blacklow will visit high schools and various institu­tions in seoul, south Korea, and in shanghai and beijing, china, according to a university press release. 
smith, who also chairs the department of music and spe­cializes in music theory, said this tour not only aims to recruit musically talented students and bring attention to notre dame’s “outstanding” department of music but also to strengthen con­nections with the university’s alumni network in asia through a variety of lectures, masterclass­es and recitals. 
The team will focus its 
see music PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you could have any drink with any person, what and who would it be with? 

Alex Potter 


Katie brennan 
senior 

senior 
off-campus 

lewis hall 
“coffee with Kurt cobain.” 

“Tea with victor hugo.” 

Cristina Burnett 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 

“shirley Temple with shirley Temple.” 

laura anderson junior welsh Family hall 
“Tea with maya angelou.” 
Jen cimons 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“Tea with J.K. rowling.” 


rachael mullin 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“hot chocolate with santa claus.” 
Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Kayla mullen alex carson peter durbin hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Energy Research Notre Dame Power 14th Annual Blue Mass Pep Rally Notre Dame Football 
wei lin Tabitha ricketts 
Poster Session Plant Tours Basilica of the Sacred Location TBA Notre Dame Stadium Jordan Hall of Science Power Plant Heart 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. 4 p.m - 6 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Pep Rally for UNC Undefeated Irish take 
Corrections 

Cookout to follow. Free tours of the plant. Mass for those who football game. on the North Carolina in the oct. 1 issue of The observer, work in public safety. Tar Heels. the article “student theatre explores 
MSA Eid Festival 
sexuality” incorrectly stated the 
Rosary for Life Science Week: Talk “A Streetcar Named Dinner Saturday Vigil Mass 
total number of nd Theatre now! 
Basilica of the Sacred Science Desire” Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred 
performances. There are eight; five 
Heart Jordan Hall of Science DeBartolo Performing Student Lounge Heart 
performances remain this week. The 
6:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
observer regrets this error. 

Rosary to pray for Sciencia club hosts 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Featuring Dean Hugh Music by the Women’s greater respect for life. discussion. Classic film. Page. Liturgical Choir. 


SMC professor explores ‘sexual politics of meat’ 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
on Friday, saint mary’s assistant professor of philosophy megan Zwart spoke on “consuming Female bodies: an investigation of the sexual politics of meat” as part of the Justice education department’s weekly Justice Friday series. becoming vegan four years ago opened Zwart’s eyes to the intersectionality of animal and human injustices, Zwart said. 
“as i made choices about what i 
jectification of animals caught her attention, Zwart said. reading literature such as carol J. adams’s book “The sexual politics of meat” encouraged her to explore the mentalities lying behind both in­justices more deeply. 
“[our] culture marginalizes and oppresses animals for our own interests … and those are similar kinds of mentalities that are lurk­ing behind lots of oppressions that affect humans too,” Zwart said. 
The concept was reflected in a fake “Fifty shades of chicken” trailer Zwart shared, where a man is preparing a chicken to cook for dinner. The chicken takes the place of a woman, resulting in a slightly uncomfortable sexual subtext that highlights culture’s objectification of woman, she said. 

however, along with the wom­an, there is another individual ab­sent from the trailer, Zwart said. The live chicken itself is absent, and while that subtext is not as ob­vious as the woman subtext, it is also important because it reflects the danger of allowing our views of 
ible, she said. 
“The reason that’s dangerous, whether we’re talking about the absent woman or the absent chick­en, is because we become blinded to the interests of individuals when we buy into what culture tells us how we should see them,” Zwart said. 
Just as women may be used for the wrong interests, humans feel they have a right to use animals for their own interests. after all, the products of animals are often re­productive products such as milk and eggs, Zwart said. 
“we’re taught to see black and 
paid adverTisemenT 
white when we know a lot of these things aren’t black and white,” Zwart said. “The capabilities hu­mans have and nonhumans have aren’t as binary as we’re taught.” 
as more societal oppressions are brought to light, Zwart challenges people to ask why we assume we have the right to use animals how­ever we’d like to. however, Zwart stressed that becoming vegan is not necessarily a blanket moral prescription. 
Taking a step back to look at all 

digital week keynote promotes academia online 
think through now is who 

By ALEX CAO 
news writer we let publish our work so 
that a public library of sci-

The office of digital ence that makes scholarship learning continued its nd free and public to all and not digital week events with a dis-behind paywalls and not be­cussion of digital scholarship hind subscription magazines,” and its potential impact on the mcpherson said. humanities lead by university mcpherson said she experi­of southern california’s school ments with new mediums of of cinematic arts associate academia like the usc-hosted 
the social injustices of our world 

professor Tara mcpherson online journal vectors, which 
and the complex web of intersec­

monday in carey auditorium. 

ate … i wasn’t ignoring other forms 
of human oppression. in fact, i was 
becoming more aware of them 
and more in tune to them,” Zwart 
said. “For me, being vegan acted as 
tions can be overwhelming, but 

“i want to talk to you as a 
Zwart said she believes everyone 

humanities scholar on how 
“Another 
increasingly 
has their own way of working 

we can imagine scholarship 
through this web, and for her, veg-

anew given the networked 
important thing 
a ‘gateway drug’ to compassion.” 
anism is helpful because diet is 

ecology that much of our data 
for scholars to 
The connection between the 
something she can control. 

and scholarly archives now 
think through 

objectification of women and ob-animals and humans to be reduc-sophomore elise desomer said 
inhabit,” mcpherson said. “i 
she felt Zwart did an excellent job getting her point across during the presentation, and she was particu­larly struck by the various pieces of media Zwart shared, she said. 
“it’s just so shocking there are so many parallels between the oppression of animals and the oppression of women. … it hap­pens every day,” desomer said. “i think whenever i hear something eye-opening like this, it makes me want to take my actions to the next level.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

teach in a school of cinematic arts. These archives which are being built without any mind or preservation or any sustain­ability for the future could be the textual or visual evidence for countless dissertations in my field for decades to come.” 
mcpherson said humani­ties scholars’ ability to include meaning, emotions and con­sciousness in archived data is invaluable. she said the usc’s shoah Foundation dedicated to providing audio and visu­al testimonies regarding the holocaust. 
“humanities scholars are building really rich datasets of our own,” mcpherson said. “There are over 54,000 testi­monies in this rich archive 
— hundreds of thousands of hours of footage. … we’re not going to figure out what this means as evidence or as archi­val testimony without the work of humanities scholars. They’ll be really important to help us think through the emotion­al aspect, the embodiment, trauma, memory, on how ... they carry the gesture of a sur­vivor’s body as they recount a memory.” 
mcpherson said the new­found range and depth of data ready to be published and ac­cessed by an unprecedented number of people mandates changes made to the practices, the publication and medium of the academia in humanities. 
“Then there are a variety of ways new scholarly practices have emerged as we think about what the digital age af­fords us,” mcpherson said. “There is a project undertaken by Kathy rowe at bryn mawr … that opened a particular is­sue up about open peer review as opposed to closed, blind peer review practices we tend to fetishize as scholars and they found an interesting set of practices in open peer review that were no less rigorous than blind peer review. 
“another increasingly im­portant thing for scholars to 
now is who we let publish our work so that a public library of science that makes scholarship free and public to all and not behind paywalls and not behind subscription magazines.” 
Tara McPherson 
professor of cinematic arts 
University of Southern 
California 
features interactive adobe Flash projects. scalar, another academic online platform au­tomatically links publications’ citations to other relevant scholarly pieces and multime­dia, mcpherson said. 
although these emerging platforms employ kinesthetic components to convey infor­mation in more meaningful ways, they face the issue of credibility, mcpherson said. 
“i really love vectors and continue to work in it but there are lots problems as well, par­ticularly from a librarian’s point of view,” mcpherson said. 
mcpherson said that the ac­cessibility of digital scholar­ships is a double-edged sword. 
“Just click ‘go live’ and put a link on your website,” mcpherson said. “but very few tenured university committees are going to take that seriously because we advocated a re­sponsibility to reevaluate work [in traditional mediums].” 
even so, mcpherson said digital scholarship increases the mediums of ingenuity and ingeniousness. 
“anybody could do some work in scalar and it could be brilliant,” mcpherson said. 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Resources steibe-pasalich said the coun-saint mary’s senior chloe year, a candlelight vigil for those Forum 
conTinued From page 1 
well-being: it’s not a separate piece,” stackman said. “it’s not like we’ll take care of the student over here, and then we’ll think of the emotional piece over here. it’s all integrated ... [and] that emotional piece is often part of the conversa­tion as we’re looking on how to sup­port the student.” 
The university counseling center (ucc) is a key piece of the university’s support network, di­rector susan steibe-pasalich said. it provides free individual and group counseling, crisis services and self-help guides to undergraduate and graduate students and interested faculty and staff. 
steibe-pasalich said approxi­mately 1,400 of the university’s 12,000 students used the ucc in the past year, an increase of al­most 400 students over the past five years. she attributed the increase both to increased awareness of and need for campus counseling services. 
“students are more comfortable with counseling,” steibe-pasalich said. “There isn’t that stigma that there used to be 10 years ago. many students have already been in counseling when they come to college, so they have exposure to it. They feel comfortable with it. 
“also, there are some students who maybe a decade ago wouldn’t have been able to come to college [but] because they had in high school some really good interven­tions, some really good diagnoses and medications, [they] are able to attend college, and they need sup­port to be able to maintain that.” 
in response to the increased demand, steibe-pasalich said the counseling center expanded its ser­vices to include the inner resource room, a room containing relax­ation tools such as massage chairs and light therapy; let’s Talk, weekly consultations about mental health issues open to all students; and programs and events with other campus organizations, such as the gender relations center, campus ministry and multicultural student programs and services. 
she said the ucc also shifted its individual counseling services, which most counseling center cli­ents use, to a brief therapy model, which provides temporary coun­seling and refers students to off-campus counselors and provides taxi vouchers if they need ongoing care. 
steibe-pasalich said the ucc also strives become more inte­grated with other services in st. liam hall, such as university health services and the newly-cre­ated mcdonald center for student well-being. 
“we are looking to the whole health and wellness units,” she said. “all the departments in [st. liam] are hoping to be more col­laborative so that there is a continu­ity of care that would be seamless, so that wherever a student started out in this building, they would get the right place in an easy way. we’re looking at what are obstacles to that right now, nd how might we better serve the students in terms of the ease of that, so we’re examining that this year.” 
seling center was ranked number one in 2013 on a comparison of national senior exit surveys and consistently garnered positive feedback in student surveys. 
Junior maggie skoch, president of notre dame’s national alliance on mental illness (nami), said her own experience with the university’s mental health resourc­es began with a visit to her resident assistant, who directed her to the counseling center. 
“The residence hall life here is much better than most schools at facilitating help for students who are struggling with not just mental health issues but any sort of issue, because it’s much more of a com­munity with a good, trained staff that you sort of have a hierarchy to go to,” skoch said. “... i think that’s very conducive to helping people who are struggling.” 
skoch said the counseling center is a “great resource” for students. 
“They’re a wonderful, wonder­ful resource, especially in a nation where mental health coverage can be iffy and sketchy and difficult in terms of cost and availability,” she said. “This is basically free, and very excellent trained professionals at the snap of a finger. in that realm, they do a great job.” 
steibe-pasalich said the coun­seling center is heavily involved in another campus mental health resource, the care team, a group of individuals from various university organizations, includ­ing ucc, ndsp, graduate services and the office of community standards. 
stackman, the director of the care team, said concerned stu­dents, faculty, parents or hall staff refer students to the team if they notice a problem with that stu­dent’s well-being, including mental illness. 
erica Kelsey, a case manager for the care team, said the team di­rects students experiencing men­tal health issues to the appropriate resources. 
“we’re sort of guiding students to resources they need,” Kelsey said. “so if we meet with them and it seems like they definitely need counseling services but haven’t yet been connected, then we’ll provide those referrals and then also fol­lowing up with students as they go through the semester to see if are these referrals we set in place work­ing for you, if there is anything else we can do to help.” 
skoch said nami hopes to host or co-host more events in addition to irish state of mind and become more involved in student and ad­ministrative discussions on men­tal health issues. she said she also hopes to see more awareness of mental health issues and the re­sources to combat them in the fu­ture, as well as an effort to reduce stigma surrounding mental illness. 
“[There is] the classic, notre­dame-students-are-perfect-and­have-no-problems paradigm, which is ridiculous, and students are very aware that that mindset exists,” skoch said. “This isn’t nec­essarily something that a policy would change, but it’s something to work on. culture shift is another gap that we as a university could be emphasizing more.” 

deranek is a social concerns mem­ber of support a belle, love a belle (sablab), the saint mary’s adap­tation of mental illness awareness week. 
“[sablab] is a week out of the year where saint mary’s comes together to bring awareness to mental health, end stigma and encourage students to take care of themselves,” deranek said. 
deranek said sablab aims to raise awareness about mental health issues that college students experience on a daily basis. 
deranek said resources avail­able on campus include women’s health, where counselors are available by appointment, and the belles against violence office (bavo), which specifically handles issues related to sexual violence. 
she said saint mary’s students can also go to the counseling cen­ter at notre dame for help. 
“all of these sources work togeth­er to get students the help that they need,” deranek said. “These places are all great starting points to come up with a plan to figure out what each individual needs.” 
campus ministry acts as an­other resource for students, and di­rector of campus ministry Judith Fean said her office works with other departments if additional support or healing is appropriate. 
“all members of campus ministry assist students by being a place to share their story, listen compassionately and pray with and for those who are struggling,” Fean said. 
she said campus ministry pro­vides several different masses and prayer services throughout the impacted by sexual violence, a prayer service for hope and healing and Taize prayer. 
Fean said the eucharist is offered everyday on campus at least once, which provides students with an opportunity for spiritual support. 
“it invites students to gather with their joys, sorrows and hopes to celebrate with the body of christ, god’s compassionate love, heal­ing and mercy,” she said. “also, all campus ministers in the depart­ment offer spiritual guidance as they share their story, their fears and anxieties. 
sophomore clare o’malley said she sought treatment for her de­pression by speaking with counsel­ors at women’s health once a week. 
she said the counselors are avail­able to those feeling stressed, anx­ious, depressed or simply in need of someone to talk to. 
“They will listen to you when you just need to talk and provide the positive voices to trump any nega­tive ones in your mind,” she said. 
additional resources include project heal, a new organization on campus this year, and simply talking to a resident advisor, soph­omore sablab committee mem­ber elizabeth murray said. 
“These resources are impor­tant because girls struggling need to know there is always someone on campus to confide in,” murray said. “The people working in these offices are trained and have our health in their best interest.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu and Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
conTinued From page 1 
‘university’ appeared to be in con­flict,” he said. “it made the logic that of a zero-sum game – the more of one, the less the other and vice versa. The pressure to pull apart [‘catholic’] and [‘university’] will intensify and will likely continue to intensify. ... newman thought that the pressure not only had to be re­sisted, but could be.” 
cornille said it is also necessary to teach students about other faith traditions. 
“i think it’s important for our students to learn how to engage other religious traditions in a con­structive way, how to open oneself up to learning from other religious traditions and in turn, reflect con­structively on what that means for the christian faith or for one’s understanding of that particular theological topic,” cornille said. 
cornille said ultimately, catholic university students must learn how to engage and approach theology as a spiritual pursuit, rather than a simply factual one. 
“i think we have this challenge to teach theology as a spiritual dis­cipline, to expose our students to the spiritual richness and depth of the tradition to the radicalness of theology,” she said. “most stu­dents don’t regard theology as a radical discipline, but once they are exposed to [it] i think that this could really awaken them in new ways to what theology could mean and how it could contribute to their own lives.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 




Town Hall 
conTinued From page 1 
Joyce center to mendoza. 
“we’ll have [this situation] for three years,” affleck-graves said. “… This will be permanently fenced off. if you want to go north on campus, you can walk through mendoza [college of business], or debartolo [hall]. … There won’t be any pathways outside on that side. The same thing on [the Joyce side] … [although] you can see we have constructed a walkway. 
“i really apologize … but there is nothing we can do.” 
Jenkins concluded the meet­ing by commenting on the implications of the plans affleck­graves discussed. 
“i want to acknowledge … [that] all these things are inconvenient for you, and i know that,” Jenkins said. “it is disruptive, … [but] keep in mind: this is what a university looks like when it’s growing, when it’s active, when it’s vibrant. a uni­versity that just stays the same is sort of dying.” 
“i really do think people will look back and think, ‘[this] was a really important moment in notre dame history,’” he said. 
affleck-graves said the university will re-stripe the d bulla lot, due to numerous com­plaints about small parking spaces. in response to questions from the audience, he also con­firmed that after 2018, current on-campus graduate residences will close, and in the near future an on-campus parking structure seems unlikely due to the cost of construction and maintenance. 

Jenkins, who opened the meet­ing, praised the staff, faculty and students of notre dame for a reac­creditation report “that was uni­formly, enthusiastically positive.” 
while “there was really no ques­tion that the university would be reaccredited, it couldn’t have been better,” Jenkins said. 
Quoting the report, which was compiled by the higher learning commission, Jenkins said, “simply walking on campus at notre dame, one witnesses the goodwill extended to friends and strangers alike. a pervasive decen­cy and generalized kindness lives on this campus … undergrads recognize their privileged place.” 
after briefly mentioning the university’s commitment to maximizing financial efficiency, Jenkins focused on the mission of the recently-announced Keough school of global affairs. 
“what this school will focus on is not simply what international schools regularly focus on, state­to-state relationships … but really go beyond that, to look at a holistic picture of peoples’ lives,” Jenkins said. “we will be able to focus on, say, religion, [which] plays such an important current role in the world.” 
“our lives aren’t simply about politics and economics, but about religion, spirituality,” he said. “… what we hope to do in this school is bring that broader picture … [from] conflicts, civil wars, peace-building, means to combat crush­ing poverty … [to] dealing with the effects of global warming.” 
Jenkins concluded his por­tion of the town hall meeting by discussing staff diversity and inclusion, and encouraging any staff or faculty to report issues of misconduct. 
Contact Elena Gacek at egacek@nd.edu 
Music 
conTinued From page 1 
recruitment on 10 high schools in the three major asian cities, smith said. 
“we will offer musical perfor­mances, masterclasses and infor­mation sessions about the music department and notre dame in general,” smith said. “a master­class is a learning experience in which one student performs for the faculty member … the teacher then offers instruction to the stu­dent but frames the advice in such a way that it will be … beneficial to the larger group as well.” 
in addition to visiting schools, the professors will perform and teach at “significant” cultural and academic institutions, smith said. park, a violinist, and blacklow, a pianist, will feature prominently in the performance events. 
“The three of us will offer … [a] lecture and recital at the capital library in beijing, in an event jointly hosted by the library and the u.s. embassy, designed to foster cultural exchange,” he said. “we will also visit beijing university — the harvard of china — where i will teach a seminar on musical romanticism and my colleagues Tricia park and John blacklow will … perform a full-length formal recital.” 

in shanghai and beijing, the professors will also participate in “discover nd” informational ses­sions, smith said. 
“i will offer an introduction, followed by a performance by professors park and blacklow, and then we will break into smaller groups to answer questions for prospective students and their families,” he said. 
smith said these information sessions reach a wider range of students and family members in­terested in notre dame, not just the “musically inclined.” 
“but the musical performance is a special attraction, given the interest and value placed on 
paid adverTisemenT 

western classical music in asia,” he said. 
in asia, both american educa­tion and musical instruction are held in high esteem, making the continent an ideal place to recruit international students, smith said. 
“There is a strong interest … in sending their best and bright­est students to study in america,” smith said. “in addition to the high academic standards … the asian educational system places great emphasis on the study of music and western classical mu­sic in particular.” 
notre dame’s department of music has much to offer prospective students, smith said. 
“[we have] a first rate faculty, first of all, with leading experts in both music scholarship and music performance,” he said. 
smith said compared with other schools, notre dame’s program is successful in offering instruction in both music theory and practice. 
“many liberal arts programs stress music scholarship more heavily, while many schools of music place a greater priority on performance — the music de­partment at notre dame strikes a balance.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

The poor need more 
reflective rereading 
Catherine Owers 
news writer 

perhaps the best thing about college is the opportunity for new experiences: going new places, meeting new people, learning new ideas. so it may sound a little strange to encourage you to read a book that you’ve read before. reread your favor­ite book, reread the book you detest, re­read the book you couldn’t get into in high school and sparknoted your way through. 
rereading allows us to reexamine what we loved about the book in the first place and to reconsider what we hated about the book. if reading inspires conversation, rereading encourages reflection. For the books we’re rereading haven’t changed (obviously), but we, the readers, have. when we revisit works, we see how we’ve grown, as we respond differently to the various themes and identify with different characters. 
The books we loved as children can speak to us as adults in new ways, and if we’re lucky, we come to have a deeper understanding and greater love of these titles. good books get better the second (or seventh) time around. 
This summer, i indulged in a rereading of the entire harry potter series, and i can definitely say that each book has only got­ten better. The first time i read the series, i was focused strictly on the plot. but on rereading, i am better able to understand the genius of the series. instead of focus­ing on the plot, i was able to more leisurely appreciate the character development that occurs throughout the series and the juxtaposition of hilarious dialogue with serious decisions. even further, i’ve gained a deeper understanding of the themes of sacrifice, loyalty and love that form the heart of the series. 
rereading should not be relegated to children’s literature, though. The first time i attempted to read “gone with the wind,” i found the length intimidating and the so­ciety it presented incomprehensible. The second time i read the novel, i read it as a character study, demonstrating how peo­ple respond differently to crises. yet my later readings revealed a severe shortcom­ing of the novel, for its one-dimensional presentation of slaves and its reliance on caricatures. The first time i read “Jane eyre,” i was bored by the gloomy setting and confused by the supernatural occur­rences. in rereadings, i was impressed by the themes of strength, determination and independence the novel imparts. 
encouraging us to open our minds and hearts to the world around us is some­thing i think notre dame does particu­larly well. however, this doesn’t mean that we need to go to an unfamiliar place to learn something new. sometimes, we can learn new things from a familiar place: from a familiar book. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 

south central elkhart is a diverse neighborhood just south of the downtown business district. violent crime is fairly common, and police lights and sirens can be expected almost any night of the week. Transitions between the south side of chicago and elkhart are typical, and many of the poor in the area have family staying in the windy city. after eight weeks of living and working directly with impov­erished people in the area, i learned that poverty is so much more than a lack of financial resources. poverty means an absence of almost any resources: academic opportunity, knowledge of job posting information or even familial sup­port structures. when combating poverty in the united states, we must take into account all of these factors before committing finite means to a potentially futile course of action. 
The most basic resource for someone in poverty is an education. as a college student, i take it for granted that i took the acT, graduated from high school and (hopefully) look forward to employment. For students in some of the worst public schools in the country, all of this is in doubt. For them, it isn’t the gre that concerns them, but getting a ged. 
i worked at an adult education center for much of my time in elkhart, creating curriculum and tutoring students seek­ing their ged. no student came to the center the same way, but most had a similar reason for being there: a ged provid­ed them with more economic opportunity. The emphasis on education is part of indiana’s welfare housing system but should be more broadly implemented on a national scale. obtaining a high school equivalency degree is a nearly uni­versal requirement for consistent employment and can be the difference between someone being a long- or short-term welfare recipient. an important additional benefit is the pride and hope that students spoke about instilling in their own communities. several students said a major factor for them in seeking their ged was how it would affect those around them. any action that offers hope to breaking the cycle of poverty should be relentlessly pursued. 
The deprivation of resources extends beyond money and schooling, however. The rest of my time in elkhart was spent working for a unique non-profit called soup of success (sos). its mission statement, “empowering women to make positive changes,” encapsulates a holistic approach to providing resource education. Ten to 15 women go through a rigorous 20-week program that includes financial management education, conflict resolution counseling and manufacturing training. most of the funding for the pro­gram comes directly from soup packet sales that the women make and sell themselves. 
sos provides the type of resources that are needed to escape from the eternal treadmill of poverty. it provides access to the government resources and programs that exist to obtain entry-level employment or complete basic educa­tion. more importantly, however, it provides the partici­pants with the understanding of how to use those economic resources and manage their own lives in a way that mini­mizes the chaos that would otherwise control their actions. 
non-profits and other organizations willing to combat the root causes of poverty should be the rule, not the excep­tion. a ged, relevant abilities and soft skills are all critical tools for a person to have when trying to enter the job mar­ket. despite the upfront cost of providing the resources for people to attain these qualifications, it would be beneficial to any community to improve the long-term stock of all of its impoverished citizens. These services are critical to people trying to permanently find their way out of poverty, especially in this slow economy. There needs to be an em­phasis on making sure people are aware of the opportuni­ties available to them and expanding the offering to include a holistic approach to combating poverty. 
it is one thing to provide food stamps and section 8 hous­ing to those who have nowhere to turn, but it is a much more hopeful — and successful — mission to teach and make available the resources that would allow individu­als and communities to climb the socio-economic ladder. The place for welfare programs is critical, but when policy makers consider how to alleviate poverty in the long run, their focus should be on providing resources that grow the potential of the recipient in every way. a ged, computer training or even a bank account could change someone’s life forever. when poverty again makes it onto the political agenda, politicians should look to prepare people for a long future by providing resources that last a lifetime. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The problem with arts and letters 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

The Question. The question every university student hates to answer, hates to really contem­plate outside the odd, self-analytical moment. “what do you want to do after college?” a seem­ingly innocent investigative prodding that re­sults in a sudden downward spiral of self-doubt and loathing, as the future seems like a pretty formidable and daunting task to someone whose biggest concern at that moment might be wheth­er or not i uploaded that assignment on sakai last night. 
if you are an engineer or a science major or a business major, the answer — while still, i am sure, difficult — is limited to whatever you are studying. 
you can say, “well my major is mechanical en­gineering, so i am obviously hoping to go into that field, which pays especially big bucks,” or, “i made the wise decision of studying marketing, so i imagine anywhere that has or needs a market­ing team.” The interrogation ends with a smile and a nod at the sensible skills this student has learned and the bright future that lies ahead of them. 
now, if you are me, the answer brings up sev­eral more questions, none of which make you feel any better about what you have decided to do with your university degree. 
“well, at the moment, i am studying program of liberal studies and Theatre…” 
mid-sentence cut-off: “what exactly is program of liberal studies?” 
yes, what exactly is program of liberal studies? my normal answer is that it is the most general major meant for the most indecisive people who really couldn’t decide on anything specific with­in the humanities requirements (my attempt at a joke). 
according to our website, however, pls “offers an integrated liberal arts education, with courses in the fine arts, history, literature, philosophy, science and theology, and is rooted in the great books tradition with its seminar method of teaching.” now, i could memorize that and tell it to all those confused people who asked me, but i prefer my own, slightly more humorous, explanation. 
The moment after i explain come the looks of pity, and then, “so what do you plan on doing with that after university?” if i were a wittier person, i’d look them straight in the eye and in a completely deadpan voice, respond, “my friends and i actually plan on living on a compound in the middle of the midwest, where we will tend sheep and live in a completely utilitarian soci­ety, with no money and no religion, because pls has really taught me the value of thinking for yourself and not following corporate america.” instead, i shuffle my feet subconsciously, scratch my head and sheepishly reply, “i’d like to go into acting, but if that falls through, maybe writing. i’m not quite sure at the moment.” 
That’s the problem with arts and letters. unlike the apprenticeship majors in the other colleges, where from the get-go you are trained in the skills that your major’s profession pre­scribes, there isn’t really much guidance. 
The most useful (practically speaking) majors in arts and letters are the various languages, unless you study latin, which means you are even worse off than i am. although, i suppose you could provide much amusement and dis­traction by drunkenly reciting passages of the aeneid. 
now, there is some comradeship to being in arts and letters, which the other majors might not have. we are all in this sinking ship, so we might as well enjoy it. 
if you walk through the crumbling hallways of o’shag, as all our graduates seem to be able to afford is the grand front entrance and not much else, you realize that we might possibly meet again as workers in some indie coffee shop on a seedy side street of new york city. and then there are the knowing looks as that one gullible fresh­man thinks he or she really is thirsty enough to drink that rusty water coming from the water fountains (which to be honest, are probably a great source of iron). 
and the moments in 214 o’shag when the air conditioning, appalled at the idea that you have decided to study st. augustine’s “city of god” rather than the practical ideas of einstein, de­cides to up the volume on its wind machine loud­ly and continuously for about 15 minutes before stopping, only to decide something else offends it five minutes later. This building has decided it will make us appreciate what our living situa­tions will be when we are all working as baristas. 
so why did i decide to join this parade of mis­fits? why did i willingly jump on this bandwagon of job uncertainty and little monetary gain? 
i am sure my professors would say because i am learning something truly valuable. That i might not know how to rewrite chemical equa­tions, but st. augustine has taught me to love generously and cicero and machiavelli have told me to live pragmatically, and even cervantes has taught me not to take life too seriously. That when i have graduated, i will have garnered a wonderful education that will prepare me for anything and everything that is out there in the world. 
but really, i just did it for the free coffee in the pls lounge. 
Kitty Baker is a PLS-FTT major, eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls and proud resident of Cavanaugh Hall (go Chaos) who hails from New York City. She can be con­tacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“life is full of surprises and serendipity. being open to unexpected turns in the road is an important part of success. if you try to plan every step, you may miss those wonderful twists and turns. Just find your next adventure-do it well, enjoy it-and then, not now, think about what comes next.” 
Condoleezza Rice 

american political scientist and diplomat 66th united states secretary of state 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

we now live in an age where saturday morning cartoons no longer exist. This last weekend was the first weekend in 50-some years that there were no saturday morning animation blocks. The cw ran its last showing of vortexx cartoons and then replaced it with live-action educational programming. in commemoration of all the memories of waking up early to see the weekly cartoons, the scene staff reviews our favorite childhood cartoons. 
“The Wild Thornberrys” 
By MADDIE DALY 

back in the days when cartoons still played every saturday morning, i used to reli­giously watch the best cartoon on nickelodeon, “The wild Thornberrys.” as an animal lover, who at the time owned a rabbit, a turtle, a bird, several fish and a dog, i modeled my life after eliza Thornberry, the main character who could talk to animals.  she was living my dream life — nomadically wandering around in the wilderness making friends with animals while her parents shot their wildlife television series. 
in addition to her wacky but totally cool parents, she had a sister, debbie, who was supposed to be a rebellious goth teenager, a pet monkey named darwin (now that’s clever) and a monkey-like little brother named donnie who was literally raised by orangutans. The show was clever and entertaining, making children everywhere wish they could secretly talk to animals and live in the jungle. 
“Kim Possible” 
By CAELIN MILTKO 

my favorite childhood cartoon was disney channel’s “Kim possible.” i still manage to get the theme song stuck in my head whenever i get myself into conversations about the best shows from my childhood (they are “lizzie mcguire” and then “Kim possible” 
— disney channel has not been the same since). Kim’s ability to solve any situation was inspiring, and her access to advanced technology is probably one of the only things that prepared me for the tech of the modern age. okay, that might be a bit of an exaggeration, but i was always impressed with the gadgets wade sent her. Though, now when i think back on them, they weren’t that crazy. anyways, “Kim possible” showed me that, as a girl, i could definitely do whatever i wanted. 
“Recess” 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
“recess” conveyed government, hierarchy and class systems through a fourth grade class. The representations of the six main characters displayed the commonalities of elementary school stereotypes – leader, jock, tomboy, fat kid, nerd and the happy kid with unfortunate luck – however, the kids’ personalities are oppressed by King bob and social norms. 
The show emphasized the importance of individuality and challenging standards. it also parodied films such as “2001: a space odyssey” and “good will hunting.” i remember watching “good will hunting” for the first time and flashing back to scenes of gretchen grundler furiously working on a math problem and the school janitor solving it to the kids’ approval. “recess” inspired me to express my weird side and, more importantly, showed me that pigtails can be intimidating – a tactic i later em­ployed in nearly every cross country race i competed in. 
“Scooby Doo” 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
Forget sherlock holmes. move aside, batman. The greatest detective in fictive his­tory sniffs clues with greater enthusiasm than the average canine has for exploring the scent of a new acquaintance. The motley crew of the “scooby doo” series sparred supernatural phenomenon on the daily, with opponents ranging from ethereal american revolution notables to dragon, heart of evil. yet, their most impressive ac­complishment will always be finding velma’s darned glasses every episode. Jinkies, has she never considered a pair of croakies? so don’t hold back. grab yourself a box of scooby snacks and hop into the mystery machine. and you could get away with it too, if it wasn’t for those meddling midterms! 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu, Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu, Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu and Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

pink neon lights contrasts a cooly-colored landscape in the form of a “v” for the cover of maroon 5’s newly-released fifth studio endeavor, assuming, of course, their audience can interpret roman numerals. The single symbol set to a desolate backdrop of some misty desert is eye-catching enough for the pop rock group’s “lonely­love” songwriting format without sacrificing artistic merit for cheap sex appeal. like the common thread of love in all of its forms for the brand, maroon 5 is an all-male group of (mostly) single men who write and per­form music about things that enter testosterone territory while simultaneously pulling teenage girls’ heartstrings as though they were guitar chords. it is not advised, how­ever, to listen with the expectation that “v” will be any more immaculate than the band’s last four albums. 
Ten years ago, maroon 5, the pop rock lovechild with its six current members, was riding cloud nine on the winds of the success from its first musical partnership with octone and J records, “songs about Jane.” not since the discovery of nora Jones have coffee shops and low-budget chick flicks been eternally grateful for “longing” and “losing” ballads like “harder to breathe,” “This love” and the one that scored legions of sappy “forever alone” Facebook posts, “she will be loved.” The band milked as much promotion as they could out of “Jane,” but eventu­ally, hipsters got tired of hearing “sunday morning” ev­ery time they ordered a latté. 
in all seriousness, maroon 5 has reached its golden birthday of album releases. From “Jane’s” release in 2002 to “v” on aug. 29 of this year, they have recorded and re­leased the same number of albums The beatles did in just 10 months (they released 20 in their first five years). when you look at that dramatic time difference, it invites the question as to how a band such as maroon 5 would fa­vor experimenting more with the added pressure of time plus a creativity crunch. 
The beatles are not an example for maroon 5 to mea­sure up to in terms of sales, but rather in quality of style, sound and identification through their self-discovery as a musical group. pop and rock music is debated and hat­ed like oil and water in a frying pan. maroon 5 still needs to learn how to tread the current of popular music while diving headfirst into their own style both fearlessly and experimentally. 
if you liked the band’s last albums, “overexposed,” (not one of my favorites) and “it won’t be soon before long,” “v” is the equilibrium of both albums’ rock and pop as­pects which have come to identify the sound maroon 
5. another not-so-secret weapon to their unmistakable individuality is the set of pipes which belong to front-man and unofficial band spokesperson, adam levine. beautifully and catchingly applied on “v,” levine’s chops have the universality to go from up-tempo club beats (“animal”) to slow jam piano blues (“my heart is open”). believing the rest of the band is in the background for songs like “maps” and “new love” is stretching it when every “instrument” you hear sounds like a synthesizer. 
That said, i like “v” much more than i did “overexposed,” in part due to the band’s return to their rock roots in songs like “sugar” and “in your pocket.” 
every song is temporarily captivating, not memo­rable, but addictive. as catchy as “leaving california” and “unkiss me” are, they echo from past hits “i’m never gonna leave This bed,” and “i won’t go home without you.” it’s as though the band keeps dating the same types of women. 
regardless, “v” makes me hopeful in terms of what i can expect in the future from levine and his five name­less bandmates. They may be six male musicians writing about what young adult guys think about. with levine’s recent marriage, however, maybe maroon 5 will begin to focus on a different kind of female, like the one we fell in love with in “Jane.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekafal01@saintmarys.edu 
“V” 
Maroon 5 
Label: Interscope 
Tracks: “It Was Always You,” “Leaving California,” “In Your Pocket,” “My Heart Is Open” If you like: Train, OneRepublic, Gavin DeGraw 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

no, not you. you’re not dead. and Flying lotus, aka steven ellison, aka masterful jazz-hip-hop-glitch pro­ducer, that guy, he’s not dead. and he didn’t kill anyone. and i’m not dead either. honestly, take a look at your­self: you’re reading a review, by someone who’s not dead, about an album that claims to be about death – and that album was written by someone who is also not dead. “where,” you ask out loud, “are the experts on this mat­ter?” and then, of course, you answer the question for yourself with a small, humbled “oh.” and then you die. 
or, at least, that’s the way steven ellison would have it. rather than offering some grand explanation of death or painting a picture of a possible afterlife, ellison toys with the fear and confusion that the idea of death stirs within us. That’s right, he toys with them; “you’re dead!” is the most playful, joyful take on the old grim reaper since monty python’s crucifixion hit “always look on the bright side of life.” he doesn’t even give death the respect of paying it much attention. although “you’re dead!” hosts a gamut of morbid song titles, only a hand­ful of tracks actually boast lyrics dealing with the sub­ject. The rest are so upbeat, energetic and lively that they would never be associated with death outside the context of their names. 
if anything, the most fitting interpretation of “you’re dead!” is that it frees the listener from the weight that our inevitable end bestows upon us, because musically, “you’re dead!” is marvelously free of any constraint. a 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

roche schulfer, a notre dame graduate and executive director at the goodman Theatre in chicago, spoke on the importance of national theatre based on artistic and community values at debartolo performing arts center on Friday. 
goodman Theatre has been named best regional Theatre in the u.s. by Time magazine and won the Tony award for outstanding regional Theatre under schulfer’s leadership. he has overseen more than 335 productions, including nearly 130 world premieres, at the goodman Theatre. he implemented the annual christmas carol production in 1978, which has garnered 1.5 million in profits and stands as chicago’s leading holiday arts performance. 
schulfer has spent 50 years in the arts without being an artist. although he had a brief stint with the organ as a child, when it came to the arts he was more inclined to watch. 
he talked about the different jobs in marketing, public relations and production that allow one to get involved in technical jazz masterpiece infused with gleeful beats, soaring vocal melodies and a few nimble raps, “you’re dead!” transcends any and all limits that the terms “jazz” and “electronic” bestow upon their respective genres. 
not that this is new for Flying lotus. The artist has al­ways been churning out highly engaging experimental takes on the hip-hop beat, bringing in the masterful tal­ents of instrumentalists like bassist Thundercat and vo­calist niki randa. 
The combination of ellison’s incredibly ornate and complex rhythms, chord progressions and the rich sonic qualities of the sources he pulls from, whether sampled or recorded, allow him to create music that is both highly listenable and endlessly intricate. 
his records have always managed to maintain cohe­sion through a unifying approach to production style; “1983” is lounge-y and relaxed, “los angeles” is dark and swaggering, “cosmogramma” is sprawling and relent­lessly mutating, “until the Quiet comes” is refined and atmospheric. “you’re dead!,” on the other hand, manag­es to seamlessly fuse essentially every one of these char­acteristics; Flying lotus’ skill as a producer and the slew of musicians at his fingertips flood the album with ideas which, through incredible performance, seem to exceed their maximum potential. 
ellison’s ability to smooth any transition allows songs under two minutes to reconcile contradicting moods and styles. “cold dead” houses a ripping hendrix-esque gui­tar set to manic drums that then shifts seamlessly into beautifully spiraling saxophone and piano melodies, and then he jumps back to the guitar and drums with 
the arts if he or she expresses an interest but not neces­sarily a talent in the arts. 
his interest in pursuing a career in the performing arts industry came about during his time at notre dame. after coming to notre dame, despite his desire to attend the university of dayton for its party school ranking, he said he decided to major in economics so he could take english classes without the worrisome employment im­plications that come with declaring an english major. 
while on campus, he managed the cultural arts com­mission, gaining early exposure to the challenges that would come with producing the performing arts. 
during a routine study session in saint mary’s library 
– hesburgh library was too big and too bland for his lik­ing, he said – he found a book, “The economics of The performing arts” in the stacks. he said he  realized it was a sign for where his future should head and promptly stole it. 
schulfer stressed the importance of america’s national theatre program, specifically non-profit theatres, and the creativity and artistic quality they promote. 
he addressed how money is not as important as diver­sity, creatively and community drive in the performance no difficulty. “dead man’s Tetris” presents strutting rap verses (from snoop dogg and ellison himself) alongside tangled cloud-rap beats and quirky vocal samples, but by the end of the track, ellison has transmuted the glower­ing clutter into spacey bliss. 
The record makes constant references to ellison’s pre­vious output – the creeping “ready err not” would have fit beautifully on “until the Quiet comes” — as well as a host of classic electronic artists, most notably “geogaddi”­era boards of canada on “coronus, the Terminator.” The amount of ideas on the record has it bursting at the seams, yet ellison manages to tie it all together with an expertise that has become expected at this point in his career. another brilliant entry in his discography, “you’re dead!” continues to make a case for Flying lotus as the musician with the fewest limits, and therefore the most potential to change music as we know it. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“You’re Dead!” 
Flying Lotus 
Label: Warp 
Tracks: “Dead Man’s Tetris,” “Never Catch Me,” “Turkey Dog Coma” If you like: Gold Panda, Amon Tobin, Baths 

arts. 
he encouraged the audience to think beyond broadway when considering american theatre. 
There are 1800 non-profit theatres in the unites states, whose productions have reached 32 million people, he said. 
he emphasized the necessity of support for non-profit theatres through attendance, involvement and directed philanthropy. increased financial backing, through the government and advocates for the arts, would encour­age greater participation in theatre as compensation for actors and others involved in production would rise, he said. 
schulfer illustrated the difference between theatre and cinema and highlighted the creative process of playwrit­ing, saying “in the theatre, the playwright has the final cut.” playwriting allows for more freedom and creative ownership, he said. 
he mentioned playwrights, such as august wilson, whose works have inspired acceptance and racial equal­ity, reaching mainstream audiences. . 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Don’t miss these college game days 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
Those of us who tuned into espn’s “college gameday” last weekend were treated to even more than Katy perry’s hard-hitting football analysis, as interesting as that was. 
espn’s flagship college sports program also granted us a look into the grove, the 10-acre wooded area on ole miss’s campus where tailgating may be taken more seriously than the upcoming game itself. as i saw ole miss fans dressed to the nines for their big game against alabama and tailgating setups that included chande­liers and champagne foun­tains, i was reminded of one of the things that makes college football great — the different atmosphere at each school. 
indeed, unlike the nFl — where a game in cincinnati may be indistinguishable from a game in charlotte — many of the big-time college pro­grams have a distinguished air, filled with tradition, history, school spirit and several other intangibles. 
as someone who made a col­lege football destination list — i prefer that term over “bucket list” at my age — last season, i thought i’d share some of the places where i’d love to take in a game, sorted by the power-five conferences. 
ACC 
it’s tempting to take a trip to see the defending national champions at Florida state, but i’d imagine any rational person would end up with a throbbing headache after three hours of war chants. instead, i’d rec­ommend memorial stadium at clemson, one of two col­lege stadiums dubbed “death valley.” The Tigers pay homage to the real death valley by rub­bing a rock taken from there and then run down a hill in an entrance that has been called “the most exciting 25 seconds in college football.” 
Big Ten 
The big Ten has supersized stadiums at michigan, ohio state and penn state, but as a notre dame student, i’ve heard too many horror stories of un­ruly and downright hostile fans are at these locales. instead, i’d recommend a place known for its friendliness, nebraska’s home at memorial stadium. Few states are as linked to its college team as nebraska is, and the cornhusker faithful continue to show their support 
— they’ve sold out the last 333 games entering this season. plus, few sights are as visually appealing as the sea of red that washes over the stadium in lincoln. 
Big 12 
it is said that everything is bigger in Texas, and the longhorns’ darrell K royal-Texas memorial stadium proves that to be true — it holds more than 100,000 fans, a 7,000 square-foot Jumbotron, a 500-pound drum and a 1,800-pound live longhorn, among other things. The sta­dium is also situated right in the heart of austin, Texas’s self-proclaimed “weird” city, where there’s no shortage of things to do on a weekend. 
Pac-12 
most pac-12 stadiums are in big cities but lack exciting atmospheres. The opposite is true at oregon’s autzen stadium, which is situated in mid-sized eugene but is known for being one of the loudest stadiums in the nation. it also doesn’t hurt that the ducks play flashy on the field, both with their spread offense and their ever-changing nike attire. 
SEC 
i could easily write an­other column about all the sec schools i want to visit — georgia, Tennessee, lsu, ole miss, Florida, alabama and auburn are near the top of my list. but since i love tradition, i’ll give a nod to Texas a&m. every football weekend in aggieland features bonfires, midnight yell practice and copious references to “gig ‘em” and the 12th man. 
Non Power-Five 
Football does exist outside the top tiers. and while i’d love to see the incredible natural setting at byu, i’m even more interested to see the pageantry that surrounds a game at the 
u.s. military academy at west point. The black Knights may no longer be a powerhouse, but their tradition is still second to none, as the corps of cadets parade into michie stadium and players who will soon be commissioned officers make a patriotic entrance. 
Figuring out which of these venues to visit may be just as difficult as espn’s decision to pick a gameday spot. but re­gardless of where you go, you’ll be contributing to the tradi­tion, lore and atmosphere that surround america’s greatest game. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | naTionals 4, gianTs 1 
doug Fister keeps nats’ postseason hopes alive 
Associated Press 

san Francisco — bryce harper screamed out in de­light as he crossed the plate with washington ahead at last. after all those extra innings and a subdued cross-country flight, the nationals had bro­ken through — with a little help from madison bumgarner. 
doug Fister pitched sev­en shutout innings and the nationals capitalized on bumgarner’s one off-target throw, staving off elimination in the nl division series with a 4-1 win over the san Francisco giants on monday. 
Fister dazzled again in san Francisco, helping the nationals cut their deficit to 2-1 in the best-of-five series. They ended the giants 10-game postseason winning streak that started with game 5 of the 2012 nl championship series against st. louis. 
washington scored two runs on bumgarner’s throwing error in the seventh inning to end the ace’s 21-inning scoreless streak. harper punctuated the victory with a solo homer in the ninth. 
“really it came down to every pitch,” Fister said. “Fortunately a ball bounced our way.” 
drew storen allowed to the first two batters to reach in the bottom of the ninth but shook off his postseason struggles, al­lowing a run in closing it out as washington forced a game 4 on Tuesday night. 
now, the 96-win nationals will send left-hander gio gonzalez up against san Francisco right-hander ryan vogelsong. 
“we just needed one break,” storen said. “it’s been a tough couple innings here to start and we got our break. it’s just a mat­ter of building on it, and we live to see another day.” 
on a day bumgarner had been nearly untouchable, his own miscue prevented a three-game sweep. 
bumgarner fielded wilson ramos’ two-strike sacrifice bunt between the mound and the first-base line and fired to third rather than going for the sure out at first. 
“we probably should have taken the out of first. i made a mistake telling him to throw to third,” catcher buster posey said. “it happens. we’ll come tomorrow, go through the pre­game routine and be ready to go.” 
bumgarner’s throw sailed wide of pablo sandoval’s out­stretched glove and bounced all the way to the tarp along the left-field wall before rolling over the bullpen mounds where two relievers were warming up. 
sandoval nearly did the splits trying to make the play and stayed down in pain as the two runs scored. Trainers checked on the third baseman and he remained in the game. 
“we don’t have ramos bunt with two strikes,” harper said. “so if we don’t have him get that bunt down, at least get us on second and third, having that errant throw by bumgarner was huge for us.” 
asdrubal cabrera followed with an rbi single. he spent the final eight innings watching the giants’ 2-1, 18-inning victory saturday night after his ejection for arguing a called third strike. 
Fister outpitched bumgarner at aT&T park for the second time in four months after a June gem, leaving behind the fright­ening memory of his october outing here in game 2 of the 2012 world series. Fister took a line drive to the right side of his head that day — while also opposing bumgarner — but stayed in the game and car­ried a shutout into the seventh before detroit lost 2-0 and was swept. 
Fister hardly needed that Japanese good luck figurine that appeared in the nl east champions’ dugout monday morning courtesy of backup catcher Jose lobaton. The right-hander, who grew up about two hours away in the central valley city of merced, gave up four hits, struck out three and walked three. 
storen, the beleaguered clos­er who gave up the tying run in game 2, allowed brandon crawford’s sacrifice fly in the ninth before finishing the 2-hour, 47-minute game. it was a far cry from game 2, which took a postseason record 6:23. 
Five days after pitching a four-hitter in an 8-0 wild-card win at pittsburgh, bumgarner was on a roll again, this time for the orange towel-waving sellout home crowd of 43,627. 
ian desmond singled to start the decisive seventh and harper walked to bring up ramos, who began the season as the nationals’ cleanup hit­ter. harper slid into home for the second run, hopped up and hollered in triumph. 
bumgarner hadn’t given up a postseason run since carlos beltran homered in the fourth inning of the giants’ game 1 loss of the 2012 nlcs in st. louis. 
The pitcher had chances with the bat, too. he came to the plate with the bases loaded and two outs in the second to cheers of “bum! bum!” before striking out. 
sandoval extended his post­season hitting streak to 14 games with a leadoff single in the second, the longest streak in giants postseason history and currently in baseball. 
brandon belt was caught stealing in the fourth, only the second time anyone tried to steal against Fister all year. 
NFL 

Jaguars apologize for mascot’s Ebola sign 
Associated Press 

JacKsonville — The Jacksonville Jaguars have apolo­gized for their mascot using the ebola epidemic to mock the pittsburgh steelers. 
Jaxson de ville held one of pittsburgh’s famed yellow “Terrible Towels” next to a home­made sign that read “Towels carry ebola” during sunday’s game. 
Team president mark lamping said the Jaguars had no prior knowledge of the sign and will handle the matter internally. 
lamping says “improvisa­tion and humor have both been key elements to the character of Jaxson de ville, especially when he performs at home games. 
on sunday, the person who has played Jaxson de ville over the past 20 seasons made an ex­tremely poor decision in that regard.” 
lamping added that, “we ex­tend our sincerest apologies to anyone who was offended.” 
curtis dvorak has worn the cat costume since the mascot’s inception in 1996. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


paid adverTisemenT 

SMC SOCCER | smc 1, Trine 0 
belles score late to beat Thunder 

Observer Staff Report 
an 89th-minute goal by soph­omore forward liza Felix was the only tally of the day saturday as saint mary’s picked up a 1-0 home victory over Trine. 
The belles (4-7-1, 2-5-1 miaa) were on the front foot from the start when senior midfielder erin mishu put an attempt on target inside the first two min­utes. senior defender Kerry green followed soon after, heading a shot over the bar 13 minutes into the contest. 
around the half-hour mark, junior midfielder maggie mclaughlin gave the belles another chance when she got behind the Thunder (4-6-1, 2-5-1) defense, before having a shot turned aside by freshman goalkeeper Kristina veljovic. Felix fired a shot off the post two minutes later, before Trine had its best chance of the half 
when  freshman  midfielder  
carly  osinski  forced  belles  
senior  goalkeeper  chanler  

rosenbaum to push her shot from distance over the bar. rosenbaum finished the day with three saves. 
The belles controlled the pace of play once again in the second half from the opening whistle. early in the half, junior lindsay rzepecki possessed the ball in the 18-yard box but was unable to get a shot off. a spell followed midway through the half when veljovic turned away three saint mary’s attempts in six and a half minutes of action, leaving the game scoreless en­tering the final minutes. 
with around two minutes re­maining in the match, the belles took the lead. mclaughlin found the unmarked Felix with a flicked ball over the Trine de­fense and the latter finished from 12 yards out. it was the belles’ 17th shot of the contest and Felix’s second goal of the year. The Thunder failed to reg­ister a shot in the final 1:56 of play, giving the belles their first win in five tries. 
saint mary’s is back in action Friday when it visits Kalamazoo for another conference contest. The hornets defeated the belles 2-1 in the teams’ first meeting this year sept. 11. 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL | sorin 8, sT. edward’s 6 
sorin rallies past st. edward’s 
By TYLER WOJCIAK 
sports writer 
sorin remains undefeated af­ter overcoming st. edward’s, 8-6, in a defensive showdown sunday afternoon. 
st. edward’s senior wide receiv­er mike ahlers opened the game by putting the gentlemen (1-1) in position to score in the opening minutes, laying out to catch a 40­yard fade route along the sideline. The gentlemen finished off the drive when ahlers caught a pass in traffic from sophomore quar­terback Jake wittenberg for the first touchdown of the game. The otters stopped the ensuing two-point conversion attempt, leaving the score at 6-0. 
sorin’s offense started out slow and was unable to move the ball very effectively for much of the first quarter. early on in the sec­ond quarter, however, a snap that went over the head of the st. edward’s punter put the otters on the board with a safety. 
after abandoning their signa­ture triple-option offense mid­way through the second quarter, the otters were able to sustain a long drive and eventually ran the ball into the end zone for an 8-6 lead at the half. 
The defenses for both teams dominated all of the third quarter and most of the fourth as neither offense generated many chances. 
sorin finally threatened to put the game away with a score late in the fourth quarter, but failed to punch it in from the five-yard line. The st. edward’s offensive unit took over with nearly the whole field to go and just minutes left. 
wittenberg connected with ahlers again on a deep throw to the middle of the field for a huge gain, but the otters’ defense re­covered and stopped the senior, forcing st. edward’s to attempt a game-winning field goal that was blocked at the line of scrimmage, effectively ending the game. 
sorin junior quarterback and captain John pearl credited the defense with the victory. 
“our defense once again stepped up.” pearl said. “They kept us in this game. That safety was huge, too.” 
despite the loss, ahlers was positive about the gentlemen’s defensive performance against the triple-option offense of sorin. 
“we tried to get a lot of penetra­tion, especially up front,” ahlers said. “we had success with that and they weren’t really able to run the ball up the middle at all today.” 
sorin looks to remain unde­feated next sunday when it takes 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL | pasQuerilla easT 33, ryan 20 
Pyros take down Wildcats with offensive outburst 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 

pasquerilla east moved to 4-0 for the season and handed ryan its first defeat sunday, winning their matchup 32-20. 
The wildcats (3-1) were able to keep the game close for the first half, but the pyros gained momentum after the break and held on for the victory. 
pyros captain and sopho­more receiver noelle gooding, whose 33-yard fourth-down catch set up her team’s first touchdown, said she was very impressed by her team’s per­formance in the win. 
“our whole team worked really well together today.” gooding said “ryan was a super-tough opponent, but of­fense or defense, every aspect of our game was just on-point. we had a couple of great picks during the game which was a huge plus for us, [and] we had some great throws from our quarterback, [senior] macy mulhall and some great catches.” 
pasquerilla east senior running back nicole ameli, who gooding said did a “fan­tastic job,” had three touch­downs, including a late 71-yard run down the sideline where she outpaced the ryan defense to seal the win for the pyros. 
gooding said contributions from the entire team were vital to the win. 
“it was a whole team effort today. There wasn’t one partic­ular play or player who made it the way it was.” gooding said “From the coaches to the play­ers and fans, everyone gave 100 percent. Just overall, it was a great day.” 
despite seeing her team’s un­defeated run come to an end, senior safety and ryan captain Tatum snyder took some posi­tives from the game, she said. 
“i think we did a good job of keeping our heads in the game and giving everything we had,” snyder said. “we weren’t able to get what we wanted go­ing, although we did what we could. our line played great. we made some good throws and good catches.” 
snyder said with more opportunities to prepare, her team should be more success­ful in the rest of the season than they were sunday. 
“we weren’t able to prac­tice this week because of the weather, so we learned that practice is key,” snyder said. “we’ve got to be ready to play when we get here, but other­wise we’ve learned that we are a great team.” 
although the pyros remain undefeated at 4-0, gooding said her team will continue to take the season one game at a time and not let its record af­fect its performance. 
“we’re just going to keep our heads down and go into our next two games … like they’re any others,” gooding said. 
Following a game against breen-phillips on monday, pasquerilla east will play pangborn on sunday at labar practice Fields. ryan will have a week to regroup before play­ing breen-phillips on sunday at labar. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
on Fisher, while st. edward’s will try to get back on the winning track in its game against carroll. both games are scheduled for 


3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields. 

paid adverTisemenT 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 





ND WOMEN’S GOLF | schooner Fall classic 
Irish finish eighth at loaded Schooner Classic 
Observer Staff Report 
it’s not often a team in eighth place walks off a golf course with as much to be pleased about as no. 36 notre dame did monday at the schooner Fall classic in norman, oklahoma. 
That’s because the irish not only defeated no. 13 lsu and no. 26 Florida state, they also broke the program record for score over 54 holes. Junior Talia campbell led the way and made her own contribution to the record books, shooting the second-best individual score in team history. 
mostly sunny skies and warm temperatures all week­end made belmar golf course an ideal place for notre dame’s historic performance, but also allowed the rest of the field to post low scores, led by no. 15 mississippi state, who went 22 strokes under par as a team. 
after a rough first-day score of 290, the irish were tied for seventh place. The team had a dramatic drop on day two, cutting their score to 277, the best 18-hole mark in the pro­gram’s 29-year history. despite this, notre dame entered the final day of competition still in seventh place. on monday, the squad kept its momentum and posted a team score of 279, the second-best single-round score in irish history. 

although the irish dropped a spot in the standings to fin­ish tied for eighth, they were just four shots removed from fourth-place finisher Kent state. 
campbell was one of three irish golfers to establish per­sonal bests over 54 holes, in­cluding senior Kelli oride and freshman Kari bellville. all three shot 215 or lower and placed in the top 40. oride in particular surpassed her best 18-hole, 32-hole and 54-hole career scores. 
campbell, who has won a conference crown and trav­elled to the ncaa region­al meet for the irish, was at her best on the second day of the invitational, fir­ing five birdies en route to a four-under-par score of 66, the best single-round mark in pro­gram history. 
all told, four of the five ath­letes in notre dame’s lineup had at least one round below par. senior captain ashely armstrong chipped in two of these rounds after starting the tourney with an eight-over­par mark of 78 in round one. she followed this up with two straight scores of 69, despite bogeying three holes on the front nine monday. 
The schooner Fall classic also presented the irish with one of the toughest fields for the fall season and prepared them for the up­coming mercedes-benz championship in Knoxville, Tennessee. notre dame faced nine ranked squads, including no. 2 arkansas, who finished in second place this weekend. 
in Knoxville, the irish will face the no. 9 hosts and try to improve upon their seventh-place finish at the tourna­ment. play begins oct. 17 and continues all weekend. 


W Swimming 
conTinued From page 16 
diving. … we’ll keep looking for improvement across the board. i think if you look at our times … there’s not a single time that we did Friday that we are going to be happy with in February.” 
while welsh was pleased with his team overall, one of the bright­est spots for the team was when galletti was able to return to the pool. The junior missed most of last year after undergoing double hip surgery and has been work­ing extremely hard in rehab to get back into the pool, welsh said. 
“i think fight is exactly the right word,” welsh said. “it has been a real struggle for her. as you can imagine double hip surgery is a very painful thing to have to go through. she’s had a lot of recov­ery to go through. … a person less of a fighter than cat is could have said ‘here are my goggles, i’m done.’ but she’s in no way hanging it up. she wants to be better this morning than she was last night and better this afternoon than she was this morning.” 
notre dame will be the pool again at the dennis stark relays, now in the event’s 50th year. The meet will welcome a number of teams from around the midwest to rolfs aquatic center and is scheduled to begin Friday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Football 
conTinued From page 16 
ranked no. 1 nationally entering saturday’s game and had only al­lowed 198 yards per game. 
The irish gained 129 of these yards on the ground, for an aver­age of four yards per rush. Kelly said the running game was sorely needed in saturday’s wet and cold conditions. 
“we had some musts in this game, and one of the musts was to really try to control some field po­sition,” he said. “we did not want 
— you know, obviously, with the weather conditions as they are, we had to find a way to keep our third-down situation — it had to be a manageable third down.” 
senior running back cam mcdaniel ran the ball 15 times, while sophomores greg bryant and Tarean Folston received six and three carries, respectively. mcdaniel finished with 43 yards, while bryant gained 16 yards and Folston had 14. 
“[bryant and Folston] have out­standing potential and promise, but what we were looking for in this kind of game was production, and we know what we’re going to get from cam,” Kelly said. “… cam has been a pretty steady per­former, and we just — i have a ten­dency to kind of err toward going with the senior captain in these kinds of games.” 
Irish move up in polls 
Following a chaotic weekend in college football, notre dame moved up in both the ap and usa Today coaches’ polls. The irish ad­vanced from no. 9 to no. 6 in the ap poll and from no. 8 to no. 5 in the coaches’ poll. 
notre dame’s ascension in the rankings came after losses by no. 2 oregon, no. 3 alabama, no. 4 oklahoma, no. 6 Texas a&m and no. 8 ucla over the past week. 
Kelly said the losses by top-ranked teams illustrate the im­portance of focusing on one game at a time. 
“it’s obviously great copy for me on monday when i talk to the team again about winning and just how important it is to just stay in the moment, work on your prepara­tion and enjoy every win as they come because they’re so difficult,” he said. “great opportunity for me to continue on that message that we’ve been on all year about how difficult it is to win and how im­portant it is for us to keep moving in the right direction.” 
Kelly said although notre dame is just outside the top four, the irish have not given much thought to a potential berth in the inaugu­ral college Football playoff. 
“i think that it’s pretty typical around here that there’s noise regardless of playoffs or no play­offs,” Kelly said. “… i think it’s just notre dame football. The guys are pretty used to it. it’s always something just going on. 
“They do a great job of just fo­cusing in on it. we’ll continue to avoid the noise, but it’s a day in the life of notre dame football around here.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
harrison shipp posted a goal and assist, but the remainder of notre dame’s scoring ef­fort came from goals netted by graduate student forward leon brown and junior midfielder evan panken off an assist from senior defender luke mishu. graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall tallied eight saves. with many of the same play­ers taking the field tonight, the irish aim for their 11th all-time victory over michigan. 
“if we just play to our strengths and finish our chances, then there’s no doubt we can replicate last year’s win against michigan,” cicciarelli said. 
michigan enters the match after a 2-1 overtime win against wisconsin on saturday. Junior forward James murphy and se­nior midfielder colin mcatee lead the wolverine attack, each with two goals on the season. graduate student goalkeeper adam grinwis holds a .750 save percentage. 

“They have a lot of very tal­ented players,” cicciarelli said. “although they may not be hav­ing the season they hoped for, it just takes one game to put it all together and we know that. so, it is key that we don’t overlook them by any means.” 
Though the irish lost to acc­rival boston college, notre dame dominated the major­ity of Friday’s game. while the eagles netted the lone goal of the match in the 15th minute, the irish outshot their opponent 19-3 over 90 minutes of play. 
besides the loss to boston college, the irish dominated the first half of their season, with only one other setback in a 1-0 loss to Kentucky on sept. 8 however, they immediately responded to that loss with a 1-0 road win over syracuse on sept. 13. 
paid adverTisemenT 


with a veteran defense pro­tecting its goal, notre dame continues to work on its of­fense. The team maintains 1.22 shots scored per game with 
16.1 shots on goal per game. cicciarelli said the irish look to tighten their attack against the wolverines and as they prog­ress through the second half of their season. 
“our defense has played re­ally well this whole season,” cicciarelli said. “we hope to continue shutting down teams on the defensive side and hope­fully our offense can really start syncing to give them some relief.” 
The irish play non-confer­ence rival michigan tonight at u-m soccer stadium in ann arbor at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: protect what you have worked so hard to acquire. make any alterations based on research and tried and true methods. use your energy wisely and choose partners, friends and associates that have as much to offer as you. much can be accomplished this year if you master your skills and fine-tune your strategy for success. your numbers are 2, 8, 14, 21, 32, 34, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): socialize and partner with people you respect. stabilize your professional position. a penny saved is a penny earned, so bank, invest and exhibit discipline regarding your spending habits. love is on the rise and physical activity will encourage positive changes. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): use your creative imagination when dealing with people who can influence your future. improving efficiency in an in­novative way will separate you from any competition you face. don’t rely on others. romance will stabilize an important relationship. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): use every contact you have to get ahead professionally. it’s important to express your true feelings if you intend to make a difference. make a couple of personal alterations to your appearance, attitude or skills and you will be acknowledged for your efforts. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): health and domestic problems will arise if you are tired or rundown. Taking better care of your emotional, physical and financial well-being should be given top priority. you’ll find yourself in a financial bind if you aren’t vigilant. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let demands being made on you at home limit what you can do. do something you enjoy. a change of routine will help to jumpstart your desire to get back to the things you used to enjoy doing. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): an unexpected change in your financial situation should be dealt with quickly and efficiently. do what you can to finalize a deal or settlement so that you can move forward without regret or uncertainty. a heart-to-heart talk will improve a partnership. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a unique and innovative approach to work and dealing with your peers will bring good results. what you offer to do for others will help position you for future opportunities. don’t get angry when positive change will be far more productive.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): protect what’s yours and stick to basics and the simple things in life. Too much of anything will be your downfall. concentrate on what you can accomplish instead of daydreaming about the impossible. make a physical improvement. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): set out to make improvements to both your home and your vocational situation. don’t let anyone bog you down with emotional blackmail or treats. There is money and power to gain if you set your sights on what you want. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): say little but do a lot. your actions will make the difference. refuse to get caught up in a situation that is unstable or has the potential to be too laborious. use your intelligence and innovative ideas to get ahead. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will learn valuable information regarding a settlement, contract or financial opportunity. be willing to make the necessary changes swiftly to ensure you don’t miss out. love is on the rise and a relationship will improve your standard of living. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your persuasiveness will help you seal a deal. you will draw attention to your ideas, concerns and goals if you speak up and share your strategy for success. don’t worry if someone shows uncertainty. move forward with those prepared to contribute.  


Birthday Baby: you are sophisticated, intelligent and intuitive. you are creative and a participant. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Steady as a rock 
Kelly praises play of front seven, says McDaniel will remain starter, addresses team’s rise in polls 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
after notre dame held stanford to 205 total yards in a 17-14 win saturday, irish head coach brian Kelly praised the efforts of his team’s defense in his weekly tele­conference sunday afternoon. 
“stanford came in averaging only two third-and-seven or more situations [per game],” Kelly said. “we put them in 11 third down­and-seven or more [situations]. … so that defensive line and line­backers on first and second down have done a terrific job.” 
notre dame held stanford to 47 yards rushing on 32 attempts for an average of 1.5 yards per carry. The irish defense has held oppo­nents to an average of 2.9 yards per carry on the season. 
Kelly said he has been im­pressed with the toughness of notre dame’s front seven, led by junior captain defensive lineman sheldon day. 
“i think what i have been most pleased with is their ability to play very, very good run defense,” he said. “in particular, the front seven has been put together almost in its entirety this year new, other than sheldon day. so i think that’s prob­ably been the most pleasing thing.” 
sophomore cornerback cole luke earned the game ball, ac­cording to Kelly. luke intercepted two passes and forced a fumble against the cardinal. 
“i think what i was most pleased with, it was a bounce-back game, in a sense,” Kelly said. “[luke] gave up a couple of big plays against syracuse. 
“[he] could have had a couple of other [interceptions] if balls were thrown with more accuracy. so i would say he’s really picked up his game.” 
Offense bests top-ranked Stanford defense 
notre dame gained 370 yards against stanford’s defense, which 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 

irish look ahead to matchup at michigan 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish kick off the second half of their 2014 campaign to­night, hoping to wash away the bitter result from the end of the first half. 
no. 3 notre dame (5-2-2, 2-1­1 acc) travels to ann arbor, michigan, to take on out-of­conference rival michigan (2-5­2, 1-1-2 big Ten). The irish return to the pitch after a 1-0 home loss to boston college on Friday night, bringing their four-game unbeaten streak to an end. 
with the second half of the season set to begin, notre dame looks to respond to Friday’s loss with a victory over the wolverines. 
“There still are plenty of regu­lar season games left and our end goal [of a national champi­onship] is still achievable,” se­nior forward vince cicciarelli said. “we just have to get a posi­tive result against michigan to get back on track.” 
The irish and wolverines met last season at alumni stadium, and notre dame protected its home turf with a 3-0 win. Former irish midfielder 
MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish senior forward Vince Cicciarelli passes the ball during Notre see m soccer PAGE 14 Dame’s 2-0 win over North Carolina on Sept. 26. 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING | nd 182, michigan sTaTe 118 
ND thrashes Michigan State 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
notre dame got off to a strong start to its 2014-2015 campaign Friday night as it defeated michigan state by a score of 182­118 at rolfs aquatic center. The irish (1-0) swept the top two po­sitions in nine different events on their way to defeating the visiting spartans (0-1). it was the first action of the year for notre dame, yet the team pulled out 11 event victories and runner-up finishes to help cruise to a large margin of victory. 
“i was very pleased with their focus,” irish interim coach Tim welsh said. “i was very pleased with the way they prepared for each one of their races. … Thought they were good about keeping up the spirit from start to finish. That was very impres­sive and a good sign of the team discipline.” 
senior emma reaney, who won the national champion­ship last season in the 200­yard breaststroke and set an american record in the event, swept the top spot on the po­dium in both the 100- and 200­yard races on Friday, beating spartan senior shelby lacy by three seconds in the shorter race and then freshman teammate sherri mcintee by five seconds in the longer. 
The irish also had one-two finishes in the 200-yard med­ley relay, the 200-yard freestyle (sophomores elizabeth house and Katie miller), the 100­yard backstroke (sophomore catherine mulquin and junior sydney golic), the 200-yard butterfly (seniors bridget casey and courtney whyte), the 50­and 100-yard freestyles (junior catherine galletti and mulquin finished first and second in the 5o-yard race, then switched positions in the longer event), the 200-yard backstroke (miller and golic) and the three-meter springboard (juniors lindsey streepey and emma gaboury). notre dame also picked up an­other individual title on the one-meter springboard as streepey swept both of the diving events. 
“The [girls] are exactly where we want them to be,” welsh said. “we wanted to see where we are. we swam the 16 events pretty much straight up, and we said wherever we are, we are going to draw a line under it. 
“i thought diving was excel­lent, especially three-meter 
see w swimming PAGE 13 




