The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 12 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMEBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND Forum to focus on academics 
Series includes Nobel Prize winner, Boston College theology chair, Duke President 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
with 65 different undergradu­ate degree programs offered at notre dame, each student graduates with a different body of knowledge behind his or her diploma. This year, the notre dame forum will examine the most important common les­sons by tackling the question, “what do notre dame graduates need to know?” 
university president fr. John Jenkins told The observer on monday that notre dame’s on­going curriculum review de­termined this year’s theme. Jenkins said the discussions at these events would help inform notre dame’s academic policy and would reflect on how today’s students can best serve the world and the church. 
“what [the university is] go­ing to have to do is listen to [the forum speakers] and say, ‘okay, are there implications for our re­quirements? for what we do at notre dame? for the education we offer? for what we require for a notre dame degree?’” Jenkins said. 
The first forum event on sept. 15, “Taking a scientific approach to science education,” will fea­ture carl weiman, stanford university professor and winner of the nobel prize in physics, in the debartolo performing arts center. an oct. 6 event will 
see forum PAGE 5 




Faculty host public Ferguson discussion 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
Jason ruiz, assistant profes­sor of american studies, and dianne pinderhughes, pro­fessor of political science and africana studies, hosted an open forum monday on the re­cent events in ferguson, mo., to discuss the implications these events have on racial and soci­etal issues. 
ruiz said the forum’s timeli­ness supplemented discussions people should have in and out of the classroom. 

“i’m teaching this class, mixed race america, and i thought starting with ferguson was an obvious place to start a critical exploration of race rela­tions, and especially race rela­tions,” ruiz said. “i always start the class talking about ‘what is race?’ and right now when we ask ourselves, ‘what is race?’ ferguson is looming large in terms of the state of american race relations.” 
ruiz said perceptions of race are often skewed because of media biases — something stu­dents in the social media age are especially susceptible to. 
“The one thing i hope we can do is demand better, more fair media portrayals,” ruiz said. “That’s something i took away that we all had in common. my task as an educator is to create more savvy media consumers.” 
ruiz said the open forum style of discussion was meant to fa­cilitate more frank discussions on the topic of race on campus. 

“i think students have a lot to say, but they sometimes don’t feel empowered or like they have a critical space with fac­ulty members to really tell us how they feel,” ruiz said. “This is a campus that has a lot of stu­dents, faculty and staff people that are interested in issues like this and keeping the conversa­tion going. personally, i hope [the forum] will be the start of 
see forum PAGE 5 
school in 
top half 
of eco­
friendly 


ranking 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
The university of notre dame recently ranked no. 11 on saveonenergy.com’s Top 25 eco­friendly football schools. 
The saveonenergy.com team reviewed the annual preseason Top 25 ncaa football rank­ings released by the associated press and created their own rankings based upon each uni­versity’s commitment to sustain­ability. notre dame tied with the university of oregon for the 11th spot on this list. 
“we used the ap Top 25 list because we wanted to take something that everyone was already talking about and pres­ent a new twist on it,” stephanie dula, saveonenergy.com’s community manager, said. “we thought it would be an interest­ing way to turn something sports related into something about sustainability.” 
dula said saveonenergy.com’s ranking process rated colleges on 
see ranKing PAGE 4 


smc library celebrates life of past college president 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the first in­stallment in a three-part series ex­ploring the new initiatives at the Cushwa-Leighton Library intended to celebrate the life of Sr. Madeleva Wolff, provide students with writing support and decrease paper waste. 
The cushwa-leighton library has recently brought about numer­ous changes to better accommo­date students and showcase the history of the saint mary’s com­munity, including a new series of events to celebrate the work of sr. madeleva wolff. 
reference and instruction li­brarian catherine pellegrino said the library’s plans coincide with its mission to serve students by devel­oping knowledge, skills and critical thinking capacities as educated women. 
“The new initiatives fit in with the part of our mission that’s about creating a dynamic learning envi­ronment, and especially with the writing center satellite location, with campus-wide collaboration,” pellegrino said. 
in celebration of the 50th anniversary of sr. madeleva wolff’s death, the library will host a four-part series called “madeleva mondays” to honor her life and work. 
sr. madeleva was an alumna of saint mary’s and the third presi­dent of the college. during her presidency, sr. madeleva headed the english department, intro­duced many new programs — including a graduate degree in theology — and ordered the con­struction of moreau center for the arts. 
see madeleva PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is your favorite class you’ve taken at Notre Dame? 

Abby Blanchard 
senior 
badin hall 
“minority experience in american education.” 
Ellen Coticchia 
sophomore 
farley hall 
“2d foundations.” 
Teri Dye 
junior 
pasquerilla east hall 
“organic chemistry because i learned how to make bombs.” 


Mike Rotar 
senior 
off-campus 
“irish Tap dancing.” 
Rachel Broghammer 
junior 
ryan hall 
“politics and J.r.r. Tolkien.” 
Heeju Son 
senior 
off-campus 
“irish Tap dancing with professor mcKenna.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

emily mcconville mary green peter durbin manny deJesus 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara daniel barabasi 
Photo Viewpoint 

Free Flu Vaccines Fall Career Expo Faculty and Staff Volleyball Film: “The 
lucy du Tabitha ricketts 
Stepan Center Joyce Center Mass Purcell Pavilion. Congress” 12 p.m.- 9 p.m. 4 p.m. Log Chapel 4:30 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performin Student I.D. required. Including 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. Part of the Shamrock Arts Center 
Corrections 

postgraduate service. In memory of 9/11. Invitational. 3p.m.- 5 p.m. The observer regards itself as Also showing at 7 p.m. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Basilica Server Artist Talk: Sue Coe Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship Training Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall Basilica of the Sacred 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:15p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Heart Open to the public. Notre Dame vs. Baylor. Includes music by the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Worship and small 8:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Women’s Liturgical 
we can correct our error. 

group reflection. Open to all. Choir. 


Artist discusses political aspects of work 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s welcomed visiting artist curtis readel for “fed up,” a special lecture and class event, monday in vander vennet Theatre, art department chair and this se­mester’s visiting artist coordinator Krista hoefle said. 
readel received his bfa from the university of iowa and an mfa from northern illinois university with an emphasis in printmaking, and exhibits his work nationally from brussels to estonia, hoefle said. 
readel said his ongoing studio practice addresses themes and ideas focusing on social and politi­cal issues. from distorted images, his art explores societal downfall, government corruption and self-indulgence in mediums such as printmaking, collage and drawing, he said. 
“i started out as a print-maker and i consider myself a printmaker through and through,” readel said. 
readel worked and posed his friends with a certain historical and religious reference in mind for his first series, “business as usual,” he said. 
“i lifted [a pose] from dante’s ‘inferno,’” readel said. “The en­gravings were these very detailed and psychologically in-depth with the idea that people were wanting money and wealth. i started think­ing about how this hunger for mon­ey could be conveyed. i decided that i needed to undergo it myself to not only feel the psychological toll, but the physical toll as well.” 
he didn’t have access to the type of printer he needed for his work, but he continued to save his art for when he would, he said. 
readel said aside from his exper­imentation with graffiti stencils, he uses little color in his work for the sake of his message. 
“it’s not that i don’t know how to use color,” readel said. “by ridding [the piece] of it, i’m bearing the graphics of it.” 
readel’s graduate professors em­phasized an appearance of profes­sionalism in displaying his work, he said. 
“i spent a lot of money framing my work so it looked really well done,” readel said. “with my prox­imity to chicago at the time, iwould take my work into galleries and shop around for representation.” 
one of his most successful pieces is a disfiguration of a degutted, all-seeing eye on the back of the one-dollar bill with the latin phrase “sic semper tyrannis” engraved above it, he said. 
“it’s actual translation is actu­ally, ‘and thus, always tyrants,’” readel said. “you can interpret this as maybe the eye of the tyrant and now we’ve dealt with that tyrant, or was the eye blind to the fact that tyranny exists. This is also the first time that i’m used subliminal messaging in my work. 
“i teach graphic design and i’m really interested in what are known as imbeds which are targeted to primal feelings. i wrote ‘buy me.’ i wrote it backwards and forwards. i also wrote a lot of four-letter words. so all the chatter and secondary mark-making in the eye is actually all distorted. i attribute it to having done some good studies.” 
readel said several united states federal reserves supply him with shredded dollar bills collected in small plastic bags for his artwork. another favorite element readel in­corporates within his artwork is the image of the human skull, he said. The skull is a prominent proponent within his series, “dead white guys from history,” where he disfigures the faces of george washington, benjamin franklin and abraham lincoln from the front face of u.s. currency with skulls, he said. 
with a tongue-in-cheek ap­proach, readel’s work is often accused of being unpatriotic, he said.  he refers to himself as a politi­cal atheist, saying he work is meant to interpret what the founding fathers originally envisioned for the united states, he said. 
“in my research of history, espe­cially empires throughout history, every known empire has failed. rome, the aztec and at one time or another, they were the largest, wealthiest superpower,” readel said. “by their own demise, they weren’t. i feel the united states is a world power on the great preci­pice of having to make an impor­tant decision. we can either go the route of other empires and stretch ourselves too thin economically, or we can focus on what’s best for the long term. i personally don’t see that happening now. i hope my work can start a discussion about that.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

saint mary’s hosts environmental film premiere 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
The saint mary’s environmental action coalition (smeac) hosted a premier of “disruption” on sunday. The environmental film, written and directed by Kelly nyks and Jared p. scott, was officially released sunday online as an informative build-up to the upcoming people’s climate march, smeac president erin cisneros said. 
cisneros said the viewing brought together those on campus who are, or who hope to be, active in environmental change. 
“it’s kind of not actually what i expected,” cisneros said. “it was a lot more colorful, and really informative for what’s going on. a lot of these films we watch, i feel they put the icing on top, open the people’s eyes to what’s going on, and the speakers in the film were really informative.” 
smeac secretary gwen murphy said she was surprised the film approached climate and environ­mental awareness from a social justice perspective. 
“so many times, people focus on the scientific,” murphy said. “i think it’s a lot more powerful and will reach a lot more people this way.” 
assistant professor of political science and gender & women’s studies sonalini sapra said she or­ganized the event after receiving and email from 350.org, international environmental group, asking if she would be willing to host a screening. 
while the film seeks to raise awareness of climate change and en­vironmental justice, it also highlights the march planned for sept. 21 and 22 in new york city, sapra said. 
“[it is] the largest action in sup­port of political action to address global warming. it is timed to co­incide with the climate summit called by ban Ki-moon, for world leaders in advance of the next scheduled round of climate change negotiations in 2015,” sapra said. “The purpose of this rally and oth­er supporting events taking place around the world is to demonstrate the magnitude of support for effec­tive action against climate change.” 
sapra will be traveling with seven students to participate in the rally, sapra said. many notre dame and saint mary’s students whom sapra has spoken with recognize that cli­mate change and environmental degradation is a pressing issue, she said. 
“i’ve had students in my class­es who understand that climate change is the ‘right to life’ issue of our time,” sapra said. “i think stu­dents recognize that the impacts of climate change are dispropor­tionately being felt by the poor and marginalized, and [they] want the 
u.s. to be at the forefront of mod­eling more sustainable behavior for the rest of the world.” The film suggested that bystanders to the environmental injustices that oc­cur today are actually perpetrators, cisneros said. 
“when you see people neglect something, then you become the issue,” cisneros said. “i’m hoping people just see that we care, be­cause we have nowhere else to go.” 
sapra said saint mary’s should be at the forefront of sustainability ini­tiatives as a catholic college. 
“my hope is that students find the activism they encounter at this march to be inspiring and en­courages them to raise the profile of environmental [and] sustain­ability issues amongst the student body and administration at saint mary’s,” sapra said. 
cisneros said the majority of the student body’s lack of activism was obvious in their inability to recycle properly. 
“people don’t know how to recy­cle,” cisneros said. “we are very in­dividualistic as a country. we need to be aware of what’s going on. people complain about how this summer was mild, and now it’s hot, and last winter was crazy. i’m hoping that [environmental change] becomes common knowledge now.” 
saint mary’s and notre dame should divest from fossil fuel com­panies in order to take part in envi­ronmental initiatives, sapra said. 
“i think divestment from these dirty and dangerous companies, would send a strong message and keep smc and nd more in accor­dance with their catholic social justice mission,” sapra said. 
smeac will discuss how to ap­proach environmental change on campus during their first official meeting Thursday at 6:30 p.m. on the island of lake marion weather permitting, or in rainbeaux lounge in les mans hall, cisneros said. 
“we just want to be involved; we want to bring awareness to saint mary’s. That’s our goal this year,” cisneros said. “we want to make a difference, and i think if we start here we can expand.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMEBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Professor explores concept of Irish hearth at Snite 
By Gabriela Malespin 
news writer 
ian Kuijt, professor of anthro­pology at notre dame, presented his findings regarding the im­portance of the hearth and its connection to the narrative of irish immigration in the snite museum of art on saturday. 
Kuijt’s research, titled “The empty hearth: archeological insights into irish america,” cen­tered on the documentation and analysis of archeological find­ings on inishark, an island lo­cated approximately eight miles off the coast of the mainland and abandoned in 1960 in less than 24 hours. 
The hearth is a fundamental concept in irish narrative, Kuijt said. 
“The hunts, the home and the life within the home, is centered on the hearth and the kitchen itself,” Kuijt said. “i’ve used the metaphor of the hearth, as a con­text under which we can think about histories, stories and nar­ratives of memory. i want to think in terms of personal stories and personal changes at the small scale, and trying to think in some ways about the archeology of the famine within the context of the changes that take place in communities.” 

Kuijt said the evidence found in the hearths provide insight into the complex stories of families facing the impacts of mass emi­gration from such a remote island. 
“it is both horribly intercon­nected with the mainland, yet it is very separate”, Kuijt said. “in some ways, they take very differ­ent trajectories, and these trajec­tories are very powerful in terms of understanding the immigrant experience, understanding the mobility of people between is­lands and understanding the mo­bility towards america.” 
according to Kuijt, the study’s record of the position and state of inishark’s buildings as well as the presence of valuable remnants of ceramics and pottery suggest that the island’s inhabitants were well connected. Kuijt said the re­mains in the hearths also reveal population and housing trends on the island leading up to its abandonment. 
“These are interesting build­ings, first of all because they are rarely preserved; second of all, because they provide this sort of hybrid technology, well-made technology for this point in time”, Kuijt said. “This is a place that’s largely viewed as being a mar­ginal context, yet this is showing us that these people had access to trade markets. There are all kinds of interconnections.” 
Kuijt’s research document­ed descendants of the families whose hearths he originally ex­amined, he said. The remains of the hearths and the stories of inishark’s descendant’s revealed the sacrifice and fragmentation present in the process of immi­gration, indicating that the aban­donment of inishark had a lasting and profound impact on newer generations. 
“The big picture out of all of that is that when you think about what’s gone on, these are stories of survivorship, of people surviving under very adverse circumstanc­es,” Kuijt said. “some of the most powerful stories we can think of is that this is the human condition — of people overcoming circum­stance for the next generation.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
Ranking 
conTinued from page 1 
six criteria: stadium sustain­ability efforts, number of ac­tive green organizations, waste diversion rates, percentages of budgets spent on locally grown or organic foodsand the levels of environmental studies degrees offered. 
“Two standouts for notre dame would be the waste diver­sion rate and the locally grown organic food. both of those were scored higher than most other schools,” said dula. “we were also impressed with the university’s game day recycling program.” 
notre dame’s game day recycling program began in 2007 and recycled more than 120 tons of waste during the 2013 football season, according to erin hafner, senior program manager of the office of sustainability. 
game day recycling “is prob­ably the most visible sustainabili­ty program surrounding football,” hafner said. “it’s gotten to be bigger over the years. student or­ganizations now know about it because they can earn money to­wards their club or dorm.” 
according to the office of sustainability’s website, a 48 per­cent recycling rate was achieved at the 2014 rice football game, diverting 21 tons of waste from landfills. 
“we are always honored when anybody looks at our program to rank us,” linda Kurtos, notre dame director of sustainability, said. “it makes us happy with what we have accomplished and gives us motivation to rise to the top.” 
senior garrett blad, president of the environmental organization greend, said greend has “been instrumental in helping get some of the sustainability initiatives started on campus.” 
blad, who is pursuing a ma­jor in sustainable policies and environmental science, said he is “curious to see what other univer­sities are doing and how we could look to their programs to help up­grade ours.” 
according to Kurtos, the office of sustainability has plans to con­tinue improving in the future. 
“our game day initiative is ex­panding much more into our oth­er sports,” said Kurtos. “however, the current game day system for football is pretty tried and true for what we are doing.” 
according to dula, saveonenergy.com wanted to highlight some of ways colleges reduce waste and save energy, not just during football games, but on campus in general. 
“i think notre dame is making great strides towards sustainabil­ity,” blad said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




university’s core requirements. that i will have to make deci­works, hobgood said. The 
Forum Madaleva 
“currently, there are require-sions about?” he said. “so i hope it event will also include the 
conTinued from page 1 conTinued from page 1 

ments that every student needs stimulates reflection for each and 
playing of a rare recording of to take in science, in philosophy, every student on what they need 
sr. madeleva reading one of feature both catherine theology, social science [...] and i to know, because ultimately they 
“This is basically the year her poems. cornille, chairwoman of boston think the thought is that for any are the ones that are responsible 
of madeleva on this cam-hobgood said the final college’s theology department educated person, they should for their own education, prepar­
pus, as it is the 50th an-event sept. 29 will be a re-and cyril o’reagan, huisking have some knowledge of the ing themselves for the future.” 
niversary of her death,” ception in conclusion of the professor of theology at notre scientific method or scientific The forum, an annual tradi­
reference and outreach li-month-long exhibition and dame, and duke university discoveries, even if your major tion at notre dame since 2005, 
brarian Jill hobgood said. series of lectures, where the president richard brodhead will is business or english,” Jenkins looks to foster discussion with­
“sr. [madeleva] was such a contest winners of a trivia speak nov. 4. said. “similarly, if you’re a physi-in the university community, 
huge part of the campus. she contest will be named. university student body presi-cist, you should know about lit-Jenkins said. 
did a lot for the library and “The current exhibition on dent lauren vidal said she hoped erature and you should know “The challenge of universi­
always supported the library, sr. madeleva is in the front of students would take advantage about philosophy or theology. ties, of course, is that sometimes 
so we wanted to have a trib-our library,” hobgood said. of the opportunity to learn from really, we all need a broad range we have various conversations 
ute to her.” “you can’t miss the display those featured at each forum of knowledge.” going on but we don’t all bring 
hobgood said sr. madeleva because we have sister’s ac-event. The forum will hopefully also them together,” Jenkins said. 
led saint mary’s through its tual tombstone in our exhib­“The notre dame forum con-stimulate student introspection, “The purpose of the forum is to 
formative years as it became it. when all of the headstones tinues to get stronger each year,” Jenkins said. choose some topics that are time-
widely known and respected in the sisters [of the holy she said. “everyone needs to think ly in some way so that faculty and 
as a place of learning and cross] cemetery were re-although each event has a about, ‘what do i need to know?’ students – and really the whole 
culture. done, sr. madeleva’s was the specific academic focus, Jenkins – whatever my aspirations are, university – can engage those at 
“sr. madeleva’s saint only one that survived.” said he hopes the forum brings what do i need to know to be a some level.” 
mary’s was one that was hobgood said the exhibit to light the importance of a good citizen, to be a person who’s 
meant to stand on equal takes on a personal theme breadth of education for each informed, to make good deci-Contact Madison Jaros at 
footing with any college, through its showcase of college graduate, reflected in the sions about the range of issues mjaros@nd.edu 
its students capable of any “madeleva — the person.” achievement,” hobgood said. “we have one of the old The library will host three saint mary’s ledger books to engage in action.” on ferguson allowed students 
lecturers and will hold one opened to the page for sr. 
Ferguson 
senior deandra cadet said to explore how race affects reception to honor sister madeleva’s student days, 

conTinued from page 1 

her peers posed educated them personally and facili­
madeleva, she said. showing what she had to buy many conversations.” inquiries and honed in on tate the discussion of topics 
The opening event took for her classes,” she said. pinderhughes said that the the issue’s relevance to the of equality in their own social 
place monday in the mother “we also have a piece of hair very fact the forum was open university. circles. 
pauline room of the library. jewelry, which was a popu­and without a formal presen-“a lot of people were talk-“i think having actual con-
emeritus faculty mem-lar souvenir in the 19th and tation gave the faculty in at-ing about what was the next crete conversations with dif­
ber gail mandell, previously even 20th centuries used as a tendance an opportunity to step for us that we can take ferent people about things that 
a professor of humanistic memory of a loved one. The see what the students were to educate ourselves on these are important to your life can 
studies, delivered a lecture one we have is a bracelet ac-thinking about the situation. issues and also be advocates really bridge the gap, because 
titled, “sr. m. madeleva: tually made of madeleva’s “we were very pleased with against the sort of actions that you can know someone of a 
Through the years at saint hair, probably made for her the turnout and we had a might be police brutality,” different race and not really 
mary’s college,” to members family as a little token of very nice range of questions,” cadet said. “i think it’s more know them or what’s impor­
of the college community. her.” pinderhughes said. “seeing just about what actions we can tant to them,” cadet said. 
mandell is the author of two The exhibition is one of that not all the students were take as students.” 
biographical works about sr. the many exciting displays in agreement opened up a lot cadet said the public ex-Contact Matthew McKenna at 
madeleva. planned for the library this of different options for people change of opinions and facts mmcken12@nd.edu 
senior erin flanagan semester, hobgood said. said mandell introduced after the exhibition, the ma-
paid adverTisemenT 

an intriguing teaching by terials will be returned to the madeleva about the nature of college archives. beauty. “There’s so much to sr. 
“professor mandell told madeleva and this campus us that sr. madeleva’s motto that a month is hardly long was ‘Just think,’ meaning to enough to cover what she is look inward and recognize to saint mary’s, but we hope internal beauty in ourselves this will really give students and in the world around us,” and others a sense of some­flanagan said. “she tried to one who is much, much more build the campus and land-than just a familiar name, scape the grounds to be a or the name of a building,” place that makes students hobgood said. pause and think about them-flanagan said she thinks selves and their spirituality “madeleva mondays” will be in light of true beauty.” influential for students. 
The other “madeleva “for me, being a human­mondays” events will take istic studies major, it is im­place on the remaining portant to attend the series mondays in september. on of lectures because many of sept. 15, saint mary’s archi-my teachers have been en­vist John Kovach will lecture couraging students to go,” on the many items in the flanagan said. “but more college archives related to than that, sr. madeleva is sister madeleva, including the founder of our college in her correspondence with ce-the sense that she gave saint lebrities of her time and pho-mary’s our mission. tos from her student days, “it’s essential for students hobgood said. to go back to the source and 
on sept. 22, professor of see what saint mary’s is all english and writer-in-res-about.” idence sr. eva hooker will read some of sr. madeleva’s Contact Kelly Konya at kk­best and most well-known onya01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

The beautiful game 
a story for mary 

Lesley Stevenson 
news editor 

To the most blessed virgin mary, 
happy birthday! with your special day, the nativity of the virgin mary, being yesterday and all, i wanted to drop you a line just to say thanks. and in honor of the occasion, let me tell you a story. 
a long time ago in a galaxy — err, city 
—
 far, far away …  a displaced five-year­old found herself entering uncharted territory when her parents enrolled her in an all-girls episcopalian prep school rather than the co-ed catholic kinder­garten just down the street. There was no room at the inn, so to speak; the kindergarten didn’t have room for the timid tot, and so she sojourned onward into the unknown. 

fourteen years later, she graduated from st. mary’s episcopal school and moved to a place where students stud­ied under the same name — your name 

—
 but said it in french, because we at notre dame are all about producing global citizens. 


here, she learned how you, st. mary, can — and did — move a whole legion of fans to cry out in support of our football team, our university and you through the singing of the alma mater. she saw how you gleam on top of our golden dome all day, every day, and how you comforted her through long nights of stress and anxiety at the grotto. 
she discovered why her high school and university had chosen you as their patron saint: everyone needs a mother, and here, away from our homes, you are the common cause that guides and sup­ports us all. notre dame is our mother, and we are the notre dame family. 
you are the comfort we need as well as the challenge we accept to better serve our brothers and sisters. everyone needs a mother, and your love is for us all, regardless of our backgrounds and experiences. 
well, mother mary, it’s been a ride. and your family’s growing! my younger brother’s a freshman here now, and this is the first time he’s studied at a place named after you. remember that big thunderstorm the first week of school? he called me just to be sure i’d heard the weather alert. he’s a sweet kid, and he understands what your family is all about. 
The church celebrated you especially yesterday, but we celebrate you every day. we see you, always looking your best, gleaming in gold come rain or shine, hell or high water. 
we trust you’re always there, watch­ing over all of us and reminding us of what it means to be the notre dame family. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kitty Baker 
viewpoint columnist 

on a saturday morning in June, i sat watching foot­ball (or as americans call it, soccer) with my father. he sat on the edge of our sofa while i perched concernedly next to him, avidly observing the flash of white jersey as players crossed back and forth, passing the comet-like ball between them in a show of mastery and skill unlike anything i had ever seen. it was one of the few moments i have ever seen my father fully enthralled in something, so i of course decided to interrupt with an endless stream of questions. 
“is he good?” 
“who, gerrard? yes, he’s good.” 
“and is he good?” 
“lampard? yes, he is also good.” 
“and is the guy in the corner, does he play well?” 

“Kitty, if they are on the england football squad, then you can safely assume they are good.” 
a brief moment of silence passed over, as i continued to watch the game in front of me unfurl. and then, 
“is that one there, crouch, is he any good?” 
“no, he is not good.” 
“Then, why is he on the team?” 

This conversation, which was in itself entirely inane and incredibly silly, was the turning point at which i be­came a lifelong football fan. a relatively innocuous game (england won fairly easily) became one of my favorite memories of my father. 
my english parents are not overly patriotic. They have their moments, such as when my father cheered and danced around the room when london beat out paris for the 2012 olympics or when my mother woke us all up at 4 a.m. to watch the royal wedding, although she herself said she didn’t really understand all the fanfare. however, there is something about the world cup that makes even my relatively clueless-when-it-comes-to-sports mother engaged and even, dare i say it, a fan. 
There is a strong tradition of world cup madness in our household. one summer, i believe when i was 15 and my sister claudia was 13, she and i watched nearly every game. granted, we both were not working full time jobs in the summer, and, much to my parents chagrin, the Tv seemed far more inviting than putting on gallons of suncream and sitting outside in the oppressive d.c. heat. it was just simply more inviting to sit in the house and watch other people race around in the oppressive heat in some other foreign country. i believe that my mother might have started her campaign against air condition­ing in the house, simply because we spent so much time watching other people play sports and not doing it ourselves. 
This summer was slightly different, but a routine slowly developed around the beautiful game. working a 9 to 5 job meant that there were only certain games i could watch more than half of, and they all started towards the end of my shift.  as most of my friends and family know, there are very few things in life that i will actually shift myself to do; world cup soccer matches happen to be one of them. i’d race home on the subway, forcing my way through the hoards of tired, angry people on their way home from work, keeping a keen ear out for any snippet of conversation even vaguely relating to soccer, whilst silent­ly praying there would not be a delay on my 4 or 5 train. i would then pelt helter-skelter across the final few blocks to my house, knocking over old people and children in the process, although allowing myself a few moments to breathe outside our local gristedes to listen to the spanish radio station along with several of the workers. 
my family all have various motives for our viewership. one of my sisters watches the players on the pitch and describes them as “on point” (which is always helped by the slow motion camera shots that appear every so often across the screen). my mother watches any sport with a certain amount of questions, and my other sister claudia points out that “if it came down to a match between england and the u.s., she’d pick the u.s.,” much to the chagrin of my english parents and me. but it is a moment where my family of seven comes together, drinks tea and eats cadbury’s chocolate to share in the beautiful game. 
and if something stops my sisters and i from bickering for almost 90 minutes, then it truly deserves the title of the beautiful game. 
Kitty Baker is a PLS-FTT major, eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls and proud resident of Cavanaugh Hall (go Chaos) who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMEBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

as we approach another weekend on this cam­pus, and others across the nation, i’m worried. i’m worried that i might receive an alert saying a woman has been sexually assaulted on campus. 
our campus, as far as i know, is not one of those being investigated as non-responsive. but that is no comfort. we all should be disquieted, even outraged, when we look at the evidence. 
for example, my worry was heightened recent­ly when i read about a united nations report that said one in 10 young women around the world will experience sexual assault by the time they turn 20 years old. some studies of college campuses report even higher figures. The prob­lem, research indicates, crosses social classes and geographical boundaries. it’s everywhere. here too. 
so what should we do? i can think of many things, including continuing difficult but re­spectful conversations about gender relations, 
Yes means yes 
dorm life and alcohol abuse, but we might start by reframing the issue. 
earlier campaigns to prevent sexual assault promoted a moral slogan — no means no.more recently, another phrase — yes means yes — has entered the conversation, as when a new california legislative proposal invoked the “af­firmative, unambiguous and conscious consent” of both parties as the legal guideline. 
on this campus, and others affiliated with religious traditions, this affirmative approach might be less effective, though the focus on what we want to affirm seems like a good place to start. 
what do we affirm? on this and other catholic campuses, we talk a lot about the dignity of the person and the importance of peace. That means, it seems to me, we are obliged to prevent violence in all its forms, from bullying to armed conflict, and sexual assault is violence. 
like many on this campus, i care deeply about peace building around the world, but i also feel called to attend to the violence nearby. peace building begins at home. 
so as we face the prospect of another weekend on this campus that feels like home to so many of us, perhaps we might ponder our own under­standing of that new moral dictum, yes means yes. perhaps it might help to think about the ways principle calls us to consistently affirm and vigilantly enact our shared commitment to non-violence. 
Thomas A. Tweed 

w. harold and martha welch endowed chair american studies 
faculty fellow Kroc institute for international peace studies sept. 8 
UWIRE 

share a coke: a desperate ploy for revenue 
Jonathan Bolan 
The daily cougar 

as august came to a close, so did coca-cola’s in­effectual “share a coke” campaign — the memory of which is sure to fade faster than many summer tans. 
back in June, coke began replacing its logo with a smattering of popular names, written in its icon­ic text, in effort to get their product in your hands and, presumably, the hands of your friends as well. The basic assumption being that if one’s name graces the side of the can, then he or she is likely to buy it because it’s personalized. 
while few can deny the beverage’s delicious flavor, there was a hint of desperation to this cam­paign that left a sour taste. when a company has to resort to gimmicks in order for a product to sell, it’s an indication that something has gone very wrong. 
although the coca-cola brand remains prof­itable, the company has been dealing with the disappointing sales of its namesake beverage for some time now. 
The wall street Journal suggests that american consumption of coke has been on the decline for the better part of 15 years, spelling trouble for a company that “derives almost 75 percent of its global sales volume from carbonated soft drinks.” 
additionally, the huffington post reported that each american drank about 54 gallons of soda per year in 1998; by 2013 that number dropped to 39 gallons, a decline that analysts project to continue. 
it seems that sugary, carbonated beverages are simply not as commonplace as they once were — tastes and opinions are changing. 
a 30 percent decrease in consumption indicates a systemic change in the way people perceive soda. it appears the philanthropic efforts, like those of first lady michelle obama, to increase public awareness of obesity are beginning to pay dividends. 
americans are becoming more conscious of their weight and, more importantly, their overall health and are less willing to drink their calories. caloric intake aside, consumers are also choosing to limit their intake of diet sodas, which contain synthetic sugar substitutes. 
“i don’t drink much soda anymore because of the expense and health concerns — i’ve been trying to avoid diet coke because of the artificial sweetener aspartame that’s in it,” said english doctoral can­didate elizabeth Keating. 
whether speaking of calories or chemicals, health is the overarching theme and soda is per­ceived as being insalubrious. in other words, coke has a serious image problem. 
given the fact that soda sales continue to drop, pepsico, coca-cola’s nemesis, has been proactive­ly focusing on its snack food division. it may come as a surprise that frito-lay and Quaker oats, each offering an impressive number of products, are both holdings of pepsico. 
according to the washington post, “carbonated soft drinks make up only about a quarter of pepsi’s 
u.s. sales, compared to 60 percent at coke.” 
pepsi is outpacing its competitor in terms of adapting to changing demands in the marketplace. rather than trying to convince consumers to pur­chase products that aren’t selling, pepsi centers its attention on what is. 
meanwhile at coca-cola, in spite of the in­creased sales of the company’s offerings of juices, water and sports drinks, they continue to pump money into its poorest performer: coke. 
over the next 3 years, coca-cola will spend 3 billion dollars stepping up its advertising, which is pretty unnecessary; if there’s one thing they’ve mastered, it’s brand recognition. 
everyone knows that coke is out there, people just don’t want it. coca-cola, however, is sure that the customer can be convinced otherwise. 
The share a coke campaign has been reintro­duced to persuade consumers to buy their product. despite noble efforts, the company reported a 3 percent decline in revenue for the first half of 2014. 
share a coke? not so much, and this isn’t the first time coke has had issues. art senior andy Kirkendall said that he remembers the addition of new coke being quite a blunder. 
for those unfamiliar with this huge flop, Kirkendall is referring to the formula change of the classic coke recipe in the mid-1980s. consumers were outraged and the company quickly returned to the original, increasing sales. 
some believe that the reformulation was just a marketing ploy orchestrated by coca-cola. whether new coke was one big scheme may never be known, but share a coke certainly has gimmick written all over it. 
personalized cans shouldn’t be necessary for the product to sell. in fact, it should serve as a gi­ant red flag. rather than attempting to force the customer’s hand, coca-cola would be better off letting consumer trends speak for themselves and responding accordingly, as pepsi has done. 
Take a lesson, coke — your competition under­stands your consumers better than you do. 
Opinion columnist Jonathan Bolan is an English graduate student and The Daily Cougar is the student newspaper serving the University of Houston community. Please send comments to opinion@ thedailycougar.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMEBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

John Darr 
scene writer 
every generation has a story. 

in the crushing neo-capitalistic dystopia of bikini bottom, hyper-realistic characters struggle to live a meaningful life. captain eugene h. Krabs, a victim of his own economic success, suffocates the life of working-class squidward Tentacles, whose dreams of becoming an artist are constrained by his day job, his thoughtless childlike neighbors and his own pa­thetically average talent. sandra cheeks, an alien in a bubble, violently attempts to preserve her own culture to which no one in her new home relates. pearl Krabs ii is wracked by the shallowness of her own thoughts, given only her shell of a father to hold onto and love. in this world of unending struggle, only two characters find joy: spongebob squarepants, the blind optimist, and patrick star, the blissfully ignorant. 
xspongeXcorex, the metalcore project of songwrit­er, producer and multi-instrumentalist neil schneider, delves into the cracking minds of these survivors. selecting as its source material the outcries and shrieks of these central characters, “how Tough are yah?” extorts the show’s most telling moments to reveal the hidden darkness beneath the yellow and pink exteriors. glass-shattering caterwauls and primal roars scream over relentless guitars and militaristic drums, grating against the faux-cheerful soundtrack snippets from the so-called “children’s show.” 
opening track “g.a.r.y.” rips into being at a snail’s pace — squidward’s racing snail’s pace, that is. like the capitalism that crushes us all, a massive metalcore 
By ALLEGRA WALLINGFORD 
scene writer 

i’ll admit, i was a little intimidated upon being tasked with writing a review of “life itself,” a documentary about roger ebert, one of the most popular and influen­tial film critics of all time. on top of that, the film was a semi-autobiographical account based on ebert’s memoir of the same title. nevertheless, i’ll try to do the great critic justice. 
set to a smooth soundtrack of drawn out piano and horn lines, “life itself” delves into roger ebert’s past, looking at both his messy personal life and his incredibly successful career. an only child from urbana, ill., ebert recognized his talent at a young age and once wrote, “i can write, i just always could. on the other hand, i flunked french five times.” after attending college at the university of illinois urbana-champaign, ebert became the chicago sun Times’ film critic and was the youngest daily film critic in america. as his critiques gained popu­larity, ebert began appearing on television and eventu­ally co-hosted “sneak previews” with gene siskel, a film critic for the chicago Tribune. 
while ebert’s career flourished, his personal life was breakdown annihilates squidward’s plea to be spared by the heavy industrial machine of who’s-laughing-now goofy goober rock. enter stage right the imagery of the forgotten briefcase, the damning blow of the you-alone­are-not-good-enough mentality instilled via mind control bucket from birth. pain and terror, swelled like inflatable arms, batter the soundscape until any trace of love — even from sponge’s best friend — is burned down in a town-consuming fire. 
Then comes “so you like Kickin butts, do yah?” focusing on one of the most riveting moments in the show’s history, an angry mob ravages a defenseless elderly man on record. it’s a sonic jolt of green slime, flickering lights and unanswered phone calls that slash through the heart of the listener as if it were hash. 
“how Tough are yah?” then delves straight into the heart of identity crisis. as patrick screams that his name is not rick, the audience becomes painfully aware of his predicament. even if patrick is not rick, he’ll always be part rick. or maybe he’s dirty dan. The answer is un­reachable, in a philosophical davy Jones’ locker. 
“dubby dan,” in addition to bringing the identity crisis to the forefront, shows off xspongeXcorex’s production skills. Turning to dubstep from metal, “how Tough are yah?” coyly goes from the genre with the least melody to the genre with the least skill required to make. but magically, xspongeXcorex has hammered the marble once and created the david; “dubby dan” hits with the force of patrick’s nihilistic ugly barnacle narrative. 
following “dubby dan” is “he was number one,” an exposé of fame and legend akin to patrick’s posterior in the feature length. The equivalent of eating a bowl of nails without any milk, “number one” divides believer 
lacking. bruce elliot, an old friend of ebert’s, stated “roger had probably the worst taste in women of any man i’ve ever known. They were either gold diggers, opportunists or psychos.” ebert spent a lot of time in bars, perfectly aware of his drinking problem. eventually ebert vowed to stop drinking and met his wife, chaz, and the rest, as they say, is history. 
The fact that all the commentary in this documentary comes from ebert’s friends and family gives us a biased and romanticized point of view of the critic, but this is to be expected. he had a subtle, self-deprecating sense of humor, he was a very talented writer, he had a great rela­tionship with his wife, etc. while all of this was true, he wasn’t a particularly warm or friendly person, and this fact is mostly glossed over in the film. i say mostly be­cause there are a few moments where his arrogant and stubborn side is pointed out. 
after leaving “sneak previews,” ebert and siskel co-hosted a show called “at the movies” (originally “siskel & ebert”). The two could not have been more different and often found themselves in heated debates over the quality of movies they’d reviewed. aside from films, the two could hardly agree on anything and often resorted to coin tosses to make decisions. ebert was incredibly from non-believer with one of squidward’s brick walls. 
ultimately, behemoth closer “This is patrick” un­loads philosophical detritus on the listener, leaving the listener as salty as a pineapple under the sea. from confused nationality to person-as-establishment dec­laration to condemnation of certain southern states, patrick’s prophecies tear down the world around him like uranium bombs, leaving no survivors. The track’s heaviness reveals perhaps the most shocking truth of “how Tough are yah?” given its thickness, artificial nastiness and likeness to egg product, the album could have only been made possible by using a secret instru­ment – mayonnaise. 
perhaps the most brutal release the world has seen in years, “how Tough are yah?” is easily the best album of the year. There is less chance of it being topped than one of spongebob forgetting pickles. it may bring hardship and truth, but one thing is certain: the xspongeXco­rex album is the album for you and me. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“How Tough Are Yah” 
xSPONGEXCOREx 
Tracks: “G.A.R.Y.,” This is Patrick” 
If you like: Music, SpongeBob, Death of your Childhood 





bitter about the fact that the show was called “siskel & ebert” rather than “ebert & siskel,” and wanted the title to alternate names each week (this, of course, never hap­pened). The duo’s relationship eventually morphed into a deep respect for one another, and they came to be great friends. siskel said of ebert: “he’s an asshole, but he’s my asshole.” 
“life itself” does a nice job of depicting different as­pects of ebert’s life, with commentary from his wife, friends and coworkers. ebert spent the last decade of his life battling cancer, and multiple surgeries and infections left him unable to eat, speak or drink. he was fed through a g-Tube and communicated by typing messages that an automated voice would speak. The film is definitely a tearjerker, and director steven James does a beautiful job of showing ebert’s determination and stamina even while his body shut down. at one point, ebert types, “i may have things to be depressed about, but i am not depressed.” 
he was happy with how his life turned out, and he didn’t let his physical deterioration ruin his view on, well, life itself. 
Contact Allegra Wallingford at awalling@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMEBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
to put a contemporary spin into a lineup, which promotes a return to 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
“cheap” chain. his plain joggers the color palette, although still in 
and sweatshirts offer the simplic-minimalist measures. 
This past sunday a whirlwind of ity that has more or less disap-not keeping his involvement a students took the Jacc by force in peared from lower to middle end secret, the designer emblazons a post-shutout euphoria. The oc-fashion (an example of this is try-“wang” over croakies, socks, casion? a celebration of the new ing to find a baseball cap without a sweatshirts and shorts alike. This under armour deal by selling the logo for less than $70). his hoodies motif has varied success in terms old, outdated-at-conception sports leave something to be desired, but of positioning. whereas i would clothing and equipment. yet, upon he makes up for it with the magnus be comfortable with this block-arrival barely an hour into the opus of the collection: the turtle-lettered slogan across my chest, event, the festivities seemed more neck sweatshirts and batwing having it over my crotch for shorts like the melancholy one experienc-hoodies he presents. seems less appealing. es when walking into a long-looted The turtleneck sweatshirt is despite this daring, wang’s grocery store during the zombie plokhov’s response to the abhor-simple puffer coats take the prize apocalypse. no twinkies, only XXl rent chimney-collared sweat-for the collection. both seem to bright pink shirts. shirts that took europe by storm feature detachable hoods, an 
if you can relate to this type of in the past two years. where the under-appreciated necessity to-emptiness, i bring positive news chimney-collar gives off an odd day’s “bigger is better” coat trends. from the lands of the sartorially-presence of trying to suffocate the perhaps they will be warm enough approved affordable loungewear. wearer while being loosely draped to last the winter. This past week, h&m and uniqlo over a collarbone, the turtleneck This past week, rihanna has announced collaboration with offers the refinement that we last been seen sporting wang’s newest alexander wang and alexandre saw in steve Job’s iconic tight, designs around new york city. if plokhov (helmut lang), respec-black counterpart. meanwhile, she had access to the ready to wear tively, for athletic lines of clothing. the batwing hoodies provide an section, the women’s styles offer a The two fast-fashion companies alternative fashion style to a chill much more form-fitting alterna­have been known for reasonable night out. i would even consider tive to the men’s pieces. however, costs and decent corporate prac-wearing a button-down and tie the “wang” pattern is even more tices, at least when compared to underneath, slightly unzipped, to prevelant. the rest of the fashion industry. properly blend the desire to appear The collections are perfect 
both wang and plokhov tackle composed with the casualness of a for the expected big freeze of the same subset of clothing, men’s mid-winter classroom. december through april. stock up activewear, but two distinct styles wang takes the opposite road: on the products, and make sure to emerge. plokhov for uniqlo follows stand-out pieces that focus on the pass off your now outdated sweats the trend of mainstream modern bulking aspect of sports. gQ claims to your significant others, and fashion: slim and suave, but effec-that the collaboration is boxing in-keep your new stockpile far from tive pieces in grey and black. wang spired and shot the preview in the prying eyes. takes a risk with his h&m collec-middle of a ring. he seems to be The alexander wang x h&m tion, as his concept work this past sticking to his head-turning all-drops early november, while week gives a peek at a more blocky, black men’s fall 2014 ready to wear halmut lang x uniqlo hits the in-your-face approach. collection featured prominently shelves sept. 22. 
my fashion persuasions pull me on his website. This collection is towards plokhov, as i was immedi-made even more exclusive con-Contact Daniel Barabasi at ately starstruck by his willingness sidering his spring 2015 runway dbaraba1@nd.edu 
scene writer 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Separate fantasy from reality 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
full disclosure; i know monday was a very important sports day. 
video of ray rice beating up his then-fiancée, now-wife, surfaced in the morning, and the baltimore ravens released the running back by the early afternoon, with news of an in­definite suspension from the nfl coming shortly after. 
around the same time, the ncaa announced it will re­store penn state’s postseason eligibility this season, effec­tively ending the program’s sanctions that were applied in 2011 in the wake of the child abuse scandal. 
There’s no way i could do these topics justice — the ravens and the nfl did what they should have done several months ago, while the penn state announcement is just the latest in a series of incon­sistent decisions by the ncaa that deserve a more detailed explanation than what i can provide here. 
so, we’ll go back to our regularly scheduled programming. 
unless you’ve avoided all forms of media, you know that yesterday marked the first sunday of the nfl season. 
it also marked the first sunday of fantasy football, an activity in which nearly 37 million people participate, according to a cnbc.com article last month. 
it also marked the first sunday of this year when i saw the following question arise in my Twitter feed: “if my fantasy quarterback is playing against my favorite team, who should i root for?” 
if you need to ask this ques­tion, you’re not worthy to be a fan of said favorite team. and you’ve also helped inspire me to list my main rules of sports fandom. 
Never root for your fan­tasy players over your fa­vorite team 
i alluded to this before listing this rule, but i can’t reiterate it enough. your fantasy players are a bunch of mercenaries hired to win what is usually a paltry sum of money, at least compared to the amount of time you’ve checked and toyed with your roster. if you’ve followed the other rules i’ve listed cor­rectly, your favorite team has been with you most of your life and given you plenty of happiness and heartbreak. if you follow the money, you’ve sold out. and you don’t want your buddies to see you as a sellout, right? 
Always root for the team in your city/geographical area 
it may be tempting to rebel against those around you by picking a team with cool uniforms, a star player or that — gasp! — is about to win a championship. but it ultimately leads to loneliness. sports is perhaps the stron­gest unifying factor for many cities and regions, and it’s incredible to share the cama­raderie that builds from a big win or playoff appearance. plus, do you really want to gain a reputation as the weird one who wears a san diego jersey all around atlanta or a boston cap in Kansas city? 
Once you pick a team, you’re basically bound to it for life 
yes, there are exceptions to this rule. you can switch teams if you get hired to work for another one, if your fam­ily member or friend plays for another one or if your team is relocated. heck, i’m even fine with you picking a sec­ond team, provided it plays in a different city and confer­ence from your original team. but you can’t just give up on a team because it has poor owners, it’s a perennial cellar-dweller, its coach is obnoxious or it changes its uniforms. and if you do decide you never want to see one of your teams again, you can’t come crawling back when or if it ever becomes good again. 
You have to at least know the basics about your team 
i don’t expect you to watch every game — very few of us have schedules that permit that, plus many people move from their native regions. but we are in the glorious age when television and the internet make nearly every game available to us. with so many resources, there is no excuse for you not to know the majority of your team’s starting lineup, its upcoming schedule and the last year in which it won a title. and if you don’t, maybe you should pick most of its players when you draft your fantasy team. 
That way, we won’t have to see inane tweets that lead to columns such as this. 
Contact  Brian Hartnet at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CLUB SPORTS | nd 4, purdue 3 
Notre Dame takes down Purdue in season opener 
Special to The Observer 

The men’s club soccer team kicked off its season with a 4-3 home victory against purdue on sunday. 
To begin the game, the irish displayed hesitance and played at a slow tem­po. but early in the first half, the team overcame its nerves, which enabled it to control possession of the ball and threaten purdue on the counterattack. 
senior mike o’brien netted a breakaway goal thanks to a pinpoint through ball from se­nior captain brian roddy /around the 15-min­ute mark. shortly after, o’brien scored his second goal off of a corner kick to put the irish up 2-0. 
notre dame showed no signs of slowing down for the final portion of the first half. Junior Tommy flaim headed in a third irish goal after another corner kick played by se­nior matt hickey. The re­mainder of the game was played more evenly, with both teams exchanging chances back and forth. 
while the irish tallied a fourth goal off a penalty kick by o’brien, complet­ing his hat trick, they also allowed purdue to score three late goals with many of the notre dame starters on the bench. however, the home team staved off the boilermakers’ run to earn the 4-3 win. 
The irish were also sup­posed to take on michigan on sunday in a double header, but the wolverines were not able to make the trip to notre dame. 
NFL 

Colts lose Robert Mathis for rest of season 
Associated Press 

robert mathis likely won’t get a chance to defend his nfl sacks title. 
less than two weeks after starting a four-game, league-imposed suspension, the colts’ best pass rusher sustained an achilles’ tendon injury while working out privately in atlanta. 
a person with knowledge of the injury told The associated press on monday that mathis tore the tendon, which would keep him out the entire season. The person spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because the team has not confirmed the diagnosis. 
a few hours later, coach chuck pagano said he would not speculate on the sever­ity of the injury or how much time mathis could miss — until team doctors examine mathis on Tuesday. but it sure didn’t sound promising. 
“we knew we were going to be without robert for the first four games, but this is really a dev­astating blow for robert and his family and this organization,” pagano said. “This one stings.” 
The injury occurred while mathis was away from the team, serving his suspension. 
league rules prohibit mathis from working out at the team complex or communicating with those inside the organiza­tion during his absence, so the colts sent mathis home with a 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING TWNHM 
workout regimen. 

on monday, mathis contact­ed head trainer dave hammer to inform the team that he had injured the achilles and had al­ready been seen by one doctor. 
pagano said league rules do allow suspended players to contact their team if they are injured. 
mathis’ teammates were then told of the injury during monday’s team meeting and the news hit hard. 
“he’s a pillar guy,” inside linebacker Jerrell freeman said with uncharacteristic somber­ness. “he’s definitely a leader and i hope he’ll be on the side­line coaching when he gets back.” 
but it’s also another odd twist in what had already been a tu­multuous season for the colts’ career sacks leader. 
in may, nfl officials an­nounced mathis would be suspended for the first four regular-season games after violating the league’s perfor­mance-enhancing substance policy. 
mathis claimed he was tak­ing a fertility drug, clomid, so he and his wife could have another child. but the drug is on the league’s banned list be­cause it can be used as a mask­ing agent for peds. 
mathis grudgingly accepted his fate after his appeals were denied. 
critics contended that the substance explained mathis’ sudden statistical surge last season, when at the age of 32 he set a single-season franchise record with 19 1/2 sacks and won his first nfl sacks crown. mathis argued he was more comfortable playing his new position, outside linebacker, after converting from defensive end in 2012. 
and also he was motivated to perform even better after some thought his numbers would drop significantly after long­time friend dwight freeney signed with san diego. 
at training camp, the 6-foot­2, 245-pound mathis was fre­quently seen playing with his newborn daughter following practice, and even though pagano acknowledged the colts needed mathis to get some work before the suspension, indianapolis held him out of all four preseason games. 
before departing the team complex aug. 30, mathis left an inspirational note in his locker urging players and coaches not to take the game they love for granted. defensive end cory redding explained it was simply “robert being robert,” a message that resonated throughout the team. 
“i don’t want to talk about another man’s injury issues, medical issues, but, i do know i love robert,” andrew luck said. “he doesn’t know how much he has meant to me as a rook­ie, second-year guy, offseason, everything. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND John 281-635 -2019 Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Text or call 


MEN’S GOLF | T-10Th of 15 

grahek steps up for nd 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
as notre dame begins the season with just two fresh­men on its roster and a core of eight returning golfers, the irish will have an estab­lished veteran squad, but an important aspect of the team will still be how the senior leadership guides the irish, according to irish coach James Kubinski. 
Kubinski said senior lead­ership has been mostly taken on by senior patrick grahek. 
“patrick has eyed a lead­ership role for some time,” Kubinski said. “it’s some­thing he has wanted. not all players want that role, as it can be a blessing and bur­den. yet, leadership is not a right of seniors. leadership is earned through one’s ac­tions. patrick’s growth in this way, with his desire for the role, have begun to open the opportunity for him.” 
as he has stepped into a leadership role that he has been keen to take, grahek’s overall consistency is what makes him most important to the roster, Kubinski said. 
“patrick’s greatest strength on the course is his overall level of consistency through­out the bag,” Kubinski said. “he drives it in play with above-average distance, is a good iron player and can compete in all short-game areas.” 

This is a marked improve­ment from his contribu­tions to the team early on in his career for the irish. as a freshman, grahek ranked second-to-last on the team in stroke average and was the only player on the roster not to crack the top 25 in any tournament. his sophomore campaign was only a little better, as he cut his stroke average by 2.2 shots. it was in his junior year that he fi­nally moved into the starting lineup, garnering two top-10 finishes and the third-best average on the team. 
“patrick was a complemen­tary player for much of last season, his first year in our lineup,” Kubinski said. “he spent a good portion of last season gaining experience and, eventually, comfort. by the end of the year, especial­ly at accs, he was a strong contributor for us. 
“with nearly a full sea­son in front of us, it’s dif­ficult to predict the impact and/or legacy of any senior. as with our team, patrick’s role and development with­in the role is a process. at this point, i can only say he has positioned himself 
paid adverTisemenT 
for an opportunity to enjoy success.” 
grahek has already led the irish to an invitation­al title at the notre dame Kickoff challenge on aug. 
31. grahek tied for the tour­nament title and shot a 136 stroke two-round score, the lowest of his career. grahek also placed in the top 30 at the gopher invitational at the windsong farm golf club in independence, minn. 
ultimately, as the irish look to continue a good start to the season, Kubinski is confident that the team, un­der leadership of players like grahek, can produce com­petitive results. 
“off the course, i’ve watched him grow each and every year,” Kubinski said. “no student at [notre dame] is ever a finished product during their time here. That would be a shame if they were. life is about growing. patrick has embraced that and keeps improving all the time.” 
The irish next take the course sept. 21 for The windon memorial at the evanston golf course in chicago. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at    mginocch@nd.edu 

Irish struggle at Gopher Invite 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish tied for 10th place at the gopher invitational at the windsong farm golf club in independence, minn., on monday. 
notre dame finished its first road tournament of the 2014-15 season in the top 10, carding rounds of 302-305-304 for a 59-over-par score across the 54 holes. The irish tied nebraska for 10th place, and baylor won the tournament with a 10-over overall score. 
“we felt we should have been able to post a top-five finish, with four solid scores each round,” irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “having to post a couple high numbers in all three rounds really hurt us. The conditions were tough, but our guys need to learn to limit the damage on those days, keeping the score in the mid-70s. we didn’t do that this week but have a chance to redeem ourselves at northwestern in two weeks.” 
Though the irish did not finish as well as they hoped, the team was represented individually on the leaderboard. sophomore matt rushton posted a top-15 finish for the second year in a row at the gopher invitational. he earned a final round even-par score of 71 to secure 11th place individually (73-75-71-219, +6). rushton birdied four holes during monday’s round for a 3-under-par score of 33 on the back nine and 6-over-par overall finish. 
“matt played very well through­out the event,” Kubinski said. “The work he has put in, on and off the course, is evident. he’s a far more mature player from last season, and his consistent scores in challenging conditions is proof. even his high round, 75, was a couple good bounces from being a 72. Just a great job competing throughout.” 
close behind rushton, fresh­man Thomas steve capped off the third round with a 7-over par 78 for a share of 24th place. steve and rushton both posted notre dame’s low-round scores of the event, an even-par score of 71. 
“Thomas steve has a high ceil­ing on this team largely due to his approach to playing and his inher­ent competitiveness,” Kubinski said. “he has some physical areas to improve, and he will, but he was not intimidated by a tough golf course in challenging conditions this week, and that fact is not lost on his coaches nor teammates.” 
senior patrick grahek posted solid first and third rounds to help the irish finish in the top 10. grahek tied 30th individually with an over­all score of 227 (72-81-74). he had five birdies in throughout the three rounds, two of which he posted in monday’s final round. 
“patrick’s ability to put a tough round in the rear view and focus on today was good to see and a trait a couple other players must develop to have a future in this game,” Kubinski said. “patrick has grown a great deal over the last 18 months, which is a credit to his desire to improve.” 
The course and its conditions challenged the irish squad, even worsening from day one, Kubinski said. 
“conditions were more difficult today,” Kubinski said. “The wind was a steady 12-15 [miles per hour], with gusts to 20. on a golf course with more room and softer hole locations, the wind wouldn’t have impacted scores as much, [but] windsong farm had hole locations tucked and on the edges and little margin for error off the tee.” 
The irish are still early in their 2014 season, and in addition to adjusting to various course con­ditions, they still have to time to build upon their scores and lineup, Kubinski said. 
“we need to stabilize our line­up,” Kubinski said. “we just can’t have multiple players, regardless of conditions, posting numbers well over the field average. we’ll do it. whether it starts at northwestern next time out or not, we’ll get to the point where are players find their comfort zone regardless of where we’re competing.” 
notre dame heads into its next road tournament of the fall season at The windon memorial, hosted by northwestern on sept. 21-22. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


CARL
WIEMAN 
Nobel Laureate in Physics Professor of Physics, Stanford University 
TAKING A SCIENTIFIC APPROACH TO SCIENCE EDUCATION 
Narrowing the gap between scientific advancements and science education 
Explaining the relationship between research and effective teaching and learning 

Monday, September 15 7 PM, Leighton Concert Hall DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
The event is free and open to the public. Ticket distribution begins one hour before the event. 




SMC SOCCER | smc 1, illinois Tech 0 
Belles best Scarlet Hawks on Felix goal 
Observer Staff Report 
after a 4-1 road loss to illinois wesleyan on sept. 2, saint mary’s secured its second vic­tory of the season and its first on the road, against illinois Tech on sunday afternoon, beating the scarlet hawks, 1-0. 
The belles (2-2) took a 5-3 advantage in shots in the first 45 minutes of the game, with four players — senior defender mary Kate hussey, junior mid­fielder Kathryn lueking, fresh­man midfielder gabby guerra and sophomore forward liza felix — accounting for these attempts taken on goal. lueking led the team with two shots, but both soared over the crossbar. a multitude of fouls throughout the first half caused the belles to rely on a surge of substitutions. The pe­riod ended with an unsuccess­ful shot on goal by guerra, but the saint mary’s defense held illinois Tech (3-2) without any shots on goal for the first half of the match. 
in the second half, the belles earned a corner kick within the first minute of play, but failed to convert on the opportunity. 
later in the half, illinois Tech junior midfielder adrianna maron shot wide right of the goal. less than a minute later, scarlet hawks sophomore for­ward anida phetchanpheng put up the team’s first and only shot on goal. The attempt was unsuccessful, though, as belles senior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum blocked the shot to maintain the scoreless tie. 
saint mary’s finally broke through the scoring threshold in the final 20 minutes of the game. after pressuring the de­fense and attempting 10 shots up to that point, felix scored her first career collegiate goal and put the belles up against the scarlet hawks, 1-0, in the 74th minute. 
despite continued pressure by illinois Tech in the remain­ing minutes of play, the belles were able to hold on and take the shutout win. 
saint mary’s held an 18-6 advantage in shots through­out the entirety of the game and 13-3 in the second period alone. in addition, the belles dominated the scarlet hawks in shots on goal, 11-1, and cor­ner kicks, 5-1. 



senior goalkeeper nicole also had the lone save on the on Kalamazoo on Thursday at papiernik and rosenbaum night for saint mary’s. 4 p.m., at home, before play-combined to post the shutout in The belles will begin miaa ing conference rival alma on goal for the belles. rosenbaum conference play when they take saturday. 
paid adverTisemenT 


Football 
conTinued from page 16 
golson had a myriad of re­ceivers to target saturday, passing for 226 yards to seven different receivers. Kelly said after the game senior amir carlisle had a “statement” game, in which he had 61 re­ceiving yards and caught the first two touchdowns of his irish career. sophomore re­ceiver will fuller led the irish with 89 receiving yards and had one touchdown. Kelly said one of fuller’s biggest con­tributions was his catch on a fourth-and-three slant route, to keep the irish alive on a drive in the second quarter, which resulted in a 14-0 lead. 
“we really like[d] that matchup on the outside,” Kelly said. “as you could tell, we kept going back to it. we think that the emergence of will has been in that he’s using his hands. ... i think where he’s made great progress since the spring is his ability to flash his hands and really aggressively go get the football. once he started to do that ... we felt a lot more comfortable being able to take advantage of those short matchups, as well. people are going to play off him, so he’s going to get some of those quick game slants because of his outstanding vertical speed.” 
in the post-game confer­ence, fuller commented that when the michigan defense played press coverage he saw that as a sign of disrespect to the irish wide receivers. Kelly said that attitude should be an inherent trait in receivers. 
“i think all wide receivers need to have that kind of de­meanor when it comes to press coverage and man-to-man coverage,” Kelly said. “we’ve ... taught these kids from day one when we installed this offense, if they’re going to take away the run, we’re going to throw the ball as many times as we have to win football games, and you have to win. That’s the demeanor we want from our wide receivers. if we call your number, you got to go get the ball ... we expect you to make a play. ... They’ve got to have that edge to them when it comes to man-to-man coverage.” 
Special Teams 
one of Kelly’s three keys to winning the game on saturday was average field position. 
“starting field position has a huge play in [the victory],” Kelly said. “That’s your special teams. They play a large role in wins and losses.” 
Kelly said the irish con­trolled field position so much in part due to senior punter and kicker Kyle brindza and the punt team’s outstanding coverage. brindza had four fair catches called on his six punts and two were placed inside the 20-yard line, while only one of brindza’s six kickoffs was re­turned, for a gain of 16 yards. 
“yeah, [brindza’s] been obvi­ously really big in flipping the field position,” Kelly said. “his hang time has been obviously the biggest piece of his punt game. obviously the kickoffs, i think he’s only had a couple re­turned this year.what else can you say about him? he does ev­erything for us. we’re getting the great effort that we need on all [special teams] units.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 




M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
out. irving deflected the shot straight into the air, where he and irish senior forward vince cicciarelli battled for it. The ball kicked out to panken, who saw his shot sail wide right of the crowded frame. notre dame graduate student defenseman andrew o’malley headed a cross sent in from a corner kick just over the bar in the 64th minute. 
The irish had yet another golden chance to take the lead with seven minutes left in regu­lation. Junior midfielder connor Klekota fed a pass into freshman forward Jon gallagher, whose shot from 14 yards sailed inches wide of the post, followed only seconds later by a header just wide by senior midfielder nick besler. 
notre dame dominated the second half, outshooting Kentucky 10-1 in the period, part of an 18-5 shot advantage for the game. 
“until you get that breakthrough is very difficult,” clark said. “we had to get that goal, and we had opportunities where maybe our final pass, our final decision just let us down a little bit. … The finishing’s got to improve — we’ve got to take chances, maybe create a little more in the offensive zone.” 
even with all the irish chanc­es, the one shot the wildcats managed in the second half turned out to be most important of the game. 
after playing much of the second half with eight, nine and sometimes even 10 players back on defense inside the pen­alty box, Kentucky cleared a ball from its defensive side of mid­field, and freshman midfielder hampus agerstrom found him­self with the ball and running room towards the irish net. he played a ball into the middle, where stojkovic had space. his shot into the low-right corner of the net sent the Kentucky team, bench and fans into a frenzy, while the irish watched in stunned silence. 
“They got a kick up and just one moment of concentration to be honest with you,” clark said. “when you’re dominating in a game as much as that, you’ve got to really concentrate, and we let ourselves down a little bit. 
“hopefully it’s a les­son learned, and we’ll move forward.” 
a desperate volley into the penalty box as time expired was punched away by irving, and the upset was complete. The loss was the first for the irish in 318 days, dating back to the 2-0 home loss to then-no. 19 virginia on oct. 26. 
“full marks to Kentucky — they hung in very well,” clark said. “Their goalkeeper was excellent, and they got an op­portunist goal there right at the end.” 
notre dame will look to shake off the loss saturday, when it travels to syracuse for the first game of its acc schedule. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: emotional matters will surface. it’s time to face any existing problems that are holding you back or affecting your ability to be as productive and responsible as you feel you should be. discipline, communication and setting the record straight with anyone putting demands on you will be a good place to begin. honesty is the best policy. your numbers are 3, 8, 11, 22, 26, 34, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep the changes you make a secret for the time being. adding your unique flair to a job you do will leave a positive imprint. implement a healthier lifestyle in your daily routine and you will feel and look better. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your plan will backfire if you are pushy or don’t do enough research. romance can be your ticket to a better relationship. creative contributions to an organization you believe in will be appreciated and could lead to an interesting proposition. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): confusion regarding a relationship will lead to sensitive discussions that can leave you in a vulnerable position. choose your words wisely; once you say something, you cannot take it back. give other people a chance to talk. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let unexpected changes others make cause confusion or deter you from following through with your plans. follow your heart and your intuition and it will lead to greater stability and a brighter future. love is on the rise. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Jump into action and make the alterations required to improve your life and professional position. communicate with friends and relatives and look for ideal places to visit. a change will do you good. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): uncertainty will prevail when dealing with personal or business partnerships. Take a step back and look at the changes going on around you. base your next move on the way others react and the consequences that unfold. deception is apparent. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): be careful how you handle domestic situations. someone will try to bully you if you make an unexpected change. it’s best to be secretive about your plans. a private or secret encounter will be based on assumptions and disillusionment. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a creative, innovative and imaginative approach to finding solutions. sticking to moderate plans will be your best bet. a professional offer isn’t likely to live up to its promise. get what you want in writing. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t take anyone or anything for granted. do your best to do your share. changes you make at home or at work will benefit you if you are honest regarding your intentions. don’t let an emotional situation lead to loss. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Try to remain balanced. Jumping from one thing to another will raise red flags with someone you are dealing with. showing greater stability and diplomacy will be required if you want to make financial advances. love is highlighted, but ulterior motives are present. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can expect to come into money or be offered a contract or opportunity to improve your assets. a partnership will bring about positive changes to the way you move forward professionally or personally. a false impression must not lead you astray. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your changing opinion and attitude can work in your favor. Keeping people guessing will buy you time to get your ideas formulated and plans in place. love is on the rise, but deception is apparent. if you feel uncertain, ask questions. 

Birthday Baby: you are strong, dependable and insightful. you are unique, intense and deliberate. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
SLIOP  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
KEWAA  

 
 
 
 
 

NATDEN  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


YCUDOL  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BLOCK RANCH NEARLY WISDOMYesterday’s 
Answer: Presiding over 100 trials was this for the judge — A BENCHMARK 
worK area 
ACROSS 1 Aesop animal 4 Frisbee, e.g. 8 Notable 
watchmakers 13 Abbr. in two state 
names 14 Mattress giant 15 Ship of 1492 16 It makes gray go 
away 17 Make off with some raffle 
tickets? 19 Loosen, as a knot 21 “Give ___ whirl” 22 Lake creators 23 Make off 
with some kitchenware? 27 “Great blue” wader 28 Washes away 32 Italian exile island 34 Shredded 
37 Scene of gladiatorial combat 
38 “That stinks!” 

39 Make off with some vehicles? 41 Sports V.I.P. 42 Luau greeting 44 Lot in life 45 Word repeated in “___ will be ___” 
46 Washington city in apple-growing country 
48 Confederacy foe 50 Make off with some cash? 55 Attraction for a butterfly 58 Big guns in D.C. 
lobbying? 59 Open, as a jacket 60 Make off with 
some gym equipment? 64 Actress Lupino 65 Also-ran 
66 First lady between Bess and Jackie 
67 Circus safety precaution 68 O. Henry work 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



69 Cauldron or sword in “Macbeth,” say 
70 Test for an M.A. applicant 
DOWN 1 Make sense 2 Decline 3 Pad of drawing 
paper 4 Fed. overseer of the Controlled 
Substances Act 5 Vex 6 Container for a 
draft of ale 7 Desert bloomers 8 Fitness facility 9 British royal 
name since 1917 10 Llama herder of old 11 Winder on a 
watch 12 Wise off to 14 Rodeo wrestling 
target 18 Possess 20 Big retailer 
of home accessories 24 Dog in Oz 25 Book publisher Alfred A. ___ 26 Pitching stats 29 Doing the job of an attack ad 30 A deadly sin 31 Gullible ones 
32 Shopping venue with the options “Books” and “Toys & Hobbies” 
33 She gets whatever she wants in “Damn Yankees” 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

PUZZLE BY LYNN LEMPEL 
35 Color TV pioneer 45 Cold war capital 54 Sudden outpouring
36 Devour eagerly 
47 One of two of 
55 Woes 
Henry VIII’s six
39 Woman’s 56 Mob gone wild sleeveless 49 Not idle

undergarment, 57 “Assuming that’s informally true …” 
51 Form tight curls 40 Actress Russo in 61 Ironically 
humorous 43 Type who wears 
52 “Horrible” Viking, 
62 Payer of many tight-fitting jeans 
in the comics 
dr. bills
and thick-rimmed glasses, maybe 53 Downy duck 63 Helpful hint 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 



SOLUTION TO MONDAY’S PUZZLE 

9/4/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMEBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly praises corners after shutout 
Coach points to turnovers, career days from receivers and special teams led by Brindza as keys to victory 
By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
after challenging the sec­ondary in last week’s post-game teleconference, irish coach brian Kelly addressed notre dame’s corner play, the receivers and special teams in notre dame’s 31-0 victory over michigan on saturday in sunday afternoon’s teleconference. 
with three interceptions and one forced-fumble recovery, the irish shut out a dynamic michigan offense, which in­cluded a mobile quarterback in graduate student devin gardner, a matchup prob­lem in junior receiver devin funchess and a trio of power­ful rushers. michigan had not been shut out in 365 games over 30 seasons, dating back to a 26-0 loss to iowa on oct. 20, 1984, an ncaa record. Kelly pointed to the four turnovers as the main ingredients for the victory, despite the wolverines out-gaining the irish, 289-280, in total yards. 
“well, obviously there’s turn­overs that play a huge part in it,” Kelly said. “Turnovers obvi­ously have a major influence in how games are won and lost at all levels.” 
graduate student corner­back cody riggs highlighted the corners’ play, with one of the three interceptions in the fourth quarter. Kelly said he was pleased with how well the corners, riggs and sophomore cole luke, performed against michigan. 
“except for the one long pass, i thought we played much tighter coverage,” Kelly said. “we’re starting to break on the ball with the kind of eye control and discipline we’re looking for. i thought we had a shot at [an interception] in the fourth quarter with cole luke. 


if he triggers a little bit quicker, pick as well in the second half. we get another one.” “... we’re getting that much 
The play of the cornerbacks more aggressive kind of cor­allowed for the safeties, junior ner play that also allows us to elijah shumate and sophomore play over the top, as well,” Kelly max redfield, to each collect a said. “i think it’s evolving and 
getting better each week.” 
Receivers 
senior quarterback everett 
see fooTball PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | KenTucKy 1, nd 0 
Irish lose last-second shocker to Wildcats 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
a perfect late-summer eve­ning at alumni stadium saw no. 5 notre dame square off with Kentucky in the final game of the marathon weekend that was the 12th-annual mike berticelli memorial Tournament, but the match was not so perfect for the irish. 
with notre dame playing for a chance to claim its second consecutive tournament title with a win, the wildcats (2-2­
0) shocked the irish (2-1-1) by a score of 1-0 on a goal from fresh­man forward stefan stojkovic with only 25 seconds remaining in the match. 
The irish fell instead to third place, leaving no. 12 indiana as the champion and Kentucky to finish in second. 
“it was heartbreaking, the way we lost,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we played very well as a group, and you just feel sorry for us because [Kentucky was] re­ally just playing for a tie. The ref­eree even added time on at the end because they were trying to play out the game.” 
notre dame controlled the flow of the match from the open­ing kick. graduate student for­ward leon brown had the first chance of the game for notre dame, firing a loose ball from 11 yards out that was stopped by Kentucky junior goalkeep­er callum irving. irving also stopped irish junior midfielder evan panken from close range in the 15th minute, tipping the shot just above the cross bar. 
“we could have worked him [irving] a little bit harder,” clark said. “but he had one phenom­enal save where he put it over the top.” 
notre dame graduate stu­dent goalkeeper patrick wall matched the play of his counter­part as well in the early stages. wall twice blocked wildcat se­nior forward Justin laird, once on a strike from 15 yards out and another off of an irish turnover at the top of the penalty box. wall came out to meet laird, knocking the ball away and then pouncing on it before any dam­age could be done. 
“[That] was a very silly error by us — we tried to make them get in there, and pat made the great save,” clark said. 
The strong goalkeeping play on both sides left the teams scoreless at halftime. 
notre dame would again cre­ate the first scoring opportunity of the half, as junior midfield­er patrick hodan made a run straight into the penalty box, launching a shot from 16 yards 
see m soccer PAGE 14 





