The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 65 | wednesday, december 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
student groups stage ‘die-in’ demonstration 
Protest against police brutality part of weeklong series of events on campus promoting racial justice 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
as part of a series of protests this week against police brutal­ity and racial injustice, notre dame students staged a “die­in” between o’shaughnessy and debartolo halls at 12:15 Tuesday, lying down on the sidewalk as students in both buildings changed classes. 
The die-in was part of the all lives matter week to end racial injustice organized by the notre dame national association for the advancement of colored people (naacp), the latino student alliance (lsa), the black law student association (blsa), the progressive student alliance (psa) and students in the masters in peace studies program. The events also in­clude a prayer service, another die-in, a roundtable discussion and a public display. 
The demonstrations come most directly in response to the deaths of michael brown and eric garner. The week before Thanksgiving break, protests erupted across the country af­ter a grand jury decided not indict darren wilson, a white police officer who fatally shot brown, an unarmed black man, in august in Ferguson, missouri. 
Two weeks after the decision in wilson’s case, more protests broke out when a staten island 
see proTesT PaGe 4 




We Are 9 to encourage fossil fuel divestment 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
wednesday afternoon, the we are 9 environmental cam­paign will present a petition with more than 1,000 signatures calling for notre dame to divest from fossil fuels to university president Fr. John Jenkins. 
“divestment means removing investments from certain companies, in this case fossil fuel companies,” fresh­man kathleen rocks said. 

rocks is involved in we are 9, which began in the fall of 2013 and, according to its website, is a “sustainability movement that integrates the voices of the entire notre dame commu­nity, including undergraduate students, faculty, graduate stu­dents and clergy.” 
“as most students know, notre dame has a significant endow­ment, worth about 9.8 billion,” rocks said. “somewhere be­tween 12 and 20 percent of that endowment is invested in fossil fuels companies — anything 
see Fuel PaGe 1 


grc panel explores gender roles in disney films 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
The gender relations center (grc) hosted a panel discussion in The oak room of south dining hall on Tuesday that addressed the ways in which disney posi­tively and negatively establishes gender roles in its films. 
susan ohmer, an associate professor of Film, Television and Theatre who specializes in 
see disney PaGe 5 



Library begins interior renovations 

By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
with the conclusion of the 50th anniversary celebration of the hesburgh library in may, the building will begin a multi­phase interior renovation proj­ect dec. 22. 
university librarian diane walker said the research and scholarship needs of students have changed dramatically in the last 50 years. 
“Technology is rapidly chang­ing the landscape of teaching, learning and research at notre dame,” walker said. “as teach­ing methods and instructional tools evolve, new spaces that support interdisciplinary re­search, multimedia assign­ments and collaborative group study are critical to intellectual engagement and, ultimately, academic success.” 

librarian Jessica kayongo said the renovation aims to pro­vide the library’s users a high-quality study environment, which will place it as a leader in academic library spaces. 
“ultimately, we want our us­ers to find what they need for study and research and to be as inspired by the physical sur­roundings within hesburgh library as they are by the mural 
see library PaGe 5 


news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 6 scene PaGe 8 nd women’s bball PaGe 16 men’s baskeTball PaGe 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com What advice would you give to someone about to take their finals? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Paul Mangels 
ann marie Jakubowski 
freshman 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
stanford hall 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton 
Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song 
“remember to get a decent 
Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
amount of rest.” 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin 
Johnathan Beldin 
Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach 
freshman 
Advertising Manager: elaine yu 
Zahm house 

Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
“no matter how badly you do, you’ll always do better than 
Office Manager & General Info 
Jameis winston.” 
ph: (574) 631-7471 
Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Garrett Blad 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
senior 
Managing Editor 
Zahm house 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

“bring your 12-pack of crayons 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu 

and a big smile to your exams.” 
ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


John Kalmanek 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“you’ve got all christmas break to rest. don’t be afraid to give it your all.” 
Erin McDonagh 
junior 
lyons hall 
“start early and manage time well.” 
Erik Mendoza 
junior morrissey manor 
“stay hydrated.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: emily mcconville renee griffin alex winegar owen lane 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Hesburgh Library Mindful Meditation President’s Fall MFA Student Basilica Sunday 
wei lin gabriela leskur 
Renovation Launch Coleman-Morse Christmas Reception Reading Series Mass Hesburgh Library Center Main Building 209 DeBartolo Hall Basilica of the Sacred 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Heart 
Corrections 

“Farewell to the Floor” Open to students of all Open to all University Masters students read 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. 
The observer regards itself as Open House. faith. employees. from their creative Music by Notre Dame a professional publication and 
works. Liturgical Choir. 
strives for the highest standards 
Fall Concert: ISI Fellowship Mass in the Basilica Women’s Basketball Mass at the Basilica 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Collegium Musicum Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Center Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Irish take on University 11:45 a.m.- 12:45 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Interdominational praise Mass for the Feast of of Michigan. Music by Notre Dame 
we can correct our error. 

Open to all. and worship. Our Lady of Guadalupe. Folk Choir. 


Professor wins young investigator award 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
debdeep Jena, profes­sor of electrical engineer­ing, was named the 2014 faster and more precise for lasers for communications, design these materials down to the atomic level. mbe is es­sentially a method by which we control exactly what at-nanotechnology at its highest point of glory in some sense.” 

Jena said he can’t take full credit for the award, as the students he collaborates with are the engine that drive his what people have done be­fore, it will always have hu­manitarian applications in the future,” Jena said. “what my collaborators and i try to figure out is, at the atomic lev­that are in ultraviolet, it has immense applications. For example, they could be used to disinfect drinking water.” 
Jena said some people are afraid of the complexity of the 
young 

investigator by the oms are stacked into layers research. 
international molecular that create the structures we “most of the time, they are 
beam epitaxy (mbe) advisory produce.” the ones who are realizing 
committee for excellence Jena said the technologies what i am sitting and dream-
in the use of mbe to create he and his team employ are ing about,” he said. “it is real-
newer, more efficient semi-changing the way that people ly a very important statement 
conductors that drive the think and interact with the of recognition by the commit-
processors in computing de-world. tee of our ideas and the work 
vices, such as cellphones and “mbe is such a fantastic of the students who realized type of work he conducts, and 


this fear leads to a barrier that 
blocks understanding that is 
unnecessary. 
“many times, what happens 

in this field is many people 
feel detached from this area,” 
he said. “what has happened 
over the ages, as things be-
laptops, as well as light emit­ters used in fiber optics and communication. 
“lasers, leds, transistors — these are all made of semicon­ducting materials,” Jena said. “what we do by molecular beam epitaxy is, in order to make the semiconductors lower power and more energy efficient for electronics and tool,” he said. “once you know how to use it, and you know something that’s missing in a specific area, it almost guar­antees you that there is an an­swer. you can grow any layer structure you want. 
“if i want 50 percent alumi­num, i can do that. if i want 38 percent nitrogen, i can do that. it’s that precise. This is them.” 

The applications of his work with mbe not only help im­prove products for large com­panies and consumers, Jena said, but also improve the quality of life for all people. 
“my philosophy has always been that, no matter which area you are working in, if you really get into it and go beyond el, what it is that’s holding us back from new technologies. 
“as the wavelength of light gets shorter and shorter, that sort of light begins interacting with biological matter very strongly, which is why we pro­tect ourselves with uv lotion,” he said. “but at the same time, if you can generate photons come easier and simpler to use because of the work that goes in under the hood, peo­ple get more and more distant from the technology itself. people assume they have no chance of understanding, and that’s simply not true.” 

Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
professor connects science and renaissance 
was none of that division be-said. “love one another” is common through all those interconnec-
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 

news writer tween these professions, and The current generation will in other religions, christianity tions, the same dna, the same so there was a quest for all transition from the mechani-is unique in emphasizing how chemicals, the same connec­
how do we understand knowledge,” kubick said. “we cal age to the green age, which loving that meant recogniz-tion to the earth and we extend the relationship between have a crossing of ideas and is similar to the renaissance ing the interconnections they that to ‘love the earth as your-technology, ecology and the culture as we have a progres-age in the way it sees the over-shared with one another and self’ because we are part and renaissance? what does it sion of ideas over time.” lapping relationship between with the earth. parcel of all connected mate-mean to move away from an according to kubik, the 21st human and earth, kubik said. “love your neighbor as your-rial in existence.” age of industry to an age of century can currently be clas-he said the transition to this self, meaning you and your renaissance ideals? matthew sified as being in the “mechan-age requires an understanding neighbor are the same thing,” Contact Gabriela Malesin at kubik, associate professor of ical” or industrial age. kubik of how the laws of thermody-kubik said. “we are connected gmalespi@nd.edu construction engineering at said the ideal of the mechani-namics and concepts of energy indiana university-purdue cal age equates progress with define our relationship to the university Fort wayne, ex-growth and cultural values are earth, and it will be important amined these questions in connected to “the amassing of to “consider what the environ-his colloquium Tuesday on greater and greater material mental burdens are going to be the renaissance ideal titled good.” with supply, manufacture, use “living the renaissance ideal “we look at what grows and and disposal.” as a person of Faith in the 21st what thrives to discover the “we’re redefining the con-century.” embedded values within our cept of progress if the actions 
The colloquium was part of culture,” kubik said. we’re taking serve to ensure the renaissance circle, a set of kubik said this set of values that the earth is able to sustain monthly informal workshops has also discouraged us from itself and its inhabitants and for first-year students that con-understanding our connec-sustain our future children,” nect different ideas in the arts, tion to future generations and kubik said. humanities and sciences. contributes to our devaluation according to kubik, the 
during his lecture, kubik of human labor. he said this catholic faith, specifically the said the renaissance ideal en-ideal is currently at odds with christian emphasis on loving couraged interconnectedness, our current resources as we one’s neighbor, held an ideo­an approach that intersects experience a rapid decline in logical connection to the ideals with many of the sociological oil and natural gas reserves. as of the green age of synergy and and ecological issues the world we continue to avoid facing our emphasized the interconnect-currently faces. current ecological condition, ed nature of humanity. kubik 
“in the renaissance there we are “buying time,” kubik said while the mandate to 
student Government weekly uPdate 



The observer | wednesday, december 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

committee decided with a vote resurrecting the “i, Too, am just large, the makeup of the way for students to take ac-Protest to organize the week using notre dame” photo project. crowd was very diverse,” rice tion in the context of their own 
conTinued From page 1 

the title “all lives matter,” in-“our group mostly consist-said. “you had faculty, you environment. 
stead of “black lives matter,” ed of notre dame students,” had administrators — some of “Taking part in actions such grand jury also did not indict which is more commonly williams said. “our biggest them i’d never seen but they as those being coordinated on daniel pantaleo, the police used nationally, in order to issue was trying to bridge came out in support. i just campus this week and hope-officer implicated in garner’s be inclusive of all allies of the the gap between notre dame hope that community feels fully in the upcoming semes­death in July. while a group of movement. students and the south bend empowered to keep meeting, ter help people to feel less officers tried to arrest garner all lives matter week be-community because on cam-keep doing things. i know it’s hopeless and defeated and for selling untaxed cigarettes, gan sunday afternoon at the pus a lot of people say we’re in kind of hard because we are may even make them feel more pantaleo put him in a fatal grotto, where organizers our own bubble. leaving in a week, but i hope empowered,” she said. “it is a chokehold. handed out copies of the yale “basically one of the things we still hear that same kind of way for us as single individuals 
in response to these events, law school blsa’s statement we proposed was bringing fervor and excitement and in-to tap into a wider, nationwide naacp notre dame president denouncing the Ferguson back the photo project that was volvement into next semester.” movement that is standing up, and senior niciah petrovic said grand jury decision and asked started last year by a student wednesday, a dinner and speaking out and demanding she invited representatives of for 4.5 minutes of silence, sym-who graduated that was called discussion session will take change.” several campus organizations bolizing the 4.5 hours brown’s ‘i, Too am notre dame.’” place at legends at 7:30. petrovic said she heard ra­to join a planning committee body was left in the street af-williams said she was glad petrovic said the event will be cial slurs and curse words dur­last week. ter he died. petrovic said the her community was able to a way to plan for the future. ing Tuesday’s die-in and saw 
“we wanted to make sure we group walked to ryan hall for demonstrate in a constructive “we’re going to come out of negative comments on social gave as many people as pos-a prayer service afterwards. way. it with an action plan going media sites such as yik yak, sible the opportunity to shape “[we prayed for] the healing “i was obviously hurt by the into next semester, of what but she was encouraged by the what this week would look of our community as a whole,” [Ferguson and staten island] we’re going to do to keep these numbers and diversity of the like,” she said. petrovic said. “we wanted to decisions,” she said. “it makes conversations going,” petrovic demonstrators. 
sophomore Xitlaly estrada, recognize and mourn that loss me sad to see things that are said. “how do we want to keep “we want to make sure, lsa’s social justice chair, said and the sense of un-safety that going on across the country. raising awareness and keep when things like this happen, the purpose of the week is to a lot of us are feeling.” The protests — people break-getting people to engage in we feel a sense of community start conversation about the on monday, the group set up ing into things, tearing up these conversations that they that shows that not just black institutional nature of police rides to a die-in and demon-the city — i also don’t think wouldn’t necessarily?” people are concerned about brutality. stration at the south bend city that’s the response that people petrovic said the event will this,” petrovic said. “it’s not 
“my goals are not just to council building, organized should take because if we want also be an opportunity for just latinos who are con-spread awareness about police by local rapper “blu” casey, to be treated as equals, we people who disagreed with cerned about this. if you look brutality and its victims but special education teacher can’t be going around tearing the demonstrations to join the at the die-in earlier, there were also about the underlying fac-regina williams and gladys up property and want equal-discussion. way more white people than tor behind many of these injus-muhammad, associate direc-ity or want justice, because “we really want our non-black people. tices,” she said. “i’d hope that tor of the south bend heritage we’re falling into the trap that sympathizers to come out,” “That gives us in the black after this week more people Foundation. petrovic estimat-they’re setting for us.” she said. “we don’t want them community and latino com-will be willing to realize that ed 25 notre dame students Tuesday’s notre dame die-in to stay silent or feel like we munity a sense of comfort we don’t live in a post-racial attended. she said the group lasted 11 minutes, symboliz-don’t want to engage with and solidarity in knowing that society, but we must openly act joined with the community or-ing the 11 times garner said, “i them because we do.” we’re not the only ones who to combat racism, prejudices ganizers in order to show soli-can’t breathe” before he died. Thursday, the organizers care about our lives. we’re not and systematic injustices so darity with south bend. senior alex rice, president of plan to set up a display between the only ones who feel a sense that one day we might.” “when there’s no commu-the africana studies club, said debartolo and o’shaughnessy of loss or a sense of grieving 
petrovic said the events are nity solidarity, you can’t take she was struck by the number halls. when things like this happen.” also meant to address backlash solid action and meet the and diversity of people who kathryn lance, a phd stu­among notre dame students problems that are going on,” attended. dent in the peace studies Contact Emily McConville at against the national protests. petrovic said. “There’s long “it was a large group, and not program, said the week is a emcconv1@nd.edu 
“we have classmates of ours, been a chasm between the 
paid adverTisemenT 

peers of ours, people that we notre dame community and live in dorms with and eat with the south bend community, telling us that this isn’t an is-so we want to dissolve that sue, or you guys make every-chasm.” thing about race, or even a lot small-group discussions in of hateful and hurtful things which community members have been said,” she said. “we developed action plans fol-have to take the time to, one, lowed the die-in at the city make space to engage in our council building, which also feelings about this and, two, lasted 4.5 minutes. sophomore to bring into the conversation Jourdyhn williams, notre people who may just not be dame naacp’s diversity enlightened about what these council representative, at-issues are and how they’re tended the south bend and complicit in them.” notre dame die-ins and 
petrovic said the planning said her group discussed with the addition of a grand “The we are 9 campaign is over-consumption and pollu­




library 
reading room facing west, Fuel a climate justice movement. tion,” senior katie otterbeck 

conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
along with several smaller 

climate change is dispro-said. rooms for individual work­
portionately harming poor, working closely with blad, on its iconic exterior,” kayongo space, walker said. critical in-
from shale, fracking, oil to nat-indigenous and minority com-otterbeck helped launch the said. frastructure issues such as the 
ural gas corporations. munities. we have seen this we are 9 campaign and has phase i of the renovation fo-addition of electrical outlets 
“we’re asking Fr. Jenkins and in natural disasters such as continued pursuing a variety cuses on transforming the en-will also be addressed in order 
the investment office to reinvest hurricane sandy and Typhoon of goals over the past several trance gallery and tower floor to support research and learn-
the money currently invested in haiyan and with all of the months. 10, kayongo said. a new en-ing, she said. 
fossil fuel companies into sus-droughts, floods, wildfires and “i think that some people trance will be installed on the “some of the overarching 
tainable and green companies.” diseases that are happening have a deeper sense of biophilia north side of the building, and features that will tie the reno­
at 4:30 p.m., the group will right now across the globe,” instilled in them naturally than the formation of new openings vation together [are] making 
assemble outside the main blad said. others do, and for me this love will create “vertical connec-neighborhoods, introducing 
building and then proceed to we are 9 takes its name from of and respect for the natu­tions between the floors.” natural light, creating connec­
Jenkins’s office to deliver the the statistic predicting approxi-ral world has translated into renovations also include the tions and transforming learn-
petitions. mately nine billion people will environmental advocacy ... addition of a skylight on the ing spaces,” walker said. 
“as privileged members of live on earth by 2050. acknowledging that the disas­north end, adjacent to a new while renovation planning 
society here at notre dame, “climate change is a mat-trous effects of global warming reading room on the second lasted the duration of 2013, 
we have been given much and ter of social justice and human on all earth’s precious species floor, and a south-facing view kayongo said the majority of 
therefore much is expected rights, because those who are and ecosystems can be stopped from the second floor out to-2014 was spent developing spe­
of us,” we are 9 leader, senior most adversely affected by en-if we work together,” otterbeck ward the stadium, kayongo cific design details. The final 
garrett blad said. “This is a vironmental degradation are said. said. design was a collaboration be-
small way to show president those who are already most “These changes, we hope, tween the shepley [bulfinch] 
Jenkins the concern of the poor and vulnerable — those Contact Rachel O’Grady at will address user concerns architects, the Facilities design 
notre dame community. who are least responsible for rogrady@nd.edu we have heard over the years, & operations, the renovation particularly in terms of way-steering committee and vari­finding and natural light,” she ous campus service providers. 
as “first generation princesses,” and caricatures as well. 
disney 

said. “renovation of the 10th “it is truly exciting [for] li­featured prominently in films “i feel like a lot of the male 
conTinued From page 1 

floor will [also] open up limited brary renovation to begin, as 
produced in the 1930s through characters are either bland ... window access to more of our the building has not seen any 
the 1950s. or they are just [meant] to carry users.” major renovation, except to the 
disney films; kelly cronin, a se-cronin said in more recent princesses or they are hyper-later renovation phases will lower level and the penthouse, 
nior and peer educator for the disney princess films — those masculine or they are almost also replace the wooden study since it opened 50 years ago,” 
grc and Thomas wintering, a that ohmer called the “third desexualized,” she said. carrels with updated furniture kayongo said. 
2014 alumnus and current as-generation princess films,” The conversation ended with and add a scholar’s lounge, spe-walker said the 50th an­
sistant rector in keenan hall sat the princesses strive for lofti-a discussion about male-female cial collections room and grand niversary celebration of the 
on the panel. er goals beyond finding their relationships within the films. reading room, according to the hesburgh library was an op-
To introduce the topic, the princes. “one thing i continue to notre dame website. portunity to reflect on the past 
event’s host maureen doyle, “[belle] has read basically find striking is how few female “The entire project is several and on the “original vision that 
assistant director for lgbTQ every book in the bookstore,” friendships there are and how phases, likely to take several this library would stand as a 
concerns for the grc, played a cronin said. “we see Tiana who few female-and-male relation-years, but completion of subse-symbol of academic excellence 
video clip that parodied prin-is working hard to earn enough ships there are,” cronin said. quent project phases is depen-for the world to see.” 
cesses as real life girls. The money to buy a restaurant.” “if you are a girl, you can have dent on benefaction,” kayongo “we are excited, now, to look 
conversation then began with a even though the first genera-a guy that’s your friend as long said. ahead to the next 50 years and 
discussion of disney princesses tion princesses hold domestic as you are a child, but once you walker said future phases beyond,” she said. 
and the image of femininity roles, they still maintain a com-grow up, you have to get mar-will include the creation of students are invited to attend 
they portray. plexity that depicts women as ried or you cannot be friends.” the collaboration hub, which the Farewell to the Floor open 
“There are a lot of flaws in strong individuals albeit dif-she said she noted “only two will “provide dynamic, flex-house on the second floor of 
disney,” ohmer pointed out at ficult circumstances, ohmer female friendships” in disney ible and inspirational environ-hesburgh library wednesday 
the beginning of the discussion. said. films: one in ‘pocahontas’ and ments with hi-tech capabilities at 4 p.m. The event will feature 
cronin referenced the limit-“[snow white’s] mother died, one in ‘The princess and the where groups of students from refreshments, music and a sign­
ing roles princesses often play her father died, her stepmother Frog.’ various disciplines can work the-floor event. 
in their own films, as well as wanted her to be killed and yet These controversies sur­across multiple platforms to To learn more about the reno­
the stereotypical activities they she maintains this sweetness ... rounding disney’s portrayal explore projects and research vation process go to renovation. 
typically perform. and she has a very, very strong of men and women are not questions.” library.nd.edu 
“The first three princesses desire to nurture,” ohmer said. enough to deter consumption, renovation will also address 
are snow white, cinderella and The men of disney films are ohmer said. students’ concerns for quiet, Contact Carolyn Hutyra at 
aurora, and all three spend a also represented in an obscure “we are aware of the ste­contemplative study spaces chutyra@nd.edu 
great deal of time in the movies light, wintering said. reotypes, but we sing [the 
doing domestic work,” cronin according to the disney ‘Frozen’ soundtrack], we buy 
said. films, “the ideal man is a bil-the merchandise, we watch the 
however, ohmer said, it is im-lionaire who comes riding in on films. we just appreciate the 
portant to note “the contexts in a white horse and is jacked,” he limitations.” 
which [disney princesses] were said. 
created.” These early heroines, cronin said portrayals of Contact Alyssa Lyon at 
whom ohmer acknowledged disney men reflect stereotypes alyon@nd.edu 



InsIde column 

care for your engine 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 

Today one of my professors compared my body to an engine. 
This was not in a my body-is-too-hot-to-touch or my body-is-smokin’ way because if you looked at me, we all know she would have been lying. 
rather, she told me this in a concerned man­ner after i had survived a 37-hour, snack-food, coffee-fueled, unshowered sleepless stretch trying to finish my thesis draft, while still com­pleting my class readings and attending classes (i know, i am superman and you don’t care). 
anyways, she told me that living life on a deadline will catch up to me eventually and my engine will sputter out, and die. 
she laughed at this because she understands the life of college students, as she has assigned plenty of papers and set just as many deadlines. she laughed even more because she knows that i am a student journalist who hopes to make a career meeting deadlines and not delivering pizzas. 
as she gathered herself from laughing at the joke that is my life, her only after-college advice was “good luck.” 
i like deadlines. i often feel like i would never get anything done if i didn’t have the pressure of the chilling presence and weight of a deadline spector looming over my shoulder. Though help­ful, deadlines can be, well, deathly. There is a fine line between the value deadlines provide us and the all-consuming stress they cause us. 
i also like the thrill of finishing something on deadline and feeling the sense of success and relief immediately after. i would have felt some­thing after i sent in my thesis, but the tingling caffeine sensation was too strong. i felt accom­plished the next morning after i had gotten some sleep, but it was only a momentary breather before i thought about next week’s deadlines. 
it may be too dramatic to say deadlines are deathly, but we all have to deal with them. no matter what we do there will be more deadlines after college. projects at work to complete for those of you with jobs, taxes to finish for those with or without money and setting fantasy foot­ball lineups for those who think they will win it this year. 
now in the trance-like residual mess of not having slept for 37 hours, i am not saying that we need to get rid of deadlines all-together; other­wise, nothing would ever get done. 
i am just saying we can handle deadlines, and more importantly ourselves, better. 
sometimes it seems like the stress of dead­lines is going to give us aneurysms and ulcers and mono, but we need to not let it. if something is that important, get it done sooner. if it is not that important, don’t allow the deadline to build into a giant soul-crushing monster. 
i understand we all have classes and extra­curriculars and social lives, but we have to re­member we need to take care of our bodies like an engine. especially as final week approaches, remember to take a moment to fuel up with some actual food, get some rest not sitting up and above all else, breathe. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter to the edItor 

Act up, act now 
shortly after noon on Tuesday, i joined a group of students and faculty in a peaceful protest on the sidewalk between o’shaughnessy hall and debartolo hall. we laid on the ground for 11 minutes in refer­ence to the 11 times eric garner stated that he could not breathe as a new york city police officer used a chokehold that ultimately ended his life. after the allotted time had passed, we stood up and chanted as we dispersed to class. 
i have never felt more proud to be a part of the notre dame community. but we are not done. 
The epidemic of police brutality is one that can not be ignored. The senseless deaths of garner, michael brown, Tamir rice and countless others, combined with the utter lack of culpability for their killers, makes me ashamed as an american and as a human being. 
i am lucky that my reaction is one of shame, frustra­tion and anger as opposed to complete fear for my life. This is a black issue, and i can not imagine how black people across the country must feel as these killings keep happening with no repercussions, the american justice system communicating loudly and clearly that their lives are not even worth a trial. 
here at notre dame, a campus dominated by white people, it can be easy to brush all this off. i myself have never been uncomfortable around the police, have never worried that an innocent gesture could be interpreted as a threat and have never feared that i would be gunned down in the street. white people can not let their privilege block out what is happening to black people. all lives matter, yes, but black lives are repeatedly treated as disposable. 
This has to change. if you’d like to help, come to the discussion at legends at 7:30 wednesday night. help put up markers for the deceased on south Quad on Thursday morning. 
at the very least, have a conversation. Talk to your friends, talk to your professors, talk to your family. This movement is not against any institution or group of people. it is about securing equal protection under law for all, regardless of race. 
in the face of such tragedies, it is tempting to lose faith, to succumb to cynicism. don’t. change is possi­ble with hope, with solidarity and with action. i would like to close with the advice we chanted on Tuesday as we concluded the protest, “act up. act now. act up. act now.” 
Jack Reidy 
sophomore morrissey hall dec. 3 

let no hello expire 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 

i have 1,637 friends on Facebook, an immense number that falsely speaks to both the nature of my social life and general popularity. admittedly, there are some who contribute to this digit that i’ve never formally introduced myself to; i just could not resist the chance to stalk their profile. but the vast majority of this 1,637 represents an assemblage of individuals i’ve befriended through years of schooling, summer camps and dorm parties. i can’t quite wrap my mind around the fact that i’ve encountered this many peo­ple in only two decades of life, but the number stands. 
i’ve always been intrigued by Facebook’s ability to filter news feeds according to the friends users in­teract with the most at any given time period. now, almost completely occupied with those from my notre dame network, my news Feed looks totally different than it did three years ago. it’s only once in a while that the kid who “left” high school freshman year or my bunkmate from band camp circa 2010 pop up on my homepage. because of these social media blasts­from-the-pasts, i know he recently starred as the lead role in a theatre production of “cats” and she just accepted a position with google. yet, if i saw these former peers in person, would i congratulate them on their recent successes? moreover, if i were to run into each of my Facebook friends on any given day, how many of them would i even say hello to? i know the number would not be close to 1,637. a 
s we move to different places and take on differ­ent stages of life, do former friendships approach an expiration date? are hellos for a limited time only? Facebook’s news feed filtering system certainly lends itself to this idea. 
it’s hard to discern the status of our relationships with those who fall between acquaintance and friend: the peers we’ve sat next to in lecture halls for a se­mester but never see on campus, the friends of friends we’ve shared a single meal with at the dining hall, and the dance floor make-outs that last a matter of min­utes. as affiliations with these people rarely progress past mere informality, friendly exchanges are bound to expire. 
every Tuesday and Thursday on my way to debartolo, i get the “sup” head nod from my fresh­man orientation three-legged race partner. This hello is long past its due date; i have not spoken to the kid since the first week of school, don’t even remember his name. nevertheless, in our moment of mutual rec­ognition, i am brought back to my freshman year joys and anxieties, the absolute newness of college. in a simple hello, past sentiments and memories that have made me who i am today are momentarily renewed. 
Though i have not talked to the boy who would ag­gressively dance to lady gaga at every high school homecoming, and have no idea what that “up-to-no­good-10-year-old-girl” who lived next door to us for a while is actually up to anymore, if i ever crossed paths with these people of the past i’d be eager to at least exchange a wave. perhaps, in renewing these hellos, i could revive the memories of them that have left such great impressions. if for but a second, i’d love to recall the pure joy i felt watching this sweaty teen leave ev­erything on the dance floor. i’d do anything to relive the time when my neighbor friend and i cut off every luscious lock of our barbie dolls in declaration of our new tomboy status. These individuals define mo­ments in my life i hope never expire, so why would i passively let the connection die out completely? 
i’ve decided that i am going to renew one expired hello each day for 30 days, as a way to commemorate these people of the past. 
i challenge you to do the same. Take the initiative to rekindle a bond that once was: initiate a wave to that peer you haven’t greeted since microbes and man, text a cell phone contact you haven’t used in years, spontaneously Facebook chat your high school locker buddy, send an email to your sixth grade english teacher. don’t worry about awkward rejection — you never or rarely see these people anymore anyway so there’s really nothing to lose! Just one person a day 
— that’s it. i have a good feeling the results could be pretty darn cool. 
Paige Affinito is a junior studying at the University of Notre Dame, living in Breen-Phillips. You may reach her at paffinito@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

oxford feminists, cisgender males and abortion 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

on nov. 18, british journalists brendan o’neill and Tim stanley were set to debate the motion “This house believes britain’s abortion culture hurts us all” at christ church college at the university of oxford. The debate was sched­uled by oxford students for life (osFl), a secular student organization. but when a coalition of christ church under­grads and oxford feminists voiced disapproval over two “cisgender males” debating abortion, the whole event was cancelled. 
Following the cancellation, stanley, who was to argue for the motion (the “pro-life” position), wrote a follow-up article in The Telegraph, which began thus: “i would’ve thought that the one place in britain where you could agree to disagree amicably would be oxford university. but i was wrong. For instance, i’ve discovered that you’re only allowed to debate abortion there if a) you are a woman and b) you’re all for it. any other approach to the subject is liable to attract a mob . . .” 
in light of this event, which has been covered in news publications as diverse as The washington post and The philippine Times and cited as an instance of censorship, i will endeavor to dissect some of the language used in this controversy as well as in the pro-life / pro-choice debate in general. Terminology, i think we will find, lies at the heart of the issue. 
First, more facts: nov. 18’s debate was the third event planned by osFl during the term, the two prior events featuring the speakers michaela aston and Tanni grey-Thompson. after osFl announced the debate on their Facebook page, the women’s campaign (womcam), an oxford student movement “to promote gender equality and raise awareness of feminist issues” (as per their Tumblr), spoke out against the event, claiming it “absurd to think we should be listening to two cisgender men debate about what people with uteruses should be doing with their bodies.” a comment on their Facebook page invited all opposed to “take along some non-destructive but oh so disruptive in­struments to help demonstrate to the anti-choicers just what we think of their ‘debate.’” with the support of the christ church Junior common room representing the college’s undergrads, christ church college decided not to hold the debate, citing “insufficient time between today and tomor­row to address some concerns they had about the meeting.” when osFl could not find another venue, the event was cancelled indefinitely. cue free speech controversy. 
let’s step back for a moment and examine the language used. 
First, the topic debated was not the legal status of abor­tion, but whether “abortion culture” is harmful. womcam, then, had little reason to be upset about people with uterus-es being told what to do with their bodies. however, o’neill (the pro-choice debater) was going to call attention to this very term in the speech he would have given (since made available online), saying that “culture” is added to words to “make something sound scarier than it actually is.” on the other hand, stanley would have argued in his speech that, “abortion is at the very centre of the therapeutic state: the state that dulls pain with simplistic solutions rather than addresses their complex causes.” certain wordings might invoke fear, but abortion isn’t exactly something to calmly shrug off. 
second, the framing of the abortion debate in general seems entirely rooted in controlling words, a battle to see who will be the definer. Just look at the factions: “pro­choice” and “pro-life.” who wants to stand against life and choice? Thus, womcam defined the opposition as “anti­choicers” while the phrase “abortion is murder” is not un­heard of in the opposing camp. moreover, the entire debate centers on defining what a “human person” is, when “the right to life” begins and what “bodily autonomy” means. The whole reason why womcam protested the oxford de­bate was because they felt women would not be involved in this defining process. but would women really be excluded if two qualified journalists who happened to be male de­bated the costs and benefits of abortion in britain? 
i don’t think so. what i think the debate needs is an extension of context. on osFl’s Facebook page, one student commented, “when i discuss abortion, it’s inseparable from the idea that i wouldn’t immediately know what to do if i were to find myself accidentally pregnant. That said, of course men can add value to discussions about abortion. in fact, i’d like to see more men considering the topic of abor­tion with a view to a pregnancy they might have accidentally caused – rather than as an abstract issue.” 
i agree; men should think about themselves as potentially involved in unintended pregnancies. and i would take it one step further. why are so many pregnancies “accidentally” happening? is it “abortion culture” or “sexual culture” that we should address as the underlying cause? 
in the 2008 battle of ideas festival in london, pro-choice advocate anne Furedi (who actually supported osFl’s right to hold the debate in oxford last Tuesday) explained her op­position to the view “that sex has to take place in a respon­sible, planned, relationship kind of a way,” stating that “we can live in a society with sex without fear of consequences, and abortion is very much a backstop to that.” 
what? did a major figure of the pro-choice movement seriously promote a view of sex that is neither “responsible” nor “planned”? 
if your definition of sex necessitates abortion, then i think your definition needs some serious reworking. Forget free speech and abortion debates. what we need to talk about is basic responsibility — both for oxford feminists to actually respond within debates rather than preventing them, and for the whole of society to make responsible choices regard­ing sexuality and the words we use to define it and its natu­ral consequences. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Mary Wollstonecraft (English) and Joseph Ratzinger (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, UK. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter to the edItor 

Alumnus questions campus GLBTQ discussion 
dear notre dame community, 

it’s rather odd that i decide to write an observer article after 17 years have passed since i was a notre dame student. i know things have changed, but at the same time, i realize the beauty of notre dame is the constancy of the university in so many wonderful facets – the academia, spirituality, athletics and certainly, let us not forget, controversy and exchanges of ideas. isn’t this what a university education is all about? 
i write this letter from outside the university looking in, from someone who knows and loves notre dame well, but is not there to witness the current daily dynamics of our university. please understand that i fully admit that my re­marks are mere assumptions about today’s notre dame and merely ask to clarify the situation. i fully understand i may be missing the mark here completely. i am simply putting my thoughts onto paper as an alumnus perceiving activities on campus from afar. 
recently, i have read frustrations regarding students for child oriented policy (scop) – accusations of narrow-mindedness, possible hatred and lack of christian charity in the group’s mission. 
certainly, human sexuality is an immensely complex issue, and i am no expert in the field. rather, i am an econo­mist in thought. i currently teach economics and under­stand the natural balance maintained in society and life, dare i say god’s natural law. with 30+ states allowing for the marriage of same-sex couples, it is impossible for notre dame to ignore (nor should the university ignore) the new forms of these issues in today’s society. as an institution staunchly grounded in the christian foundation, it is notre dame’s duty to address any issues affecting society because it affects her students. 
i commend the administration, and in particular my former notre dame classmate and friend, erin hoffmann harding, who so eloquently addressed notre dame’s mis­sion and the university’s responsibility in this heated debate with the establishment of “beloved Friends and allies,” a collaborative piece between university and church that beautifully explains notre dame’s mission to the glbTQ community in a distinctly catholic context. 
of course, with any organization, especially one the size of notre dame, human error is never extinct. i am assuming that the execution of this plan and topic on campus is not perfect. and here i arrive at my perceptions and questions. 
are there organizations on campus in support of glbTQ community walking a fine line on church teaching? are they doing just enough to not be antithetical to church teaching, but somehow promoting ideas against the church’s teachings? i do not know, as one not on campus currently, but from the responses i have seen, it seems that may be the case. 
For two years now, students have been walking through rainbow doorways on campus to come out as whoever they want to be. This is a great concept displaying god’s individuality in creation, and it would seem that this move­ment is done in accordance with the catholic message. it is here i wonder as well. is there somewhere a hidden agenda existing that promotes a lifestyle that counters what the church considers to be god’s natural law? do the members of students for child-oriented policy (scop) sense hidden agendas (whether or not they are actually present)? i would assume that scop does sense that a hidden agenda is in place for some groups and activities at notre dame. 
is this the natural balance that scop provides to the notre dame community, or is scop merely a right-wing extremist group? personally, i believe scop is providing a needed balance to notre dame. i believe that students in­volved in scop love god, god’s church, notre dame and all of you reading this. i believe that scop is not intending to be hateful, but inform those they care about what the church preaches regarding sexual unions. let us never forget that although a university, even a great university, notre dame goes beyond and is a great catholic university. 
Gregory Bergman 
alumnus notre dame class of 1997 dec. 3 



By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

in 2014 normcore was the norm. everyone from The new york Times to gap had a stance on the trend that in­corporated a dad-esque wardrobe of tennis shoes, baggy light-wash jeans, neutrals and t-shirts into a high-fashion movement. perhaps the effect of ezra koenig’s legend­ary “cool dad” Twitter movement, girls everywhere were thrifting overalls, ditching skinny jeans for a pair of their boyfriend’s jeans and wearing socks with heels. guys at notre dame kept wearing sweatshirts and jeans with sneakers and unintentionally capitalized on the trend. 
another trend that capitalized on the demand for fash­ionable comfort was the sporty movement fueled by the alexander wang X h&m collaboration. rihanna, leandre medine, solange knowles, Jessica chastain, kate mara, mary J blige, beyonce and eddie redmayne have all been spotted in the viral gym-meets-runway collection. 
kanye west, who sat front row at wang’s spring/sum­mer 2014 show embodies the high-fashion takeover of high-school jock attire. in one of many memorable quotes from his gQ exclusive, he divulged how this trend could have topped 2008s list instead of 2014s. 
“whether i’m at a dinner with anna wintour, or i’m at a listening session with pusha, or me and virgil are in rome giving designs to Fendi over and over and getting our designs knocked down,” the rapper said. 
“we brought the leather jogging pants six years ago to Fendi, and they said, ‘no.’ how many mothers you done seen with a jogging pant?” 
although the answer to west’s question is probably zero on notre dame’s campus, students can capitalize on less expensive — and less bieberish — fashionable sportswear styles. For example, joggers — sweatpants that are tighter around the ankles — in heathered or black (no gray please — we can’t risk “groutfits”) versions can replace those sweatpants you bought at the bookstore because they resembled issue gear. The trend has girls rocking Jordans with leather or mesh-paneled leggings instead of the same old lululemon versions. scuba mate­rial, perforated accents and cut-outs all contribute to the sporty trend. 
although it may be 2014, this year saw the return of retro 1950s styles. in tune with this year’s announcement of a “Twin peaks” third season, we saw the revival of full skirts, plaid and turtlenecks while midi skirts — skirts that skim below the knee, usually in a fuller silhouette — replaced mini skirts. 
however don’t rejoice yet, grandma: while skirts have lengthened, shirts have shortened. That’s right, perhaps topping this year’s trend list: the crop top. 
The year in fashion harkened back to the ‘90s for inspi­ration, as we saw chokers, slip dresses and as much mid­riff as we had since britney spears’s “… baby one more Time” music video. This year we also saw Taylor swift just become a singing, world-dominating human crop top. 
This trend was heightened when worn as a matching set. whether you wore a printed shirt and skirt combo posing as a versatile sundress, a metallic shirt and shorts combo creating a sultry out-on-the town look or a mono­chrome top and pant set posing as a youthful version of a power suit, this trend’s popularity and versatility could not be matched. it was basically the best thing to happen to your closet since you got rid of your favorite reversible shirt in fourth grade. 
moving out of the clothes realm and onto hair, another short trend that cropped up everywhere in 2014 was the bob. human crop top Taylor swift, along with Jennifer lawrence, emma stone and lily collins all committed to shorter dos. 
while women were cutting their hair, men were at­tempting to grow their hair out long enough to wear the esteemed “mun” (man bun) after Jared leto’s locks won an oscar. 
guys embodied the all-american lumberjack look of these buns with corduroy or denim sherpa-lined jack­ets, denim shirts and carharrt workwear. celebrities like Jake gyllenhall, penn badgely, bradley cooper and harry styles have all been trying out this hairy style. 
now that we’ve looked back at 2014, it’s time we keep our eyes out for the tastes and trends of that will define the upcoming year. but don’t throw away your joggers and dad jeans just yet. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

with the end of the year finally here, everyone from news outlets to independent bloggers are pitching in their two cents on the best of pop culture in 2014. but the last page on the calendar also signals the start of awards season, a time during which we’d expect academies and industries to applaud the best and brightest in pop culture. 
however this december, like every december, the nominations for the 2015 grammy awards are a disap­pointing show of the year in music. in fact, it seems that the recording academy has somehow outdone itself in the absurdity of some nominations, and the myopic scope of nominees is unfortunately unsurprising. 
The 2014 grammys were overshadowed by the flurry of nominations and awards that went to macklemore and ryan lewis. The pair nabbed a staggering four awards: best new artist, best rap album, best rap song and best rap performance, and the wins seemed so wrong, even macklemore himself knew he shouldn’t have walked away with an award that belonged to kendrick lamar. 
with the nominees for the 2015 grammy awards re­leased, it appears we’re in for some déjà vu. iggy azalea, who has been accused of bursting into the scene and white-washing hip-hop this year just as macklemore did last year, has been nominated for best new artist, record of the year, best pop/duo performance and best rap album. we’ll see if iggy and her debut album, “The new classic,” make like macklemore and steal the hip-hop spotlight while stirring up some outrage. 
even categories that fly relatively under the radar fell flat. The nominees in best comedy album are as predictable as the best record nominees, with a list of comedians including patton oswalt, Jim gaffigan and sarah silverman. sure, all three are great comedians with plenty of excellent material, but to claim that any of them stole the show in comedy this year is hilariously tone deaf. 
There are, however, a few beacons of light amidst the generally disappointing nominations. The best dance/ electronica album is chock full of great nominees, including aphex Twin for “spyro” and little dragon’s “namuba rubberband.” arcade Fire got a nod for best music video with their production of “we exist,” and st. vincent grabbed a best alternative album with her eponymous 2014 album, an award she more than deserves. 
still, the rest of the nominees are enough to con­vince any music fan to keep the Tv off when the 2015 grammys air Feb. 8. The worst part, however, is that the list of nominations is as predictable as they are disap­pointing, yet we find ourselves tuning in and live tweet­ing the awards each year. 
This year is no exception. despite my frustration with everything that is the grammys, i’m afraid i’ll catch myself flipping on cbs that evening anyway, if only with the hope of incredible performances from nicki minaj or beyonce, both of whom have been nominated this year. all that’s left to do is hope and pray there won’t be another performance combining my favorite and least favorite artists (i’m looking at you, kendrick lamar and imagine dragons this year), saving me from perhaps the most complicated mix of emotions i’ve ever experi­enced. a music fan can only hope. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

between female artists dominating the music charts to inspirational girls grabbing peace prizes and throwing little league pitches, here’s a look back at the best and brightest moments for women in the media this year. 
beyoncé was beyoncé and “FemInIst” was her backup dancer for seven blissful seconds 
somehow topping her 2013 superbowl halftime show that literally shut everything down, the world stood still for 16 and a half perfect minutes this august at the mTv video music awards as Queen b once again proved that girls do in fact run the world. 
The iconic image of her majesty standing in front of the word “FeminisT”  (which has arguably been the most controversial buzzword of the year) suddenly started appearing everywhere, even making a cameo on my pumpkin this halloween. beyoncé yet again let us all know that she is not only one of the hardest working and talented women in the industry, one that stands for the empowerment of women and makes the idea of femi­nism accessible to her fans. 
“1989” sells 1.287 million copies in its first week, turning even the haters into swiftie converts 
Taylor swift unsurprisingly dominated again in 2014, her fifth studio album becoming the second most successful album of the year, bowing only to the “Frozen” soundtrack, which was released a whole 10 months be­fore swift dropped the mic in late october. “1989” is an undeniable mainstream masterpiece and showcases T-swizzle’s new identity as an independent woman in a business that always labeled her as simply a “whiny se­rial dater with a guitar.” whether you’re in awe of “blank space” or bumpin’ it to “shake it off,” you have to admit that Taylor has killed it on every level this year — and she did it all without a man. 
mo’ne davis pitched a shutout, got on the cover of “sports Illustrated” and showed us all how an mlb first pitch should be thrown 
“mo’ne – remember her name” are the large words that caption a photo of 13-year-old mo’ne davis on the front of america’s most popular sports magazine. not a big deal, but it made her the first little league player ever to appear on the cover of sports illustrated. as the first girl to earn a win and pitch a shutout in the televised world series for 11 to 13 year olds, davis told the world girls can do anything a man can – and she hasn’t even graduated middle school. 
emma watson starts a worldwide movement 
unless you spilled starbucks on your laptop, dropped your cracked iphone in the toilet or never got around to plugging that cable thing into your Tv, then you probably have heard about emma watson’s speech introducing the “he For she” campaign at the un this september. The most talented hogwarts student of our age reminded ev­eryone that gender stereotypes affect everyone, spring­ing a global movement of male supporters of women’s rights. nearly 200,000 men have taken the pledge, in­cluding Joseph gordon-levitt and Tom hiddleston. 
laverne cox was amazing – and the world final­ly recognized 
we know and love lavern cox as sophia burset on the netflix original series “orange is the new black” — a role that has helped aid in the nationwide discussion of transgender rights in our country. The role has also giv­en cox a springboard to continue her work as one of the fiercest advocates for equality for the transgender com­munity. after being the first openly transgender person to be nominated for an emmy in an acting category, the activist went on to be the first openly trans person to be featured on the cover of Time magazine in may of this year. 
malala yousafzai 

The youngest person ever to win the nobel peace prize all in pursuit of better access to education for females around the world, malala yousafzai is girl power person­ified and at 17 years old as an assassination survivor, and she’s just getting started. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at alowery1@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


sPorts authorIty 

making things interesting in cFp 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 
if college football’s purpose is to prepare the next genera­tion of nFl players for profes­sional competition, the ncaa needs to add something extra to its bowl selection process. 
ideally it would be an eight-team playoff with the power five conference champions and three at-large bids, as conference champions in the nFl make the playoffs and there are two wild cards. however, there is not enough time for such a setup and stu­dent-athletes would no longer need the student part of their title. so, scratch that. 
conference champions are often not the best teams in the league, but somehow they get in and a few even win. i’m thinking of the 7-9 seahawks of 2010, who won in the first round. and the giants when they won the superbowl in 2010 with a 9-7 record and 2007 with a 10-6 record. looking at the aFc south this year, it looks like a team with a losing record most likely will get in. we could actually see a 6-10 Falcons or saints make the playoffs, and who knows what kind of havoc they could wreak if they win. 
There is no way a team without a perfect, or nearly perfect, record would make the college football playoffs. granted, there are more con­ferences and more teams in college football and a greater disparity of talent between conferences; however, there is no sense of random upsets in the college football playoff system. The four teams now in the playoffs all have the best records from the best confer­ences and have proven them­selves throughout the year. There is no such thing as a late-season push for the play­offs in college football. once a team loses, its hopes at the playoffs are doubtful; once a team loses twice, it is impos­sible to make the playoffs. 
since the selection process and committee are in their inaugural year, i think we should give the four-team playoff system a chance for a few years to see how it plays out. however, i think we should add a twist next sea­son. The playoff committee should select a wild-card or two in the truest sense of the word. 
This is not an argument for 12-1 baylor or 12-1 Tcu to get into the playoffs, that would be tedious. i’m thinking more like an 8-4 minnesota or a 7-5 stanford as possible candi­dates for the wildcard slot. 
These teams are kind of good and have the potential to be good, so give them a shot to maybe win. They will for sure be the long shots in the play­offs but they might surprise a few people along the way. if they make the playoffs, they will play harder, which might make for an interesting game. once they have something to play for, who knows -- maybe they, too, could make a play­off run and win the national championship. however, it may be hard to pick which mediocre team deserves such a shot. i think the playoff team should arbitrarily or even randomly select which team gets in. i’m not above arguing that the selection committee should roll a dice or assign teams random num­bers and have a fan or intern pick a number between 1-100. it would make the playoff sys­tem more interesting and give talented yet unlucky teams a shot to win it all. 
every team with a 6-6 re­cord should be written down on a piece of paper and thrown into a large hat, then one of the selection commit­tee members should pull out one or two teams who will get to play in the college football playoffs. 
in the world of sports, the best team doesn’t always win and underdog stories are the best to follow. no one will ever be happy with college foot­ball rankings, so the playoff committee should make at least one team happy around christmas with a random act of kindness. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ncaa men’s basketball | wichiTa sTaTe 77, seTon hall 68 
Wichita State overcomes slow start to beat Pirates 
Associated Press 

wichiTa, kansas — ron baker scored 22 points, Fred vanvleet added 18 points and eight assists and no. 11 wichita state handed seton hall its first loss of the sea­son, 77-68 on Tuesday night. 
darius carter had 16 points and 12 rebounds for the shockers (6-1), who used a big first-half run to seize control, and then breezed through a foul-filled second half. 
isaiah whitehead scored 23 points and sterling gibbs had 19 for the pirates (7-1), who beat another missouri valley team in illinois state earlier this season, but had yet to play anybody as deep, talented and filled with seasoned veterans as the shockers. 
wichita state has won 22 consecutive home games dating to the 2012-13 season. 
The shockers started off poorly, missing eight of their first 11 shots. That al­lowed seton hall to build a 13-8 lead, along with some confidence. 
everything turned around the final 12 minutes of the first half. 
Turning up the pres­sure, the shockers forced turnovers on four straight possessions, most of them turning into easy run-outs. rashard kelly began the run with back-to-back baskets, but it was baker who shook the entire building when he slammed a one-handed dunk on a fast break. 
by the time baker curled in a 3-pointer, the shockers forced another turnover and shaquille morris made a pair of foul shots, a 13-0 run had produced a 21-13 lead. 
wichita state stretched its run to 26-5 near the end of the half, with each of the pirates’ points coming from whitehead, who had 18 at the break. but even 
his virtuoso performance had a noticeable blemish 
— after knocking down a 3-pointer in front of wichita state coach gregg marshall, 
whitehead  was  whistled  
for  a  technical  foul  for  
celebrating.  

whitehead hurt his right shoulder early in the sec­ond half when he got tied up jumping for a rebound. while he lay on the court, coach kevin willard walked onto the floor — apparently trying to stop the game — and was whistled for seton hall’s second technical foul. 
whitehead eventually re­turned with about 15 min­utes to go. 
by that point, baker had knocked down a 3-point­er off a nifty feed from vanvleet, and then scored an open layup to lift wichita state to a 53-32 advantage. The shockers cruised from there, seton hall hitting a series of shots late to make the final score respectable. 

nhl | blue JackeTs 3, Flyers 2 (oT) 
Connauton’s first goal lifts Blue Jackets in OT 
Associated Press 

columbus, ohio — kevin connauton scored his first goal of the season off a lead pass from ryan Johansen at 1:58 of over­time to lift the columbus blue Jackets past the philadelphia Flyers 3-2 on Tuesday night for their fourth straight win. 
Johansen took a drop pass and waited for connauton to slip past matt read. he then fed a pass to connauton for the high shot that beat steve mason. 
boone Jenner scored in his ca-reer-best fourth straight game, and scott hartnell also had a goal. sergei bobrovsky made 19 saves. 
brayden schenn had both goals for the Flyers, including one after a video review with 
55.3 seconds left in the third pe­riod. mason stopped 21 shots. 

FOR RENT 

Clean spacious, 1 br apartment near downtown $650 a month includes utilities, deposit, 1 yr lease, non smoker, no pets. Call 574-274-2110 
columbus’ longest winning streak of the season follows a six-game skid that was part of a 2-13­2 stretch. 
connauton played his seventh game since being picked up off waivers from dallas on nov. 18. 
The Flyers, playing the last of a five-game, 11-day trip, have had lost 10 of 11 before beating los angeles on saturday. 
mason made his first start against his former team in columbus. he had split four de­cisions in philadelphia since he was traded to the Flyers in april 2013. he was the rookie of the year in 2009. 
columbus, plagued by inju­ries all season, welcomed back center brandon dubinsky. an integral leader, he played his first game of the season after abdom­inal surgery. 
The blue Jackets took a 2-1 with their second power-play goal in two chances. 
midway through the second period, columbus had the puck in the offensive zone for most of the first 90 seconds of the power play. defenseman Jack Johnson shot wide, but then centered the puck. nick Foligno got a stick on it and the puck ended up between hartnell’s skates. he jabbed at it twice before finally pivoting and scoring his sixth of the season but first in 13 games. 
Jenner scored for the fourth game in a row when he took a pass from dubinsky down low. his centering pass was blocked back to him and he jammed in the puck. 
The Flyers countered late in the period when claude giroux’s setup from the right circle pro­vided schenn with a one-timer for his eighth of the season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“White Christmas”- Irving merry and bright, and may all your Berlin: I’m dreaming of a white Christmases be white. I’m dream-Christmas just like the ones I ing of a white Christmas with ev­used to know. Where the tree-ery Christmas card I write may tops glisten, and children lis-your days be merry and bright, ten to hear sleigh bells in the and may all your Christmases be snow. I’m dreaming of a white white. May your days be merry Christmas. With every Christmas and bright, and may all of you card I write. May your days be Christmases be white. 


nhl | blackhawks 3, devils 2 
Blackhawks rally to win shootout over Devils 
Associated Press 
newark, new Jersey 
— Jonathan Toews and patrick kane scored in a shootout, and the chicago blackhawks rallied late to earn their seventh straight victory with a 3-2 win over the new Jersey devils on Tuesday night. 
bryan bickell and duncan keith had goals in regula­tion for chicago, whose winning streak matches the nhl high for this sea­son. scott darling made 22 saves, including two stops in the shootout. 
The loss spoiled the first nhl start for devils goalie keith kincaid, who made 37 saves, but was no match for the chicago stars in the shootout. 
Jordin Tootoo and stephen gionta scored for new Jersey. and steve bernier added two assists for the devils, who were trying for back to back wins. 
darling made a glove save on martin havlat to start the shootout, and Toews easily beat kinkaid with a back­hander. after darling made a pad save on Jaromir Jagr, kane skated in on kinkaid, danced in front of him and slid the puck into the net for the blackhawks’ fourth win in four shootouts. 

chicago had tied it with 

3:13 left in regulation when defenseman duncan keith put the rebound of marian hossa’s shot into an open net. The play developed after the blackhawks kept the puck in the devils zone, and Toews found hossa for a good shot in close. 
until the goal, it appeared that stephen gionta’s goal on a baseball swing at 2:31 of the third period was go­ing to be the winner. 
defenseman damon severson took a shot from the right point that darling stopped. blackhawks de­fenseman klas dahlbeck used his glove to swat the rebound away, but gionta lined it right into the net. 
havlat nearly gave the devils a two-goal lead later in the period but his break­away hit off the post and crossbar with 9:30 left. 
kinkaid, called up from albany of the ahl earlier Tuesday after giving up one goal in each of his last three starts, had stopped patrick sharp on a breakaway just about 30 seconds before gionta’s second goal of the season. 
chicago was a little off its game in the first period, but it dominated the second, outshooting new Jersey 17­
7. bickell got the only goal with a shot from the right circle after he carried the puck into the devils zone leading a 3-on-1 break. 
sharp, playing for the first time since nov. 4 be­cause of a lower body in­jury, got the only assist on the play set up by devils turnover. 
new Jersey’s goal also was the result of a turn­over. Tootoo scored from the same circle as bickell after taking a pass from bernier. 
noTes: The game was the second of a five-game trip for chicago. ... keith played 30:36 for chicago. ... devils F dainius Zubrus missed the game after get­ting stitches in his leg monday night. ... schneider had started 27 of 28 games. ... This was the devils’ 11th home game, tying them with vancouver for fewest in the nhl this season. 
nhl | sabres 1, kings 0 

Enroth, Buffalo shut out Los Angeles at home 
Associated Press 
buFFalo, new york — Tyler ennis’ third-period, power play goal lifted the buffalo sabres to a 1-0 win over the los angeles kings on Tuesday night. 
Jhonas enroth made 34 saves for his first shutout since april 13, 2013, and the sabres kept up their home mastery of the kings. los angeles is 1-11-1-1 in its last 14 games in buffalo. 
Jonathan Quick had a shut­out streak of 119 minutes, 54 seconds against buffalo snapped by ennis. Quick blanked the sabres on oct. 23 in los angeles. 
The sabres snapped a two-game losing streak and won their third straight at home. The defending champion kings lost consecutive games for the fourth time this season. 
The game marked the sec­ond meeting between sabres coach Ted nolan and his son, kings right wing Jordan nolan. 
cody hodgson nearly opened the scoring 14 sec­onds into the second period when he darted from the left end boards to Quick’s post, but the goalie slid over the cover the opening. 
enroth made a shoulder save on a deflected shot by robyn regehr at 7:55. 
The game’s first penalty wasn’t called until Zemgus girgensons held los angeles’ anze kopitar with 13:39 gone in the second. 
The kings had their best chance of the period during the man advantage as enroth had to stop his momentum from carrying dustin brown’s low shot into the net. 
Former sabres defenseman robyn regehr was called for roughing early in the third, and buffalo had several chances to beat Quick in tight before ennis finally scored. 
matt moulson, Quick’s brother-in-law, carried the puck into the corner before finding ennis alone in front of Quick for the goal 4 minutes into the third. 
drew stafford also earned an assist. 
enroth then stopped Tyler Toffoli twice within seconds to preserve the shutout. 
with Quick pulled, ennis was tripped by drew doughty to give buffalo a final-minute power play. 
nhl | wild 5, islanders 4 

wild come back to beat new york 
Associated Press 
sT. paul, minnesota — nino niederreiter tapped in the go-ahead goal with 4:33 left and capped a furious comeback by the minnesota wild in a 5-4 win over the new york islanders 5-4 on Tuesday night. 
The wild trailed 3-0 after the first period and 4-1 at the second intermission, but they were fired up midway through the game. defenseman keith ballard was sent to a hospital after his head bounced hard on the ice, following a hit from matt martin. 
Jason pominville, mikko koivu, erik haula and Thomas vanek scored for the wild, and niederreiter followed with the most dramatic goal against the team that chose him no. 5 in the 2010 draft. 
chad Johnson, who made 25 saves for the islanders, whacked his stick against the boards near the bench at the next whistle. 
new york lost its second straight after leading 3-0 in the first. 
Johnson got the surprise start over Jaroslav halak, who had an 11-game winning streak stopped on saturday when he gave up six goals to st. louis after being given a big lead. 
michael grabner, brock nelson and martin scored ear­ly for the islanders, and Josh bailey gave them a 4-1 lead on their lone shot of the second period. The islanders became the first nhl team this season to score on its only shot in a period. 
but the wild weren’t de­terred. haula’s shot off Thomas hickey’s skate brought them within 4-3. Just 45 seconds later, vanek tied it in a pile of bodies in front when he found the puck underneath nelson and knocked onto Johnson’s chest as the goalie fell back­ward into the net. 
niklas backstrom made 15 saves for the wild, who out-shot the islanders 27-8 over the final two periods. 
The wild were listless in the first period, booed by the crowd as they left the ice. 
grabner scored for the sec­ond straight game, just his third appearance of the sea­son following his hernia sur­gery, with a wrist shot the glanced off ballard’s stick while anders lee screened backstrom. 

nelson tacked another goal during a power play, ending a streak of 15 straight penalties killed by the wild over five games, with his team-leading 13th goal that was set up by nick leddy’s slap shot. Just 32 seconds later, martin jumped to try to avoid hickey’s re­bound shot, but the puck nicked his skate and trickled across the line. 
The wild and their fans were riled up midway through the second after ballard’s injury. Those boos came back, but for the officials when no penalty was called on martin. koivu yelled at them, too, as they prepared to restart the game. 
mikael granlund imme­diately hit kyle okposo, who drew a slashing penalty for angrily hitting granlund in the leg in response. 
pominville scored on the first of three assists by ryan suter, making his return fol­lowing a two-game absence to the mumps. Then kyle brodziak dropped the gloves with martin as he re-entered the game. 
most nhl teams typi­cally have at least one native minnesotan playing in front of family and friends against the wild, but the islanders generated more extra ticket sales than usual with okposo (st. paul), nelson (warroad), leddy (eden prairie) and lee (edina). okposo and leddy, who was the wild’s first-round draft pick in 2009, also played briefly for the university of minnesota before turning pro. 
noTes: lee was fined $2,286.29 for elbowing st. louis defenseman carl gunnarsson on saturday. ... Zach parise skated with vanek on a line for the first time this season, with granlund center­ing. pominville joined koivu and Jason Zucker on the sec­ond line. ... The last nhl team to score on its lone shot of a period, according to sTaTs research, was buffalo in the second period on april 10, 2014. ... The wild have outshot opponents in 23 of 26 games this season. ... The islanders kept their injured list at five, taking defenseman lubomir visnovsky (upper body) off before the game and placing center casey cizikas (upper body) on it. cizikas was hurt on saturday. 



The observer | wednesday, december 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FencInG 

Collineau continues to impress in first year 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
“he just continues to amaze us.” 
These were the words irish head coach gia kvaratskhelia used to describe freshman foilist virgile collineau fol­lowing his second-place finish at the penn state garret open just over two weeks ago. 
collineau has continually impressed the coaching staff this year, as he has made his transition to american-style fencing with relative ease. having grown up in France, virgile recognized that his craft would need to adapt to the american approach. 
“it’s different from what i used to do in France, but i think now i’ve almost fully adapted,” collineau said. “[maybe] not fully, but i’m well adapted. i really like gia’s way of doing things and way of coaching and giving lessons. i think in the u.s., [fencing] is more aggressive. now here, i have really been trained in my decision making and in my ag­gressiveness, which are really a part of american fencing and different from the French way of doing things.” 
collineau, one of 12 com­petitors on France’s junior national team, had to face the decision when he expressed his desire to pursue both his academic studies and fencing career. 
“i knew there weren’t a lot of choices if i wanted to keep on fencing and doing studies because in France it is kind of hard to do both,” collineau said. “so my only alternative in France was to go to paris to train at the senior national training center, which worked similarly to the junior national team. but i was not selected as one of the 12 for the team.” 
it was at this point collineau decided to look for opportuni­ties outside of France. after much research, he said he nar­rowed it down to one program in particular: the university of notre dame. 
although he had never vis­ited the school, collineau said he decided notre dame was the best program for him to work on both his studies and his craft. he finally did make the trip to the u.s. — just two weeks before the start of classes. 
“i didn’t know what to ex­pect when i arrived,” collineau said. “i was afraid. i arrived in august with one or two weeks to acclimate, but it was very nice. The coaches came to the airport to pick me up, so i was never on my own. They helped me to acclimate at the begin­ning. The classes are very dif­ferent from what they were in France, but i didn’t really have trouble acclimating.” 

one of the most important factors in his relatively easy transition was the family at­mosphere that the fencing team provided, collineau said. 
“concerning the fencing, it’s way different than when i was in France,” collineau said. “i find it better for me because we are a very big team and every­body is very nice and friendly. in France, it was very competi­tive. here, i feel like everybody is working together for the team. it’s less individual and more like a team spirit, and the coaches are really nice too.” 
with the season now un­derway, collineau’s perfor­mance continues to regularly improve, as he adapts to the american-style of fencing. Though his second place finish at the penn state open marks his best on the season, he said he did not believe that was his best overall best performance. 

“i fenced pretty well, but it was not an outstanding per­formance,” collineau said. “i made some mistakes, and i didn’t win the final bout which i should have won. i think what was nice was that i was very relaxed, and one of the things about me is that when i am re­laxed, i fence much better than when i am tense. i think penn state was a good way for me to show it.” 
going forward, collineau said he believes he can contin­ue to bring that mindset into his bouts with him. as a more relaxed foilist, he believes he can better contribute to both his personal goal for the end of the year, as well as help the team reach the ncaa championships. 

“From a personal point of view, i would like to do well in the competition back in France and qualify for the world cup,” collineau said. “i would also really like to do well in the up­coming ncaa event. i think we have a very good team this year, so i hope i will help the team to win the [ncaa] championship.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 
nba  | cavaliers 105, rapTors 101 
cavaliers defeat raptors on last-minute James jumper 
Associated Press 
cleveland — lebron James scored 35 points, making the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 48 seconds remaining, and the cleveland cavaliers rallied to beat the Toronto raptors 105-101 on Tuesday night for their eighth straight victory. 
James’ jumper from the top of the key gave cleveland a 102­99 lead and tied him with mark price for the franchise record for 3-pointers at 802. 
James scored 10 points in the fourth quarter as cleveland ral­lied from a 10-point deficit early in the period. dion waiters came off the bench for 18 points and kevin love added 17. 
Jonas valanciunas and Terrence ross each scored 18 for Toronto. kyle lowry added 16, but only scored two in the fourth quarter as he was hounded de­fensively by cavaliers guard matthew dellavedova. 
Following lowry’s missed shot that hit the top of the backboard, James added a free throw with 
14.2 seconds remaining for a four-point lead. ross’ dunk on an of­fensive rebound with 4.2 seconds left made it 103-101, but kyrie irving’s two free throws with 3.8 seconds left sealed the win. 
Trailing 95-85 early in the fourth quarter, cleveland went on a 10-2 run and tied the game on love’s 3-pointer with 3:50 remaining. 
patrick patterson’s basket gave Toronto the lead but James tied it again with two free throws at the 
1:56mark. 
The cavaliers haven’t lost since falling 110-93 to the raptors at Quicken loans arena on nov. 22, after which James said they were “fragile.” cleveland got a measure of revenge with a 105­91 win in Toronto on Friday. The raptors built a double-figure lead Tuesday, but couldn’t hang on in the team’s third matchup in 18 days. 
Toronto, which has the best re­cord in the eastern conference, went ahead midway through the first quarter and pushed the lead to 13 points just prior to halftime. The margin remained in double figures for most of the second half. cleveland cut the lead to 97­92 on baskets by James and irving with five minutes remaining. 
both teams were coming off eventful nights monday. Toronto couldn’t hold a big lead at home against denver, but emerged with a 112-107 win in overtime. 
prior to cleveland’s game in brooklyn, James and irving wore “i can’t breathe” shirts dur­ing warmups in support of eric garner, who died in July after a police officer placed him in a chokehold when he was being ar­rested for selling loose, untaxed cigarettes. 

The game was also attended by prince william and kate middleton, who were presented with gifts by James following the game. 
Toronto shot 14 for 21 in the first quarter and led 63-55 at half­time. valanciunas had a strong first half with 14 points and nine rebounds. 
tip-ins 

raptors: lowry and ross are the only raptors to start every game this season. ... Toronto began a stretch of eight straight games against east opponents Tuesday. ... demar derozan (torn groin) has missed six straight games and is out indefinitely. 
cavaliers: The cavaliers have won eight in a row for the first time since march 2010. ... love had nine rebounds, ending his streak of double-doubles at five games. .. g mike miller (concus­sion) missed his third straight game. The 15th-year pro was injured on dec. 4 at new york. 
nba | Trail blaZers 98, pisTons 86 
Portland hands loss to Pistons 
Associated Press 

auburn hills, michigan 
— lamarcus aldridge had 23 points and 11 rebounds, wesley matthews scored 19 points, and the portland Trail blazers picked up their fifth straight victory with a 98-86 win over the detroit pistons on Tuesday night. 
detroit lost its 13th in a row, one short of the franchise re­cord set in 1979-80 and tied in 1993-94. Those were both aging teams, with the second group marking the end of the bad boys era at the palace. The current pistons haven’t had a winning season or won a playoff game in seven years. 
greg monroe had 22 points and 10 rebounds for detroit, which only got 40 points from its starting lineup. 
The pattern of the game was established early, as portland was able to convert most pos­sessions into good scoring op­portunities, while the pistons struggled to finish at the rim. detroit, one of the worst teams at scoring inside despite the presence of Josh smith, andre drummond and monroe, shot 44 percent in the paint in the first half. 
portland’s defense slowly took control in the third quarter, holding the pistons to 22 percent shooting (4 for 18) and expand­ing the lead to as many as 17 points. it was 76-62 going into the fourth, but the pistons finally put together enough baskets and stops to make a run. 
monroe’s layup pulled detroit within 81-77 with 7:12 to play, but aldridge hit two straight bas­kets and damian lillard rattled home a 3-pointer to keep the pistons at bay. 
tip-ins 
blaZers: chris kaman, a native michigander who played his college basketball at central michigan, was 6 of 8 in the first half for 12 points. . portland has beaten detroit four straight times, and has won in five of its last seven visits to the palace. 
pisTons: detroit had three previous 13-game losing streaks, including one each in the 1979­80 and 1993-94 seasons after the 14-game skid. The third came in 2009-10, which also featured an 11-game losing streak. ... Jodie meeks, who has missed the en­tire season with a stress fracture in his back, is expected to re­sume practicing this week and could play on detroit’s upcom­ing three-game road trip. 



women’s swImmInG 

Reaney breaks US record 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
while the irish squad split up this weekend to com­pete in elite meets in Texas and iowa, senior emma 
reaney  traveled  interna­ 
tionally  to  doha,  Qatar,  
where  she  participated  

in the Fina short course world championships from dec. 3 to dec. 8. This marks reaney’s first internation­al meet representing the united states. 
reaney, a lawrence, kansas, native and five-time all-american, won a silver medal in the women’s 200-meter medley relay with a time of 1:44.92, breaking an american record. The usa relay team finished second to denmark, who claimed first with a time of 
1:44.04. reaney also quali­fied individually in the finals of the women’s 50-me­ter breaststroke. 
reaney said her reaction upon finding out she had won silver was intensified even more when she realized she was standing alongside her swimming idol, natalie coughlin. 
“at first we were all kind of bummed we didn’t win, but then i remembered i got to be on the podium at my first international meet and was ecstatic,” reaney said. “being able to get my first international medal with natalie coughlin, someone i’ve idolized in the sport of swimming since i was little, was beyond amazing. i’m honored to have my name in the record books with those girls.” 
reaney continued her success in the pool, as she qualified for the 50 breast medley. in her first finals appearance of the champi­onship, she finished in sixth place with a time of 30.05. 
“i feel really great about my finish,” reaney said. “i really wanted to break 30, so it’s a little frustrating to be that close, but i think it’s a really good sign that my 50, an event i’m not normally really great at, is that fast.” 
along with a silver medal and qualifying time, reaney brought home an abundance of lessons and memories that she said will last her a lifetime. 
“i learned to always use your resources. The coach­ing staff will do whatever they can to help you suc­ceed, and making sure you speak up for that is essen­tial,” reaney said. “recovery resources are important too, so making sure i got massag­es and ice baths was some­thing i learned as well. i realized i just need to take it all in and have fun because being too nervous is just a waste of energy that you could be using during your race.” 
even after returning from Qatar, reaney said she con­tinues to reflect on the mo­ment she stepped on the podium to receive her sil­ver medal alongside her teammates. 
“i don’t know if it’s even really set in yet,” reaney said. “everyone asked me if i cried, but i didn’t. we were just having too much fun up there for me to even realize what was going on. it was pretty awesome.” 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior Emma Reaney swims the length of the pool during a meet against Purdue on Nov. 1 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
ncaa basketball 

big Ten faces major challenge after acc 
Associated Press 

now, the big Ten has an even bigger challenge ahead 
— against a pair of unde­feated top 10 teams on the same court and the same night. 
after winning eight out of 14 games in the acc/big Ten challenge last week, the league will be represent­ed by unranked 7-1 teams indiana and illinois in the Jimmy v classic on Tuesday night at madison square garden. That includes an­other game against the acc. 
illinois is playing seventh-ranked villanova (8-0) from the big east for the first time since a second-round ncaa tournament game in 1988, a game villanova won 66-63 to get to the sweet 16. 
in the nightcap of the 20th anniversary of the Jimmy v classic, indiana plays fourth-ranked louisville (7­
0) in a series last played in 2003 but dating back to 1921. 
coach rick pitino’s cardinals have won their last eight games at madison square garden, where they were crowned the 2012 and 2013 big east tournament champions before moving to the acc. 
louisville and indiana both won their acc/big Ten challenge games last week, with the cardinals win­ning 64-55 at home against louisville and the hoosiers beating pittsburgh 81-69. 
villanova has already held three opponents under 50 points, and its 74-46 win over st. Joseph’s on saturday was already the wildcats’ fourth win by at least 20 points this season. illinois is averaging 83.9 points per game. 
2 shades of winning blue 

There is kentucky blue and carolina blue, and a lot of trophies between them. 
Top-ranked kentucky and no. 21 north carolina, who have a combined 13 nation­al championships, are no strangers on the court. Two of college basketball’s win­ningest programs play in the regular season for the 14th time since december 2000 on saturday. 
The wildcats (9-0) are the unanimous no. 1 in the ap poll this week, but they were still growing up when they were ranked 11th and lost 82-77 to then-no. 18 north carolina in chapel hill last december. 
The perennial powers also met in a regional final in the 2011 ncaa tournament, a game kentucky won 76-69. 
saturday showdowns 
The north carolina­kentucky game is the first of several quality matchups on the second saturday of december, when there is a little lull between the con­ference football champi­onship games and the first bowl games. 
anyone who wants a bas­ketball-watching binge, there are four games in par­ticular that are spread out saturday — starting about noon and ending around midnight eastern time. 
kentucky and north carolina get things started, and lead into the only other game this week matching a pair of ranked teams. 
no. 10 kansas, back in the top 10 after a five-game winning streak since a 32-point loss to kentucky, plays no. 13 utah in kansas city. 
ncaa Football 

NCAA chief: UAB cutting football is ‘troubling’ 
Associated Press 

new york — ncaa president mark emmert said Tuesday that it was troubling to see the university of alabama­birmingham drop its foot­ball program, but he believes olympic sports are more vul­nerable to cuts as schools look at athletic budgets. 
in an interview with The associated press, emmert said he worries that while autonomy for the big Five conferences will lead to more money being spent on athletes it could decrease the overall number of opportunities in college sports for students. 
uab dropped its football pro­gram last week. The school cited rising costs of college athletics, including pressure to pay the full cost of attendance for ath­letes. That proposal was sup­ported by emmert and pushed by the wealthiest conferences. 
“i think it’s really hard and hard for people to understand when you have to back away or make a decision to back away from a sport,” emmert said. “but schools do that fairly often, actually, they just rarely do it in football or men’s basketball or women’s basketball.” 
emmert was president at the university of washington when the school dropped its men’s and women’s swimming program. 
“Those were hard decisions but they were the right ones for us,” he said. “i know uab and their administration has to make the decisions that work for them over the long run.” 
uab said it estimated paying the entire cost of attendance for an athletic scholarship would cost the school $5,442 for each football player on full scholar­ship. Fbs schools are allowed to carry 85 scholarship football players, a limit that is usually reached. 
“what everybody pays atten­tion to and what we all love as a country is football and basket­ball,” he said. “but when schools are trying to support those pro­grams they are starting to feel the pinch in the olympic sports: volleyball, soccer, gymnastics, wrestling and a variety of other things. 
“i do worry a lot we may well see in the coming years a reduction of commitments from our campuses in those programs.” 
The ncaa earlier this year approved a new governance structure that would allow the big Five conferences — big Ten, big 12, pac-12, atlantic coast conference and southeastern conference — to create rules in some areas without the support of the rest of division i. 
uab competes in conference usa. c-usa commissioner britton banowsky, along with the commissioners of the other four Fbs conferences, has said his league will try to increase benefits for athletes and do things such as pay cost of atten­dance, provide free meals and long-term medical benefits. 
“any time you’re increasing the financial commitment for stu­dent athletes or any part of your program, whether it’s for your students or whether it’s for your facilities, or whatever the model is, it increases competition,” emmert said. “and so there’s folks that are right now wringing their hands saying ‘wow, i don’t know if we can compete at that same level financially.’” 


The observer | wednesday, december 10, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


m bball 
conTinued From page 16 
[tonight]. … it’s definitely something to build off. Just want to keep getting better ev­ery game, and as long as we’re winning basketball games, that’s all that matters.” 
brey said he has recently challenged vasturia, and the sophomore responded against the mountaineers. 
“This is the next step in the whole aggressiveness theme,” brey said of vasturia. “he should hunt stuff just like Jerian and demetrius and that’s the theme that we started with him before [michigan state]. … we need him to be [aggressive], he can be, he’s potent. 
“and then the other thing is he always takes away the best perimeter guy … he’s amazing to do that and take that shooter completely away.” 
with vasturia finding some offense of late, a growing sense of confidence is spreading throughout the irish locker room, grant said. 
“everybody’s a threat on the floor,” grant said. “To have steve now getting into a great rhythm, they’re going to have to guard everybody.” 
Junior forward Zach auguste (19), senior guard Jerian grant 
(19) and Jackson (15) joined vasturia in double-figures for the irish, who have now scored at least 74 points in all 10 of their games this season. notre dame’s hot shooting continued against the mountaineers as the irish shot 36-for-61 (59%) from the field as well as 8-of-14 (57%) from behind the 3-point arc. 
“i think we were just having fun out there,” vasturia said. “we were pushing the ball, hitting a lot of open shots and that’s kind of what we’ve come to expect.” 

The irish also controlled the rebounding battle against a big mountaineer team. notre dame finished with a 41-31 ad­vantage on the glass, led by a game-high eight boards from auguste. senior guard/forward pat connaughton and junior forward austin burgett also pulled down six rebounds each, a career-high for burgett. 
“we had to come out fo­cused,” auguste said. “it was a good test for me to finally get some size to play against again, but it was fun out there.” 
notre dame now turns its attention to its first acc game of the season saturday night when it hosts Florida state at purcell pavilion. brey said one of his areas of focus is still on the defensive boards, especial­ly in the 2-3 zone the irish went to at times against The mount. 
“we’ll have to use [zone] some,” brey said. “when it’s bigger, it’s pretty good. but we do need a change of pace as we go to league play. … your con­cern about it is rebounding out of it though. we’re already hav­ing trouble sometimes blocking out when we have matchups, but then when you’re in zone you don’t have necessarily a de­finitive matchup when the shot goes up. 
“i think we can defend the first shot. can we keep to one-and-done enough to win on saturday is a big concern and will be a big focus as we move forward in practice.” 
The irish and the seminoles (4-4) are set to clash saturday at 8 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
w bball 
conTinued From page 16 
on dec. 3 and could not com­pete against connecticut. cunningham said Turner’s status is day-to-day. 
“certainly we love hav­ing her on the floor,” cunningham said. “she has such an inside presence of­fensively and defensively, but depaul runs a four and almost five guard lineup, so there’s a good chance we’ll be playing a lot of the game with four guards and one post to keep up offen­sively. we’ll be counting on [sophomore forward] Taya reimer and [senior forward] markisha wright to fill the void in the paint, both on offense and defense.” 
because of the potency of the blue demon offense, cunningham said the irish will emphasize locking down the perimeter and dictating the game’s tempo. 
“we’ve got to do a great job containing the ball off of the dribble and defend­ing the three point line because they’ve got lots of kids that can stand at the line and make shots,” cunningham said. “again, they’re averaging 90 points a game so they’ll want to handle the ball on offense as much as possible. a big key for us will be playing our style. 
“certainly we can get up and down the court and push transition when we need to, but at the same time we have to pick and choose when we do that and play our own game at our own pace.” 
The loss to connecticut ended a 34-game home win­ning streak for notre dame. looking to regain its win streak, cunningham said the team’s concentration is even more important com­peting on the road. 
“any time you go on the road in someone else’s gym, you have to focus and bring your best game,” cunningham said. 
notre dame and depaul tip off wednesday at 9 p.m. in the mcgrath-phillips arena in chicago. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rg­riffi6@nd.edu 




crossword | will shorTZ 

Across 33 N.Y.C.’s first 62 Pucker­1 Rescue op subway line producing34 Tattoo ___ 63 More faithful 
5 100 centimes, once 

37 Steamrolled 64 Busy place stuff 65 Influence10 Belgium­
38 Words of 66 Rec centers based imaging 
company encouragement 67 New Ager who to a tailor? sings in Irish
14 Dodeca- halved 

40 “Evil Woman” Gaelic 15 Fiery feeling grp. 16 Nursery bagful 41 Regency hotels Down 17 Balm business? 43 Place to play 1 Comments video games accompanying
19 Mischievous 44 Next-to-last shrugsNorse god Greek letters 2 Osso buco need 20 Bottom-of-the­45 Comic Margaret 3 What abarrel stuff 

46 Cameron who drivetrain 21 Learn by ___ voiced Fiona connects to 
23 Yodeling 47 Matey’s greeting 4 “As is” and tribute band’s 48 Figure at others repertoire? Sarah’s cigar 5 Marbled meat store? feature
27 Place for a washer and 52 Gear with 

6 Grammar dryer: Abbr. docking stations school basics,
briefly

30 Cross one’s 53 “Born from jets” 
fingers automaker 7 Decay-fighting org.
31 Call a game 56 Mass vestments 8 A real smarty 32 R&B pioneer 57 “Columbo” 9 Dimin.’s 
Johnny trench coat? 
opposite, in
music

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

10 Here, there and everywhere 11 Bodily reaction 
to fear 12 Hot-coals walker 
13 Out of kilter 18 Alien’s subj. 22 Bugs of the 
underworld 
24 Pop music’s Collins and Spector 
25 Suit material? 26 Decided to join 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by Tony Orbach  
27 This and that 28 Hang around 29 Push-upgarment 34 Kind of scheme 35 This and that  42 Like under-watered plants44 Pizazz 46 Render harmless 48 Some H.S. exams  54 Very similar 55 Group of quail 58 TV captain Jean-___ Picard 59 Mauna ___  
36 Looking up 38 Do penance 39 Scan, as a U.P.C.  49 Counselor-___ 50 Pushover 51 “… lovely ___ tree”  60 Takers of 48-Down: Abbr. 61 Caddy’scontents  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
hIGhly PunlIkely | chrisTopher brucker 
sudoku | The mepham group 


dome nuts| aleXandria wellman 


horoscoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: stabilize your financial, medical and emotional future. don’t take chances when you should be protecting yourself and putting everything in perspective. much can be accomplished if you are strict and disciplined, keeping uncertainty from making you appear vulnerable. showing a little bravado and confidence will go a long way when it comes to getting what you want. your numbers are 3, 13, 19, 23, 28, 33, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay on top of your domestic situation or any home improvements you are making. problems with fire, electronics or a tiff with someone you love can quickly lead to trouble. expand your knowledge to prepare you for future trends. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Think matters through carefully. moderation will be critical when dealing with investments. don’t allow an emotional situation to cost you. getting bent out of shape will not solve problems; it will only make matters worse. stabilize important relationships. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll be easily distracted. don’t let anything hinder your ability to get a job finished. partnerships will improve if you are a team player. explore and expand your options. Thrive on change and show your diversity. romance is on the rise. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your unique and expressive insight to keep anyone trying to interfere in your plans at arm’s length. protect what’s yours by relying on your experience and past connections to ensure you are in control and on track. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): roll out the red carpet and get ready to show off what you have to offer. you’ll attract both personal and professional interest if you share your thoughts. romantic opportunities are present, but you may have to make the first move. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll face opposition at home and must be careful not to confuse facts with fiction when dealing with personal matters. precision and detail will be necessary when expressing your views. keep your wits about you and avoid discord. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let your emotions interfere with what needs to be done. speak up and take action. someone you worked with in the past will help you out. make the first move and you will take any opposition you face by surprise. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): work-related matters should be put into play. use your skill, intuition and memory to help make things happen. keep in mind that quality must be put before quantity if you want to stay ahead of the game financially. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): embrace change. you’ll surprise everyone with your ability to handle whatever comes your way. draw on your experience and nothing will stand in your way. positive changes at home will add to your comfort and happiness. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): choose your partners carefully. make sure that both parties in a relationship have something to contribute. equality will determine the longevity of any connection in which you intend to participate. be smart and considerate of others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make unique changes. a new job or finding a way to make some extra cash is apparent. branch out by using your talents in diverse ways. applying what you know or do best to fit the current economic trends will pay off. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t get caught in the crossfire. Take a course or discuss your concerns to help you get a better view of what you are dealing with. invest in yourself and the things you want to pursue in the future. 



Birthday Baby: you are driven, innovative and adaptable. you are quick and impatient. 

Jumbles:
Yesterday’s 
Answer: 

ALONG PSYCH UNRULY DINNER He refused to draw the Jumble cartoon because the idea behind it wasn’t this --“PUNNY” ENOUGH 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip men’s basketball | nd 93, mounT sT. mary’s 67 

Vasturia, Irish conquer Mount 
Recently-ranked ND dominates as sophomore records career-high points 
in the game. … darn they made 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

sports writer me look good, didn’t they? i 
just wanted them in the game. 

after appearing in the ap i didn’t actually want to talk to rankings for the first time since anyone.” the 2012-2013 season, newly-vasturia knocked down 14 christened no. 25 notre dame points in the first half, one shy of cemented its place in the na-his career-high last year against tional polls with a 93-67 defeat pittsburgh. The sophomore set over mount st. mary’s last night his new personal mark in the at purcell pavilion. game, totaling 19 points, while 
“i thought we got off to a good also grabbing four rebounds start,” irish coach mike brey and dishing out a trio of assists. said. “we were ready to come he was perfect on the offensive out of the gate.” end: vasturia made all seven of 
The irish (9-1) began the his shots from the field, includ­game with 14-3 run, distanc-ing three from distance as well ing themselves from the as his two free-throw attempts. mountaineers (2-5). mount st. while it is usually fair to call mary’s pulled within four with vasturia a defense-first player, 
11:31 remaining in the half, 22-the medford, new Jersey native 18, but a 30-4 run after an irish has been working hard on the timeout put the irish firmly offensive side of the game as back in control. back-to-back well, he said. 3-pointers by sophomore guard “it’s just getting stronger, steve vasturia and two more being more aggressive, and by classmate guard demetrius building your confidence Jackson sparked the run. game-by-game,” vasturia said 
“To be honest, i forget,” of his development. “it’s a testa-Jackson said brey’s message ment to my teammates and my during the stoppage. “but it was coaches just having confidence probably something inspira-in me so i can feed off that. tional to kind of get us going.” “i got a lot of open looks and 
“There was no strategy,” brey i was able to knock them down said with a laugh. “i wanted those guys sitting there to get see m bball PaGe 14 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish sophomore guard Steve Vasturia sets up for a shot against Grambling State in an 81-54 victory on Nov. 26 in the Purcell Pavilion.Vasteria went 7-7 on the night with 19 points. 
nd women’s basketball 

ND looks to bounce back against DePaul 

By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
The no. 5 irish will travel to chicago on wednesday to take on no. 25 depaul at 9 p.m. 
The irish head into the matchup after a trou­bling 76-58 loss to no. 2 connecticut on saturday at home. The blue demons (6­
2) are the third consecutive ranked opponent for notre dame (8-1), who defeated no. 14 maryland, 92-72, last week. assistant coach beth cunningham said depaul’s offensive attack makes it a challenging team to play against. 
“They have a high-octane offense that scores 90 points a game, and four or five starters averaging 10 points or more,” cunningham said. “They have a lot of versatil­ity and the ability to put up a lot of points since they play a fast-paced, track meet style of game.” 
cunningham said the irish have improvements to make after the performance against connecticut, espe­cially on defense, but they also have a number of ad­vantages over depaul. she said the play of junior guard Jewell loyd, who scored a ca­reer high 31 points saturday, will be crucial. 

“Jewell loyd is playing great right now; she’s prob­ably the best player in the country,” cunningham said. “we’re a young team right now, and there’s a lot that we have to learn from the connecticut game. our inside game can be a real strength against [depaul], but the most important thing is we have to play bet­ter defense and rebound bet­ter and continue to share the ball and make good shots on offense.” 
notre dame’s play in the paint will be strongly af­fected by the potential ab­sence of freshman forward brianna Turner, who suf­fered a shoulder injury 
see w bball PaGe 14 




