The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 43 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Conference to explore gifts of gay Catholics 
‘Gay in Christ: Dimensions of Fidelity’ convened by Insitute of Church Life, Gender Relations Center 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
notre dame’s institute for church life, along with the gender relations center, will convene a two-day confer­ence called “gay in christ: dimensions of Fidelity” on Friday in the andrews auditorium of geddes hall. The conference will focus on non-heterosexual identifying catholics who accept church teaching on homosexuality and the gifts they have to of­fer the church, John cavadini, professor of Theology, said. 
“most of the speakers are self-identified gay or lesbi­an persons, and all of them also identify themselves as agreeing with church teach­ing on marriage and sexual­ity,” cavadini said. “i wonder what we can learn by listening to such voices. i believe these voices have gifts to offer the church.” 
cavadini said the gifts these individuals offer are often lost in the church. 
“i believe that the church is not as good at receiving these gifts as we might be,” cavadini said. “so i think of the work­shop as opening a discussion regarding the discernment of gifts and the ability to receive them and to give a gift back. it is also simply an invitation to discussion.” 
see conFerence PAGE 7 



professor emerita aldous dies 
Observer Staff Report 
Joan aldous, notre dame’s william r. Kenan Jr. profes­sor of sociology emerita, died wednesday at the age of 88 at the Kindred Transitional care and rehabilitation center in south bend, according to a university press release. 
aldous came to notre dame in 1976 and became the first female to hold an endowed professor­ship at the university at a time when there were few women on the faculty. until her retirement in 2012, she researched and taught about family sociology, family policy, gender, work and families and intergenerational relationships. 
in 1988, aldous helped es­tablish notre dame’s gender studies program, the press re­lease stated. 
“Joan left behind an extraordi­nary record of scholarship, and 
see aldous PAGE 7 



Nobel Laureate stresses early poverty intervention 

ROSIE BIEHL | The Observer 

Nobel Laureate economist James Heckman spoke at the Center for Ethics and Culture’s 2014 fall conference. He discussed the importance of family and early intervention in alleviating poverty. 
inequality. that builds character, pro-
By ELENA GACEK 

news writer “i want to think about a motes family values, and dynamic strategy — a way creates skills … [such that] 
nobel laureate economist to approach poverty and in-what is socially fair can also James heckman opened tergenerational inequality be viewed as economically the center for ethics and which is going to be based on efficient.” culture’s 2014 fall confer-the notion which i will call rather than fixating on ence on poverty on Thursday ‘predistribution,’” heckman purely cognitive skills, like night with a discussion of said. “… [predistribution is] iQ scores or performances the importance of family a strategy of giving skills to on tests, heckman said that and early intervention in al-people to avoid [poverty] in leviating socio-economic the first place … a strategy see poverTy PAGE 7 
shooting 
suspect 
remains 


at large 

Observer Staff Report 
a shooting at an apart­ment complex in the 1200 block of south bend avenue on wednesday evening left one man dead and another wounded, ac­cording to a report in the south bend Tribune. The suspect in the incident remains at large and should be considered armed and dangerous, police said Thursday. 
police named brian rankin, 28, as a suspect in the shooting, which occurred at the south bend avenue apartments about a half mile from campus at about 5:30 p.m. wednesday. he is wanted on an initial charge of being a serious violent felon in possession of a firearm, ac­cording to officials from the st. Joseph county metro homicide unit. police said rankin should be considered armed and dan­gerous, and he was very accurate with his weapon in the attack. 
see shooTing PAGE 7 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 IRISH INSIDER 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are you dressing up as for Halloween? 

Amelia Zepernick 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“madeline, the storybook character.” 


Jon Rydburg 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“my friend and i are going to be the ‘anchorman’ news crew.” 
Brian Connor 
senior off campus 
“i’ll be dressing up as my girlfriend.” 


Nathan Miller 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“a football player.” 
Brooke Brown 
junior 
howard hall 
“i’ll be dressing up as my boyfriend.” 


Talia Campbell 
junior ryan hall 
“a nun.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jack rooney mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers Zach Klonsinski madison Jaros 
Scene Graphics miko malabute 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
mary mcgraw 

Viewpoint Photo mary Kate luft 
Women’s Volleyball Men’s Basketball Mass at the Basilica ACMS Colloquium CST Info Session 
wei lin 

Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Hayes-Healy Center Geddes Hall 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Heart 4:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. ND vs. Georgia Tech. ND vs. Minnesota-11:45 p.m. - 12:45 p.m. “Discriminants of For students 
Corrections 

Duluth. Music by theFolk Choir. polynomial systems.” interested in Catholic The observer regards itself as Social Teaching. a professional publication and 
Men’s Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass Gesualdo Quartet “ND Alumni: 
strives for the highest standards 
Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing Sculptors and “Osaka Elegy” and 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Arena Heart Arts Center Professors” “Sisters of the Zion” 
however, recognize that we will make 
8:05 p.m. - 10:35 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Snite Museum of Art DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
ND vs. Vermont. Music by the Women’s Quartet-in-residence All day Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Liturgical Choir. series debut. See the recent works 8 p.m.- 10 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

of 21 graduates. Free for students. 


ND Au Bon Pain wins Franchisee of the Year 
october press release. 
By MADISON JAROS 
director of Food services 
chris abayasinghe said the 

notre dame’s au bon pain store’s second year sales (abp) beat over 300 other growth set it apart from its stores this september to win competitors, which included Franchisee of the year, an both national and interna­award that recognizes the tional franchises. abp franchise with the great-“The first year, whenever est sales growth and opera-you open up a restaurant, you tions quality, according to an obviously have high levels of 
news writer 

paid adverTisemenT 

sales because everyone’s ex­cited about what’s going on,” abayasinghe said. “The sec­ond year is the real litmus test on how successful the brand has been.” 
associate director of retail Food service operations mark King said although sales growth was crucial, it was not the notre dame franchise’s only distinguishing factor. 
“when abp looks at us for such an award, they look at the total of what’s taken place,” he said. “sales is a part of [the award selection], and it’s a big part of it, but they’re also look­ing at how you’re incorporat­ing it into … the portfolio that we have here. and it’s been a real strong performer for us.” 
abayasinghe said the store’s location in hesburgh library is also part of its appeal. 
“here’s a really interesting tidbit: the campus draws about 
2.5 million visitors annually,” he said. “The hesburgh library draws about a million of those in that door. … you come to visit the university of notre dame for its great athletic pro­gram or what have you, you’re also visiting it for the library.” 
The store’s healthy dining options and convenience have 
paid adverTisemenT 
made it a good fit with notre dame students, abayasinghe said. 
sophomore dana deradoorian said she loves abp because she believes “it’s the best quality food on cam­
“What ABP sees is how we really operate as a team. And we get results.” 
Mark King 
Retail Food Service Operations 
associate director 
pus.” The store is also conve­nient, sophomore madeline lewis said. 
“whenever i need a snack and i’m studying, my first thought is to go to abp,” lewis said. “because it’ll be fresher and tastier and i don’t have to worry about going at a dining hall meal time – i can just go.” 
due to increased demand from students, Food services has expanded abp’s reach on campus to include a cof­fee cart in debartolo hall and an au bon pain express in the hesburgh center for international studies. abayasinghe said a catering service for students will be the next expansion. 

“what we’re extremely excit­ed about is us being able to do a catering version on campus. … we really want us to be able to leverage the brand for us to be able to meet the needs that are currently going off campus,” he said. 
“This is really about us tak­ing what’s worked successfully, that has a good program, and being able to implement it.” 
in the end, it was teamwork that really distinguished notre dame’s franchise, King said. 
“i’m just real proud of the people who work over there,” he said. “They’ve done a great job. even from the conception to now … construction time was six weeks from start to fin­ish — that just doesn’t happen. … it took the architect’s office, it took the library, it took Food services, it took iT – there was a huge core group that got to­gether and pulled this off. 
“what abp sees is how we re­ally operate as a team. and we get results.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lecture explores media, Black Power movement 
By CLARA YANG 
news writer 
dr. Jane rhodes, dean for the study of race and ethnicity and professor and chair of american studies at macalester college, gave a lecture titled “black women, black power and the media’s glare” in hesburgh center auditorium on Thursday evening. 
dr. rhodes, who specializes in the study of race, gender and mass media, said black power is influenced by and demon­strated through photographs and images, which change the way we understand the black body. 
“There is a meaning in repre­sentation, and they shape what we remember,” rhodes said. “[a famous photo of stokley carmichael] to me is a classic representation of media flare. … he has become increasingly radicalized … to stress black power.” 
rhondes also said the black press is often very different from mainstream press. 
black women were often pic­tured as “helpmates to male authority” and “associated with tragedy,” rhodes said. For these images, rhodes said she blames the photographers who took them. 
“The profound aesthetic transformation of black wom­en’s hair also becomes politi­cal statement,” rhodes said. “To have short natural hair, to use black women as models, and to promote black beauty, is a political notion.” 
she then talked about “core figures” of black wom­en: angela davis, Kathleen cleaver, elaine brown, assata shakur, michelle obama and nicki minaj. 
“when i did a search on new york Times, i found about 1600 articles about angela davis,” rhodes said. “There are some key things to know about angela davis. she was a com­munist. she was connected to [the black panther party] for a short period. she moved to ucla and was hired as a phi­losophy professor.” 
in 1970, she was accused in a murder case, but was acquitted by all-white jury, rhodes said. 
“we love the sensationalism of the story,” rhodes said. “as someone who is from a middle class family … and has a grad­uate degree … how can [davis] become so radical? a terrorist, that’s how she was labeled.” 

rhodes also said Kathleen cleaver brought a high level of media savvy to the “black power” movement. 
“Kathleen cleaver was the party’s communications sec­retary,” dr. rhodes said. “one of the things that is fascinating about Kathleen is that she is skilled in public relations. she staged photographs, but she didn’t provide the media with sensationalized story … and she was too deeply connected to the black panther party.” 
elaine brown represents the next generation of black nationalists and the first bo­na-fide female leader of black panther party, although she was never captured in the me­dia gaze, and few people really know who she really is until her memoir was published, rhodes said. 
michelle obama’s frame of being “dangerous and un­american” also reflects the fear of black women and black power, and nicki minaj is in­heriting the legacy of women in the black power movement, rhodes said. 
Contact Clara Yang at syang7@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Series of events celebrates Dia de los Muertos 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The crossroads gallery for contemporary art and partners is hosting a series of events in celebration of día de los muertos at the notre dame center for arts and culture (ndcac) and the snite museum of art. 
The exhibition “remembering the undocumented across the rio grande” and a día de los muertos event took place Thursday at the ndcac, ac­cording to art coordinator of the crossroads gallery, alex schaufele. The events includ­ed an opening reception and altar dedication, with musi­cal performances by mariachi nd and ballet Folklorico azul y oro. 
“[día de los muertos] is a time to remember those we have lost and perhaps those we do not know,” schaufele said. “it is a communal celebration of life.” 
in continuation of the cel­ebration,  a talk with featured artist sandra Fernandez is scheduled today at 4 p.m. at the snite museum, schaufele said. a reading of “ofrenda of voices: celebrating the dead” is scheduled to take place saturday through notre dame’s creative writing program. 
“i will talk about my trajecto­ry as an artist,” Fernandez said. “where i started and where i am now. my experiences. who i am as an artist and what my interests are.” 

schaufele said the gallery chose to host Fernandez as the featured guest artist based on suggestions supplied by planning committee mem­bers hoping to showcase a unique approach to día de los muertos. 
“last year was an africana approach dedicated to martin luther King, Jr. by [artist] diógenes ballester,” she said. “This year, we are featuring sandra, an ecuadorian artist who works with undocument­ed individuals.” 
Fernandez said the exhibi­tion and ofrenda are dedi­cated to those who have died while crossing the border from mexico to the u.s., particularly along the rio grande. 
“i have been working with undocumented peoples and wanted to bring attention to those who have died crossing the border,” she said. “many of them are never identified, and i wanted to honor them.” 
The dedication was a way to pray for the souls of the dead, who passed away far from friends, families and their homes, Fernandez said. 
“i’m bringing a different awareness and information about a population to the area,” she said. “i want to cel­ebrate and pay homage to that population.” 
as part of this year’s cel­ebration, schaufele said those involved offer both a tradi­tional altar for everyone to participate in and a nontra­ditional one as a part of the exhibition, which includes an interactive component. 

“all four events were gen­erated based on día de los muertos and those who sandra chose to honor in her exhibi­tion,” she said. 
although this event took place at the snite museum in previous years, schaufele said the ndcac began hosting it last year. 
“[we are hosting the] exhibi­tion in the crossroads gallery for contemporary art as way to bring the community and notre dame students togeth­er,” she said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
sociologist examines origins of Korean pop music 
the Japanese idol girl group is popular for teenagers is not said he views the popular mu-appearance and features. 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 

news writer aKb48, founded as a meet-necessarily popular for their sic as profit-driven. “related to shows like the 
and-greet musical perfor-parents.” “culturally speaking, the ‘X-Factor’ and ‘american idol,’ 
The saint mary’s college mance on a regular basis, lie lie introduced and ex-reason is it is not made for aKb48 tries to bring fans into department of global studies said. groups like aKb48 have plained the relatively new the sake of art,” lie said. “you the voting process,” lie said. enlightened students on the crossed over to include sister concept of popular music in don’t make it for the pure “of course it’s not really a de­cultural phenomenon of groups in Japan, china and popular culture, which was beauty of it, but rather for the mocracy in the case of aKb48, “K-pop” at a lecture by John indonesia, lie said. born from the folk and classi-money, and that’s what de-because you have to buy cd’s. lie, the c.K. cho professor of K-pop artists commonly use cal music of the late 19th cen-fines popular music in a way.” if you just watch the music sociology at the university universal and generic themes tury, he said. in the cases of idol groups video of aKb48, it’s hard to see of california, berkeley, in their lyrics such as, “i need “Traditionally there [was] like aKb48, the first Japanese why they’re popular because Thursday evening in carroll you,” or, “i love you” to ap-what we would call folk mu-idol groups rose in the 1970s, they’re [not that good]. people auditorium. peal to global audiences, lie sic,” lie said. “There was al-and in south Korea in the find them less threatening.” 
lie’s lecture titled, “what is said. english might be used ways kinds of classical music, 1980s when they had the lie believes artists create the K in K-pop?” explored the in small portions for the same but beginning in the late 19th means to enjoy popular mu-art for the sake of express-identity and origins of K-pop or reason, though the rest of the century, there arose a new sic, lie said. ing something deeper within Korean pop music and J-pop, song is sung in Japanese or genre called popular mu-“what’s interesting about themselves, he said. the Japanese equivalent, and Korean, lie said. sic which wasn’t something idols is they are produced “you are constantly ex-how both have gained mo-“They release a Japanese people could just sing. They and consumed as transient pressing artistic autonomy,” mentum internationally. version, a chinese version, would buy it, hear it on the goods, meaning they do not he said. “in the case of these 
The genre is characterized and an english version,” lie radio.” last forever,” lie said. “This Japanese or south Korean by a western sound, syn-said. “as far as i can make popular music became rapid turnover in stars is very pop groups, this is not the chronized dance moves, and out, none of the aKb48 mem-widely sung across Japan and obvious, but it’s also partially case. someone thought of the a repetitive melody, lie said. bers speak another language Korea because of its western designed by the industry to group. he did this not to say while the genre gradually fluently.” style, lie said. keep people interested. one something about himself, mu-gained international popu-lie said these differences in “in south Korea, popular aspect of the idol concept is sic is widely different. This is larity for about 10 years, the music stems from the differ-music meant singing choral constant change. These idols the sort of music that he was crossover year in the united ences between nations. music and church songs,” lie were sacred.” promoting beforehand. The states was 2012 when art-“any two countries are quite said. “in the case of Korea, nowadays, people tend to humor or the interest was in ist psy released his single, complex,” he said. “people are these songs became some of find music videos to be artifi-that.” “gangnam style,” lie said. quite different in their cul-the first popular music.” cial, lie said. The remedy is to 
lie began his discussion tures. people have different whether or not such a genre make a more relatable series Contact Emilie Kefalas at with the concept behind tastes in art, in food. and what is considered an art form, lie of idols less threatening in ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
college sponsors halloween-themed festivities 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
Throughout the week, saint mary’s has celebrated halloween, beginning on Tuesday, with “ghost stories at reidinger” sponsored by the class gift campaign. 
“halloween has become a major event at many colleges, even saint mary’s is a popular place during halloween be­cause of the many stories in [shelly houser’s book] ‘Quiet hours.’” college archivist John Kovach said. 
Kovach used his experience and research to delve into his favorite saint mary’s ghost stories on Tuesday night. 
“i came to personally hear more of the stories that haunt my dorm, le mans hall,” first year Julie weilbaker said. “it just seems fun to tell ghost stories and drink apple cider.” 
director of student success diane Fox also participated in the event on Tuesday, where she told a few silly ghost sto­ries and finished with an audience-participation activ­ity called “light as a feather, stiff as a board” to lighten the mood. 
on wednesday night, residence life invited stu­dents and faculty to a dorm Trick-or-Treat event from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m. students, facul­ty and their families dressed up in costumes and trick-or­treated in each dorm on cam­pus, ashley hall, assistant director of residence life, said. 

students who signed-up to participate in trick-or-treat­ing placed a pumpkin outside of their room and passed out candy to trick-or-treaters. 
“i am from the michiana area and i have no affiliation with the college,” south bend native belinda Johnson said. “i just google searched safe places to trick-or-treat, so i came to saint mary’s.” 
sophomore Kaitlyn baker, president of the residence hall association (rha) said, “The purpose of Trick-or-Treating in the halls is to provide an opportunity for the students to get to know the faculty, outside of their work environment.” 
“rha works really hard to make sure everyone feels at home in their residence hall,” baker said. “halloween is an event that we don’t want anyone to miss out on, sim­ply because we live on a col­lege campus and not in a neighborhood. 
“it also provides our saint mary’s community with a safe space to trick-or-treat with their families.” 
“belle-a-boo,” sponsored by student activities board (sab), wrapped up saint mary’s halloween week ac­tivities Thursday evening. 

sophomore gina Kraig, the sab entertainment co-chair said, “belle-a-boo is a fun, school sponsored event to celebrate halloween.” 
sab sponsored this event at dalloway’s clubhouse for students to come and paint skulls, watch movies and fill their bellies with chocolate. 
“it is a great way to meet new people and bond over your favorite halloween tra­ditions,” belle-a-boo partici­pant junior shannon schalk said. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 


Professor links theology and biology 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
notre dame theology professor celia deane­drummond examined the connection between theolo­gy and biology Thursday eve­ning in her lecture “Tracing common ground in biology and Theology: caritas and the drama of Kinship” as part of saint mary’s college theol­ogy lecture series, hosted by the center for spirituality. 
deane-drummond, who holds doctoral degrees in both plant physiology and theology, strove to bring a dynamic understanding to a static web of life, which is why she titled the lecture the drama of kinship, she said. The relationships between other species and humans is a dynamic one of which are reminded every day, she said. 
“The interaction between these two very different subject areas [theology and biology] makes for some creative thinking,” deane­drummond said. “it’s not that they’re the same nec­essarily, but that they en­gage us in ways that make us think anew. and that to me is exciting.” 
The first portion of the lec­ture focused on the biologi­cal side of caritas, or love. in biology, altruism is used to describe sacrificial interrela­tionships between animals. however, this concept is a biological problem, deane­drummond said. 
“darwin’s theory of evolu­tion is a theory of natural se­lection, and it selects those that survive,” she said. “it’s about the conservation of genes. and so therefore, why would any being sacrifice it­self for another?” 
by looking at homo er­gaster, an ancestor of homo sapiens, who lived 1.5 mil­lion years ago, scholars can better understand the evo­lution of compassion, deane­drummond said. The being suffered from too much vita­min a, however, other homo ergasters had to deliberately act with compassion to keep it alive. in this way, biology and compassion are linked, she said. 

deane-drummond then looked at biological issues through a theological lens­es. within discussions of love, biological altruism is not necessarily endorsed by theologians because of its fo­cus on self-interest, she said. 
Theologians prefer a love that includes multiple forms of love, as seen in the bib­lical books of luke, John and revelations, deane­drummond said. This un­derstanding of god’s love enables one to better under­stand the love within hu­mans since we are made in the image of god, she said. 
however, love in theology and biology has a few differ­ences, she said. 
“For biologists, the goal is always meant to be in terms of natural selection, and it doesn’t have a particular purpose other than surviv­al,” she said. “even the co­operation is for the survival of the group … whereas the theological perspective of love have the Kingdom of god in view.” 
however, these differenc­es just increase humanity’s ability to link the two togeth­er, she said. while love and cooperation may differ be­tween the natural world and morality, both forms of cari­tas have similar foundations, she said. 
“caritas is grounded in friendship and love of god, which then overflows. … it is also infused by divine grace which takes humans to new possibilities in loving others beyond the biological ten­dencies,” deane-drummond said. 
saint mary’s junior allison danhof said she felt the lec­ture exemplified the way saint mary’s women think. 

“it’s important to view the world from a variety of per­spectives to develop a well-rounded understanding of life,” danhof said. “[deane­drummond’s] speech showed how two different perspec­tives can come together to create a unique picture.” 
The lecture concluded the saint mary’s college center for spirituality fall lecture series, a series that encour­aged all people to draw con­nection between theology and biology, michelle egan, associate director of the center for spirituality, said. The series aimed to connect theology to the sciences, she said. 
“Theology that is intellec­tually responsible must be deeply engaged with all the sciences, including biology, in order to address questions about god, creation and hu­manity,” egan said. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
body of christ, as all gifts of children … there are critical in] the nature of the parent/ 

Conference 
Poverty 

and sensitive periods in the child relationship, or the the spirit are intended to do,” 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

formation of these capabili-mentor/child relationship … ally explored the possibilities 
cavadini said. “have we re­ties … where some skills are [in that they] change the way 

cavadini said he began that are contained in church 
non-cognitive “character more easily shaped than in parents perceive themselves, planning the workshop in July teaching? is there a pattern 
skills play a very important other periods,” he said. how important their role is … 2012. for mutual support, mutual 
role, are very predictive [of gaps in “both emotional and parental response to the “it was my idea originally, gift-giving, implied in church 
future economic success], and social skills [observed in child’s curiosity.” but many have participated teaching?” 
and can be shaped by edu-5- and 6-year-olds] … really economics professor in making the original idea 
cation” and environment. aren’t that much alleviated Joseph Kaboski summarized concrete, especially sr. ann 
These skills include motiva-by going to school,” and per-heckman’s discussion as the astell of the department of 
tion, sociability, attention, sist into adulthood, heckman idea “that lack of personal de-Theology, who has been a 
“I am thinking of 

self-regulation, self-esteem said. This becomes problem-velopment, inequality in per-
the ultimate goal 
partner in planning through-and the ability to defer grati-atic in the fact that “skills are sonal abilities, leads to both 

as an exchange of 
out,” cavadini said. 

fication, he said. very important all around the material poverty and other 
gifts that builds 
cavadini said a controver­

“i want to think about a world, and they’re major de-social problems.” sial conversation prompted 
strategy based on creating terminants of inequality.” “skills beget skills … [and] his choice of topic for the 
up the One Body of 

capabilities … the capaci-“genes play a role, but predistribution is better than 
Christ, as all gifts 
workshop. 

ties to act and create future they’re far from the whole redistribution in terms of be-
of the Spirit are 
“a series of conversations capacities,” he said. “if we story,” heckman said. “The ing a possible win-win for ev­

intended to do.” 
going back to a blog written 

look at those capacities in a capabilities that matter are erybody,” Kaboski said, in the by one of the participants, 
modern sense … we’re going … acquired, and can be fos-fact that it is a preventative that turned out to be much 
John Cavadini 

to have a very different way tered by families, schools and rather than reactive approach more controversial than i ex-
Institute for Church Life 

of thinking about addressing social interactions.” to reducing inequality. pected it to be, and i wondered 
director 

poverty.” “what we’ve seen from a why, prompted my decision,” 
“what we’ve come to un-number of [successful] in-Contact Elena Gacek at cavadini said. The goal of the workshop 
derstand is that in the life of terventions … [is a change egacek@nd.edu 
in the past, the church has is to listen to the voices of the experienced a strained rela-participants, cavadini said. tionship with the gay and les-“This conference is not in-colleague and friend to many 
Shooting 
Aldous 

bian community. cavadini tended to take up all of the of us who were fortunate 
conTinued From page 1 
said the conference will ex-issues connected with homo­
conTinued From page 1 enough to get to know her.” plore possibilities about pasto-sexuality and the church,” 
aldous graduated from ral strategies as well as church cavadini said. “in some ways, 
her contributions to notre Kansas state university in 
both victims sustained teaching. church teaching with regard 
dame and to our department 1948 and earned a master’s 
gunshot wounds to the head. “is someone who self-iden-to sexuality has been seen as 
are immeasurable,” profes-degree from the university 
Tommy Thompson, 26, died tifies as gay or lesbian but ac-and caricatured as a series of 
sor and sociology chair rory of Texas in 1949, the press re-
overnight and his father, rick cepts church teaching — and ‘no’s’. but every ‘no’ implies a 
mcveigh said in the press re-lease stated. her doctoral de-
Thompson, 46, is expected to that seems an immense gift ‘yes.’ i want to find the ‘yes’s’ 
lease. “at department lunch-gree in sociology came from 
survive. to the church — is such a that church teaching can lead 
es held for incoming graduate the university of minnesota 
police did not provide details person actually welcomed by us to, if it is not just abstract, 
students, she would inevita-in 1963, and she was on the 
about the relationship between the church? are their gifts re-but embodied in people who 
the Thompsons and rankin ex­ceived, and the gift of ecclesial have seen possibilities in it 
bly introduce herself by say-faculty there until 1974. 
cept that they knew each other. belonging and support effec-that take it out of the abstract 
ing, ‘Joan aldous is my name palmer Funeral home in 
police described the incident tively tendered? i think there is and into concrete lives, who 
and family sociology is my river park will handle ar­
as an isolated event, according a lot of evidence that this is not have said ‘yes’ and are saying 
game.’ rangements, the press release 
to the Tribune report. the case now,” cavadini said. it, or trying to say it, all the 
cavadini said he is unsure as time.” to what recommendations the The conference runs from 2 workshop will produce for par-p.m. to 5:35 p.m. Friday and 9 ish communities, but he has a.m. to 6:20 p.m. saturday, ac-hope for the possibilities. cording to an online schedule. 
“i am thinking of the ulti­mate goal as an exchange of Contact Katie McCarty at gifts that builds up the one kmccar16@nd.edu 
“she was a wonderful said. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

‘golden dads’ gone wrong 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 

my family has watched every episode of only four Tv series. Two of those are “7th heaven” and “The cosby show.” i’ve seen literally every episode of each series at least once and most of them two or three times. 
my family watches their holiday episodes each christmas, and we can quote and laugh hysterically over numerous memorable lines and moments. dr. cliff huxtable and rev. eric camden were constant and recurring parts of my childhood. until recently, this would have been no big deal and likely rather normal. all of the sudden, though, things have gotten complicated. 
stephen collins (reverend camden) and bill cosby (dr. huxtable) have been in the news the last few weeks for all the wrong reasons, collins for alleged molestation of a child and cosby for alleged rape. The truth around the allegations is still sorting itself out, but both stars’ reputations are doubt­lessly marred. 
networks have pulled re-runs of “7th heaven” and cosby has been pulled from upcoming talk show appearances. storming clouds of allegations that paint their public image in a repulsive new light suddenly surround two of america’s “golden dads.” making it all the more disgusting is the way each seemed to exploit the stardom their roles provided. both allegedly leveraged their influence as recognizable television-father figures to take advantage of their victims. 
For me, as both a student studying televi­sion and a young man that grew up laughing at and learning from these two men, i cannot help but wonder how to separate reality from television. 
is it alright to laugh at dr. huxtable and listen to rev. camden when their portray­ers seemed to have so greatly corrupted everything for which the characters stand? can my family enjoy a holiday episode of “7th heaven” without feeling guilty? can we laugh at a “cosby show” quote without feel­ing repulsed? 
i’m not sure. certainly right now, as the allegations pick up steam, it is hard to imagine watching either show without feel­ing conflicted or just being lost in the cruel hypocrisy of it all. maybe, with time, some of those feelings will fade. but maybe they never should. 
i love “7th heaven” and “The cosby show” and treasure all the memories they have given me and my family, but i hate the way that cosby and collins have disgraced themselves and not only tainted their own legacies, but have allegedly done irreparable damage to their victims. 
rev. camden and dr. huxtable have done nothing wrong. yet, just as the characters often transcended Tv and were a real part of my life, now reality ruins the Tv shows. The actions of collins and cosby cannot be ignored or escaped. dr. huxtable and rev. camden wouldn’t watch their own shows after such actions, and i can’t watch either. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to Farce 

poll after poll indicates that millennials are more cynical regard­ing the present and future state of american politics than the rest of the voting population. our generation has shown a historically low level of trust in our governmental institutions and those re­sponsible for carrying out their functions. 
so, what has brought about this attitude of negativity? like most problems facing american politics, its causal factors are numer­ous, ambiguous and complex. however, i would argue that one of the causes responsible for millennial cynicism involves political coverage on television, a primary lens through which millennials view our political environment. 
Jon stewart and his offspring enjoy a strong relationship with millennial television viewers. stewart has established a successful career by employing irony to tear down the absurdity of american politics and media, which has provided ample content for him over the last 15 years. while a comedy program at heart, “The daily show” is seen by many millennials as a primary source of political news. ratings prove that “The daily show” is the most-viewed eve­ning news program among the 18-34-year-old male demographic. 
research has shown that these viewers have a more cynical at­titude towards the american political system. while these findings are not without contention, it seems logical that consuming poli­tics and news through the lenses of irony and ridicule inherently leads to a more negative understanding and opinion of politics and news. 
irony and satire have the ability to provide a great service to millennials. irony reveals the absurd of american politics and can expose the ugly underlying of our news media. however, irony’s role in our political discourse extends only over its ability to iden­tify and expose the ridiculous. while stewart serves an important purpose in political news coverage, there can be dangerous conse­quences when ironic comedy-based news coverage serves as one’s primary source of news coverage. 
now, to be clear, i enjoy “The daily show” and echo stewart’s frequent cry that he is a comedian, or as he says, the kid who sits in the back of class and throws spitballs, and bears no responsibility for being a news source. Further, i find the argument that there is legitimate cause for cynicism in american politics and news media convincing as well. stewart might be the poster child for cynicism and irony, but i do not think he should bear any form of blame. 
Further, i don’t think us millennials can be blamed for turning to Jon stewart for our news coverage. news media is a business driven by page views and advertising dollars, and often, the truth doesn’t sell very well. This problem is only exacerbated by the in­ternet and social media. sensationalism and partisan bickering have proven to be an effective business model, and this leaves us with limited options we can trust. while stewart might be a come­dian first and newscaster second, most find him to be at least the most honest and self-aware news source in town. in fact, a Time magazine survey found Jon stewart to be the most trusted man in america after the passing of walter cronkite. 
however, if exposure and ridicule of political problems, a job “The daily show” and others do well, are not translated into action against such problems, irony becomes a means by which one be­grudgingly accepts his or her circumstances. in other words, if our relationship with american politics ends with Jon stewart’s daily segments, we tacitly consent to the spectacle we mock. as david Foster wallace eloquently articulated, “irony is the song of the prisoner who has come to love his cage.” 
perhaps the most dangerous side effect of this disposition is that it has the ability to discourage discourse. it allows answers like “washington’s just a disaster” to go without question or qualifica­tion. it also positions the responder so that any disagreement ap­pears either naïve or dogmatic. some form of this occurs whenever one of Jon stewart’s interviewees treats their exchange as some­thing more than a joke. This attitude compels our generation to resign to our cynicism and withdraw from the battle to improve our condition. 
so, despite this ironically cynical outlook, i implore you to resist the tempting inclination of cynicism. ditch will mcavoy’s “The newsroom” diatribe or mr. smith’s filibuster scene next time you’re perusing youTube. not because mcavoy or smith don’t have anything important to say, but because our present condition calls for something greater than despair and distant ironic disapproval. our present condition requires action backed by a mindset that we are not imprisoned to the political climate we perceive. Fixing our political problems requires a generation that is more inclined to roll up their sleeves and take to the business of compelling change, as opposed to one that sits in the corner and makes disapproving jokes. 
JC Sullivan is a junior living in Keenan Hall. He can be    contacted at jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A frightful forecast for election eve 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

expect an unusually spooky halloween tonight around the white house while haunting visions of ghoulish gop goblins eerily hover against a moon­lit sky backdrop. These ghosts of elections — past, near-future and generations hence — portend of political polls pointing to a gop senate takeover if they capture at least six seats next Tuesday. after dusting off my gypsy fortune-telling queue ball, i can predict the upcoming senate electoral results will stand at 49-48-1 with two runoff elections to occur in december and January. 
every four years, presidential elections feature hyper-charged campaigns that wow the electorate and draw a higher number of voters nationwide. conversely, midterm elections comprise of more state-by-state and locally concentrated neutral atmospheres. midterms by nature encompass less of a national tone, other than for the party out of the white house to continue to whine about dis­pleasures lingering like a presidential hangover from two years prior. senatorial election cycle dy­namics serve as a rotating two-year yin and yang in american politics. 
For two-term presidents, the american political calendar inherently creates a voters’ gauntlet dur­ing the sixth year midterm election cycle against the incumbent’s fellow party congressional can­didates. inevitably, newly chosen presidents like president obama in 2008 overextend their party’s favorability factor when initially elected. The new president’s coattails sweep in novice senators who cannot successfully stand alone for reelec­tion a half-dozen years later, when the president is no longer with them at the top of the ballot. This calendar quirk of quicksand has throughout the decades become a built-in electoral course cor­rection mechanism by punishing the incumbent party’s candidates who serve as the president’s stand-in against the brunt of voter dissatisfaction. 
history has not been kind to second-term presi­dents other than bill clinton, whose party lost no senate seats in 1998 after his impeachment pre­cipitated a voter backlash against republicans. rather, the powerful Franklin roosevelt nearly lost his new deal programs — saved by massive governmental deficit spending for world war ii that countered the great depression — after he lost six senate seats in 1938. The likable dwight eisenhower lost 13 senate seats in 1958, while george w. bush lost six seats in 2006. 
even the affable ronald reagan in 1986 could not break his six-year jinx. his approval rating on election day stood at 63 percent, but it plum­meted a month later to 47 percent following the iran-contra scandal revelations. despite raising $33 million for gop candidates and campaigning vigorously in 22 states through 54 appearances that totaled 24,000 miles, reagan lost nine of his 12 first-term senators. reagan biographer lou cannon wrote that, “republicans won nearly every close contest in 1980, while losing 11 of the 15 clos­est races in 1986.” 
Facing low approval ratings and unlimited pac spending against his party, obama may buck the trend. obama’s 2012 get-out-the-vote effort is now deployed for democrats in marginal states that obama did not carry two years ago. days before the election, polling shows almost a dozen races still nearly tied and within the margin of error. should polling — which had a slight pro-gop sen­ate bias in 2008 and 2010 but bulged to a 3.5 per­cent bias in 2012 that surprised mitt romney early on election eve — still contain just one percentage point bias now, democrats will win Tuesday. 
as the matchups stand, democrats need to win at least two races, such as those in colorado and iowa, where they remain slight underdogs. if by monday, polls move democrats to somewhat heavier underdogs in those states, they would need to get “lucky” in four states on election night. That scenario is unattainable, since the gop will win these currently held democratic seats: west virginia, montana, alaska, arkansas and south dakota. however, my once-a-year gypsy fortune telling blood predicts a gop loss in Kansas to an independent while currently gop-held georgia and democratic-held louisiana move into runoff mode. 
democrats will successfully defend new hampshire and north carolina. colorado’s new mail-in voting process, coupled with the obama­led voter turnout effort, will propel mark udall to victory. in iowa, my gypsy hunch predicts that too many forces will unite to ensure a bruce braley win, despite most polls showing the democrat slightly trailing. ultimately, the obama ground game will successfully partner with pro-clinton groups that desire to hone hillary’s 2016 operation for the first-in-the-nation caucus. 
pundits predict at minimum a 60 percent chance the gop will capture the senate. should that oc­cur Tuesday or from a future runoff, the obama white house can take solace in reagan’s reaction after his 1986 loss. Former aide Jeffrey lord recalls emotional supporters listening to a serene, not de­pressed reagan who drew from a childhood-mem­orized poem by quoting a 17th century scottish ballad about sir andrew barton: 
“Fight on my men,” says sir andrew barton, 
“i am hurt, but i am not slain; 
i’ll lay me down and bleed a while, 
and then i’ll rise and fight again.” 
democrats need only to pull that prospect from reagan in preparation for a hillary run in 2016. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administra­tion. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

restroom literature and nd’s war on paper 
we are writing to you amidst perhaps the darkest of all times to have dawned upon marion burk Knott hall this academic year. To understand our current hardships, we must first take you all the way back to spring semester of 2014.  There was once a time when the honorable men of Knott hall had to poop in solitude, having nothing to occu­py their minds but the vision of the silver metallic stall door in front of them, staring back into their souls.  however, as the flowers began to bloom and the season of new begin­nings hit full swing, Knott hall experienced a new begin­ning of our own doing.  The newly-ordained presidential office of marion’s dorm bestowed upon us the duty — nay, the honor — of vanquishing all boredom from the bath­room stalls of Knott hall.  and thus, the finest news publi­cation this university has ever seen was born.  we called it “The daily dump.” 
unfortunately for the average Knott hall bathroom pa­tron, the dark boredom of the bd (before dump) era seems to be reappearing.  by now, i think we are all familiar with the new print quota system here at notre dame.  it is at best a conspiracy plan hatched by oiT, with the intent to nickel and dime students and bury them beneath a mountain of red tape.  Two weeks ago, Knott hall’s print quota was exhausted as we fell victim to this evil scheme.  now, this should not have been too much of an issue.  For those of you who cannot recall, Knott hall has recently found itself in possession of a large sum of monies after winning several notre dame day events last spring. 
when we ran out of print quota, we tried to comply with oiT’s demands by purchasing more for our dorm account. however, our attempts proved unsuccessful.  several phone calls were made, and each time oiT told us that they would add to our quota.  after the first few calls, we were informed that our quota had not increased because they were not al­lowed to receive our bank account number over the phone. That may have been a nice thing for them to tell us the first time we called.  so the very next day, our valiant rector marched down to the oiT building to help bring Knott hall out of the darkness and into the light.  now in the least sur­prising plot twist of this ordeal, our rector showed up during normal business hours, and nobody was there. as of right now, Knott hall still has yet to regain its print quota, and the Juggerknotts continue to be plagued by this great paper famine and its resultant bathroom boredom. 
now as much as we hate to admit it, there are a couple of things in this world more important than “The daily dump.” could you imagine if this were not a dorm strug­gling to receive print quota, but a notre dame student?  Two weeks is hardly an acceptable time frame when students still have assignments heavily reliant on printed materials. 
we can only imagine the stress and fallout that would result if a student had to deal with this type of bureaucracy when they needed to print out time-sensitive assignments.  The process is broken, and the notre dame academic com­munity deserves better than this.  maybe notre dame will make sure they are properly equipped to handle the chang­es before they make another significant policy change of this nature. 
long live print media. 
The daily dump staff 

Jim Boyle Jackson Wrede 
junior freshman Knott hall Knott hall 
Jake Grabowski Phil Healy 
sophomore freshman Knott hall Knott hall 
Matt Reilly 
freshman Knott hall oct. 12 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

halloween is upon us, and perhaps you’ve already started celebrating. For those of you just getting started or still coming up with costume ideas for a night or two (or three) of festivities, here’s a list of do’s and don’ts for the upcoming weekend. 
Do: Dress as something relevant to the year 2014 
whether it’s the dancing girl from the sia music video, a celebration of the return of “Twin peaks” or an uber driver com­plete with a steering wheel, keeping things topical is a good way to go for halloween. you could be shia labeouf with a bag on his head. you could be grumpy cat. Just please, for the love of halloween, don’t pick a horrible or tragic current event for your costume. 
Don’t: Appropriate a culture 

many people may not know this, but it’s entirely possible to come up with an 
By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 

according to the 2013 open doors report released by the institute of international education, notre dame ranks fifth in percentage of undergraduates study­ing abroad. For many students, studying abroad is a chance to not only explore areas of the world for prolonged periods of time but also to familiarize themselves with styles of cuisine that might be unfamiliar to them. students looking for their fill of French cuisine need to look no further, as south bend’s smoothies, crepes & coffee offers delicious crepes for every aspiring Francophile. 
located at 121 s. niles avenue in south bend, inside the east bank emporium, smoothies, crepes & coffee provides a va­riety of high-quality crepes to patrons that may not be able to obtain them otherwise. 
“one of the main things was to find something that was not already repre­sented in south bend or in this surround­ing area,” manager hannah Jensen said about the decision to open the restaurant. “i think that was one of the appeals, to do something that was a little bit different.” 
situated between the downtown 
MARC DRAKE | The Observer 
excellent, even last minute, halloween costume without appropriating another culture. That’s right, this year, step away from the culturally insensitive characters and costumes and reach for something else. not sure if your costume is insensitive or offensive? you can start by asking your­self if it perpetuates cultural stereotypes, makes a joke out of a marginalized group, or steals from an important part of culture to which you don’t belong. if you said yes to any of these things, don’t go in that cos­tume. as students at ohio university beau­tifully put it, “cultures aren’t costumes.” be smart out there. 
Do: Dress in an ensemble with your friends 
i insist that there is nothing better than a well-executed group costume. if you and your friends can pull it off, ensemble cos­tumes are the way to go. From the cast of your favorite wes anderson movie to the belcher children from “bob’s burgers” to the oscar selfie, the possibilities for ensem­ble costumes are endless. if you’re more on 
comedy connection comedy club and the east bank emporium, the restaurant offers an open space for individuals to congre­gate at all times of the day, whether it be for a bite to eat at lunch or a quick cup of coffee in the late afternoon. 
one of the most notable features of the restaurant is that it is continuously updat­ing its menu and the dining space, pro­viding a novel experience almost each time a patron visits. menu staples such as the organic strawberry crepe and velvet presley smoothie, a mixture consisting of banana, peanut butter and chocolate cre­ated after elvis presley’s professed favorite sandwich, share space next to specialty items such as the Zesty mexican crepe, vegan crepe or ham & bean soup. 
“we’ve been trying to change them [menu items] pretty frequently. within at least a week, or less, we have a new crepe,” Jensen said regarding the consistently up­dated menu. “some people like the same things over and over, but we figure it’s good to give people other things to try”. 
heeding Jensen’s advice, i branched out from my typical order and decided to try the savory customizable pizza crepe, a de­cision that i won’t soon regret. Featuring fresh spinach and organic sausage locally the duo side of an ensemble, there are still plenty of options for costumes that don’t fall into the cheesy “couple’s costume” cat­egory (which you should avoid at all costs). instead, go for the very topical tap-dancing emoji girls or “True detective” season 1 theme. or dress as your favorite funny duo, like garth and Kat from “saturday night live” or garth and wayne from “wayne’s world” (garths are very in this year). 

Don’t: Dress as your RA or Hall Staff 
Just trust me on this. you have to see them for the rest of the year, so don’t give your ra a reason to hate you. 
Do: Stay in costume the whole time 
There’s probably nothing funnier than seeing someone in full costume devour Taco bell at 2 a.m. whether you dress in an ensemble costume and get separated from your group or end up at some fast food res­taurant long after a party ends, stay in your costume, because there’s nothing funnier than an out-of-context college student in full halloween garb. 
sourced from the purple porch co-op, this savory treat provides the perfect mid-af­ternoon snack for those seeking a spin on a traditional favorite. 
although it specializes in a cuisine that is not distinctly american, smoothies, crepes & coffee strives to engage itself with the local community and sustainable practices. 
“we get the majority of our ingredients from purple porch, which is a block away from us,” Jensen said. “over half of our stuff is local, and the rest is at least organic, ide­ally regional. The things that we can’t get from the purple porch, we get from the [south bend] Farmer’s market. so that’s a big part of things, staying in the community and giving profits back to the community.” 
when not economically supporting the community by purchasing local supplies, the staff at smoothies, crepes & coffee listens to community pleas on how to im­prove its space usage. between jokes about compostable wooden cutlery and the lack of waste products created by the restau­rant, Jensen recounts the story of how the restaurant recently bought beanbag chairs after listening to a request from two high school patrons. 
aside from crepes and smoothies, the 
 Don’t: End up on ND Makeouts 
That being said, no one wants to see miley cyrus and a Teenage mutant ninja Turtle or a “despicable me” minion all up on Finn from “adventure Time.” Try to keep your halloween pda away from the cameras. 
Do: Go for a clever costume 
There’s a delicate space between cliché and complicated costumes, and that’s where you want to aim. if it’s too cryptic, you’ll have to spend the entire night ex­plaining your costume. if it’s too obvious, you’ll run into about a dozen of your cos­tume twins over the course of the night. The key, then, is to hit that perfect middle ground, whether it’s a pun or a portman­teau, and you’ll be the hit at any party. 
Don’t: Be that guy who goes as him­self and calls it clever 
i mean, come on. you’re better than that. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at                                   atollaks@nd.edu 
restaurant offers intelligentsia coffee, with each cup of coffee made to order using the pour-over method of brewing. 
“we don’t get the coffee until we order it,” Jensen said. “so we order the coffee, then they roast it, and then they ship it to us. so we usually get it within one to two days of it being roasted, so it is as fresh as possible.” 
mirroring the locally-minded mantra of smoothies, crepes & coffee, intelligentsia focuses on direct trade with their farmers and ongoing relationships with each farm. 
“[intelligentsia] kind of feeds into our whole mission about sustainability and transparency,” Jensen said. 
Though notre dame students may con­sider themselves connoisseurs of crepes due to their usage of the crepe bar in the dining halls, smoothies, crepes & coffee will have students thinking twice about their expertise. with a menu that is con­stantly being updated to include delicious and locally-sourced new items and a po­tential name change on the horizon, one thing at the restaurant will certainly re­main constant: well-produced crepes and smoothies with expertly brewed coffee. 
Contact Marc Drake at                    mdrake@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

i sit at home, eyes closed, crying on the couch because of you. 
no, this is not a lyric off Taylor swift’s “1989,” but rather, a description of my typical reaction to scary movies. 
i am admittedly the worst at watching scary movies. usually i don’t necessarily “watch” as much as pull a blanket up to my eyes and cry under it quietly out of anticipation for the fate of the next vic­tim. This strategy is not recommended, as i never have any idea of what’s on screen and therefore mistakenly uncov­er my eyes at inopportune times — like when the girl gets possessed, sawed in half and eaten all at once. 
here is a collection of some reactions i have had to horror films, for your com­miseration or entertainment: 
“The Conjuring” 

This movie conjured up the worst emotions hidden in the dark, basement-like recesses of my mind. i was forced 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

animal collective’s noah lennox, who records under the name of panda bear, has been relatively silent for most of 2014. lennox is one of the most pro­lific and critically-acclaimed artists of the past decade — but besides a mixtape in september, he’s been all but miss­ing since his scene-stealing appear­ance on daft punk’s “random access memories” in 2013. 
That changed last Thursday, when lennox released the four-song “mr noah” ep. The ep previews the release of his fifth studio album, “panda bear meets the grim reaper,” which is due out Jan. 13, 2015 via domino. produced by former spaceman 3 member peter “sonic boom” Kember, the ep is soni­cally reminiscent of 2007’s fantastic “person pitch,” with its psychedelic sam­ples and dreamy melodies. it suggests “grim reaper” will feature an expansive sound, paired with lennox’s most direct to watch it at a sleepover with my cross country team and spent most of the mov­ie wishing i were running hills instead. 
after the movie i noticed a scary doll, similar to the one in the film, on my friend’s dresser. i asked her if she could hide it and headed to brush my teeth. 
if my life were a horror film that would be a move that would have had audienc­es screaming, “no! don’t go to the bath­room! you can’t trust them! why is the prettiest girl always so dumb?” 
as everyone but me could have pre­dicted, i crawled into bed to find the doll on the pillow. i proceeded to cry for five minutes and called my mom to pick me up because i was scared. This was senior year. 
“The Skeleton Key” 
never watch a movie where mirrors fa­cilitate evil things. you will end up terri­fied to look in them for fear of other faces lurking there. subsequently, your physi­cal appearance will take a severe down­turn and soon, you will look like the main character from a horror film. Then, 
and accessible melodies to date. 
“i often feel like i’m climbing up a mountain to get to the top, but late­ly, instead of looking up towards the place, i’m looking down,” lennox told pitchfork. “That feeling is central to this record.” This contemplative, sometimes morbid, strain is present throughout the ep and its often ambiguous lyrics. 
“mr noah,” which also serves as the first single off “grim reaper,” is the clear standout. it’s an absolute jam, and fea­tures lennox singing with chant-like vocals that will continue the inevitable comparisons of him to brian wilson of The beach boys. The song is also more percussive than most of panda bear’s past work, and it is a welcome sonic evolution. The lyrics, “This dog got bit on a leg / he got a really big chip on a leg,” only add to the song’s delightful cacophony. 
The track’s music video, directed by French curatorial collective ab/cd/cd, is equally entrancing. The camera tilts and turns as it works its way through an even more scared to look in the mirror, you will break all the mirrors in your house. Then, you will have really bad luck for seven years and will never leave your house again. Then, you will become “that scary lady who doesn’t leave her house,” and neighborhood kids will dare each other to run up to your porch and come back alive. 

“The Shining” 
sleepovers were prime times for gos­sip, freezing each other’s bras and — unfortunately — scary movies that you were probably too young to watch. Then, there was always the problem that you were in an unfamiliar house with even more unfamiliar Tv controls. This is es­pecially tragic when everyone else out­numbered your vote against watching “The shining,” but then fell asleep before you, so you’re stuck trying to fall asleep to Jack nicholson chanting ,“redrum,” at you. 
“Paranormal Activity” 
after spending Thanksgiving dinner 
apartment building and the alley below, with a cameo from the aforementioned dog. like lennox’s best work, it is fantas­tically disorienting. 
The ep’s other three tracks are in­triguing, if none quite as far-reaching as the dizzying heights of “mr noah.” “untying the Knot” comes the closest, with its faux-oriental strings and looped vocals. it is hypnotic, with its repeated lyric eventually becoming transcen­dent: “There is a sound if you listen in to it.” it is a mantra that could very well be applied to much of lennox’s music — it requires and rewards your full listening attention. 
“Faces in the crowd” is the most char­acteristically panda bear of the four songs. its buoyant synth line and an assortment of otherworldly samples will be reassuring for long-time animal collective fans. “To my guy ’til i die,” lennox sings repeatedly in the introduc­tion, bringing to mind the grim reaper references. That slightly ominous sen­timent is repeated in “This side of as an adult, i was mentally exhausted from questions about college and head­ed to the basement to hang out with the kids. i expected them to be playing duck, duck, goose or whatever kids do these days; however, apparently what kids do these days is watch “paranormal activity.” i sat next to my eight-year-old neighbor, who was uttering things like, “wow, this is so fake,” as i laughed in ac­knowledgment, nervously noticing sim­ilarities between the on-screen house and the one i was in. 
“E.T. the Extra Terrestrial” 
my babysitter Kelly let me watch this when i was six. i had nightmares for ap­proximately five years. in fourth grade, a “parent reader” brought in a picture book of “e.T.,” and i had to leave class. reese’s pieces will never taste as good to me as they should. i can’t appreci­ate greenhouses. i have trouble calling home. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                                     emcaulif@nd.edu 
paradise,” which is perhaps the weakest of the four. The track finds lennox feel­ing “like a sinking ship on the ocean,” but it also sounds like an unfinished demo. 
while “mr noah” is not necessarily an essential release in lennox’s discogra­phy, it is a promising preview of what’s to come from his full-length in January. panda bear is ready to meet the grim reaper — are we? 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Mr Noah” 
Panda Bear 
Label: Domino Tracks: “Mr Noah, Untying the Knot” If you like: Brian Wilson, Animal 
Collective 


MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

iron man’s record will never rust 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the last in an eight-part series in which our writers debate what is the most unbreakable record in sports. Follow along with the conversation on Twitter using the hashtag #UnbreakableRecord 
in sports, it’s easy to be blown away by a single moment of brilliance. secretariat winning the belmont stakes, antonio cromartie’s 109-yard touchdown return and wilt chamberlain’s 100-point game. all of these are incredible feats that may very well never be equaled. 
but to me, the most impressive records aren’t the ones set in a sin­gle game or race. a perfect game in baseball is impressive to be sure, but sometimes a mediocre player gets lucky, and history happens. i’m looking at you, dallas braden. 
The point is that the most un­breakable records take years to accomplish, as a truly great player consistently produces again and again, separating himself from the statistical outliers, the one-year wonders and the flashes in the pan. 
That’s why no one will ever top cal ripken Jr.’s 2,632 consecutive games played streak. 
There’s simply no one in base­ball that can match ripken’s tal­ent, toughness and longevity. in 2014, only four players in the mlb played every game, but ripken did it for 17 seasons, patrolling the left side of the infield for baltimore. 
in fact, ripken stands more than 500 games ahead of his clos­est competitor, the legendary lou gehrig. and after gehrig, the next-longest streak, set by everett scott, is 1,307 games, and scott’s streak ended in 1925. Think about that. scott played in an era when most players were famously tough when dealing with doubleheaders and injuries, and ripken doubled his best effort. since cal’s retire­ment, the longest streak has been 1,152 games, and that ended eight years ago. 
but, for the sake of argument, let’s consider what it would take for a player to actually surpass the iron man. 
First of all, this hypothetical player would have to be incredibly talented. ripken revolutionized the shortstop position by combining slick fielding with a powerful bat. 
he won two gold gloves, set a then-mlb record for consecutive games without an error at short­stop and posted one of the best fielding percentages of any short­stop ever at .979. That’s even better than ozzie smith, who won 13 con­secutive gold gloves. 
at the plate, ripken was one of just eight players in baseball history to collect 3,000 hits and 400 home runs. he also hit more than 600 doubles, good for top 15 all-time. 
ripken was just too good to take out of the lineup. 
by comparison, of all the play­ers who ranked in the top 10 in the mlb this year for batting average, on-base percentage, home runs, rbis and hits, only one played the full 162 games. That would be the san Francisco giants’ hunter pence, who probably won’t have the same level of production a de­cade from now. 
but our hypothetical iron man wouldn’t just have to be good — he would have to be tough enough to play 162 games a year for nearly two decades. mike Trout might be the best baseball player on the planet, but even he had to take off five games in each of the past two seasons. miguel cabrera won a Triple crown in 2012, but he has also never played a full season. Jose altuve, the houston astros’ brightest young star, took home this year’s batting title at the ten­der age of 24, but if he wants to catch cal, the speedster would have to start playing every day from now until he’s almost 42. 
and of course, in his twilight years, ripken benefited from playing for a team that was never in a pennant chase. To be fair, ripken never posted a negative wins above replacement (war) score during the streak, but there is no doubt that towards the end, the legend had slowed down. however, the orioles, stuck below .500, had no incentive to disrupt the most positive defining aspect of the team. 
nowadays, a player as good as ripken would never stay with the same team for 21 seasons. derek Jeter was probably the last player to be so closely connected with a franchise. Today, superstars inevi­tably accept exorbitant contracts in free agency, only to see their skills fade and managers put them on the bench. at the very least, there’s a slump as a player adjusts to a new team. i’m looking at you, albert pujols. 
There is certainly a bit of irony in declaring cal’s record unbreak­able. after all, gehrig’s mark was once considered sacred by base­ball experts. but baseball has evolved, both as a sport and as a business, and it is just not profit­able to play someone every day of the long, slow season, only to ex­haust them for the playoffs. 
The very best records take once-in-a-generation talent, peer­less longevity and most of all, a little luck. The stars aligned for cal ripken Jr. in a way we’ll never see them do again. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Vandalism mars Giants’ World Series celebration 
Associated Press 

san Francisco — The celebration in san Francisco’s streets following the giants’ world series victory started off peaceful but quickly turned raucous and violent, as revel­ers vandalized police cars and businesses and pelted officers with bottles. 
Fans initially gathered in the streets and uncorked cham­pagne, dancing and hugging strangers after wednesday’s night win. The 3-2 victory was the giants’ third world series championship in five years. That happy spirit quickly turned to havoc, however. 
Four police cars were dam­aged by graffiti and five others had windows smashed, police chief greg suhr said. Three police officers went to a hospi­tal with minor injuries. many more, including suhr, were hit with bottles but were not badly injured and kept working. 
businesses were tagged with graffiti but individual damage estimates were still being com­piled Thursday. suhr said “99.9 percent of the fans were well-behaved but about 100 near the ballpark and in the mission dis­trict marred the party. 
“To the clowns that came to san Francisco to act out, i guess you just don’t know what it’s like to have a good time without be­ing a jerk, and we had a lot of them last night,” suhr said. 
a majority of the 40 arrests were for public drunkenness, but people also went to jail for assaults, gun possession and outstanding warrants, suhr said. 
violence left four people in­jured in separate incidents, but it was not yet known if the shoot­ings and stabbings were linked to world series revelry, police said. authorities said a 54-year­old man and a 19-year-old wom­an were stabbed in separate incidents in the city’s mission district late wednesday and early Thursday, respectively. 
both were expected to live. a 19-year-old man was shot in the arm in the same neighborhood wednesday, and another per­son walked into a hospital with a non-life-threatening gunshot wound, police said. no arrests had yet been made. 
most of the mayhem was fans spraying beer, smashing bottles in the streets, lighting bonfires and setting off fireworks. 
suhr said the force was beefed up by about 20 percent wednesday night, with officers in protective gear lined up three rows deep. The raucous behav­ior did not compare to the may­hem following the 2012 victory, when revelers lit a bus on fire. 
“For me, i would say we did far better (than in 2012) in the way of damage to property and fires,” suhr said. 
police said a noon parade down market street is planned for Friday, with up to 2 million people expected to come out and watch the floats and see the players. 
NCAA 

ncaa board asks for more time to select committee 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — The ncaa’s board of directors de­layed its first major vote under the new governance structure Thursday. 
rather than choosing mem­bers of the first big committee, the board asked conference leaders to submit a more di­verse pool of candidates before the rescheduled vote within the next month. 
The committee, known as the council, is scheduled to begin its work in January by se­lecting a chair person. 
“we believe the highest deci­sion-making body in division i should be reflective of the dif­ferent perspectives in the divi­sion,” board chairman nathan hatch said. 
“requiring diversity on the council will lead to better deci­sions for the ncaa as a whole. 

FOR SALE 

HONDA. Alum selling ‘91 SE. Reliable, good cond., 2mi from cam­pus. 574-287-7877 
Red Prius IV 2011. 12,300 miles, mint. $19,500. Call 574-514-4827 
we started restructuring partly because we wanted a broader range of voices in the room for important conversations, and we hope that is the end result when we appoint the council.” 
The committee is expected to be comprised primarily of ath­letic directors, which will give them more input into major decisions. any rules adopted by the committee must still be approved by the board, which is comprised primarily of uni­versity presidents. 
once the council chooses a chair, the committee members will then begin selecting sub­committee members to assist with legislation, oversee cham­pionships and any other func­tions deemed necessary. 
it’s just a start. 

earlier this month, the five richest football conferences asked the ncaa to give its schools more latitude on a handful of issues such as pro­viding more scholarship mon­ey, multiyear scholarships and expanded health and wellness benefits. 
earlier this week, ncaa president mark emmert reiter­ated that he supports all of the measures included on the wish list. 
“i think all the issues that have been outlined so far by the five conferences individu­ally are all things consistent with things we’ve been talking about, certainly all issues i sup­port,” he told The associated press. 
“They want to wrestle with, this is a complicated issue, but they want to wrestle with the time and opportunity for stu­dent-athletes to be involved in their academics and their aca­demic community. i think all of those things are part of what makes great sense.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
It’s going down, I’m yelling tim-
FOR RENT 
ber/You better move, you better 

Commencement rental - next to dance/Let’s make a night you won’t campus and Eddy Street Commons. remember/I’ll be the one you won’t Walk to everything. Email for addition-forget/Wooooah (timber), wooooah al details. nd-house@sbcglobal.net (timber), wooooah (it’s going down)/ 
Wooooah (timber), wooooah (timber), wooooah (it’s going down) 



MEN’S INTERHALL 

Griffins face Angry Mob for playoffs 

By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
stanford will take on o’neill in a pivotal game for two teams battling for a spot in the play­offs sunday at riehle Fields. 
stanford (2-1) has shown significant improvement from a winless campaign in 2013, despite a season-opening 3-0 loss against Keenan. in week two, the griffins secured a 9-8 win against dillon to snap their seven-game losing streak. stanford then topped the de­fending champions, Keough, to move into second place in the division. 
“our team is pretty well bal­anced this year,” stanford ju­nior captain dan babiak said. “we are able to move the ball in the air and on the ground. on defense, we’ve been able to adapt to other teams’ for­mations and tendencies very well.” 
defense might prove to be a key factor in this matchup, as stanford allows an average of 6.33 points per game, while o’neill holds an average of 11. 
having started off the sea­son with a victory against Keough, o’neill (1-2) has struggled since, suffering loss­es against Keenan and dillon, the latter of which the angry mob lost by a single point. with the decreased practice time because of midterm week and fall break, the angry mob face an uphill battle to grab the upset, o’neill senior cap­tain donghoon lee said. 

“we’ve had an uneven sea­son so far, but we are on the cusp of unleashing our po­tential as an offensive jugger­naut,” lee said. 
The angry mob average six points per game, but have scored just six points over the last two weeks, including a 20-0 shutout loss to Keenan. 
both teams have been awaiting this matchup over fall break, as there are high stakes on the line. o’neill must win to keep any chance of a playoff spot alive, while stanford will secure a playoff spot with a win. 
“we’re in a position where we control our own future. we know that a win gets us into the playoffs and i’m pretty sure everyone is hungry for a shot to win it all,” babiak said. 
stanford and o’neill will face off at riehle Fields on sunday at 2:15 p.m. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

mcglinn readies for howard duel 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
mcglinn and howard will square off sunday with both teams’ playoff hopes on the line at riehle Fields. 
both teams have dealt with ups and downs this season, but a win this sunday would launch either the shamrocks (2-3) or the ducks (2-3) into the postseason. with so many implications on the line, mcglinn senior captain emma collis says the team is relying on working as a unit in order to win this game. 
“The game plan going into the game against howard is just to play hard and work together,” collis said. “i think we have a strong team that had a tough start to the season, but i believe we’ve ironed out the major kinks and will be strong going into this game.” 
scoring points has not been a problem for mcglinn, who put six touchdowns on the board in a 37-6 rout of badin a week ago. on the season, the shamrocks av­erage 12.2 points per game. however, the shamrocks have struggled to score extra points consistently this sea­son. That is something they look to improve upon in this sunday’s game, collis said. 

“of the six touchdowns we had last game, we only com­pleted one extra point.” collis said. “i think that and punt return are where we have struggled most this season.” 
The ducks return to the field after almost a month off. The last time they played, they lost 25-7 to pangborn on oct. 5. on the season, howard has alternated wins and losses. its two wins on the year have both come against teams below the ducks in the standings, badin and breen-phillips. 
mcglinn and howard will face off in an effective play-in game to the playoffs at 9 p.m., on sunday at reihle Fields. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Rolfs to host Hoosier state showdown Saturday 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after a fall break full of trips and practices, notre dame looks for­ward to getting back into the pool when it hosts in-state rival purdue on saturday at rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish (2-3) traveled south to georgia and alabama on oct. 17­18, going 1-3 in dual meets against georgia Tech, south carolina, vanderbilt and auburn in their latest action. 
one of the notre dame’s stron­gest events so far this season has been the 200-yard medley relay, composed of sophomore catherine mulquin, senior emma reaney, senior courtney whyte and junior cat galletti. after qual­ifying for the ncaa champion­ships last year, the team has won three times in the first month of the season, with a runner-up and third-place finish as well. 
“each one of them individually is proficient in their stroke,” irish interim coach Tim welsh said of the relay team. “They’re all great competitors, and they just make a good relay. 
“what’s interesting about it is they are all really versatile. so we have actually taken those four girls and turned the order around, just to see what happened if they all swam different strokes — ex­actly the same time.” 
another team unit that has got­ten off to a flying start this season has been the divers. The combi­nation of juniors lindsey streepey and emma gaboury and senior allison casareto have totaled five event victories among them already, including sweeping the diving events in the season-open­ing meet against michigan state on oct. 3 and the dennis stark relays, which notre dame hosted the following weekend. 
“our diving under [irish as­sistant coach] caiming [Xie] has been consistently strong,” welsh said. “They work well together, and they work consistently. caiming is always focused on how they can improve, so it’s been a very strong part of both the men’s and women’s teams for quite a few years.” 

on saturday, the irish divers will go up against their counter­parts from the boilermakers (2­1), who are among the top in the country. welsh said the diving events will be some of the most interesting competitions to watch saturday. 
“if you wanted to look at saturday’s meet and say, ‘if i’m go­ing to see one thing saturday, men’s and women’s, what would i want to see?’” welsh said. “probably the diving events. our divers are excel­lent, the purdue divers are excel­lent. men and women, the diving show saturday is going to be very, very good. maybe the best diving we’ll see all year.” 
while the diving has been ex­cellent to start the year, the swim­mers have been quick off the blocks as well. although the sea­son is still very young, notre dame has totaled 18 swimming event victories through four meets thus 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

irish set to square off with purdue 

far. however, welsh said he and his staff are still tinkering with the lineups. 
“we spent a lot of the early fall trying to move the pieces around and to see where the best fits are,” welsh said. “we’re just settling into what may be the strongest way to put our team together.” 
That being said, welsh said he sees a very good core group of girls for his team to build around. 
“obviously emma reaney is emma reaney, but the four girls who swim on the relay are all very good,” welsh said. “catherine mulquin has had meets where she swims four events in the first hour 
— tremendous competitor.” 
welsh commented on how strong whyte and galletti have been for the irish, and also men­tioned senior bridget casey, the school record holder in the 200­yard butterfly, and sophomore Katie miller, who competed in the 200- and 400-yard individual medleys, 200-yard backstroke and 800-yard freestyle relay at the ncaa championships as a fresh­man last year. 
“we need to rotate around that core,” welsh said. 
when asked what he wanted to see out of the team in what he said was still early in the year, welsh said his answer was very simple. 
“improvement — we want to look at where we were when we raced michigan state at home — that was a month ago, and here we are a month later, so are we faster?” welsh said. “The train­ing in the last month has taken a giant step up. … They’ve worked hard, they’ve lifted hard. They were here all fall break. … They might not be as fresh as a daisy, but everything they’ve gotten so far, they’ve earned.” 
The irish will take to the pool against the boilermakers on saturday at 1 p.m. at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
after a brief hiatus, the irish kick off their full dual meet schedule this weekend against the purdue boilermakers on saturday at rolfs aquatic center. The meet will be the first for notre dame since oct. 10, when the team won the dennis stark relay by a comfortable 240-140 margin over olivet nazarene. 
purdue has not been in victo­rious at notre dame since 2010, but the boilermakers own the overall edge against the irish, with six wins in the last seven years, including a 204-96 victory last season in west lafayette, indiana. 
The boilermakers have started off the season on a strong note, taking first place at the annual indiana intercollegiates meet on oct. 18. during that meet, junior stephen seliskar led the way for purdue, grabbing wins in the 50-yard freestyle and 100-yard backstroke. 
sophomores Josh brooks and Josh ehrman also won the 200­yard individual medley and the 200-yard freestyle respectively, while junior danny conway was victorious in the 500-yard free­style. senior lyam dias recorded a time of 54.92 in the 100-yard breaststroke, placing first in that event. 

The irish had several strong showings in the dennis stark relays, including freshman Joseph Krause anchoring the 200-yard freestyle relay to victory with a time of 20.99. Krause is the high-school record holder for the 50-yard freestyle, and made an early impact for the irish as part of the 100-yard freestyle relay team that also edged the Tigers. 
elsewhere, the 400-yard med­ley relay featured an all-senior lineup of Zachary stevens, patrick olson, matthew deblasio and cameron miller, and fin­ished first with a combined time of 3:28.92. 
notre dame will also rely on strong performances from its divers. The irish, led by sopho­more Joe coumos, put on strong showings in atlanta and auburn, alabama, on oct. 17 and 18, re­spectively. coumos placed sec­ond against auburn in both the one-meter and the three-meter springboard. 
The irish return to action against the boilermakers at rolfs aquatic center on saturday. The meet is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m. 





ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seeking a rebound weekend 
Observer Staff Report 
after a tough series of road losses against virginia and virginia Tech last weekend, notre dame will look to re­bound this weekend against georgia Tech on Friday at purcell pavilion, before hitting the road for a sunday matchup with boston college in chestnut hill, massachusetts. 
The irish (5-16, 2-8 acc) face off against the yellow Jackets (10-13, 3-7 acc) for the fourth time in school history. in last year’s matchup, notre dame’s first as an acc member, the irish took a commanding 3-0 sweep against georgia Tech, giving the irish their first acc victory. 
notre dame dropped match­es to both virginia and virginia Tech last weekend. The irish, who struggled against the hokies on offense, were swept 3-0 Friday. in a quick, turn­around game saturday, notre dame kept close with virginia early, but ultimately lost in a five-set match to the cavaliers. overall, the irish have lost six of their last seven matches. 
The yellow Jackets are coming off a 3-2 home loss against north carolina on sunday, where they held a 2-0 lead before the Tar heels came back to win three consecutive sets. 
The irish face off against the yellow Jackets at 7 p.m. Friday at purcell pavilion. The team flies out to chestnut hill massachusetts, the next morn­ing for sunday’s match against boston college (8-12, 3-6 acc). 
The eagles, who were thwart­ed on the road by nc state in 3-1 loss last weekend, will face notre dame for the second time in three weeks. in their match-up oct. 19, the irish took com­mand at home, overcoming a 2-0 deficit to take their second win in october and move to 3-7 at home this season. senior Jeni houser, graduate student nicole smith and freshman sam Fry all recorded double figures in kills in the match. Fry tied her sea­son-high of nine blocks as well. 
last year, the irish and the eagles posted a similar result nov. 9, as notre dame came back from a two-set deficit to win on the road. later in the season, the squad defeated boston college, 3-1, at home nov. 29. The eagles are the only team notre dame collected two wins against in 2013. 
notre dame will match up against the eagles at power gym in chestnut hill, massachusetts, on sunday at noon. 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish freshman middle blocker Sam Fry goes up for a serve during Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss to TCU on Sept. 12 at Purcell Pavilion. 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
scorers in the nation. 

“They’re a good team with good strikers up front who create a lot of opportunities,” romagnolo said. “one of their players is one of the best in the acc. They have a very potent attack, so we’ll be focusing on shutting those strikers down and getting a hold of the ball.” 
romagnolo said she hopes to see her team exert more domi­nance in the midfield and stout­ness on defense, which have been major factors in the five-game winning streak. 
“our midfield has been do­ing a great job setting the tone and getting a hold of the ball, and we’ve had some great de­fensive tenacity that really helps us,” romagnolo said. “we need to work on playing a little bit quicker on the ball and finishing opportunities when we get them around the goal.” 
romagnolo also emphasized the intangibles that have brought the team to this point. she said the squad’s mindset is solid, es­pecially in light of their winning streak, and it has put in the work required to compete with the best teams in the nation. 
“[our mentality is] very strong 
— there’s a lot of belief and con­fidence to be taken from the way we’ve been playing,” romagnolo said. “i’m also very proud of the effort we’re putting on the field. i think our success is a result of hard work. we’re earning every win we get.” 
notre dame finishes its regular season with a matchup against boston college on saturday at 7 p.m. at the newton campus soccer Field. 
Contact Renee Griffin at        rgriffi6@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

belles getting healthy in time for championship 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 

saint mary’s will travel to grand rapids, michigan, to run at the miaa champion­ships, hosted by calvin, this saturday. 
The meet accounts for two-thirds of the final con­ference standings, so it will play a major role in the out­come this season for the belles. The team last raced two weeks ago at the oberlin inter-regional rumble, where they finished 20th out of 40 teams with a score of 
579. during the rumble, the belles were hampered by a combination of illness and muddy conditions, coach Jackie bauters said. 
“[we should] finally be past the sicknesses that we were dealing with over the past few weeks,” bauters said. 
bauters said she expect­ed the team would be able to improve on its finish at the rumble and at the sept. 27 Jamboree, in which the belles finished fifth of nine teams. 
“our goals are to be third in the conference this week­end, trying to beat out both alma and albion,” bauters said. “our pack is strong, and we are looking to run as tight as possible this weekend.” 
The belles finished third in the championships and in the conference last year, the team’s best-ever finish. 
in order to build off last year’s strong season and overcome the loss of former captain and all-conference selection Jessica biek, the belles made a point to race against tough competition this year, bauters said. 
“i’m glad my team has raced against some of the best as it challenges them to not only be their best but also to pay attention to what works and doesn’t work for them as far as race strategy when the teams toeing the line are different,” bauters said. 
The belles hope that strat­egy pays off this weekend, and bauters said she was optimistic about the team’s chances. 
“it should be a competitive race on saturday,” bauters said. “The team and i are excited.” 
The final conference stand­ings are at stake this week­end, and the belles will take the course saturday at noon at the miaa championships. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Basketball 
conTinued From page 20 
rotation. certainly, we have a little bit of a head start because we did this in italy and that was a great advantage, but at some point, either by the second ex­hibition or the practices shortly thereafter, you’ve got to get a ro­tation that you’re kind of feeling comfortable with. That’s what’s great about the exhibition games 
— you get to experiment with how you substitute off the bench and what you like and what you don’t like.” 
saturday’s game will also mark the return for two se­nior leaders in grant and connaughton. grant, who av­eraged 19 points per game in 12 appearances last season, was suspended due to an “academic matter” in december and re­instated in may. grant will re­turn as one of the team’s most experienced players, but brey said he did not want to put too much pressure on the bowie, maryland native. 
“he doesn’t have to carry us,” brey said. “he’s got a lot of weap­ons around him, and i don’t want him to force anything, but i think that’s how he’s re­ally practiced the last two weeks — he’s let the game come to him, and he’s kind of in a pretty good rhythm.” 

connaughton, meanwhile, spent much of the summer pitching for the aberdeen ironbirds, the baltimore orioles’ single-a affiliate. he rejoined the team shortly before the italy trip and readjusted to playing basketball quickly, brey said. 
“he came back from six weeks of [minor league] ball, and by the second practice for italy, it looked like he was practicing basketball all summer,” he said. “it’s interesting to see and we’ve talked about this: how will he improve when he commits to one sport for seven months? 



“he’s excited about it. i’m interested in it. who is he as a basketball player, even by christmas?” 
The irish will face a minnesota­duluth team coming off a 12-15 season. The bulldogs return 11 letter-winners, including senior center brett ervin, who missed last season with a knee injury. 
brey said the irish, who were ranked seventh in the acc pre­season poll released wednesday, will use saturday’s exhibition to continue their offseason development. 
“we’re kind of a poor group with a chip on our shoulder, and we have no room to be thinking ahead,” brey said. “we kind of need to sit on the same bench and use the exhibition game to evaluate ourselves and get bet­ter, and this group has under­stood that even when we started our workouts in the spring.” 
notre dame and minnesota­duluth will meet saturday at 2 p.m., at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
something the team prides it­self in. we normally get a few more shutouts … that’s one shutout in eight games, and we’ve got to do better than that. we’ve got to get stingier at the back. even we’ve won quite a few of these games, we don’t want to give anything away.” 
Junior midfielder patrick hodan has scored six times in the last seven games for the irish and despite the junior’s re-emergence as a regular goalscorer, he remains the only player on the team with more than three goals for the year. clark cautioned that the team cannot leave it all to hodan while at the same time, asserting that his team has plenty of capable goalscorers. 
“There’s a lot of people that can score goals, and you can’t leave it all to one man,” clark said. “it was nice for [junior midfielder] evan pankin to get a goal [wednesday], and all the forwards can score — they’re more than capable — and our midfield can score. we have a lot of people who can score, but we can’t leave it solely to patrick.” 

as a result of the 1-1 draw with michigan state on wednesday, the irish went the maximum of 110 minutes. but despite the short turnaround to saturday’s game, clark ex­pects his teams to have few fitness issues — thanks, in part, to the brisk autumn temperatures. 
“i think we’re a very fit team,” clark said. “we’ll be ready to go. The big thing about this time of year is that you’re not gonna get any heat, heat exhaustion at this time of the year. … if this was back in august, this is a much more difficult [game].” 
since an oct. 3 home loss to boston college, the irish have won three consecutive conference games, scoring at least three goals in each of them — wins over louisville, duke and virginia Tech. notre dame leads the conference by a single point over north carolina, which hosts virginia on saturday. 
a pair of notre dame play­ers are at the top of the con­ference’s scoring charts, as hodan leads with five goals in league contests, while junior midfielder connor Klekota is tied for the lead in assists with four. graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall has seen just 24 shots on target in seven conference games and allowed six goals. 
a win saturday at pittsburgh’s ambrose urbanic Field would give notre dame its second consecutive reg­ular-season crown. The first kick is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at               acarson@nd.edu 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
grown, the younger guys, and the older guys are getting their games back,” Jackson said. “we are getting a bit of chemistry with the lines, and we stayed with the line up for the most part for the first time [last weekend]. 
“i like what we are starting to develop on transition. we are getting real contribution from those four freshman forwards and two fresh­men defensemen. when it’s all said and done, it’s going to be about finding ways to generate offense.” 
vermont faces the irish with two conference victories un­der its belt. The catamounts beat connecticut, 2-1, on saturday and northeastern, 6-2, on oct. 11. The catamounts boast one of the nation’s strongest de­fenses, with junior goalten­der brody hoffman holding 
a .940 save percentage over­all and .935 save percentage in-conference. while the 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

irish underclassmen have seen their offense expand, Jackson said creating scor­ing opportunities against vermont and in hockey east will pose a new challenge. 
“it’s going to be a bigger grind … six periods of hock­ey against vermont is going to be a grind,” Jackson said. “They are a good defensive team, they’ve got good goal-tending, and they’ve got de­cent depth. 
“it’s going to be chal­lenging to generate a lot of­fensively, which we’ve had success with this over the past couple weeks, but it’s going to get more challeng­ing, so we have to be willing to grind it out to generate offense.” 
The irish open hockey east action against the catamounts tonight at 8:05 
p.m at the compton Family ice arena. notre dame and vermont will begin saturday’s contest at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


Echoes 
conTinued From page 20 
trying to outthink opposing coaches, using angles and geom­etry in conjunction with his nat­ural size and strength to stymie offenses. browner, of course, did plenty of that in his notre dame career. a two-time consensus all-american (1976 and 1977), browner claimed the outland and lombardi trophies and even finished fifth in the heisman Trophy voting in 1977. he won two national championships with the irish — in his first (1973) and last (1977) seasons. 
listed at a lean 6-foot-3, 240 pounds during his playing days, browner started sculpting the physique to be a top-notch defen­sive end even before he seriously began playing football. browner credited his time involved with swimming and diving and track with priming himself for the football days that would follow. 
he began playing football around eighth grade growing up in warren, ohio, in the north­east part of the state. before that, browner said, the focus had real­ly been on swimming and diving. 
“[Football] just got to be a routine and then all of a sudden it became a passion,” browner said. 
browner attended the up-and­coming warren western reserve high school on the west side of the city — closely opposed to warren g. harding high school and the John F. Kennedy catholic school. 
“we started building a tradi­tion,” browner said. “we started playing tough football on the west side of town.” 
part of a group of about 10 teammates, browner and his cohorts crafted a structured routine of lifting and running together. 
“we just pushed each other. we just developed and before we knew it, we were winning a lot of games,” browner said with his customary hearty laugh. 
browner’s high-school suc­cess attracted plenty of atten­tion from colleges, as about 40 schools recruited him. 
“There was just one thing that stuck out in my mind, and that was when i hit notre dame,” browner said of his recruiting process. “There was just a my­thology, a tradition, a history.” 
browner grew up listen­ing to esteemed broadcaster lindsey nelson calling irish football games, and he remem­bers watching quarterback Joe Theismann in action. so, natu­rally, visiting campus was “just one of my fantasies,” browner said. 
he met moose Krause, Fr. edmund “ned” Joyce and Fr. Theodore hesburgh. browner also met notre dame’s “father of football,” as he called him, head coach ara parseghian. browner had mostly been recruited by as­sistant coaches Joe yonto, mike stock and greg blache. but on his visit to campus, browner sat down with parseghian in the head coach’s office. 
parseghian told browner they really wanted him to play tight end, though defensive end was certainly an offense. 
“i said, ‘coach, coach, coach. i really like tight end but i think i can be more effective on the defensive side, at defensive end,’” browner recalled telling parseghian. 
The head coach willingly and happily obliged. 
“he charmed me, made me feel good,” said browner, who said he would have loved to have been a “kamikaze” on kickoff coverage if not a defensive end. 
browner then walked into notre dame stadium for the first 

time. “it was like an aura that hit me,” browner said. 
stadium workers glorified the crowd’s passion on game days, and notre dame’s fight song “got my blood stirring,” browner said. Further attracted by the educa­tion and religious components, browner embarked on his ca­reer at notre dame — the first of three browner brothers to play football at notre dame, while the next two starred at usc. 
in the spring of his final year on campus, browner was ready­ing for the nFl. on the day of the draft, browner was in class fin­ishing up his last assignments. walking out of class on the south side of campus, a team­mate ran up to browner and told him he had been selected by the cincinnati bengals in the first round. browner made the long trek to Flanner hall and heard the news himself from bengals team president paul brown over the phone. 
browner played for the bengals from 1978 through 1986, 
with  teammates  such  as  Ken  
anderson,  archie  griffin  and  
isaac curtis.  

“To be able to play with those guys side by side playing in the nFl was a joy itself,” browner said. 
in 1982, browner took part in what he called “the most magnif­icent game i’ve ever played in my life” — super bowl Xvi against former irish quarterback Joe montana and the san Francisco 49ers in michigan. montana led his squad to victory and was named the game’s mvp. 
“if i had to lose to anybody, i’m just happy to lose to you, buddy,” browner said he told montana after the game. 
Twenty-four years later, browner’s son, max starks, start­ed for the pittsburgh steelers in michigan, as well, in super bowl Xl in February 2006. browner’s other son, rylan browner, played at arizona, and browner’s neph­ew, Keith browner Jr., played at cal and has been on the houston Texans’ practice squad. 
browner said when his fam­ily is not talking about its com­mon sport, politics and business ventures drive the discussion. browner himself has an extensive work timeline, having worked in real estate, sports entertainment, the cleaning industry, insurance, mortgages and business devel­opment. browner, 60, who now lives in nashville, Tennessee, is back into real estate. 
“i like being intrigued, i like doing different things all the time,” browner said. “real estate is what i really, really love, be­cause i like owning a piece of the rock.” 

on march 16, 2013, browner made the decision to have his left foot amputated after 13-years worth of foot pain from an ulcer took its toll. 
“i wanted to be around to see my kids grow up and my grand­children, so i want to be around,” browner said. 
nearly 20 months removed from the operation, browner is all smiles. 
“everything is going excep­tionally, great healing, health is very much coming around, just really blessed,” browner said. “i always keep god in my life. Keep god first and then work on it from there.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at            jmonaco@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
 Happy Birthday: you will have a big impact on others. your insight, fortitude and desire to make a difference will pay off. not everyone will agree with you, making it vital to weed out who is on your team and who isn’t. building a strong core group will help you reach your goals. problems are best dealt with pragmatically. your numbers are 6, 13, 18, 23, 29, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): looking for fights will bring no solace. being too sensitive or critical will lead to disappointment. get out and explore avenues of interest that will take your mind off what troubles you. helping others can heal your despair. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get involved in helping others and you will feel good about your accomplishments. love is highlighted by an emotional incident. Turn any negative you face into a positive and keep moving forward without regret. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make positive changes at home by doing some renovations or redecorating. if you opt to do the work yourself and stick to a budget, you’ll have money left over to celebrate your accomplishment. entice someone you love to check out your new digs. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t make assumptions -- go directly to the source and ask questions. it’s better to know the truth than to remain uncertain. if you need a moment to sort through the information, find a unique place geared toward peace and quiet.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do whatever it takes to finish what you start. you will be criticized if you don’t live up to expectations made by older, more experienced individuals. what you do now can make a difference to what is offered later. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a greater interest in your background, friendships or community connections will develop if you are a participant. learning about your past through the eyes of those who have known you a long time will give you the wisdom to make good choices. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): discuss wastefulness and budgeting with those who affect your standard of living through poor spending habits. not everyone will be happy with your plan to conserve, but it’s a good place to start easing your stress. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ask for support accomplishing your goals. Take a different approach to the way you live and consider whether your current location is good for you. you’ll receive stellar advice if you listen to someone with experience and insight. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): adventure, excitement and new beginnings will occupy your mind. look for opportunities that will entice you and you will discover new challenges and fresh opportunities. an open mind will lead to an interesting proposal.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look for an unusual route and you will find your way past an obstacle that’s standing in your way. if talks haven’t worked lately, you may need to move on and take action. do your own thing and don’t look back. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let anyone stifle your plans or pressure you to do things you don’t want to do. Focus on your personal, financial, medical or legal positions. do whatever will help you stabilize your life and not what someone else demands from you. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in talks that encourage alliances with those heading in the same direction as you. There is much to gain if you put the past behind you and reach out to someone you had a falling out with. someone you least expect to cooperate with may become your ally. 


Birthday Baby: you are strong, independent and helpful. you are insightful and dependable. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
PTEMY  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CLUGH  

CIKOEO SYPRAT  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BRING COACH EFFORT CUDDLEYesterday’s 
Answer: She thought getting the royal flush to win thepoker tournament was this — A GOOD DEAL 

ACROSS 
1 Where Union Pacific is headquartered 
6 Chinese ___ (popular bonsai trees) 
10 Medieval drudge 
14 Sister of Castor and Pollux 
15 Fighter getting a leg up? 
17 Site of Tiberius’ Villa Jovis 
18 Page on the stage 
19 Comfortable 
21 Taking place (in) 
22 One-point throws 
24 Appliance sound 
25 Checkers, for instance 
26 Play critic? 
28 Hype 
32 Onetime Arapaho foe 

33 Grooming tool 
36 Vietnamese holiday 
37 O-shaped 
38 Priest in I Samuel 

39 Dread Zeppelin or the Fab Faux 
41 Sports div. that awards the George Halas Trophy 
42 Gold Cup venue 
43 Quote qualification 
44 Coin of many countries 
45 Pretension 
48 Get more inventory 

50 Country whose flag is known as the Saltire 
54 Bubble handler? 
55 Foundation devoted to good works? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


57 Uniform 58 Bag lady? 59 Less often seen 60 Deep black 61 Twist 62 America’s Cup 
trophies, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Broadway musical with two exclamation points in its name 
2 They might have bones to pick 
3 Like characters in a script 
4 Some wetlands wildlife 
5 Miyazaki film genre 
6 Hosp. record 
7 Creates an account? 
8 Fast-food debut of 1981 
9 Go along effortlessly 
10 Vending machine drink 
11 What to do when you have nothing left to say? 
12 Peace Nobelist Cassin 
13 Dance-pop trio Right Said ___ 
16 Symbol of happiness 
20 Off the mark 
23 English Channel feeder 
27 Bad line readings 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  
58  59  
60  61  62  

PUZZLE BY PATRICK BERRY 
29 Launched the 40 Gondoliers, e.g. first round 44 Like a poli sci 
30 Narcissistic one major, maybe
31 Hand-held “Star Trek” devices 46 Woodworking 
33 Sea creature tools 
whose name 
means “sailor” 47 Underhanded 
schemer
34 Huxtable family mom 
49 American 35 Surgical cutter Airlines hub 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



50 Drink served in a masu 
51 Zodiac symbol 
52 Palindromic man 
53 “My man!” 
56 Plaintive pet sound 

9/8/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame to start
Browner: lineman, 
exhibition season
gladiator, Irish legend 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
For someone who repeatedly invokes the terms mythology, history and tradition to recount his football past, it’s fitting for ross browner to describe his playing style in similar terms — as a gladiator. 
“That’s what i always thought of it as, just being a destroyer and go in there as a gladiator, just really approaching the game where i have to be the conqueror, or i have to be the victor in this whole fight against offensive and defensive linemen and this battle against our opponent,” the former irish star defensive lineman said recently by phone. “i went in with a total mentality of going in and be a destroyer of offenses.” 
browner took pleasure in 
see echoes PAGE 18 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
notre dame tips off its short ex­hibition season with a matchup against minnesota-duluth on saturday. 
The irish have just two games in the coming week , but the team has already received its fair share of ex­hibition experience, as it traveled to italy to play four games in august. The irish went 4-0 against a sched­ule of italian professional teams. 
notre dame coach mike brey said the european tour provided a boost to an irish team coming off a 15-17 season. 
“italy was such a key for us; it came at a strategic time for our pro­gram,” brey said. “now, we were scheduled to do it no matter what last year was like, but given the way last year went, it was very impor-
Observer File Photo 
tant for us to have a mini-season.” 
The trip to italy also allowed
Former Irish defensive lineman Ross Browner blocks a punt 

against Northwestern on Sept. 22, 1973. The Irish won 44-0. brey to evaluate his team and set 
his starting lineup for the season. brey said the starting lineup used in all four games in italy — senior guard Jerian grant, senior guard/ forward pat connaughton, junior forward Zach auguste, sophomore guard demetrius Jackson and sophomore guard steve vasturia will remain intact for saturday’s game and likely for the team’s sea­son opener against binghamton on nov. 14. 
despite the solidified starting lineup, saturday’s game will allow notre dame to rotate in different players, brey said. The game will also likely mark the debut of the three irish freshmen — guard matt Farrell, forward bonzie colson and forward martinas geben, brey said. 
“my goal is to get everybody in the game, and get everybody in the game in the first half,” he said. “you’re still evaluating your 
see basKeTball PAGE 17 
HOCKEY 

Irish open Hockey East play 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
after six non-conference games to start the season, notre dame opens hockey east play against vermont tonight. 
The no. 20 irish (4-2-0) host no. 13 vermont (4-0-0, 2-0-0 hockey east) at compton Family ice arena tonight and saturday. The irish and catamounts met in two games last season at vermont’s home rink in notre dame’s first hockey east appearances. now, one year later, notre dame and vermont meet once again to kick off notre dame’s second season in the hockey east. 
“it’s going to be a lot more challenging than the last couple weeks,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said of this weekend’s matchup. “There are no easy nights in our conference, and [vermont] is off to a very good start, so i expect it to be very challenging.” 
while last year marked only the third time the irish have faced the catamounts in program history, notre dame now possesses more familiarity with its now-confer­ence foe. in addition to breeding familiarity, one year of competi­tion in hockey east has provided invaluable experience on the ice against vermont as well as other conference competitors, Jackson said. 
“you could watch as much film as you want, but until you play a team, you don’t have as good an understanding of some of the things they do differently than other teams,” Jackson said. “last year, everything was new — not just [the teams] but also the buildings, everything was differ­ent. so, this year playing vermont we have a better understanding of them, of their personnel, how they manage their bench and things like that.” 
six games into the season, the irish now have a better under­standing of themselves and their team identity. notre dame enters tonight’s game off back-to-back sweeps of lake superior state on oct. 17-18 and niagara on oct. 24­
25. The irish outscored their op­ponents by a 23-7 margin in that stretch. 
The young irish roster has seen break-out performances from freshman right wing Jake evans and center connor hurley, while junior left wings sam herr and mario lucia, junior center and captain steven Fogarty and se­nior defenseman robbie russo all have contributed to the attack. 
“i think people have seen that the young guys are going to con­tribute from an offensive per­spective, [and] i think they’ve all 
see hocKey PAGE 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 

win will clinch season title 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 

when no. 5 notre dame trav­els to pittsburgh for its regular-season finale saturday, it will have a chance to secure not just the acc’s best record but also the top seed in the conference tournament, which begins next week, with a win. 
“it’s certainly a big game,” irish coach bobby clark said of this weekend’s matchup. “it’s a huge motivation. i think this team is pretty motivated every game, and our schedule motivates us — there’s no easy 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

games, so we’re pretty motivat­ed every time we go out — but this is a pretty special one.” 
and after last season’s cam­paign, a victory would mean two consecutive regular-season titles for the irish (9-4-3, 5-1-1 acc). 
“if we could pull this one off, it would mean that we would have won back-to-back acc league titles, which would be pretty impressive,” clark said. 
The panthers (4-8-4, 0-5-2) might be the conference’s only team without a league win, but clark said the irish will face a test on their travels to pennsylvania. 
“it’ll be a tough game down there; it’s never easy at pitt,” clark said. 
after holding its opponents scoreless in four of its first eight games, the notre dame defense kept just one clean sheet in its eight october games, some­thing clark said he would like to see improvement on heading into the season’s end. 
“i’m kind of disappointed we haven’t had a shutout for a while,” clark said. “i think that’s disappointing because that’s 
see m soccer PAGE 17 

nd prepares to tame eagles 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

after clinching an acc tour­nament berth with sunday’s win over louisville, the no. 9 irish will travel to newton, massachusetts, on saturday to face boston college in their fi­nal regular-season game. 
notre dame (12-4-1, 7-2-0 acc) has won five in a row and looks to continue that streak against the eagles to close out the season and ensure that it enters the postseason with pos­itive momentum. 
“i think [the winning streak] is great,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “There’s a lot of confidence. i think more im­portantly, we’re playing very well offensively and limiting the other teams’ opportunities defensively. winning can be contagious, but i also feel that the way we’re playing is more important than momentum.” 
romagnolo said the loom­ing postseason won’t cause the team to overlook boston college. 
“For us, it’s an important game in terms of setting us up for postseason play beyond the acc tournament,” romagnolo said of the matchup with the eagles. “we want to win all the games we get to play against an acc team. every game matters 
— you can’t write any team off.” 
Though the eagles (10-8-0, 3-6-0) are unranked and are 10th in the acc while notre dame sits fourth, their offen­sive production makes them a threat, romagnolo said. boston college sophomore forward hayley dowd has 14 goals this season, more than any other player in the acc. That total also places her in the top-10 
see w soccer PAGE 15 




