The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 87 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Vidal-Devine ticket wins election 
Judicial Council announces student body presidential election results amidst campaign accusations 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
Juniors lauren vidal and matthew devine won the stu­dent body presidential run-off election by 276 votes over ju­nior olivia lamagna and soph­omore rohan andresen, the Judicial council announced Tuesday morning. 
vidal and devine secured 1,935 votes and 53.84 percent of the total, while lamagna and andresen earned 1,659 votes and 46.16 percent. 
a total of 268 voters ab­stained, but abstentions do not contribute towards voting per­centages in a run-off election, according to the council. 
vidal, who will serve as stu­dent body president, told The observer she was “humbled” by the election result and she and devine plan to “[hit] the ground running.” 
“we would like to extend the open-door policy of the current administration to en­sure that all students feel wel­comed and informed,” vidal said. “we will represent stu­dent interests to the best of our ability, and will do so by main­taining open and honest lines of communication.” 
she said they plan to “begin on day one” to work on the ini­tiatives on their platform. 
devine, the vice president-elect, thanked his and vidal’s supporters as well as lamagna and andresen “for a very com­petitive race” in a statement is­sued on Facebook. he said he was grateful to everyone who voted in the election. 
“lauren and i will work tire­lessly to ensure that we repre­sent our peers with all that we have, and we look forward to a great year here with all of you,” he said. 
andresen said he and lamagna were thankful for their supporters despite their loss and proud of their “amaz­ing campaign that was both strong and fun.” 
“olivia and i are glad that 
see elecTion PAGE 3 

ZACHARY LLORENS | The Observer 
Juniors Lauren Vidal and Matthew Devine  promised to maintain “open and honest lines of communication” while representing the student body. 



Moreau exhibits artwork 
By REBECCA O’NEILL 
news writer 
modernity, in both style and theme, has infiltrated the moreau center for the arts at saint mary’s. The college’s spring exhibits feature pieces by matthew Kluber, professor of art at grinnell college, and megan vossler, professor of art at macalester college. 
Tiffany bidler, director of moreau art galleries, said the works of both artists represent a modernist, minimalist style. 
“both vossler and Kluber’s work is quite minimalist,” bidler said. “what i enjoy about Kluber’s watercolors is that they give the impression of being something produced in multiples by a machine, like a digital print, and yet they are each hand-painted.” 
Kluber’s exhibit features a combination of painting and digital technology and is available for viewing in the hammes gallery, bidler said. 
The linear, geometric ele­ments featured in his paint­ings reference the colorful horizontal bands of data one finds on a piece of compro­mised technology, Kluber said. 
“The thn horizontal stripes refer to that imploding data, while the picture plane al­ludes to the computer screen, resulting in a carefully ed­ited version of a visual phe­nomenon associated with the breakdown of a system,” Kluber said. 
by manipulating the tim­ing and fades of the projector while simultaneously play­ing multiple different layers of video and motion graphics on the pre-painted canvas, Kluber said he is trying to 
see arT PAGE 4 


admin. discusses leadership 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
drew buscareno, assistant vice president for university relations, gave a lecture ti­tled “servant leadership” from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. at the mendoza college of business Tuesday. buscareno’s was one in a series of lectures for mendoza’s “ethics in business week”. 
“servant leadership” is a 
see leadership PAGE 5 



Siegfried shivers for homeless 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 

siegfried hall’s 8th annual “day of man” will give hall res­idents a chance to shiver for a cause wednesday as they brave the cold in shorts, T-shirts and flip-flops while collecting do­nations for the south bend center for the homeless, day of man co-commissioner and junior Thomas ridella said. 
“it’s one of the largest com­munity service events that i’ve participated in,” ridella said. “it’s really cool doing it with all your friends and doing some­thing that’s really different and unique. … we’re just doing our part by taking a day, not even a day, out of our time, which is something small, to make a big contribution.” 
siegfried hall president and sophomore drew vista said the event encourages hall resi­dents “to stand in solidarity with other people and bring the cause to the attention of the other students at notre dame.” 
“The most important part of the event is that even though it’s a fun thing to do for a day and even though it’s cold, it’s for a really good cause,” vista said. “once we hear from the people from the homeless shel­ter, it makes us feel that what we did was that much more special.” 
peter lombardo, director of community involvement at the south bend center for the homeless, spoke to students gathered for mass in siegfried on sunday. he said funds from day of man support academic and enrichment programs at the center for the homeless and will help kickstart a nutri­tion program initiated this year by juniors Kathleen anthony and sienna durbin. 
“Thank you for risking a trip to the student health center for the center for the homeless,” lombardo said. “The work we do is pretty much aimed at re­connecting [residents], recon­necting them to the sources of support that we all have. 
“we’re lucky we have family and friends that we can depend on, and they don’t have them. some of them don’t have them because they’ve broken them themselves, yes, that’s true, but the center for the homeless wants to reconnect them, and 
see siegFried PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s basKeTball deFeaTs clemson 68-64 in 2 oT PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                      peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is something you would like your dorm to buy? 

Devin Aberasturi 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“girls.” 
Jim Corcoran 
freshman 
old college 
“since my leg is injured, an elevator.” 
John Scanlon 
freshman 
sorin college 
“basketball court.” 


Kelly McGee 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“Free diet coke all the time.” 
May Stewart 
sophomore lyons hall 
“a toaster.” 
Ralph Price 
sophomore sorin college 
“an ac unit.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian myers Katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jack rooney aaron sant-miller haleigh ehmsen alex carson 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily hoffmann allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Heart Math Zen Meditation SonnetFest Vigil Mass Vespers Concert 
michael Kramm Tabitha ricketts 
St. Liam Hall Coleman-Morse O’Shaughnessy Hall Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred 
3:30 p.m- 4:30 p.m. Center 11 a.m.- 3 p.m. Heart Heart Learn simple 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. 154 of Shakespeare’s 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. 7:15 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

techniques for Open to students and sonnets interpreted by Music by Women’s All are welcome to 
The observer regards itself as emotion management. staff of all faiths. community members. Liturgical Choir. attend. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Lacrosse Snite@Nite Symphonic Winds Film: “Sharknado” “Rusalka” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Loftus Center Snite Museum of Art Ricci Band Building DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m.- 7 p.m. 7 p.m.- 10 p.m. 6 p.m.- 7 p.m. Arts Center Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on the Featuring music and Annual Junior Parents 11 p.m. 1 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Cincinnati Bearcats. ND Humor Artists. Weekend concerts. Tickets are $4 and up. Met Opera Live in HD. 
we can correct our error. 



 Librarian lectures on monk 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
dr. david Jenkins, librarian for classic, hellenistic studies and linguistics at princeton university, made the case for byzantine literature in his lec­ture in mcKenna hall Tuesday. 
Jenkins’ lecture was given as part of a series on classical studies to honor the legacy of the late sabine maccormack, a notre dame historian and classicist. during his time as a librarian at notre dame, Jenkins said he collaborated with maccormack to pur­chase books for the byzantine collection. 
Jenkins’ lecture was centered around the 11th century monk, philosopher and politician michael psellos. 
“of all the writers of his time, no one was more responsible for the judgment and appre­ciation of byzantine literature than michael psellos,” Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said psellos was born to a prominent fam­ily, likely around 1018, in constantinople. he worked for a number of byzantine emper­ors and was known for his ora­tory abilities. 
“Of all the writers of his time, no one was more responsible for the judgement and appreciation of Byzantine literature than Michael Psellos.” 
Dr. David Jenkins 
Princeton University librarian 
“he excelled in orations and was reported to have recited the entire ‘iliad’ while still in his youth,” he said. 
since much of the infor­mation about psellos comes from his own autobiographies, Jenkins said psellos likely 

paid adverTisemenT 

exaggerated the influence he acquired through political patronage. 
“as a philosopher, psellos taught the emperors two things: great deeds require great praises and great deeds require great philosophy,” Jenkins said. “in other words, psellos would be the one to in­struct the emperors on how to achieve great deeds through his philosophy.” 
Jenkins concentrated on psellos’ philosophical interests in saying byzantine literature ought to be encountered on its own terms and as more than a list of facts. Jenkins said litera­ture of the byzantine empire has often been cast aside for its perceived lack of original­ity and its dependence on more highly-esteemed classical sources. 
“The literature these byzantine writers produced has been regarded as unorigi­nal literature written in a dead language largely for sycophan­tic purposes,” he said. “but this assumes that the works they produced ought to be compared to their classical forefathers.” 
encountering byzantine literature on its own terms involves a certain paradox, Jenkins said. normally, re­searchers try not to project their biases onto the past and stay close to primary sources, but encountering history on its own terms makes it difficult for researchers to avoid bias. 
Jenkins said psellos operated in a similar frame of contradic­tions in the 11th century, focus­ing on the duality of christ’s human and divine nature and devising a sophisticated treat­ment of the liar’s paradox.
 “literature that aspires to something deeper than a gro­cery list does not necessarily need philosophical arguments in its defense, but it cannot do without the experience of a contradictory spark that drives its creation,” he said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 
SMC SENATE 

group debates sophia program mission statement 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 

The saint mary’s student senate met Tuesday night to discuss the creation of a mis­sion statement for the sophia program and to hear updates from each of the different committees and boards on campus. 
co-president madeline martin began the meeting with a prayer before review­ing last week’s minutes and began with new business. 
shannon schalk, chair of the sophia board, addressed the absence of a mission statement for the sophia program, which integrates general education into ma­jors and minors according to the saint mary’s website. she said a mission statement would help students, espe­
cially  incoming  freshmen,  
understand  the  academic  
program.  

students would see the mission statement when sophia is fully implemented and when there are mission statements for all three levels of the program, schalk said. 
“our first introduction to sophia is an 88-page booklet that they send us in the sum­mer,” schalk said. “There needs to be something better for the students and it has to be easy to understand.” 
schalk also said the state­ment is important because it will be used for advertising. students and faculty nation­wide should be able to un­derstand and appreciate the program after reading the statement. 
The senate also discussed what the sophia program is and in what ways it is unique to saint mary’s. 
Freshman Kelly vaughan shared her perspective and agreed there should be more description of the overall program and all three levels. 
“i read [the booklet] all the way through and under­stood that you picked a class to fulfill a level but i knew i was having my advisor meet­ing coming up and i didn’t even know who she was or what the program was and it was very overwhelming,” vaughan said. “The picture really threw me off.” 
chair of the student diversity board, carmen cardenas, offered an update on the group’s upcoming activities. 
“on Feb. 24 to 28 we are going to have women’s appreciation week,” cardenas said. “it’s going to be tough because it’s the same week as love your body week. march 8 is going to be international women’s day, so on march 5 we are go­ing to have an international women’s film, which is prob­ably going to be ‘pray The devil back To hell.’” 
The film is about women in liberia who come to­gether in prayers to prevent war, cardenas said. Their ef­forts were a significant part of bringing about a peace agreement that ended their country’s civil war. 
“it is a great way to see faith in action and to see these women doing awesome,” cardenas said. “what bet­ter film to support women’s mission and international women’s day?” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 


Election 
conTinued From page 1 
throughout the campaign — even when things got heated 
— we stuck to our guns and ideals and never compromised our morals,” he said. “it was outstanding meeting so many great members of the notre dame community and olivia and i still look forward to work­ing with them to find ways to bring beneficial change to our school and leave notre dame in an even better place than it was when we first arrived.” 
lamagna said she and andresen still hope to engage in dialogue within the notre dame community. 
“we intend to continue to work as advocates on behalf of students here,” lamagna said. “we’ve learned so much through this process. … we’re not going to be able to help out as elected officials, but we will never stop having those discus­sions and providing support in any way we can as humans who care deeply about our classmates.” 
The council said 46 percent of eligible undergraduates voted, a one percent increase from the initial election on Feb. 5. They announced the re­sults Tuesday morning, instead of monday night, because of pending allegations of election misconduct. The constitution of the undergraduate student body of the university of notre dame du lac states the elec­tion results cannot be released while any allegations and ap­peals are pending. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 




‘Lend an Ear’ promotes community service 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s students launched the lend an ear initiative to establish a way for belles to provide com­panionship to the local homeless population, lend an ear club president and senior Fernanda amado said. 
The initiative specifically connects saint mary’s stu­dents with the residents of center for the homeless, amado said. 
amado said fellow senior christina porter sparked the idea for the club and the initiative. 
“in our junior year we both took professor [Terri] russ’s public communica­tion course,” amado said. “every Thursday, we would go to the center and teach our residents about commu­nication.  while there, we found that most of the resi­dents wanted to share their experiences with us.  That 
Art 
conTinued From page 1 
facilitate a seamless intersec­tion between traditional me­dia and new media. although the grinnell professor uses custom software written in c++ and opengl, Kluber said he draws inspiration from the age of psychedelics. 
“reference points for this work come from interest in the historic changes brought about in art by the social and cultural upheavals and rapid developments in science and technology in the 1960s and 1970s,” Kluber said. “These changes compelled a new gen­eration of artists to address 
Siegfried 
conTinued From page 1 
any help that you can give goes to that.” 
sophomore Jack szigety said the event also provides a way for 
“You don’t stand only with the homeless people who don’t have as fortunate a situation as we do but you also stand with your dorm, your fellow men, to get together for a cause.” 
Jack Szigety 
sophomore 
siegfried residents to strengthen their own community while reaching out to south bend. 
“The best part of the event for is when christina came up with the idea.” 
porter said she first be­came interested in russ’s course when she learned she could teach communication concepts to residents of the center for the homeless, building on her experiences working with impoverished individuals during high school. she said her time in the class inspired her to cre­ate a student group. 
“we noticed that the guests would sometimes use a lot of class time describ­ing their experiences and the paths they have taken to end up at the center.  it was apparent to us that they en­joyed us visiting and wanted to talk more,” porter said. “we also realized that some­times it can be hard for the guests to share their person­al challenges and hardships with other guests because … others may not want to listen, because they too are burdened with problems.” 
porter said she and her 
emotional disengagement, formal rigor and anonymity of authorship in order to escape the art that had reached its height of influence in the form of abstract expressionism.” 
vossler’s drawings, located in the little Theatre and sister rosaire galleries, are less col­orful and the borders are more defined. bidler said she first saw vossler’s work in an exhi­bition in minneapolis. 
“we have two drawing courses in the art department and i thought students would enjoy the work of a contempo­rary artist working in a tradi­tional medium,” bidler said. “however, she uses the me­dium in a contemporary way. 
me anyway is the solidarity of it,” szigety said. “you don’t stand only with the homeless people who don’t have as fortunate a situation as we do, but you also stand with your dorm, your fel­low men, to get together for a cause.” 
ridella said the initial slogan used for the first day of man, “be cold. be bold. be a man,” would be featured on the back of the neon blue T-shirt hall residents will wear to class and outside the dining halls wednesday. vista said plans for day of man would continue no matter how low the temperatures drop, as the hall typically raises more funds in frigid weather. 
“i don’t know if there is a tem­perature that’s too cold,” vista said. “probably anything that would be physically unsafe for more than five minutes of ex­posure would be too cold. other than that, the colder the better.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
classmates developed this volunteering initiative out 
“This program provides a wonderful opportunity for students to provide meaniful service to the Center for the Homeless, while also learning that those who are homeless are more similar to us than dissimilar.” 
Terri Russ 
professor of communication 
of a desire to continue the companionship among saint mary’s students and 
The drawings are somewhat minimalistic, making inter­esting use of negative space and dealing with contempo­rary subject matter.” 
vossler said she meant for her graphite drawings to ex­plore the relationship between human beings and the natural world. The exhibit features two bodies of work, one cre­ated in 2010 and the other in 2013, which vossler said re­veals how she has begun to hone her focus on the small details. The macalester pro­fessor usually depicts north­ern landscapes dotted with human figures and caribou, shadowed by images of trees and hovering helicopters. 
center residents fostered by her public communications course. 
russ said she is proud of her students and their work. 
“This program provides a wonderful opportunity for students to provide mean­ingful service to the center for the homeless, while also learning that those who are homeless are more similar to us than dissimilar,” russ said. 
amado said she feels an important take-away from her time volunteering at the center is the realization that anyone can find themselves in a situation of poverty. 
“it doesn’t just happen to those with addictions, most of them led ordinary lives,” amado said. “but the really important thing to take way is that these are good peo­ple.  as a society we tend to stigmatize the homeless.  we don’t like to go near them or we think poorly of them be­cause we have been condi­tioned to be weary of them.” 
“[The subjects] all are nego­tiating their positions within an environment that has been indelibly changed,” vossler said. “The landscape through which these figures move is vast and overpowering, a si­lent backdrop to a host of migrations.” 
her more recent pieces zoom in on the effects of human en­gineering, modification and control, she said. octodrone i and ii depict an octopus whose tentacles’ suction cups look more like loud speakers. other graphite drawings de­pict loud speakers coming out of a dying tree’s trunk. 
“both flora and fauna are affected by the interplay 
The structure of the ini­tiative is centered on com­munication between the volunteers and the guests, porter said. 
“[The initiative] ... is a way for us to be a secure outlet to talk about their lives and their daily struggles.  our job is to ‘lend our ears’ and to be a friend to them.  it’s important to acknowledge that homelessness does not discriminate and people of all backgrounds can end up in a facility like the center for the homeless,” porter said.  
amado said lend an ear volunteers must volunteer for at least one hour per week at south bend’s center for the homeless, though more substantial time com­mitments are encouraged. 
students may sign up to participate on the lend an ear orgsync page, amado said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
between natural process and human desires,” vossler said. 
bidler said that artists may find the relationship between humans and their ecosystems pertinent in order to explore their own medium of art. 
“students in the art depart­ment are very interested in exploring questions relating to the environment by way of their artistic practice,” bidler said. “we have, for example, a sustainable fibers course taught by professor Julie Tourtillotte.” 
bidler said the exhibit will be open until march 14, 2014. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 




Leadership 
conTinued From page 1 
leadership philosophy devel­oped by robert greenleaf which centers on the idea that a leader is meant to serve others and to allow full growth of the organi­zation and its constituents. 
buscareno said servant lead­ership can be practiced by anyone, including people in positions that are not tradi­tionally considered leadership positions. 
“one of the insights i have had on servant leadership is that those who practice it can really transcend any kind of organi­zational hierarchy their formal position has placed on them,” buscareno said. “servant lead­ers aren’t really bound to an or­ganizational structure.” 
servant leadership allows people to become more in­volved with their organiza­tion as a whole and enables a greater opportunity to network ideas within as well as out­side their current department, buscareno said. 
“This model is absolutely a relationship-centric mod­el,” buscareno said. “i think there is an incredible humility combined with a fierce drive to create a better system.” 
one of the examples buscareno pointed to was the leadership of pope Francis. he said pope Francis’ efforts to ground the mission of the church in the reality faced by the people the church intends to serve exemplifies the prin­ciples of servant leadership. 
“[The example of pope Francis] gives us an insight on the definition of servant lead­ership,” he said. 
buscareno said the princi­ples of servant leadership rely on a model of “walking with, listening to, speaking truth and breaking bread.” 
“This [model] gives us a good framework of how we can practice servant leadership,” buscareno said. “in the ex­amples that i’ve brought, there is this intense focus to ‘walk with.’ The practice of servant leadership, no matter what the role we’re in, attempts to be­come grounded in whoever we serve.” 
Those who want to prac­tice servant leadership should identify mentors in their lives who embody its principles, recognize the importance of team work and “be content to be a beginner,” buscareno said. 
“There is a passion for mis­sion among servant leaders. it is all about the mission and all about those who are part of that mission,” he said. “service orientation can help influence our team performance. That’s the kind of savvy that often comes with leadership, when leaders see that opportunity to connect and face this barrier of ideas together.” 
Cotact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

Avalanche kills two 
Associated Press 
porTland, ore.  — an avalanche in the mountains of eastern oregon killed two backcountry skiers and se­riously injured two others Tuesday, and another skier was found dead in colorado a day after he was swept up in a large slide, officials said. 
at least 12 people have died in avalanches nationally this season, including six since sunday. The danger of more slides remained high after prolonged snowfall mea­sured in feet that has lured skiers and snowboarders to the mountains. 
The oregon avalanche hit at about noon as a group of eight was skiing in the remote wallowa mountains near cornucopia, baker county sheriff mitch southwick said in a written statement. 
most of the skiers are from the seattle area. officials didn’t immediately release their names. 

a helicopter was dis­patched to rescue the survi­vors but couldn’t get closer than 1.5 miles from the ski­ers. The idaho army national guard also sent a reconnais­sance helicopter. 
The skiers were among six people and two guides on a five-day trip organized by wallowa alpine huts of Joseph, ore., company own­er connelly brown said. 
brown said the clients and guides were all “fit, profi­cient downhill skiers.” 
The colorado skier was identified as Kevin Kuybus, 46, of highlands ranch, just south of denver. 
he and another person were caught in an ava­lanche monday just outside Keystone ski resort, but the other skier managed to pull himself out and go for help. members of the summit county rescue group searched for Kuybus on monday and Tuesday. 
another avalanche near Kebler (Kehb’-lur) pass, outside crested butte, colo., killed a snowmobil­er monday, said gunnison county coroner Frank vader. another person also was trapped in that slide but survived. 

Two other people died in slides in utah over the week­end. on sunday, ashleigh cox, 21, of colorado springs, died after being caught in an avalanche while she was snowshoeing saturday in american Fork canyon. about 90 miles away in sanpete county, clint conover, 36, died after be­ing buried in a slide sunday while snowmobiling. 
Three skiers survived an avalanche monday near silverton in southwestern colorado. one man skied out and two others were swept into some trees but were not buried, the durango herald reported. all three were tak­en to a hospital where they were examined and released. 
cold, snow plague atlanta 
Associated Press 
aTlanTa — The city dodged the first punch of a dangerous winter storm Tuesday, but forecasters warned of a potentially “cat­astrophic” second blow in a thick layer of ice that threat­ened to bring hundreds of thousands of power outages and leave people in their cold, dark homes for days. 
The streets and highways in metro atlanta were large­ly deserted as people in the south’s business hub heed­ed advice from officials to hunker down at home, espe­cially after the snow jam two weeks ago saw thousands of people stranded on icy, grid­locked roads for hours when 2 inches of snow fell. 
“last time i was totally un­prepared, i was completely blindsided,” said lisa nadir, of acworth, who sat in traffic for 13 hours and then spent the night in her car when the storm hit Jan. 28. “i’m going to be prepared from now on for the rest of my life.” 

nadir was telecommuting from home Tuesday and she had kitty litter in her trunk in case she needed to put it down on icy roads for extra traction. 
The forecast drew compar­isons to an ice storm in the atlanta area in 2000 that left more than 500,000 homes and businesses without pow­er and an epic storm in 1973 that caused an estimated 200,000 outages for several days. in 2000, damage esti­mates topped $35 million. 
eli Jacks, a meteorolo­gist with national weather service, said forecasters use words like “catastrophic” sparingly. 
“sometimes we want to tell them, ‘hey, listen, this warn­ing is different. This is really extremely dangerous and it doesn’t happen very often,’” Jacks said. 
This kind of language was first used in may 1999 for a tornado in moore, okla. Forecasters called it a “tor­nado emergency” to make sure the public knew it was not a typical tornado. 
“i think three-quarters of an inch of ice anywhere would be catastrophic,” Jacks said. 
but the atlanta area and other parts of the south are particularly vulnerable be­cause there are so many trees and limbs hanging over power lines. when the ice builds up on them, limbs snap and fall, knocking out power. 
“There is no doubt that this is one of mother nature’s worst kinds of storms that can be inflicted on the south, and that is ice. it is our biggest enemy,” georgia gov. nathan deal said. 
while only light rain fell in atlanta on Tuesday, cities 40 miles northwest saw 2 to 3 inches of snow. The rain was expected to turn into sleet and freezing rain overnight. 
U.S. hosts French state dinner 
Associated Press 
washingTon — michelle and barack obama found just the right spot to seat a gent going stag to Tuesday’s state dinner: They plopped French president Francois hollande down right between them in a giant party tent, and put the pshaw to all that drama about his solo trip to the u.s. after a very public breakup from his first lady. 
The a-list guest roster for the biggest social event of obama’s second term — flush with celebrities, democratic donors, politicians and busi­ness types — mostly tried not to go there, tactfully avoiding talk about “l’affaire hollande.” 
“i don’t get involved in those things,” demurred ac­tress cicely Tyson, who at age 80 said she’s been to plenty of state dinners over the years. 
Former naacp official ben Jealous was nothing but ad­miring of the French intrigue. 
“i think the French are way cooler than we are on a whole lot of fronts,” he said, includ­ing way better gossip. 
on a frigid night, the eve­ning’s pomp and pageantry were all designed to wrap hollande in a comfy blanket of warmth, from the moment he stepped out of his limo and onto a red carpet on the white house north portico. The obamas were there on the front steps to greet him, the first lady clad in a black and liberty blue silk gown by carolina herrera. 
The dinner’s celebrity quo­tient included actors bradley cooper, Julia louis-dreyfus, mindy Kaling and Tyson. comedy central’s stephen colbert somehow managed to snag a seat right next to the first lady. There were plenty of politicians, per usual. and in a midterm election year, the obamas invited in more than two dozen donors to obama’s campaigns and the who has given more than $2 million to pro-obama su­per pacs, and Jane stetson, the democratic national committee’s finance chair. 
democratic  party.  among  
them  were  irwin  Jacobs,  
the  Qualcomm  inc.  founder  

one of the most frequent phrases of the night was “un peu.” as in, nope, don’t speak much French. 
a few brave souls ventured out of their comfort zones to try a word or two. 
“oui, oui, oui,” declared the rev. al sharpton, sound­ing like he was reciting the nursery rhyme about the little piggies. 
sacramento mayor Kevin Johnson said wife, michelle rhee, taught him a couple of French phrases en route to the white house and declared, “i’m ready to bust ‘em out.” 
here goes: “bonsoir” and “bon appetit.” 
bronx-born singer mary J. blige, the evening’s entertain­ment, paused for a second when asked whether she had a French connection, then ven­tured: “um, my last name is French.” 
when it finally came her time to sing — past 11 p.m., on a school night, no less — blige belted out “ain’t nobody” with such gusto she had both obamas rocking in their chairs. 
obama, in his dinner toast, was deliberately sparing with his French. 
he welcomed the guests with a hearty “bonsoir” and then confessed, “i have now officially exhausted my French.” 
he then delivered the req­uisite praises of all things French — “especially the wine.” 
hollande delivered a good portion of his remarks in respectable english before switching back to French. 
“we love americans, al­though we don’t always say so,” he told the crowd. “and you love the French, but you’re sometimes too shy to say so.” 
amidst all the pleasantries and tactful chitchat, there was the occasional moment of candor. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

cold, dumb and boring 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 
The winter olympics bore me. 

They are the sports world’s equivalent of high school black-box theatre compared to the summer olympics. don’t try to tell me they’re as exciting as the summer olympics, or the second quarter in your average regu­lar-season nba game for that matter. 
you know how i know they’re not as excit­ing as the summer olympics? They brought in “stars” from the summer olympics to shoot little promos where they say things like “wow, this sport is challenging! how truly unbelievable.” you know how many winter olympics stars shot promos to hype up the summer olympics? none. and if they did, i didn’t notice, because i don’t know a single winter olympics star. 
my least favorite mainstream sport is nascar . i assume 90 percent of people are watching the races to see crashes. cool, fine, whatever, but it’s not for me. compare that with the winter olympics, where 90 per­cent of the sports are only interesting when people crash. 
“Figure skating, how can you not like fig­ure skating?” they ask, as i roll back over on the couch and go back to my nap. i don’t like figure skating because everything looks the same to me, every jump and turn or what­ever. The only interesting thing is when they fall. i take that back — the only interesting thing is when one of them conspires to have another beaten with a pipe. 
The biathlon seems fun, if you wanted to learn how to shoot someone and then get caught immediately. it’s tough enough watching marathons in the summer olympics, but cross-country skiing is like watching people run marathons in ankle weights through two feet of water. 
oh hockey, how could i forget about hock­ey? The miracle on ice! 1980! we beat the commies! setting aside the fact that hockey isn’t really my cup of tea in the first place, and the fact that olympic hockey eliminates the fun parts like physicality and punching each other in the face, olympic hockey has exactly one memorable moment, like, ever. i’ll go watch “miracle” again and get my fill. 
The drama! The pageantry! The pride and the passion! 
don’t care. you want drama go see a play. support your local arts. or don’t, doesn’t matter to me. 
but surely, you must respect the unbeliev­able athletic ability of these olympians? it’s not like you could do a triple twirl leg touch into a 12-gun salute off the ski jump, through a pit of fire and into a pit of alliga­tors! no, i couldn’t. but if you asked me to show love for everything i couldn’t do, i’d be spending a lot of time loving kindergartners for being able to color inside the lines, and that just sounds weird doesn’t it. 
look, i don’t care if you like the winter olympics. good for you. you’re simple­minded, but i’m happy for you. Just don’t ask me to care. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
what if i just wanted to learn? 
overall, i believe during their time here, most stu­dents at notre dame want to learn, realize the amaz­ing resources at their disposal and take advantage of at least some of those opportunities. 
That being said, i question whether the registrar’s office — and sometimes, our advisors — realize that not all people here are content with merely going through the motions of college, picking up credits for their transcripts and focusing on graduating. 
The university’s academic code allows only gradu­ate students to audit classes, the completion of which would earn them a grade of ‘v.’ undergraduates may not audit classes. 
hypothetically, though, what if i was not interested in auditing a class per se, since auditing still shows up on permanent academic records? what if i were suggesting instead to simply sit in a class — with the professor’s blessing, of course — with no permanent records to be found? 
well, that is not allowed either. 
i know what you are thinking. why not just register for the class in the beginning? do we not have enough on our plates already? 
as for registering, popular classes often fill before the registration deadline. sometimes, spots open up when people drop, but red tape exists for those of us trying to register for these spots post-deadline. i guess deadlines are non-negotiable after all. 
as for dealing with too much work already, should we not encourage those really wanting to learn some­thing in addition to their required classes to explore? we have access to these wonderful professors for only four years. moreover, if people really want to spend an extra three hours in class and six studying every week, more power to them. 
so what is the big deal? it certainly cannot be tu­ition, given our flat — and fat — tuition bill. credits? nope, we will not be getting those. paperwork? not on the administrative side. Trouble for professors? oh please, professors becoming offended at interest in their life’s work? 
if driven students want to sit in a class out of inter­est, and the professor does not object, the registrar’s office should leave them to their own devices. 
Kristina Flathers 
junior 
lewis hall 
Feb. 9 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“it has never been my object to record my dreams, just to realize them.” 
Man Ray American modernist artist (1890-1976) 



america the play: a thought experiment 
Robert Alvarez 
man on a nag 

let’s do a little thought experiment. The following ideas have no basis in reality, they are merely players in a play i have made up. 
This play takes place on a planet in an alternate universe populated by intelli­gent humanoid creatures. The founding principle of their society is justice, and they believe they have achieved it. To their eyes, their world is an idyllic place of perfect justice: The slackers get paid their worth and the industrious get paid their worth. Furthermore, because of this absolute faith in justice, this place also believes in equality, for how can there be justice without equality? let’s call this hypothetical place america. 
in america, their centennial census just came out with some shocking new revelations (why do they only have a census every 100 years? i don’t know). The census revealed an individual’s wealth in america is directly correlated with the wealth of his or her parents. This revelation put them at an impasse: which of their principles were true, that of justice, or that of equality? if their world was equal, then this new data revealed their world wasn’t just; if their world was just, then this new data revealed their world wasn’t equal. 
UWIRE 

why asia needs america 
Oliver Kim 
The harvard crimson 

in his 1909 book “The great illusion,” sir norman angell argued that war be­tween europe’s great powers was futile, because their economic interdependence made warfare too costly for all involved. Just five years later, europe would be plunged into a tragic war that would dev­astate a whole generation of young men. 
Today, the world faces an eerily similar situation in the eastern pacific ocean. east asian economies, buoyed by the rapid growth of china, are flourishing. Trade is booming as old protectionist barriers are thrown down. yet despite this prosperity, diplomatic relations in the region are increasingly tense. 
The senkaku islands (known as the diaoyu islands in china), a group of is­lets in the east china sea, have become the center of an increasingly heated terri­torial dispute between china and Japan. The islands are barren, uninhabited rocks in the middle of the ocean — yet they could be the fuse in the east asian powder keg. 
For years, china and Japan have jock­eyed over their claims to the islands. in december 2012, china sent a reconnais­sance plane over the islands; in response, Japan scrambled F-15 fighter jets. on after much public debate, america con­cluded it was more apparent its world was just rather than equal. This meant there were some portions of the popula­tion that were simply better and more industrious than other parts. The rich celebrated their natural superiority, while the poor didn’t care much about their inherent inferiority, because, well, they were too lazy to care much about anything. 
in this same alternate universe how­ever, this quaint america is completely ignorant of another planet directly op­posite of them, orbiting the same sun. This other planet follows an orbit exactly opposed to the orbit of america, which forever obscures this planet from the view of america and vice-versa. let’s call this mysterious planet anti-america. 
anti-america is eerily similar to america. Through some astounding chance of mathematical probability, anti-america is actually filled with carbon copies of the same people and places; same names, same looks, same personalities, same everything. anti­america does differ from america in one crucial aspect, however, their founding principle is equality. based on this prin­ciple of equality, they also believe their society is perfectly just, for how can in­justice exist amongst equals? all differ­ences in individual wealth are therefore directly attributable to choices made by individuals. all of these things are ac­cepted as gospel truth. 
in anti-america, their centennial cen­sus just came out with some shocking new revelations (why do they only have a census every 100 years? i still don’t know). The census revealed an individ­ual’s wealth in anti-america is directly correlated with the wealth of his or her parents. This revelation puts them at an impasse: which of their principles were true, that of equality, or that of justice? if their world was just, then this new data revealed their world wasn’t equal; if their world was equal, then this new data revealed their world wasn’t just. after much public debate, anti-america con­cluded it was more apparent their world was equal rather than just. They realized people weren’t raised in equal opportu­nity in anti-america and the justice was something achieved, not inherent to so­ciety. The government of anti-america therefore decided to institute reforms to combat the ill effects of poverty and cre­ate a more just anti-america. 
There is one other principle that has hitherto gone unmentioned in this ex­ploration of america and anti-america. This is the principle of freedom. which one of these two societies believes in freedom? it should be apparent anti­america believes in freedom, not america. america believes people are inherently bound by their natures to 
november 23, 2013, china announced it would begin enforcing an air defense identification zone around its maritime boundaries, which included the senkaku islands. Just three days later, the united states flew two b-52 bombers through the zone, sparking chinese outrage. 
in china, Japan’s claim over the islands is seen as a vestige of old imperialist ag­gression, dating back to the second sino-Japanese war. in Japan, china’s claim is seen as a sign of renewed chinese expansionism. 
at this point, too much rhetorical blood has been spilled—backing down would be politically impossible for either china or Japan, even though war would devastate the economies of both parties. abe’s nationalist policies appeal to his power base, the right wing of the liberal democratic party. china’s foreign minis­try, meanwhile, has declared the islands a “core interest;” a concession in this area would be seen as a loss of face. 
That’s why a third party, a strong hand with a good diplomatic track record and a vested interest in stability, should en­ter the situation. in a word, an assertive american foreign policy would help calm the turbulent waters of the east china sea. 
america should caution its ally Japan to tone down the rhetoric. Japanese prime minister shinzo abe has damaged relations with china by visiting the yasukuni shrine, a memorial where 14 Japanese war criminals are buried. a moratorium on such visits would be a good start. despite rearmament, Japan remains dependent on american mili­tary support, and would surely acquiesce to sufficient diplomatic pressure. 
at the same time, china should be sharply rebuked for its increasing dis­plays of militarism. displays of force, like the b-52 bomber flight, only re­mind china that it remains militarily outmatched by the united states. in exchange for a cooling of the rhetoric around the senkaku islands and a freeze on military escalation around the is­lands, the united states could privately offer concessions like respecting the rest of the air defense zone and reducing the number of military exercises near china’s maritime borders. 
once heads have cooled, china and Japan could take their dispute to a neu­tral third party, like the international court of Justice in The hague. such me­diating bodies have a decent track record 
— chile and peru recently negotiated an end to a long-standing maritime dispute through the court. 
after the quagmires of iraq and afghanistan, americans across the po­litical spectrum are surely reluctant to see their nation again entangle itself in specific circumstances; anti-america recognizes people are bound by specific circumstances, but these circumstances are changeable rather than inherent. it is the classic nature vs. nurture de­bate: america believes in nature, anti­america believes in nurture. 
i hope you enjoyed this little thought experiment! rest assured america is nothing like america, nor anti-america. in fact, one could say we have the best of both worlds. despite the fact research has shown a clear correlation between parent’s wealth and a child’s future wealth, in america we believe in the perfect justice of america while simul­taneously claiming belief in the perfect equality and freedom of anti-america. by doing this, we get to live in the happy freedom-filled world of anti-america without any of the social responsibility. This freedom, of course, is not valid for certain segments of the population, but our society and economic system is per­fectly fair and just, so they are irrelevant. isn’t that grand? 
Robert Alvarez is a senior studying in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at  ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
foreign affairs. but america is needed abroad; its presence is a vital column in the edifice of international order. and indeed, being assertive in support of international stability does not mean being a warmonger. history bears this out: a strong american military presence in asia has kept south Korea, Japan, and Taiwan secure, and the u.s. navy has kept the sea free and open, facilitating the present boom in trade. even china has much reason to thank the united states, for helping to maintain stability in the countries that are now its major trad­ing partners. 
war in asia would serve no one’s inter­ests — not america’s, not asia’s, and least of all china’s and Japan’s. by pushing Japan and china into reasoned negotia­tions and, in a sense, taking the blame from both sides, the united states could allow both countries to back off from this meaningless squabble while saving face. although the resurgent nationalists in Japan and china would not like to admit it, the united states remains indispens­able in asia. 
The Harvard Crimson is the independent student newspaper serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

“Kroll show” is currently in the middle of its second season on comedy central and has been subtly subvert­ing the common perils of sketch comedy series. created by comedian and actor nick Kroll, the show features a cast of recurring characters including many developed by Kroll over the course of his career. These characters exist in sketches parodying various reality shows includ­ing a Jersey shore-wannabe bouncer hunting ghosts, a Justin bieber-type teen actor starring in a stereotypical­ly canadian “degrassi” rip off and a silicon valley dog plastic surgeon with a series of shows aping everything on the bravo and e! networks. Through its first two sea­sons the show has created its own substantial universe, much like iFc’s “portlandia,” but one that exists inside a television screen rather than a surreal community. 
a typical episode of the “Kroll show” will focus on two or three of these satirical shows, with individual sketches acting as distinct scenes. The episode bounces around from show to show, like a channel surfer juggling Tv commitments. This allows for each exaggerated show and character to advance without feeling worn-out or repetitious. whereas typically sketch comedy shows struggle to create new, fresh material as they age, the “Kroll show” has set itself up to be able to continue being funny using the ideas it has established early on. 
so often, sketch comedy series last only a few seasons, or even less, because the creators and writing staff find it too difficult to keep up the high level of comedy, while not solely relying on old material. longevity for a show of this form just isn’t usually realistic.  dave chappelle infa­mously left production of his show, “chappelle’s show,” (for which Kroll has writing credits) in part due to the shadow cast by the popularity of one of his characters. more acutely, eddie murphy felt it necessary to devote a sketch to killing off one of his characters on “saturday night live” because he did not want to be known as “buckwheat” for the rest of his career. 
This is very dangerous territory for a sketch show, as audiences always remember their favorite skits, while disregarding the duds that aired beside them on a weekly basis. viewers then naturally compare anything new to the best sketches the show has done.  They forget about the unfunny sketches or ones that just don’t stack up and expect everything to be on the level of their list of top five sketches from the show. 
as problematic as this is for the audience, it’s even more demanding for the show’s creators. watchers need every sketch to hit as hard as their favorites, or they end up disappointed. meanwhile, creators feel in some part obligated to return to old, popular sketch concepts, either for fan service, or because they believe it will reliably get a laugh.  one prime example occurred when “snl” aired a sequel to its low-key absurd “court stenographer” sketch featuring Fred armisen as an old woman. The original premise was very basic, but the unexpected sil­liness made it a huge hit. however, when the show went back to the well, it barely tweaked the sketch’s formula and, although the audience loved it the first time — since they knew what was coming — the sequel fell completely flat. 
The hilarious “Key and peele,” another sketch comedy show currently airing on comedy central, fell guilty to the same double-dipping when it crafted a second “east vs. west” sketch. The simple fake name readings be­came an instant classic for its absurd, but all too close to the truth, riffing on outlandish names in professional sports. but when Key and peele came up with a second batch of names, there was something very deflated about the sketch that resulted. looking back on the first sketch, it retains all of its value, perhaps because it was the original and viewers get the same feel from it as the first time they saw it; however, the second edition could never stack up. 
“Kroll show” carefully and cleverly sets itself aside from these possible issues through the show’s struc­ture. somewhat like the running threads through “mr. show” episodes, ideas and sketch progressions come about organically. still, “Kroll show” takes this conceit further by compiling its show and generally each epi­sode with multiple sketches from the same fake show. characters are allowed space to develop and become fa­miliar, meaning that the comedy does not only come out of concept. The characters can then continue to appear in future sketches, whether in the same parody or even in a new one. There is no sense of reliance on old-hat bits or gags, yet the show does not have to abandon an idea once the immediate impression wears off. 
clearly, nick Kroll and company have taken into con­sideration the sketch series that came before them — from classic “Kids in the hall” to contemporary “Key and peele” — putting their show in a position to not only suc­ceed in the short run, but last if they so desire it to. and Kroll is no stranger to sketch based comedy, either. he also wrote for “human giant” — with fellow comedians aziz ansari, rob huebel and paul scheer — which lasted two seasons on mTv and gave him visible experience on navigating within the medium. 
“Kroll Show” airs Tuesday nights at 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcaho7@nd.edu 

EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

someone in this section today, scene writer John darr is (hopefully) reviewing “benji,” the latest album from san Francisco-based folk act sun Kil moon. as is standard practice in this section, i’d never heard of the band. but another scene writer quickly informed me of its sound and style. 
“They’re folky. and they sing about death a lot,” the scene writer said. “yeah, all of their songs are pretty much about death.” 
usually, this kind of description would only serve to re­mind me why i’ve never heard of most any of the bands we review in scene, and why i let the more knowledgeable and talented writers handle music reviews. 
on this particular day however, i was struck by another thought ¾ that sounded a lot like “inside llewyn davis,” the latest film from the coen brothers. The movie depicts the world of llewyn davis, a semi-fictional singer-song­writer in 1961 who specializes in acoustic folk songs, al­most all of which are about death. 
granted, based on my taste in music, i wouldn’t nor­mally be drawn to a movie that boasts of following a week in the life of a folk singer in 1961, but as a fan of coen brothers movies (“The big lebowski,” “no country for old men,” “Fargo”), i decided to give it a shot. 
as it turns out, it instantly became one of my favorite movies of the last year, and yet even now as i attempt to relate my reaction to the film, i’m not sure why i enjoyed it or even really watched it. 
First of all, it’s not really a movie. There isn’t a real plot or a storyline. llewyn davis is sort of a bum, clearly a tal­ented folk singer but in a time that didn’t have much love 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

This week has been rough. diving into the bleak world of “dorian gray,” i spent the wee hours of the sunday night crying with the broken-hearted sibyl vane and star­ing at that hideous portrait. monday found me crawling through goethe’s “Faust,” wandering around with the devil sneering at my shoulder. oh, and this was after a month of reading plath for my literature class. suffice it to say i was not living the literary high life. 
it seemed only appropriate that sun Kil moon’s “benji” would catch my eye on metacritic’s new album release list this week. a gauntlet of deeply personal tales circling around the theme of death, grief and remembrance, “benji” looks upon life with an unflinching eye. however, the album is written and performed in such a way that the weight of the topic is very much present without being overwhelming mark Kozelek, the singer and songwriter at the heart of sun Kil moon, had an unnerving talent for grappling with pain in a way that is at once highly emo­tional yet lacking unnecessary drama. it’s this balance between lyrical honesty and restraint that makes sun Kil moon’s music both approachable and urgent. in this way, “benji” navigates highs and lows with grace and ease, in­viting the listener into its intensely familiar world. 
The dark subject matter of “benji” is kept very for folk music, and he isn’t really a nice guy. 
in fact, there are no real likeable characters in the mov­ie, and not in the contemporary anti-hero, bad-but-you­still-root-for-them kind of unlikeable. it’s more of, “These people are actually kind of awful and i don’t really care if they succeed or fail but i kind of hope they get punched in the face” kind of unlikeable. oscar isaac as llewyn davis is one part tormented artist, battling demons through his music and four parts irascible and irritating jerk. 
carey mulligan’s Jean, as davis’ friend’s wife and one­time adulterer, is a woman in a difficult position in a dif­ficult time for women, but it’s not hard to imagine her character being generally awful to be around in the best of times and places. 
The only two redeemable characters in the film are Justin Timberlake’s Jim, a fellow folk-singer, and an or­ange tabby cat that davis accidentally loses throughout the film. Jim is the really only artist in the film that hits it big, but he’s kind of a dolt and llewyn makes fun of him throughout the film. The cat, which the coen brothers said they only included because they were worried there wasn’t enough plot in their script, is adorable and yet one of the saddest elements in an all around sad movie. 
but even with all that, i loved it. The movie is less a sto­ry or an exploration of character as it is an illustration of time, place and environment. The film feels tangible and real, as if you can smell the nastiness of the dingy dive bars that llewyn performs and get dirt under your fin­gernails from greenwich village side streets where davis takes his beatings. 
The coen brothers based llewyn davis off a few folk­singers from the 60s, but began with the idea of wonder­ing what might happen if real-life folk singer dave van ronk outside of a bar in the village. That’s the sort of feel 
down-to-earth through a combination of vivid images of relatable scenes, sparse arrangements and intimate production. it’s essentially a set of beautifully-told stories that explore the lives of individuals up to their ends. The subjects of “benji” die in freak fires, on hospital beds, in school shootings, motorcycle accidents. yet while these final events create a setting and purpose for Kozelek’s narratives, the lives, not the deaths, are at the heart of the songs. opener “carissa” finds him searching for the childhood he and his second cousin once knew, center­ing around a promise to make her name known. “Jim wise” tells the story of a man who mercy-killed his wife but couldn’t bring himself to join her; Jim’s character is outlined through the small pleasures he enjoys during his house arrest before his incarceration. “Truck driver” centers around the joy of his uncle’s funeral, which is “just how he would have wanted it, i’m sure.” 
The raw honesty of the lyrics and intimacy of the sto­ries’ settings are echoed in the music. each song is built around Kozalek’s softly beautiful guitar lines which mir­rors the mood of each song in turn. “benji” also features a wider instrumental palette with drums and even a couple of soft analog synthesizers the twist in and out of the al­bum. however the greatest musical jewel to be found here is Kozalek’s voice, an evocative, earnest drawl that ram­bles with a slight country twang through the stories he tells. both musical and highly conversational, Kozalek’s this movie embodies ¾ it rambles a bit, punches a bit and explores the world of folk music, leading to depress­ing losses and failures for its main characters, but with a hopeful heart. 
in the opening scene and again in one of the last scenes of the film, llewyn performs a song called, “hang me, oh hang me,” which is, as you might imagine, not quite in the same spirit of pharrell’s “happy.” The song’s lyrics are sad, but he performs with an intriguing acceptance of fate mixed with a morbid hopefulness that makes you think things might not always be this bad. 
davis never gets anywhere in his week long journey, but as the film ends, a young man with wild hair, a guitar on his lap and a harmonica strapped to his chest takes the stage to begin his first set at davis’ regular spot. maybe the sad, cynical world of llewyn davis, which really is the sad, cynical world of folk music, has some hope after all. maybe not, of course, since the film’s final moments are less than hopeful for davis himself, but there’s a sense of hope hidden in there among all the death and sadness that makes for a fascinating film. 
Contact Kevin Noonan a knoonan2@nd.edu 
“Inside Llewyn Davis” (2013) 
StudioCanal 

Directors: Joel Coen, Ethan Coen Starring: Oscar Isaac, Carey Mulligan, Justin Timberlake 

vocals guide the songs into the golden personal sweet spot his lyrics guide us towards sharing with him. 
although so much death and darkness echo through the tales told in “benji,” the human spirit that echoes through the album imbues it with a hopeful and comfort­ing spirit. a couple of tracks dedicated to Kozalek’s fam­ily members also allows for breaks in the theme, allowing Kozalek to give thanks for that which is here in the midst of those who have gone. The mastery of Kozalek’s song­writing and poetry is enough by itself to make the album worth listening to. however, it’s the stories themselves that truly make “benji” the modern masterpiece it is, an album that dives into the dark only to find a great light. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Benji” 
Sun Kil Moon 

Label: Caldo Verde Records 
Tracks: “Carissa,” “I Can’t Live Without My Mother’s Love,” “Ben’s My Friend” If you like: The Mountain Goats, Nick Drake 


EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Catch the Olympic fever 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
cool. hot. yours. 
That’s the slogan for these 2014 winter olympic games in sochi, russia, where the world’s greatest athletes (but clearly not its greatest mar­keting professionals) have descended for two weeks of international competition. 
The slogan, according to a press release, “is intended to be a universal solution successfully combining in­novation and dynamism.” describing the olympics as hot, cool and yours seems to make no sense whatsoever, especially in light of how many other adjectives better capture the nature of these games. 
The olympics are different. whereas most professional athletes we watch in the big four american sports leagues live their entire lives in the spotlight, for athletes in the olympics — save the hockey players and a few other stars 
— the games serve as their lone shot at international glory or any semblance of rel­evance, an everest-like pin­nacle of four years of training. 
with this in mind, the olympics are intense. with so long between each olympiad, an athlete may only have one chance to compete while still in their prime, heaping untold pressure on each olympian. The differences between gold and silver or third and fourth can be canyons, with athletes willing to go to and over the edge to best their peers. 
The olympics are unpre­dictable. For every can’t-miss, sure thing (like the dutch in speed skating), there’s a hyped-up favorite that slips to silver, or off the podium en­tirely (looking at you, shawn white.) 
The olympics are problem­atic. in addition to the seri­ous problems on the scale of corruption, terrorism and homophobia that greg hadley outlined in this space on monday, there has been plenty of humor from sochi’s gross unpreparedness. upon arrival, journalists and fans took to Twitter to detail a vari­ety of #sochiproblems, rang­ing from unpotable water and a lack of dividers between toilet stalls to stray dogs and one uncooperative olympic ring during the opening cer­emonies. (The person respon­sible for the latter presumably sent to siberia along with the olympic marketing team, a true #sochiproblem.) 
The olympics are also whimsical, as characters in lesser known sports take ad­vantage of the spotlight to have some fun. This was on display from the opening ceremony, as skier antonio pardo, the lone representa­tive from venezuela, bounded through the arena, hamming it up and winning over the crowd. it could also be seen in american luger Kate hansen, whose warm-up is an elabo­rate, psyched up dance rou­tine to “her girl” beyonce. #dancinhansen finished far from the podium, but her en­thusiasm did win over a mul­titude of fans. 
all in all though, the olympics never cease to be compelling. especially in the winter games, the events are so foreign to us that it’s hard not to get caught up in the storylines, whether cheering a 40-year old norwegian bi-athlete on to victory or yelling at the inept american curl­ing squads (as i found myself doing at various points this week.) 
it’s fun, it breaks up two boring weeks of February, and the coverage is wall-to-wall, so you might as well give in to a once-every-four-years case of olympic fever. 
after all, these olympics are yours. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

Felix leads No. 19 Texas past Okla. State 87-68 
Associated Press 

ausTin, Texas — Javan Felix scored 27 points, mak­ing six 3-pointers and no. 19 Texas rolled to an 87-68 win over oklahoma state, which played its first game Tuesday night without suspended star marcus smart. 
smart sat out the first of a three-game suspension by the big 12 for shoving a Texas Tech fan. without him, the cowboys never had a chance. 
Felix scored eight consecu­tive points that pushed Texas’ lead to 22 early in the first half. The longhorns (19-5, 8-3) led 54-33 at halftime de­spite playing without leading scorer Jonathan holmes, who sat out with a knee injury. 
smart, who averages 18 points, will miss games against oklahoma and baylor before returning for the cowboys’ rematch with Texas Tech. 
le’bryan nash led oklahoma state (16-8, 4-7) with23 points. 
both teams played with­out their best all-around best players. but while the cowboys struggled mightily without smart, the longhorns didn’t miss a beat without holmes as Felix scored seem­ingly at will. Felix was 6-of-8 shooting on 3 pointers and was just one point shy of his career high. 
he had plenty of help as Texas had four players score in double figures. isaiah Taylor scored 16, martez walker scored 12 and cameron ridley had his sixth double-double of the season with 12 points and 13 rebounds. 
Texas’ outburst came three days after the longhorns scored just 18 points in the first half of a loss at Kansas state that ended a seven-game winning streak. 
back home, Texas made eight 3-pointers and shot bet­ter than 50 percent for most of the first half. 
conner lammert, who got just his second start of the season in place of holmes, made three 3-pointers in the first half. Felix turned it into a rout with an 8-pointer burst 
—
 two 3-pointers and a layup 

—
 that pushed Texas’ lead to 36-14. 


Felix opened the sec­ond half with two more 3-pointers. he followed the first one with a steal that set up his second in transition. The run ended any chance of a cowboys rally before it could even begin. 
smart scored 24 points when oklahoma state beat Texas in early January. without him for the rematch, oklahoma state didn’t have an answer for anything Texas wanted to do. 
sharp-shooting guard phil Forte, who was smart’s high-school teammate when they won a Texas state champion­ship on the same court, was just 2-of-7 shooting and never got a chance to open up from long-range. Forward brian williams was 0-8 and the cowboys shot just 36 percent for the game. 
oklahoma state was ranked no. 11 when these teams first met early in the big 12 sched­ule. The cowboys have fallen hard from the early projec­tions of conference title con­tenders and now lost five in a row. 
Texas has not set a timeta­ble for holmes to return, but he is not expected to miss the rest of the season. 
NBA 

Deng scores 22, Cavs avenge loss vs. Kings 
Associated Press 

cleveland — luol deng scored 22 points, and the cleveland cavaliers avenged a 44-point loss to sacramento with a 109­99 win over the Kings on Tuesday night. 
The cavaliers, who were routed 124-80 in sacramento on Jan. 12, took a double-figure lead early in the second quar­ter and were in control the remainder of the game. cleveland has won three in a row for the second time this season. 
anthony bennett, the no. 
1 pick in the draft who has struggled most of the sea­son, recorded career highs with 19 points and 10 re­bounds. dion waiters add­ed 20 points for cleveland. 
demarcus cousins scored 21 points to lead the Kings, who have lost 10 of 12 and seven straight on the road. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 

2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588-5520 
FOR RENT 

Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

Summer nanny job,S. of Boston; ISO energetic, reliable, creative, car­ing ND/SMC student to become part of our family, 5 days a week,some evenings/wknds. 3 boys ages 1, 3, 
9. May/June-Aug. Prefer local w/ own transportation. Valid DL,sense of humor required. Love of minivans a must. If interested respond with brief bio/experience to currentstudents@ ndboston.com 
“Cleveland Rocks” by The 
Presidents of the United States: All this energy callin’ me Back where it comes from It’s such a crude at­titude It’s back where it belongs All the little kids growing up on the skids Go “Cleveland rocks!”, “Cleveland rocks!” Jumpin’ Jene Jene and Movin’ James Dean Go “Cleveland rocks!”, “Cleveland rocks!” “Cleveland rocks!”, “Cleveland rocks!” “Cleveland rocks!”, “Cleveland rocks!” “Cleveland rocks!”, “Cleveland rocks!” I’ve got some records from World War II I play ‘em just like me granddad do He was a rocker and I am too Go “Cleveland rocks!” “Yeah Cleveland rocks!” 



MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, norThwesTern 1 
Irish bounce back to claim their seventh win 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
coming off its first lost of the season, notre dame returned to its winning ways last night as it defeated northwestern 4-1 in evanston, ill. 
The no. 16 irish (7-1) hand­ed the no. 30 wildcats (7-3) their first home loss of the spring campaign. 
“obviously losing magni­fies any shortcomings you have as a team,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “i thought we had a great week of prac­tice coming off that illinois loss and were able to really improve on a lot of things that held us back in that match. [Tuesday] against northwestern we were com­petitive from the top down.” 
in singles play, notre dame 
only  needed  four  matches  
to  put  away  the  wildcats  
as  sophomore  Quentin  

monaghan, sophomore eric schnurrenberger, and fresh­man eddy covalschi notched victories for the irish. senior ryan bandy and freshman Josh hagar’s matches went unfinished, while senior greg andrews lost the only notre dame singles match of the evening in the top spot against the wildcats. 
monaghan’s victory for the irish marked the first time he hit the court for competitive play during the spring season. his return from injury came in a match against northwestern’s sam shropshire in the second slot. after winning the first set 6-4, monahan was forced to come from behind in the second set. he faced set point three times before winning a tiebreaker that gave the irish a 3-0 lead and set the stage for cavalschi to secure a victory on the evening. 
“Quentin’s match was a huge turning point for us on the day. it really turned the doubles and pushed us to vic­tory,” sachire said. 
victory in doubles play did not come as easy for the irish as all three doubles matches went to tiebreakers. after se­nior billy pecor and hagar won their match in the second slot, andrews and sophomore alex lawson lost in the top spot despite returning from a 5-2 deficit. The doubles point came down to the third slot as the duo of bandy and schnurrenberger overcame their wildcat opponents by a mark of 6-5(2), which gave notre dame the 1-0 advan­tage as the match proceeded to singles play. 
“we didn’t play our best in doubles tonight,” sachire said. “The difference in tonight’s match from the illinois loss is that we were able to hang in there down the stretch and win even as we didn’t play our best tennis. winning the doubles point really sets a positive tone for the rest of the match.” 
as they enter the halfway point of their spring cam­paign, the irish continue a stretch in which four of five matches in a row are sched­uled on the road. notre dame is slated to head to houston, TX this weekend for the iTa national indoor championships, which they qualified for by beating Kentucky and minnesota on Jan. 24-25. 


“we are going to take a day off before heading to houston,” sachire said. “i think our big focus when we get there will be on getting acclimated to the surface as much as we can before Friday’s match. i think a real point of emphasis for us will be to play aggressively, par­ticularly in doubles play.” 
after the indoor championships, the irish will return to their eck Tennis pavilion the following week for a set of matches against ohio st. and ball st. on Feb. 22. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

smc looks forward to playing undefeated hope 
tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

sports writer The belles (6-15, 4-8 miaa) 
battled no. 2 hope (21-0, 13-0) 

The belles travel to hope to earlier this season on Jan. 9, take on the nationally-ranked but the belles could not pull and undefeated Flying dutch out the win and fell 93-53. 
paid adverTisemenT 

despite the loss, belles coach Jennifer henley said her team realizes the magnitude of tak­ing on the unbeaten Flying dutch again. 
“[our] team looks forward to the challenges that hope will present,” henley said. “They are the no. 2 team in the country right now. we certainly have our hands full, but what a great opportunity to compete against a team of that caliber.” 
The Flying dutch are unde­feated on the season, main­taining a 21-game winning streak and averaging 84.1 points per game. compared to the belles, who have yet to maintain a consistent win­ning streak and average 66 points per game, hope en­ters tonight’s matchup as the heavy favorite. 
despite the difference in team statistics on the season, the belles are preparing to take on the Flying dutch just as they would any other team. The belles specifically look to sustain their defense against hope, henley said. 
“our biggest challenge is once again defense,” henley said. “hope averages 84 points a game, and they do a great job on the boards as well. we have to make sure we box out and not give up second chance points.” 
The Flying dutch moved within one game of claiming the miaa conference title af­ter their 83-73 win over adrian on saturday. a victory over the belles would clinch that title. 
most recently, the belles fell 71-66 to Kalamazoo on saturday. due to a lack of de­fense, saint mary’s was un­able to maintain a strong lead. From an offensive standpoint, Kalamazoo had the advan­tage over the belles, but indi­vidually the belles generated strong performances on the court. senior guard shanlynn bias led the belles with 18 points and junior forward ariana paul followed closely behind with 16 points. 
while the belles have bias and paul running their at­tack, the Flying dutch are led by sophomore forward maura mcafee and senior guard brittany berry, who average of 
14.6 and 8.2 points per game, respectively. 
The Flying dutch might be playing for the confer­ence title, but henley said she wants her players and team as a whole to grow in this game against hope, even with the season coming to a close. 
“i hope that the youth of my team continues to improve, especially against one of the best teams in the country,” henley said. “i want them to battle and prepare to send our seniors off on a great note as our season starts to come to a close.” 
The belles battle unde­feated hope tonight at devos Fieldhouse in holland, mich. at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL 

Irish prepare for transition from Big East to ACC 

ALLY DARRAGH | The Observer 

Irish junior outfielder Conor Biggio attempts a hook slide around Quinnipiac junior catcher Steffen Herter during Notre Dame’s 5-1 win on April 21, 2013. Last season, Biggio hit .263 for the Irish. Though playing primarily as a bench player, Biggio also finished fourth on the team in stolen bases, finishing with four in 2013. 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
Things may not be the same this year for the irish, but they will still be familiar to irish coach mik aoki. 
aoki and notre dame will move into the acc this season after spending 18 years in the big east. aoki will be returning to a league he coached in during his time at boston college. 
“i think it helps from the stand­point of i kind of know what to expect,” aoki said. “it doesn’t help from the standpoint that i’m not the one throwing pitches or try­ing to field a ground ball or field fly balls. i think our kids are going to have to adjust to it.” 
The irish, who finished 34­24 in 2013, were eliminated by connecticut in the big east tour­nament championship game on march 26. This year in the acc, the irish will need to con­tend with national powerhouses north carolina, virginia, nc state, miami, Florida state and clemson. 
last season, the acc put eight teams into the ncaa tourna­ment while the big east only had two (connecticut and louisville). 
“with all due respect to the big east, the acc puts a high value on baseball and i don’t know if that was necessarily matched by the big east,” aoki said. “without any question, there are good teams in the big east but this is a different deal. ... i think it’s exciting for our student-athletes … [to] be able to play against programs with the types of traditions those pro­grams have, whether it’s miami or north carolina or Florida state or clemson or whoever it hap­pens to be.” 
notre dame will have to replace three of its top four hitters from last season, including first-round pick third baseman eric Jagielo and eighth-round pick first base­man Trey mancini. combined, the two players hit .388 with 16 home runs and 107 rbis. 
aoki said the irish would look toward a mix of players to replace their production. 
“i don’t think there’s any one guy on our team that’s going to replace Trey mancini or eric Jagielo,” aoki said. “we’re just go­ing to have to do it in a different style. Those guys could change the game with one swing of the bat. we don’t really have that in our lineup anymore.” 
aoki said notre dame, who returns just eight of its 26 home runs from 2013, could move more toward a small-ball style of play. 
“at times, maybe we had the luxury of waiting to see if one of those guys can run a ball out of the park or run a ball into the gap,” aoki said. “i think we’ll play a lot more offense than we did last year.” 
The irish need more produc­tion from sophomore center fielder Kyle richardson and soph­omore shortstop lane richards at the plate, aoki said. 
“i’m not sure we can afford to have .200 years coming from three different guys in our lineup like we did last year,” aoki said. “we were a good team last year and i think we ended up getting exposed by three or four spots in our lineup that were really not as productive as we needed them to be.” 
The pitching staff will be with­out departed closer dan slania (13 saves, 1.21 era) and starter adam norton (10-5, 2.40 era) this season. notre dame will also be missing junior pitcher pat connaughton until basketball season ends. 
aoki said senior right-hander sean Fitzgerald would top the rotation, followed by sopho­more right-hander nick mccarty and junior right-hander scott Kerrigan. aoki said the pitching situation was a fluid one, though. 
“i think we have a lot of guys who have pitched well but i don’t think we have a lot of guys who have a lot of created a great deal of separation,” aoki said. 
in addition to the new con­ference, the irish will debut a new field surface when Frank eck stadium shows off its new FieldTurf. aoki said the entire field would be turf — including the pitching mound — and there would be no dirt. 
despite the unique mound, aoki said the adjustment for pitchers would be a minimal one. 
“almost every kid, regardless of where they’re from, has pitched off of an artificial mound,” aoki said. “i don’t think it’s going to be a huge transition. For our reliev­ers, it’s going to be great. They’re going to come onto a mound in the seventh inning without the wear and tear, the holes, the da­vits, the scars that 200 pitches up until that point has worn on the mound.” 
construction on the field was delayed by the early onset of the south bend winter and has since been pushed back into the sea­son. aoki said he hoped the field would be ready by mid-april. 
The irish open this weekend in boca raton, Fla., against Florida atlantic. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 





ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Reimer rises to lofty expectations 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
Freshman forward Taya reimer came to south bend with high ex­pectations. it comes with territory for mcdonald’s all-american hon­orees, especially those who, like reimer, earn the morgan wootten player of the year award. 
but irish coach muffet mcgraw said it wasn’t the accolades that first convinced her that reimer belonged at notre dame. 
“First was her personality; i thought was a great fit for us,” mcgraw said. “i recruit a lot on first of all talent, but how are we going to fit in the system, with the team, the chemistry of the team and she is just a great teammate. she is somebody that is really tal­ented and just wants to help the team. 
“i also saw her ability to rebound and run the floor. i think she can defend on the perimeter, she can block shots, so a lot of great things she adds to our team.” 
when reimer was named a mcdonald’s all-american, she and her father, former nba for­ward ben davis, became the first father-daughter pair to both earn the honor. but reimer says her mother, brenda, also played a large role in her athletic success. 
“it’s really always been me and my mom growing up. i lived with my mom and my aunt, so it’s re­ally just been us three,” reimer said. “my mom was really athletic and so was my aunt. even though i wasn’t always with my dad i obvi­ously knew that he played basket­ball and he encouraged me a lot. it was just a really athletic family.” 
reimer has yet to experience a loss as a member of the irish, and has played in each of notre dame’s 23 wins this season. she averages 8.5 points and nearly 20 minutes played a game, mcgraw calls her the best sixth-man in women’s college basketball. 
“i think there has been a big im­provement in terms of how she’s playing,” mcgraw said. “she’s becoming more aggressive offen­sively, which is something we’ve wanted her to do. i think she’s playing with more confidence now … she really understands her role and has figured out, here are some ways i can help the team with scoring, and here are some ways i can help the team defensively, so i think she’s gotten comfortable and that’s the biggest thing.” 
reimer, who attended hamilton southeastern in Fishers, ind., said the competition she played against in high school does not compare to what she faces nowadays. 
“i really enjoyed [my high school team], my teammates and my coaches,” reimer said. “college is a lot different. obviously it’s just a higher level, the next level. everybody’s stronger, quicker, smarter, just more athletic. i think that high school definitely helped me and got me prepared, but it’s nothing like the college game, es­pecially playing at notre dame, one of the top programs in the country. we’re playing tough games every night, so it’s definite­ly a challenge, but it’s been really fun.” 
mcgraw said she anticipates even more improvement from reimer as she spends more time in the college game. 
“i think she’ll continue to get better in everything,” mcgraw said. “i’d like her to score more. i think she’s a really good face-up player and she’s able to score right now doing that, but … even more so next year, i think we’d like her to look to score more. i think she’s a little too unselfish now. it’s okay to be unselfish, but you also have to look to score more.” 
but for now, reimer is also ad­justing to life as a college student. 
“probably the biggest [adjust­ment] would be time manage­ment, just because when you’re in high school and living with your family and your parents it’s easy to rely on other people to help you out with things,” reimer said. “This is the first time i’ve ever really been by myself or on my own, so that’s something i’ve definitely had to adjust to, mak­ing sure that i could get to prac­tice on time and still have time to do homework and get extra shots up or hang out with friends.” 
reimer, who considers herself 


paid adverTisemenT 

Gans 
conTinued From page 16 
dangerous type – a tough squad with little hype. but with little to play for and one of their teammates separated from the program, the irish still squeaked out a victory. 
a year from now, irish fans won’t care that notre dame beat clemson, 68-64, in double over­time. it will be remembered as a relatively meaningless win in an otherwise disappointing season. and certainly not a game that will remain forever in irish basketball lore like when notre dame bested louisville 104-101 in five overtimes or when notre dame topped no. 1 syracuse 67-58. 
but that’s for the fans. The play­ers?  maybe, just maybe, it was a sign of things to come. sophomore Zach auguste put up his first ca­reer double-double (14 points and 12 rebounds) against the Tigers. Freshman guard steve vasturia was all over the floor as he racked up 11 points, reaching double fig­ures for the second time this year. Freshman v.J. beachem, despite only tallying four points, did score what ended up being a critical jumper on the final possession of the first half and made his first career start. 
it’s not hard for underclass­men like vasturia, beachem and auguste to get up for any game. They should be hungry to prove their worth moving forward. 
but it would be easy for senior guard eric atkins to mail it in. last season, he was on the floor at the end of one of the best games in big east history. The year before, he was part of the monumental irish upset over syracuse. and three years ago, he was starting for the best irish squad in his lifetime. 
now? instead of sulking, the captain maintained focus as he scored 16 points with six assists and played all 50 minutes Tuesday. 
it would be easy for senior center garrick sherman to have sat out the rest of this now-non-essential game after possibly breaking his finger in the first half, instead of playing 42 minutes.  it would be easy for junior forward pat connaughton to mentally shift attention to baseball season, in­stead of scoring 13 points to go with seven rebounds and seven assists. 
instead, these upperclass­men have led by example not just Tuesday night, but throughout this treacherous journey. This team will make an impact on the mindset of the program moving forward even after sherman and atkins depart next season and connaughton two years from now. 
The clemson win was ugly. it will not be memorable. and it will not change the trajectory of this season. 
but in a season where little has gone notre dame’s way, fi­nally something did. and maybe, though it doesn’t seem like it now, it will be a rallying point for the long haul. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 

a music junkie and has dabbled in both piano and trombone, said she hopes to work in sports media at some point. 
“i’m planning on doing Film, Television and Theater as my major,” reimer said. “i really want to get into sports broad­casting, so that’s hopefully the route i’m going to take. i’ve taken a few classes this year that are kind of in that realm, with the journalism and television and things like that; it’s always been very interesting to me.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
basketball when those habits get consistent. so we’ll give him some time to get caught up. and if he’s caught up at the end of the week, we’ll get him back to prac­tice and go from there. Just gotta get back to those good habits that i saw in the fall.” 
with 15 starts under his belt this season, Jackson had been supplanted in notre dame’s starting lineup for the four games prior to Tuesday’s matchup. 
“i think demetrius Jackson is very committed to being at notre dame,” brey said. “it’s a matter of just getting back into a good academic rhythm that i’ve seen before, and we’ll coach him into that. sometimes as a parent and a teacher and a coach, some tough love is needed. 
“i just think he didn’t get off to as good a start as he did in the fall semester. so you do what 
Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
last season, respectively. after three different freshman scored in the exhibition, halfpenny said she was excited to see how they performed against cincinnati, particularly Fortunato and mid­fielder casey pearsall, who recent­ly recovered from an acl tear. 
“we’re really excited about a number of players in the fresh­man class,” halfpenny said. “seeing courtney Fortunato come out and do what she does so well [saturday] … was really, real­ly exciting. and then seeing casey pearsall going back to work, after missing an entire season with an acl tear in high school last year. she’s a tough-nosed, incredibly athletic and strong midfielder for us, so it was really exciting to see casey take the field.” 
Trying to shut down the tal­ented irish freshmen will be the bearcats’ sophomore goalie meg gulmi, who started all 16 games as a freshman and notched 142 saves. cincinnati went 7-9 last season, but return gulmi and top two scorers, senior midfielder Taylor young and junior mid­fielder megan bell. challenging bell and young will be irish ju­nior goalie allie murray, who will make her first career start wednesday. despite her inexperi­ence, halfpenny said murray has handled the transition in impres­sive fashion. 
“i think she’s doing a really great job,” halfpenny said. “at the end of the day, she always had the mentality of ‘i’m ready whenever you need me,’ and … she’s an in­credible teammate. her high iQ at this level … her understanding of our defense and her playing give us momentum, and i think that’s huge. she’s made a smooth transition to being our starting goaltender for [wednesday], we’re thrilled.” 
murray and the irish will play host to the bearcats at 5 p.m. today at the loftus center. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
you gotta do to help a guy grow up.” 
brey’s announcement regard­ing Jackson’s status comes after irish senior guard Jerian grant lost his eligibility for the remain­der of the season on dec. 21 due to an academic issue. 
“i don’t think that’s ever af­fected [the rest of the team], when we lost personnel by in­jury, by whatever,” brey said. “They come back and play and other guys have known they are going to get more of an opportunity. 
“i give a lot of credit to atkins, connaughton, sherman and Knight. They’re old, they’ve seen a lot. They keep us pretty steady.” 
notre dame will look to estab­lish its first acc winning streak when it travels to chestnut hill, mass., to face boston college on sunday. 
Contact Joe Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: discover new possibilities by expanding your interests and developing your skills. make changes for your benefit, not someone else. it’s important to get your priorities straight and head in a direction that will bring you the most in return. Feel passionate about whatever you choose to do or take a pass. strive for what makes you happiest. your numbers are 4, 15, 22, 28, 35, 38, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you will face opposition if you aren’t willing to compromise. don’t let a trivial situation turn into a major argument. Focus on personal change, not trying to change others. plan your actions and choose your words wisely. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you shouldn’t have to go far to find a little excitement. check out what’s going on in your community and take part in events that interest you. The time you spend volunteering or helping others will lead to valuable opportunities. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you are best to take a pass if someone tries to interest you in a pricey item that promises the impossible. concentrate on completing your work and taking care of important responsibilities. proving how valuable you are will ensure greater stability. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): discuss your plans and get the ball rolling. do your research and find out exactly what’s required of you in order to reach your goals. a friend you encounter will be interested in getting involved in a project you want to pursue. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t ignore what you can do. The possibilities are endless and if you put your mind to it, you can accomplish a lot and stay within your budget. home or personal improvements will add value to your assets. good fortune is within reach. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make your mark by helping a cause you believe in or someone in need. your ability to find solutions will make you something of a hero. a unique partnership will give you the boost you need to forge ahead and finish an important project. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t gossip or get involved in office politics. Focus on what you need to get done. protect your reputation and refrain from making unrealistic promises. it’s important to follow through with your plans to avoid looking wishy-washy. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): choose whatever direction or project you feel will bring you the greatest creative space and the most adventure. if you enjoy what you are doing, it will be that much easier to get ahead. give your personal life a boost with a little romance. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of legal, contractual or financial matters swiftly. leaving room to let a negative issue escalate will lead to undue stress. make changes at home that better suit your likes and lifestyle. stay within your budget.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your intuition will help you decipher whom can be trusted and whom to avoid. a work matter or business partnership will reveal information that will contribute to a decision you need to make. a unique twist to the way you do things will pay off. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): productivity will determine how far you get and whom you impress. push, present and promote your ideas. procrastinating will cost you dearly when it comes to advancement. Take the initiative, especially when money is at stake. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): put money matters, contracts and settlements first. once you’ve taken care of personal business, you will be free and clear to share your good fortune with the people you enjoy being with the most. love is in the stars. 


Birthday Baby: you are sensitive and strong. you are passionate, caring and helpful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 68, clemson 64 (2oT) 

Perseverance in Purcell 
Notre Dame squeaks by Clemson in double overtime depsite Jackson’s absence 
time. each side came alive in the 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

associate sports editor  final minute, but a mcdaniels  
3-point attempt at the buzzer  
it took a pair of overtimes,  rimmed out.  
but notre dame secured the  after taking a 32-27 lead into  
win over clemson it seemed to  halftime, notre dame controlled  
have wrapped up 10 minutes  most of the second-half action,  
earlier. behind a double-double  never trailing and building a lead  
from sophomore forward Zach  of as many as nine points.  
auguste, the irish (13-12, 4-8  “There was a few times where  
acc) secured the 68-64 victory  i looked at the scoreboard and  
for their second win in the last  i was like, ‘we got this,’” atkins  
seven outings.  said. “and then they come down  
“it felt like everybody was  and, you know, they made the  
throwing blows the whole game,”  plays. a couple turnovers here  
irish senior guard eric atkins  and there and they tied it back  
said. “you know, we pulled it off.”  up again, even took the lead a  
atkins led the irish with 16  couple times.”  
points in the victory, while  clemson stayed in striking  
auguste contributed 14 points  range for much of the game,  
and 12 rebounds.  and cut the deficit to one sever- 
with clemson leading by one  al times in the second half. The  
with 1:02 remaining, irish fresh- Tigers finally tied it up with 4.6  
man guard steve vasturia hit his  seconds remaining in regula­ 
second 3-pointer of the period to  tion, when junior guard rod hall  
give notre dame a tenuous two- hit the second of two free-throw  
point lead. Two free throws by  attempts after drawing a foul  
irish junior guard/forward pat  driving to the basket. atkins at­ 
connaughton 44 seconds later  tempted a running 3-pointer at  
helped seal the deal for the home  the buzzer, but could not find the  
team.  distance, so the teams prepared  
Tigers junior guard K.J.  for overtime.  
mcdaniels put forth a stellar ef­ notre dame relied on a short  
fort in the loss, finishing with 30  bench against clemson, with  
points and 14 rebounds.  only eight scholarship play­ 
“They’re very good,” irish  ers available in uniform. irish  
coach mike brey said of clemson  freshman forward v.J. beacham  
(15-8, 6-5 acc). “we saw one of  made his first career start, fin- 
the best players in the league in  ishing with four points and three  
K.J. mcdaniels. again, i’m really  rebounds. vasturia came off  
proud that we were able to get a  the bench and finished with 11  
league win.”  points and four boards.  
both offenses were silent for  
most of the first overtime, as a  Brey discusses Jackson’s  
free throw by vasturia 15 sec- absence  
onds into the period was the only  brey said at the post-game  
point for the first 3:44 of extra  press conference irish freshman  

guard demetrius Jackson did not attend the game due to academic obligations. 
“with d, it’s real simple,” brey said. “Just academic habits. he had such a great fall semester and summer, and is just behind. Just improved academic habits. i put on my high school coach 


Close win over Clemson could set new tone for Irish 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
There will be no fifth-straight ncaa tournament appearance this season for notre dame. There will be no eighth-straight season of 20-plus wins, barring a deep run in the niT [national invitational Tournament] – or cbi [college basketball invitational]. and there will be no more demetrius Jackson until, according to irish coach mike brey, the freshman guard “gets his academic house in order.” 
very little has gone right on or off the court for the irish this season. before Jackson’s absence, standout guard Jerian grant was dismissed from the university for one semester for academic reasons while sophomore forward cam biedscheid chose to transfer to missouri. in the meantime, the irish have stumbled to a 13-12 record and a mediocre 4-8 confer­ence start in their first season in the acc. 
and that — the turmoil, the frustration, the “close, but not quite” nature of this season — is why Tuesday’s 68-64 double over­time win over clemson means so much in the larger picture of get­ting notre dame’s program back on track. 
To truly compete against a team like clemson, a good team with one of the acc’s top players in junior forward K.J. mcdaniels, but not a “name” program, is impres­sive. The Tigers, on paper, are a team that’s arguably the most 
see gans PAGE 13 
and teacher hat … it’s how i’ve handled many guys when i was a high-school coach and teacher, and certainly here. a lot of times it’s been in the offseason so you guys haven’t known about it. but you get to come back to 
see basKeTball PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame begins season against Cincinnati 
as they enter their first year as exhibition showcased the irish’s we’re really excited to see that all “They know the season truly be-
By CASEY KARNES 

sports writer a member of the acc. The irish assertive offensive identity, while come together on wednesday.” gins and everything counts on put on a show on offense in their also exposing areas in need of according to halfpenny, al-wednesday at five o’clock. so, 
no. 11 notre dame officially lone exhibition game, beating improvement. though the exhibition provided definitely a fresh, different kind of begins the 2014 regular season michigan 19-7. a trio of mid-“we were really excited about valuable preparation for the sea-enthusiasm in the air.” today, when former big east rival fielders, junior caitlan gargan, how we executed our game son, wednesday’s season opener Facing high expectations in the cincinnati arrives at the loftus sophomore stephanie Toy and plan, which is … a fast, passion-will be a step up in emotion and young new season will be notre center for a 5 p.m. matchup. freshman courtney Fortunato, ate and aggressive style of play,” intensity. dame’s top returning scorers, se­
after putting up a 12-5 record led the irish in scoring with three halfpenny said. “i really want to “There’s definitely a different nior attack lauren sullivan and and falling to stanford 8-7 in the goals apiece. build off the speed of the game, feel for the girls going into the lock-gargan, who had 26 and 19 goals ncaa tournament last season, after the victory, irish coach which is our brand … and clean er room … to see their shiny, home the irish are looking to improve christine halfpenny said the up some of our hustle categories. white uniforms,” halfpenny said. see lacrosse PAGE 14 

Men’s Basketball vs. Clemson  W 68-64 (2OT)  ND Women’s Basketball at Boston College Thur., 7 p.m.  ND Women’s Golf at Florida State  Fri.-Sat.  
Men’s Tennis at Northwestern  W 4-1  Hockey at Providence  Fri., 7 p.m.  ND Women’s Lacrosse at Boston College  Sat., 1 p.m.  
Women’s Lacrosse vs. Cincinnati SMC Basketball at Hope  5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.  SMC Tennis vs. Ohio Northern Track and Field at Spire Invitational Men’s Tennis at ITA Indoor Championshps  Fri., 6:30 p.m. Fri.-Sat., Fri.-Sat.  Baseball at Florida Atlantic ND Softball at Louisville ND Softball at Missouri  Sat., 1 p.m. Sat., 6 p.m. Sat., 9:30 a.m. Sat., 1 p.m.  






