The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 21 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame CIO earns award 
Lifetime Achievement Award to be presented to CIO Scott Malpass in Decemeber 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
notre dame vice president and chief investment officer (cio) scott malpass was re­cently selected to receive the lifetime achievement award from cio magazine. 
malpass will receive the award at the magazine’s industry innovation awards 
on  dec. 8 at the  new  york  
public library in  new  york  
city.  

malpass, who was notified of his selection for the award earlier this month, said the award reflects positively on the work of his staff and the university as a whole. 
“i’m thrilled for notre dame and what [the lifetime achievement award] means for the university,” malpass said. “This is a kind of rec­ognition you don’t get with­out a team and support.” 
malpass is “an investor [who] grew alongside [notre dame’s] endowment, both becoming among the most respected in the institution­al universe,” according to a 
see award PAGE 5 



5K run raises funds, promotes cancer education 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
students discussed legal and illegal immigration at saint mary’s college on Friday as part of the discussion-based Justice Friday’s series. notre dame senior Juan rangel and saint mary's senior dara marquez led the conversation, asking students and faculty to consider their familiarity with the subject of immigration. 
rangel, head of the notre dame immigration advocacy club, said he immigrated to the united states at a very young age but upon coming to notre dame, he realized  im­migration was not widely dis­cussed amongst students. 
marquez said the discussion began with an assessment of legal and illegal immigration in the united states. The audi­ence shared their knowledge of illegal immigration based on their familiarity with me­dia stories and personal expe­riences similar to rangel’s. 
The issue of the influx of mi­grant children from central america came up quickly, marquez said. 
“That was a big thing, [and] it still is regarding migrant children," she said. "i know right now there a lot of loose ends with that [in] different areas." 
many migrants risk their lives traveling to the border based on information passed on by word of mouth that border patrol will allow them access if they are considered refugees, marquez said. 
“if you were to get caught crossing the border, if you were a woman or child, then they would let you go," she said. "different migrants were say­ing that was happening, [and] that could be a loophole.” 
instead of running away from border patrol agents, rangel said migrants were willingly approaching the au­thorities, hoping they would be taken in and provided with care. 
“They first go into similar detention centers," she said. "They are turning military bases into housing facilities for children until they are able to return them to family mem­bers or the courts." 
rangel said the 
see JusTice PAGE 4 


Sexual assault reported on campus 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame security police (ndsp) emailed stu­dents Friday evening alert­ing them to a report of sexual assault that occurred early in the morning of sept. 13. 
The reported assault took place in a women’s residence hall in the northeast area of campus, and the report was made to a university admin­istrator, the email stated. 
The email quoted “du lac: a guide to student life,” notre dame’s official policy book, and warned students of the risks of sexual assault as well as the standards of consent. 
“sexual assault can hap­pen to anyone,” the email stated. “anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given. 
students should maintain caution and awareness of their surroundings to avoid risks, the email stated. 
“on college campuses, perpetrators are more like­ly to assault an acquain­tance than a stranger. being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual as­sault. nothing a survivor does or does not do is an ex­cuse for sexual assault.” 
student government will hold a prayer service monday at the grotto at 5:15 p.m. in response to the crime alert, student body vice president matthew devine said. 

By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
notre dame students and south bend residents met at legends on saturday morn­ing for the university's annual domer run. The race, held entirely on cam­pus, began in 1983 and has raised more than $65,000 for cancer education and awareness programs. 
Freshman michael hernick said he ran because he is a frequent runner and enjoys road races. 
also had reasons to par­ticipate, freshman richard williams said. 
“i've never been a huge runner, but i thought it would be nice to help out for a good cause,” he said. “also, the under armor shirts were pretty enticing.” 
Freshman kaleigh o’boyle, a volunteer at the race, said she heard about the domer run from the captains of the sailing club. 
“i decided to volunteer when i looked into domer 

Those who run less often see run PAGE 5 

saint mary’s students discuss immigration 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your life motto? 

Harvey Smith 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“if it was easy, anybody could do it.” 
Drew Garden 
junior 
Fisher hall 
“don’t be scared.” 
Kyle Gifaldi 
freshman 
Fisher hall 
“live life to its fullest.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Kaya Moore 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“expect the worst, hope for the best and take what comes.” 
Brendan Laughlin 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“some days, it’s a good day to die; some days, it’s a good day to have breakfast.” 
Adam Wood 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“hakuna matata.” 
MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

The hockey team, the women’s basketball team, a team of professors and a team of rectors participated in Welsh Family Hall’s Kiss A Pig event Saturday. Each team raised money for a charity of its choosing. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen Zack klonsinski katie mccarty greg hadley 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake daniel barabas 
Photo Viewpoint 

Sexual Assault Faculty and Staff ND Alert Test Mindful Meditation Women’s Tennis 
emily mcconville biana almada 
Prayer Service Mass Campus-wide Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion The Grotto Log Chapel 1:45 p.m. Center All day 
5:15p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Test of emergency 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Free and open to the 
Corrections 

Prayer service for the RSVP only. alert system. Open to all students. public. The observer regards itself as recent sexual assault. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ISSLP Info Session Four:7 Catholic Are You Getting the “Beneath the Labor Cafe 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Fellowship Signal? Harvest Sky” Geddes Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall McKenna Hall Debartolo Performing 4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Learn about international 8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. Arts Center Forum on work and 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
summer service. Praise and worship. Improv show about 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. labor issues. 
we can correct our error. 

gender issues. Free film. 


Lecturers discuss religious culture in U.S. 
By JEREMY CAPPELLOLEE 
news writer 
professor emeritus of his­tory george marsden gave a lecture titled “beyond liberalism and culture wars: a more inclusive pluralism,” followed by pan­el responses by two notre dame professors on Friday. 
speaking in the first in­stallment of the professors for lunch talks sponsored by the potenziani minor in constitutional studies, marsden described the de­velopment of american re­ligious culture over the last several decades. 
beginning in the 1950s, there was a gradual move­ment away from mainstream american protestantism, marsden said. 
“religion was important in american culture, but until [the 1950s], the reli­gion that was accepted was protestantism,” he said. “so there was religion in the public life, but it also privi­leged one tradition at the ex­pense of others.” 
Further diminish­ing protestantism’s role in mainstream culture, marsden said, was the rise of the counter-culture move­ment in the 1960s. 
“The counter-culture movement challenged the predominantly white anglo-saxon protestant establishment,” he said. "many of the mainstream protestant denominations took that to heart, and there was a rapid moving away from any distinctly sectar­ian dimensions.” 

during the 1970s, both the idea that religion was a pri­vate matter and the assump­tion that secularized values would replace traditional ones gained acceptance 
in  mainstream  culture,  
marsden said.  
in  subsequent  decades,  

marsden said a growing re­ligious right has proposed to reverse the absence of re­ligion in public culture but has fallen short. 
“ultimately, the propos­als tend to be simplistic ... and center around restor­ing Judeo-christian consen­
“These sorts of proposals to go back to conservative 
then lead to the standoffs of protestantism." marsden said no major religious group in america presents a compelling the­ory on religious pluralism, 
but tolerance of religious di­
“Religion was important in American 
versity nonetheless needs to 
culture, but until [the 1950’s], the religion 
be cultivated. 

that was accepted was Protestantism.” in proposing a solution 

George Marsden professor emeritus of history 

sus,” he said. “so, in effect, what the right is doing is proposing something like the golden former protestant establishment. 
paid adverTisemenT 

icon of democracy, freedom and the american way." 
noll said subverted sub­sidiarity, the third factor barring the promotion of re­ligious pluralism, stemmed from the success of the civil rights movements applied too extensively in address­ing local issues. 
“The civil rights move­ment became the unthink­ing modern paradigm and exemplar of all forms of pub­lic ethics," he said. "This is rhetoric out of control be­cause it looks to the expan­sion of central government power as the remedy for lo­cal ills and disagreements." 
philosophy professor John o’callaghan spoke last on the panel. 
although some scholars believe religious pluralism is a post-modern develop­ment, the pluralism that both kuyper and marsden advocate for is actually a “pre-modern” belief found­ed on augustinian princi­ples, o'callaghan said. 
“augustine distinguishes two different senses of be­lief," he said. "There’s the belief that such and such is the case. we might call this belief in a fact. but the other belief that is arguably more important for augustine is the sense in which we say ‘i believe you.' That’s believing a person. and, for augustine, it is that sort of believing a person that makes believing a fact the starting point of understanding." 
o’callaghan said a kuyperian religious plural­ism, based on augustine’s philosophical tenets, seeks to learn more from others based on the assumption that one does not know. 
“That is the origin for augustine," he said. "The thought that it is standing in relation to others who know what we do not know that we come to know and under­stand what we do not other­wise know and understand." 
Contact Jeremy CapelloLee at jcappell@nd.edu 

the culture wars. The secu­larists want privatization. ... From the right, there are more and more strident de­mands that society needs to religious intolerance, marsden cited abraham kuyper, a 19th-century dutch statesmen, who pro­posed “to look to a tradi­tion that makes religious pluralism into a principle ... the tradition which is today principled pluralism." 
"he argued that healthy societies ought to cultivate religious difference,” he said. 
The government, marsden said, should recognize the rights of religious communi­ties “to maintain their own institutions, associations of charitable works and schools free from ideologi­cally-based regulation." 
“if american life is health­ier by honoring the diversity that we have ... there should be an equal honoring of reli­gious diversity,” he said. 
history professor mark noll said in response there were three factors in american society that prevented the implemen­tation of a kuyperian reli­gious pluralism: electoral exclusion, educational ex­clusion and subverted sub­sidiarity — a move away from decentralization. 
“america’s two-party po­litical tradition ... makes it very difficult to produce the kind of pluralism that would diffuse the culture wars ... that we have experienced over the last 30 years,” noll said. 
he said public school edu­cation contributes to making religious pluralism unten­able in american society. 
“The american public school system has always been hegemonic, discrimi­natory, homogenizing," noll said. "on the other side, it’s also the most celebrated 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Wendy’s CEO lectures on brand relevance 
By CAITLIN SISK 
news writer 
The wendy’s company president and chief executive officer (ceo) emil brolick spoke Friday in the first installment of the annu­al “boardroom insights” lec­ture series sponsored by the mendoza college of business. 
with nearly three decades of experience, brolick has done work that includes mar­keting, brand leadership and product development in com­panies such as yum, a&w, long John silver’s, Taco bell and The wendy’s company. his lecture Friday explored the idea of “brand relevance” and ways in which the ac­tions of brand leaders affect a brand’s ability to obtain and maintain relevance in a changing world. 
consumers are exposed to thousands of brands, brolick said. There often is a stark di­chotomy between well-posi­tioned and poorly positioned brands. in order for a brand to qualify as well positioned, brolick said it must have par­ticular characteristics. 

"First of all, it ought to be unique," he said. "secondly, it ought to be defensible from the competition, and thirdly, it ought to be profitable." 
brolick said brand leaders should act conscientiously in positioning their brand by considering the effects of everything they do and by striving to create and uphold a good brand name. 
“one of the things you are going to want to think about as an individual is, is your brand something that is be­ing actively positioned and thought about in a very con­structive and authentic kind of way, or are you kind of be­ing positioned by default?” brolick said. 
To illustrate the difference between well-positioned brands and brands posi­tioned by default, brolick dis­cussed the personal brands of warren buffett, barack obama, lou holtz, steve Jobs and brian kelly. while warren buffett conscien­tiously formed his personal brand, brolick said steve Jobs likely was positioned by de­fault, as evidenced by his re­puted aggressive personality. 
once a company or indi­vidual commits to a focus on brand relevance, brolick said they must keep themselves open to change and adapta­tion and avoid the “tyranny of incrementalism.” brand leaders must be willing to set new and different goals for themselves, brolick said. 
“change is inevitable,” he said. “There is no doubt. and today, it is going faster and faster, but you have to somehow figure out how to change, how to evolve, how to grow, but still be ground­ed and be the same person. brands have to do this all the time.” 
although blockbuster failed to adapt to the changes that occurred when netflix started up, brolick said the disney brand has changed tremendously since the creation of disneyland. abc news, marvel comics, Touchstone pictures, disney cruiselines and pixar are evidence of the growth of disney as a brand, he said. 
“did [the disney] brand change, or did the leader­ship in the people behind this brand change?" he said. "... This is a key thing: people are the difference in organizations." 
brolick said he credits the people within organization as the ultimate source of dif­ferentiation between brands. The “journey of growth” for brands and individuals de­pends on the personal expe­riences, personal education and personal observations of brand leaders, brolick said. The power or weakness of a brand depends on individu­als’ abilities to take advan­tage of these three steps in their journey. 
“have as many fabulous ex­periences as you can in your life and your career,” he said. “all the time when someone says ‘emil, we’re thinking about this for you,’ i say ‘i am in.’ it is a new experience; i can get excited about this; i want to do this; i want to demonstrate that i can make a difference. i am in.” 
brolick closed the lecture with a michelangelo quote: “The greater danger for most of us lies not in setting our aim too high and falling short, but in setting our aim too low and achieving our mark.” 
“we are all very fortunate to have been somehow part of a university like this,” he said. “and i truly believe that god expects the most from those that he has given the most, and he has given all of us an awful lot.” 
Contact Caitlin Sisk at csisk1@nd.edu 

ECDC seeks volunteers for ND, SMC campuses 
they just want to be here,” experience they’ve had, some-“[a volunteer] came to do hopes, i gain a lot in getting to 
By LAUREN ZYBER 

news writer she said. “some of them do it times they may assist more in some required hours, and he see development patterns in 
for their resume because they a learning activity or a small came back every year until he young children, which will be 
The notre dame and saint want to build it for [graduate] group activity.” graduated, and he still occa-important for me to know and mary's early childhood school. some of them are try-in addition to building a re-sionally sends me an email,” understand.” development centers (ecdc) ing to figure out if they want sume, alford said volunteer-she said. “so i do think we although nester’s volunteer are currently looking for col-to go into pediatrics, maybe as ing for ecdc offers students have a huge impact on stu-work at ecdc-smc is required lege student volunteers to a doctor or a nurse ... or [they] additional experiences. dents, and sometimes they for her communicative sci-work at the nonprofit pre-just come and have fun.” “it also gives you an oppor-may change their major or ences and disorders major, school programs. The number of service hours tunity to interact with other think ‘maybe i do really like she said she plans to contin­
program director at ecdc-per student may vary depend-adults who can provide you kids and maybe this is some-ue to volunteer at ecdc after smc kari alford said any stu-ing on their requirements for with a work reference about thing that’s important.’ and she has fulfilled her required dent at saint mary’s, notre class or their schedule, but your dependability and your we’ve hired some saint mary’s hours. dame or holy cross can alford said most students vol-interaction with children,” she [alumnae] as teachers here, “i definitely plan on continu­volunteer at either site, and unteer between an hour and said. “and for some students, too. so i definitely think we ing to volunteer at the ecdc,” alford said no past experience half to two hours per week. they just like being here be-make an impact on students.” she said. “i am so thankful is required. Their responsibilities also cause it’s different from going sophomore kathleen nester that such a great resource is 
while some majors at saint vary depending on what is to class, and it’s a time where said she loved volunteering at located right on campus.” mary’s, such as psychology, needed. they can relax and have fun ecdc-smc after only working students interested in vol-communicative sciences and “most of the time they can and kind of forget that they there one week. unteering for either ecdc-nd disorders and education, re-read stories,” she said. “They have the midterm coming up “my experience has been or ecdc-smc should contact quire additional hours of ob-can pretend to make food in or whatever other pressures.” great,” she said. “The kids are the centers at nzavadaecdc@ servation, any student from the kitchen area. i saw some-alford said many volun-absolutely adorable and so fun yahoo.com for notre dame or any major can volunteer, one today getting dressed up teers enjoy working at ecdc to be with. as a volunteer, i get kalford@saintmarys.edu for alford said. by a child, wearing a hat and so much that continue to vol-to spend time with the kids as saint mary's. 
“a lot of times [volunteers] putting a scarf around their unteer there for many years, they play and do various ac-will say they have siblings at neck. depending on their even after their requirement is tivities in the morning. Contact Lauren Zyber at home, and they love kids and comfort level and how much fulfilled. "with my future career lzyber01@saintmarys.edu 
Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
Trafficking victims protection reauthorization act (Tvpra), a policy meant to clarify refugee status, was reauthorized in 2008. The bill enacted new human traf­ficking crimes, enhanced victim service provisions and strength­ened the role of the Trafficking in persons office within the state department. 
in order to be considered under refugee status, rangel said mi­grants must present a legitimate reason for fleeing. 
“it was more of the conserva­tive side [who] were proposing the change to adjust the issue and address the courts crisis that is occurring in the country right now,” he said. “a lot of these children did have refugee status when they were heard out. Five, 6 and 7-year-old children [are] asked to defend themselves. at this point, court cases are three years in advance." 

The criteria for refugee status is considered hazy in terms of qualifications, rangel said. 
“Technically, it would have to be discrimination based on criteria," he said. "They found that the lawyers who were rep­resenting some of these kids were able to make connections to discrimination. only 10 percent without lawyers were able to do that." 
marquez said deportation is another topic at large in the united states when it comes to immigration policy. 
“aside from refugee children, there’s also the perspective of deportation, and there’s also the perspective of students,” she said. “They can’t receive financial aid. They couldn’t work legally in the country. They can’t get a driv­er’s license. Just recently, an ex­ecutive order by the president said any undocumented stu­dent who fulfilled this criteria met the legal status." 
with the executive order is­sued by president obama, marquez said students must meet a certain level of education with no criminal background. 
“Then they [are] able to ob­tain a temporary social secu­rity number," she said. "you are able to renew it every two years as long as that policy’s active. There are some students who have already graduated college [and] can’t use their degree un­til deferred action." 
despite these temporary se­curities, marquez said she is still considered undocumented in the eyes of the law. 
“my personal story is that i ac­tually crossed through the port of entry when i was three years old," she said. "u.s. citizens would sell the birth certificates of their children as ours." 
marquez said she encour­aged the students to listen to the stories of other migrants in the future in order to not only consider the point of social jus­tice, but also to learn from ad­ditional experiences. 
“There’s all these different perspectives on illegal immi­gration," she said. "it’s just dif­ficult for humans to have that piece of metal being the only thing that separates you. it kind of disrespects your own human dignity." 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



Run 
conTinued From page 1 
run and saw that it's an awesome cause that's worth waking up a little earlier than usual for,” she said. 
o’boyle said she direct­ed runners along the race’s three courses. 
“There were a good amount of volunteers, enough at least to cover each checkpoint,” she said. 

volunteers at the race also helped with crowd control, counting runners, working the finish line and gathering division results, according to the recsports website. 
Three-mile and six-mile running courses, as well as a two-mile walking route, were available to partici­pants. The recsports web­site encouraged families to register and walk the two-mile route together. all three courses took participants through campus, past well-known landmarks such as saint Joseph’s lake and the golden dome. 
Freshman lizett pink said the domer run reminded her of the beauty of campus and her love for notre dame. 
“i really liked the fact that the domer run was on cam­pus, especially after the first turn when we were running up notre dame avenue and could see the dome,” she said. “it was a really pretty sight and just made me ap­preciate where i am even more. overall i thought the domer run was a really fun and exciting experience.” 
williams said the overall experience of the run was a lot of fun. 
“nothing feels better than helping a cause and bet­tering yourself at the same time,” she said. 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 
Award 
conTinued From page 1 
cio magazine press release. 
a 1984 graduate of notre dame, malpass was named cio of the university in 1989, at the age of 26. he oversees an about next week or next quarter or next year. we’re looking for the best-of-breed, the top investment talent to manage money for us.” 

in an interview last year with institutional investor mission but also a focus on building quality relation­ships with outside investors. 
“[The notre dame model] relates to something i’ve talked about, acting from a shared sense of mission and purpose and nurtur­investors. malpass, who spent part of the last aca­demic year in london, said he will return to england later this fall and currently has staff members working in china. 
“The team is always meet-operational things, but we want to maintain a disci­plined process for how we go about sourcing and meeting and building relationships,” malpass said. “… There’s a tendency to be short-term oriented, but we try to resist 
those short-term pressures 

magazine, malpass said he and his staff had developed “the notre dame model,” a strategy distinct from those at harvard and yale, which hold the first- and second-largest endowments, re­spectively, among american universities. 
malpass said this model involves not only a shared 
ing a high-caliber, commit-ing with partners overseas 
endowment that has grown 
from $453 million when he 
started to approximately 
$8.3 billion at the end of the 
2013 fiscal year, making it 
the 12th-largest endowment 
in american education and the highest at an american catholic university. 
malpass said the common­alities shared by his staff, which is largely made up of notre dame graduates, help drive the investment office’s actions. 
“we have a real sense of purpose and a catholic mis­sion,” he said. “we’re a long­term investor, not worried 

ted team,” malpass said. “it and continues to deepen net-and try to act like a long-
also involves identifying works throughout the world,” term fundamental investor 
and building relationships he said. “we will continue to through cycles and disloca­
with the best investors in the go out and meet partners and tions and other things.” 
world. deepen relationships inter­malpass said he expects 
“while working together, nationally with more long-to have a “small representa­
we want to help them be suc­cessful and help us be suc­cessful. it’s better to have a good relationship and not be antagonistic to each other. we want investors to extend themselves, talk to our stu­dents, offer internships — do things deeper and different than what others do.” 
part of malpass’s recent investment strategy involves outreach to international term assignments overseas.” 
malpass is active on notre dame’s campus, as he also serves as an assistant profes­sor of finance in the mendoza college of business. in keep­ing with his investing phi­losophy, malpass said he and his team are more focused on the bigger picture than on a particular goal for this semester. 
“we’ll focus on nitpicky tive group,” including some of his senior staff members, on hand for the award dinner later this year. 
“i do want to emphasize my team because i can’t do this without them,” he said. “most of them have a lot of longevity too, and they’re great notre dame people.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 

sierra leone concludes nationwide ebola lockdown 
Associated Press 
FreeTown, sierra leone 
— Frustrated residents com­plained of food shortages in some neighborhoods of sierra leone's capital on sunday as the country reached the third and final day of a sweeping, unprecedented lockdown de­signed to combat the deadly ebola disease, volunteers said. 
while most residents wel­comed teams of health care workers and volunteers bear­ing information about the disease, rumors persisted in pockets of the city that poi­soned soap was being distrib­uted, suggesting that public education campaigns had not been entirely successful. 
The streets of the capital, Freetown, were again mostly deserted on sunday in com­pliance with a government order for the country's 6 mil­lion residents to stay in their homes. 
spread by contact with bodily fluids, ebola has killed more than 560 people in sierra leone and more than 2,600 across west africa in the biggest outbreak ever recorded, according to the world health organization. The disease, which has also touched guinea, liberia, nigeria and senegal, is be­lieved to have sickened more than 5,500 people. 
sierra leone's government was hoping the lockdown — the most aggressive contain­ment effort yet attempted 

— would turn the tide against the disease. There were ru­mors in Freetown on sunday that officials would opt to extend the lockdown, but a health ministry statement is­sued sunday night confirmed it had ended. 
The statement said that 75 percent of the targeted 1.5 million households had been contacted by outreach teams, and that outreach would con­tinue in "hot spots" around the country. 
health care workers had taken advantage of the lock-down to bury 71 dead bodies by sunday morning, health ministry official dr. sarian kamara said on a radio pro­gram. The bodies of dead ebola victims are highly con­tagious, making safe buri­als essential to stopping the spread of the disease. 
sundays are usually quiet for residents in sierra leone, who go to church or stay at home with many businesses and restaurants closed. 
in the city center, despite police efforts to encourage people to stay inside their homes, most families sat on their verandas chatting as radios blared through the streets. people were urged to stay tuned to their radios and televisions for public infor­mation on the lockdown. 
The national power authority also provided uninterrupted electric­ity during the lockdown, so people didn't have to rely on generators. 
in bonga Town, a shanty­town community near the na­tional stadium in Freetown, some residents were upset that handouts of rice were distributed only to certain families, said samuel Turay, a 21-year-old volunteer. 
The community often serves as a way station for ru­ral sierra leoneans trying to relocate to the capital, and many homes are makeshift and dilapidated, with heavy rocks holding down zinc roofs so they don't blow away with the wind. 
"They expected, when they saw us, that we were coming with food, but unfortunately we are just coming to talk to them. so they were not so happy about it," Turay said. 
The city's poorer residents generally use the money they earn each day to buy food, making planning for a three-day lockdown impos­sible, said miatta rogers, a mother living in the west of Freetown. 
"Things are not going smooth right now. everyone is not happy," she said. "when the government makes a rul­ing like this, then we all just have to abide by it, but it is not very easy." 
The world Food program provided food packages in­cluding rice, beans and a form of porridge throughout the lockdown, though its staffers were not going door to door and were instead focused on serving houses placed under quarantine by medi­cal teams, spokesman alexis masciarelli said sunday. 
The agency distributed two weeks' worth of rations to 20,000 households in slum communities just prior to the lockdown, he said. 
some residents of bonga Town and other similar com­munities said the provisions they received were insuffi­cient, Turay said. 
another volunteer, kabarie Fofanah, said some families were refusing food outright out of fear it was poisoned. both Turay and Fofanah said they encountered Freetown residents who feared the soap being distributed by outreach teams was poisoned and po­tentially lethal. 
"There was this lady shout­ing saying we want to kill her, she is not interested in the soap," Fofanah said. "we tried our level best to talk to her but she refused to take the soap. she is afraid." 
other reports said some families were removing stick­ers indicating their homes had been visited, in hopes of receiving more soap. 
"some are tired of the lockdown, but most are hap­py because they are afraid of the virus and they want to be protected and have this country be declared as ebola­free," Fofanah said. 
officials say residents have overwhelmingly complied by staying in their homes. only one incident of violence has been reported, when health workers trying to bury five bodies in a district 20 kilo­meters east of Freetown were attacked on saturday. 
after police reinforcements arrived, the health workers were eventually able to com­plete the burial. 
The two other countries hit hardest by the outbreak are liberia, which has recorded the highest number of cas­es and deaths, and guinea, where the first cases were confirmed in march. 
on saturday, guinean of­ficials said five doctors con­tracted the disease while performing a caesarean sec­tion on an infected woman in the capital, conakry. 
dr. sakoba keita, national coordinator for ebola, said the incident was due to the doctors' "carelessness" but also underscored how vul­nerable health workers are to ebola. 
in liberia on sunday, offi­cials opened a new 150-bed treatment center, the coun­try’s largest, in the bushrod island section of monrovia. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

gen. chem. confessions 
Katie McCarty 
news writer 

This semester has been markedly different than my past four for one important reason. because of graduate school requirements, i am being forced to take general chemistry with roughly 1,000 freshmen. 
if you know me, then you probably already know this fact because i talk about it a lot (i publicly apologize to my roommates). let me explain. as a psychology major who last took chemistry during my sophomore year of high school, this class already has challenged me immensely. but, upon further reflection, i have realized there are indeed some silver linings to taking the class, and they may offer some insights about life. 
i have realized, or rather have been re­minded, how truly awful i am at all things math and science. i was (foolishly) expecting the first class to review things like “what is an atom.” instead, we learned about quantum mechanics, which i still do not comprehend in the slightest. after leaving the first lecture absolutely mind-boggled, i was forced to ask myself what to do about my predicament. 
on one hand, pride made me sorely tempt­ed to stick my feet in the mud and try to figure out chemistry all by myself. like the average notre dame student, i occasionally can get frustrated when i don’t understand something perfectly. but i knew there was no way i magi­cally was going to figure out chemistry on my own, so i did what was necessary. i marched over to the learning resource center and signed myself up for tutoring. i emailed my 
T.a. and met with her to ask about homework problems. i went to office hours. i harassed my chemical engineer roommate (Thanks, amy). in short, i asked for help, and a huge amount of it. 
it was not fun. it’s never fun to admit to someone that you have absolutely no clue how to do something because it can make you feel vulnerable and embarrassed. as notre dame students, we love to have it all together all the time. This sometimes can lead to us put forth a veneer of perfection, even if, in reality, we are struggling. but the few short weeks i have been in chemistry have been enough to make me realize that being vulnerable to others is freeing. The sheer amount of help and kind­ness i have received from friends, tutors and T.a.’s during the past month has been awe­some to see. it speaks volumes to me about the integrity and kindness that people at notre dame possess. 
so, the moral of my story is that realizing your deficiencies and asking others for help is a freeing experience. it allows you to admit that you are not perfect all the time (in my case with chemistry, i never have it perfect). it also is a wonderful reminder of how much people at notre dame love to give of them­selves to others. so, next time you feel like be­ing knocked down a few pegs, sign up for gen. chem. your junior year. i guarantee you will learn some life lessons along the way. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Of freedom and Scotch 

Christopher Newton 
stepping out of The cave 
when the world’s scotch supplies were put in doubt, you knew it was serious. The recent scottish referendum spurred passionate debates over the nature of democracy and what it means to be scottish. arguments raged over what currency an independent scotland would use, if it would be permitted to join the eu and naTo, how much revenue could be expected from north sea oil and whether or not scotland would pay its share of the united kingdom’s national debt. The economist, much like many british politicians, sounded personally offended that the scots would end a 307-year-old union. The debate at times took on the tone of a spousal separation. 
yet in the week before the vote took place, scotch distilleries across scotland voiced concerns regarding the impact of inde­pendence on their craft. coming alongside the threats of the two largest corporations in scotland to relocate to england and a dip in the value of the british pound, the consequences of a “yes” vote began to seem all too real. british prime minister david cameron, himself a scot, promised the devolution of ad­ditional powers to scotland, making even a “no” vote a victory for scotland. These factors combined to chip away at the pro-independence campaign’s recent gains. 
when the scottish national party (snp) gained a majority in the scottish parliament in 2011, few believed referendum would be the outcome. independence would bring incredible uncertainty and possible economic disaster. it was thought that disaffection with the government in london, typically more conservative than the majority of scots, never would translate to an actual secession movement. 
yet last Thursday, with a record-shattering 98 percent of eli­gible voters registered and almost 85-percent voter turnout, the people of scotland were asked a simple question: “should scotland be an independent country?” responses were limited to either yes or no. although last-minute polling showed the race was too close to call, the “no” vote carried the day as expected, 55 percent to 45 percent. 
initially, i was in favor of independence. my family is half english, tracing our newton lineage back to our distant ancestor, sir isaac newton. From both sides, however, we are also stuarts. my great-grandfather passed through ellis island in 1906, origi­nating from perth, scotland. an independent scotland holds a certain sentimental value. an independent scotland also reso­nates with americans: a small country seeking independence from london-based political rule, an underdog campaign and braveheart. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
The real world is not that of the wildly inaccurate, though entertaining, blockbuster with its cries of freedom over all else. scottish independence more closely mirrored the views of the scotch industry, undeniably scottish and yet wracked by un­certainty over the future of an independent scotland. i had no choice but to side with the craftsmen. 
in practical terms, scotland had little choice as well. independence likely would have been disastrous for scotland, leaving its economy in shambles. it would have had to meet ma­jor debt obligations and demands for increased social spending with declining north sea oil revenues, a rejected eu member­ship application and monetary union with the uk without fiscal union. The snp was short on policy when it came to explaining how an independent scotland would be financed. 
For at least the immediate future, the question of indepen­dence has been settled. yet the implications of a potentially independent scotland will reverberate throughout the united kingdom and the world in the coming decades. within scotland, the populace has been revitalized, democratically and politi­cally. voter registration and turnout reached unprecedented levels. lively campaigning lasted for months, and discourse was largely respectful and open. scottish society will never be the same in ways that a politically apathetic america has difficulty comprehending. 
The british government also has promised “devo ma0x,” the devolution of the maximum range of governance to the scottish parliament. if granted, scotland will handle its own affairs in nearly every sector except foreign affairs and security. it remains to be seen what this means for wales, northern ireland and england itself. 
more broadly, a semi-autonomous region in an advanced democracy was allowed to freely and fairly put the matter of secession to a vote. over five million scots were given the right to choose their political future without resorting to violence. let anyone who has ever cared to read even a single chapter of a his­tory book reflect upon this for a moment. The absence of violence is historically exceptional. From catalan to papua to wallonia to Xinjiang, independence-minded peoples have taken notice. 
it may become increasingly difficult to hold on to restless regions, especially those with an economically viable future. in the decades to come, it may come to pass that others besides hollywood’s woad-covered scots will cry freedom. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Erin Thomassen 

if you asked me, i’d say south is the better dining hall. but wait — aren’t i trying to convince you that north is wonderful? no. i want you to like south because then i get north all to myself. insert evil laugh here. 
us kids on north Quad don’t mind when south boasts about its harry potter aura and sliced apples, for we know it’s all a ploy to trick the freshmen into trekking to south. 
see, when i first got to campus, i remember the upperclassmen gushing about south. little did i know, they just wanted me to go there so there would be a shorter line for the steamed carrots at north. 
now that i am a seasoned sopho­more, i have been let in on the se­cret: north is better. The one rule? don’t let everyone else know. 
we keep our plastic cups in short supply so that other students get annoyed and go to south. we frus­trate the newbies by making sure at least two drink machines are always out of order. we find out when the southerners are crossing the border so that the make-your­own-pizza station is cancelled that night. They never return. 
but wait — don’t the awol cups and dysfunctional machines an­noy us too? no, no, my friend. it is these very problems that make north superior in every way. 
There are not enough cups in the dining hall for a reason: a notre dame education would not be complete if students did not know how to locate and allocate scarce resources. 
how would we learn to share a limited number of goods unless we are forced to ration cups? how will we deal with a shortage of clean water if we do not know how to find its obscure sources, i.e. wa­ter machines that actually work? 
so what if you can’t find food you love? it will teach you to be creative. contentment leads to complacency. hardship leads to innovation. 
we are independent and inno­vative thinkers at north. we slice our own apples. 
above and beyond all these de­tails, north is and always has been better than south. why? The word north is in the title, and north is always above south. allow me to present my supporting evidence: 
santa clause is from the north, and angry elves are from the south. i wouldn’t wear a southface jacket or gaze at the south star. and given a choice between north and south korea … oh wait, i mixed those up. 
That’s okay, though, for i want to get you all mixed up. if you take away anything from this debate, it should be that south is better. repeat it to yourself so you won’t forget. 
Tomorrow, eat at south. you will regret it, but i won’t. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering be­cause everything is interesting. She lives in the better Pasquerilla (East of course). Email her with comments, col­umn ideas or awkward family photos at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Charlie Ducey 
when people think of the notre dame dining halls, they think big. i’m not talking “like-everything­in-Texas” big. i’m talking about big in a figuratively expansive sense of the word. i’m talking about greatness, legacy, enormity, dwarfing the competition. in the battle of which dining hall is big­ger, better and bulkier, the victor is clear: it’s south or it’s nothing. 
of course, south dining hall isn’t just superior because of its immense, hogwarts-style dining rooms or even because of its pic­turesque brick facade with pris­tine, though rustic, wrought-iron cupola spire that tops the whole thing off like beautiful red velvet cake (which south dining hall serves from time to time). no, dear reader. These are but super­ficial beauties. The true bounty lies within. 
with seven centrally located food buffets, plus four salad bars and a soup station, south has north beat. what’s more, the buf­fets periodically go michael bay on us and transform into diverse ethnic-food-generating machines, not simply switching one entrée for another, but offering a whole new world of culinary fancy. mexican to greek, american to indian, chinese to korean. Try those kinds of cultural transfor­mations, northerners. i dare you. 
The superior stations are there, but how they function is what exalts sdh. The layout eases pro­gression from one to the next and prevents lines that, at north, will keep you waiting outside the ac­tual serving room for minutes on end. we don’t have that kind of time, people. 
and, if time’s the issue, south has you covered with its far supe­rior (really no question on this) grab n’ go service, complete with manifold refrigerated meal items and nifty subterranean location. it’s like bruce wayne has invited you over for a nice sack lunch. 
Taking a step back, can we just consider for a moment the gen­eral aura of south? huge, arching wood rafters, elegant tables, an enormous foyer in which to wait for friends. commodious does not even come close. 
so too is there tradition — can­dlelight dinners of unmet ambi­ance, pictures out front on easter sunday. The place looks like a castle, a hall of fame for notre dame’s culinary legacy. north? Try bomb shelter with war rations in it. 
at this point, i could end on the tired and old platitude that both dining halls have their merits — what with north’s pasta stir fry station and make-your-own om­elets — but let’s be clear here. in the words that ricky bobby im­mortalized, “There can only be one number one. not two.” south reigns supreme. 
Charlie Ducey  is a junior studying the languages of Oscar Wilde (English) and Friedrich Hlderlin (German).  For the next academic year,  he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, U.K. He welcomes your words. He can be  contacted at  cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 

By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 
scene writer 

They say laughter is contagious, but what about a giggle? comedian ron Funches proved the same rule applies when he entertained the crowd at legends on saturday night with his jokes, impressions and notably high-pitched giggle. 
Funches, a stand-up comedian from southern california, strolled out onto the legends stage saturday night following a short performance by student standups president, pat mcmanus. despite Funchess’ laid-back manner and somewhat sleepy disposition, he had the crowd energized and doubled over in laughter. 
Funches began by poking fun at himself, satirizing the simplicity of his own job. 
“i basically just travel around and tell people what i like and don’t like,” he joked. 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

This week, we watched season one of “The legend of korra.” This season takes protagonist avatar korra from her home in the southern water Tribe and intro­duces her to the big, bustling, industrialized metropolis of republic city. here, korra struggles to finish her air elemental training amidst a metropolis full of grow­ing discontent. From taking down organized crime to competing in professional sports competitions, korra and her friends bolin, makin and asami discover all the wonders and dangers republic city has to offer. The dangers of the city reach their apex in the two-part sea­son finale. 
The first episode of the finale, “skeletons in the closet,” begins with korra and her friends in a desperate situation: the fall of republic city to amon’s equalist re­gime. exiled to an underground cavern, korra is terrified of what the future has to offer. she soon finds out as the united Forces, the last defense against amon’s revolu­tionaries, send their full naval armada to republic city. 
This setup grants us the first of several unprecedent­ed, exciting action sequences. in addition to this, “The legend of korra” uses the scene to continue building on 
The funny-man then entertained the audience with a comedic view of what he enjoyed about each season, a pretty impressive feat if you think about it. how many people do you know who can make jokes simply by list­ing their favorite seasonal attributes? 
a star of shows like nbc’s “undateable,” Funches ap­pealed to the audience by poking fun at a wide variety of subjects, ranging from rap music to cats to toasters. Through humorous comparisons with everyday objects, Funches seemed able to turn anything into a joke. 
but perhaps just as funny as his material and unique delivery was his own reaction. as Funches began to inter­act with the crowd, calling on members of the audience, he giggled uncontrollably, not only at their responses, but also at his own jokes. 
The high-pitched laugh, which Funches has compared to that of an asian schoolgirl, had the crowd roaring along with the lovable comedian, who seemed to be enjoying 
the themes surrounding the struggle between bending and technology, as amon has prepared world-war-i­styled warplanes to take down the united Forces’ ar­mada. general iroh of the united Forces suffers a great defeat. in the second part of the finale, “endgame,” iroh aggressively responds, launching a surprise attack on the warplanes and asserting the power of good over evil. This scene is also the first time we really get a chance to see his firebending in action, and it is immediately ap­parent that his style is similar to his grandfather, Zuko, from “avatar: The last airbender.” he even has the same voice actor. hopefully, the show will give us an opportu­nity in later seasons to catch up with iroh. 
This episode also affords us a chance to look closer into amon’s background, thanks to Tarlock. Through Tarlock’s eyes, we see the growth of a caring, young man into this twisted, numb shell of a man. it is revealed that amon’s father is yakone, avatar aang’s most challeng­ing enemy, in the same way that amon is korra’s most challenging foe yet. The show’s producers do an excel­lent job tying generations and stories together like this, and aang and korra’s similarities are further explored in later seasons. 
The season ends right back where it started, at the south pole. after her failure to protect her elemental abilities, korra is emotionally devastated. it would have himself on the stage. 
Throughout the hour-long performance, Funches con­tinued to make fun of and joke with a few brave members of the crowd, putting them on the spot and creating awk­ward scenarios, much to the delight of the rest of the au­dience. There were no hard feelings, however, as Funches turned the spotlight back to himself, critiquing his own blunders, quirks and unsuccessful love life. 
Funches, who has likened himself to a loveable ted­dy bear, closed his performance as casually as he had opened it, asking when he should leave the stage. before walking off the stage, he left the audience with a familiar joke asking,  “who here is going to hip-hop night?” while the laughter from the audience and comedian marked the success of the show, it is still hard to tell who was more entertained: the audience or Funches himself.s himself. 
ContactHannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 
been interesting to explore a universe in which this bro­ken avatar does not have access to the majority of her powers, but fortunately for korra, viewers do not have to worry about that, mostly because this was intended to be a mini-series. 
as korra stares off a cliff, considering suicide as a means to refresh the avatar cycle and allow for an avatar with access to all of the elements, the show gives us one of the most beautiful and satisfying scenes to date. avatar aang appears beside korra, along with all of korra’s previous incarnations, as korra has finally connected with her spiritual side. he helps her recover korra elemental powers, and then she uses this ability to restore justice to all those who suffered under amon. 
This finale parallels the end of its predecessor “avatar: The last airbender,” in which avatar aang learns how to disconnect a person’s tuning with the elements. at her most desperate and lowest point, korra triumphs and overcomes difficulties, unlike amon. 
korra is definitely going to need all of these powers for next season, which delves into the complexities of the spirit world. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE and EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

Lauren Kuta 
scene writer 

we’ve all been in that high school english class. seated in an uncomfortable desk, we watched as the teacher pulled out shakespeare to a chorus of sighs and groans. unlike my vocal classmates, i was indif­ferent to shakespeare’s works. while studying and readying in order to watch a performance that was part of the notre dame shakespeare Festival, i main­tained my apathy. after bursting with laughter at least once during every scene, however, my attitude to the almighty shakespeare has changed. 
“much ado about nothing” ran at washington hall from september 17 to 19 during the 15th season of the notre dame shakespeare Festival. performed by actors from the london stage, this rendition of the classic play reflected the brilliance of shakespeare and the humor laced throughout the rather light-hearted story. 
The plot revolves around a quaint estate nestled in the heart of sicily. The proprietor leonato (claire redcliffe) cares for the house with two eligible women who become the focus of the play: his docile daughter hero (claire redcliffe) and his quick-witted niece beatrice (georgina strawson). disrupting the quiet life, leonato’s friends, prince don pedro (al barclay), claudio (Jack whitam) and benedick (paul o’mahoney) return from war. The gullible claudio courts hero, and benedick banters with beatrice. during this time, don pedro’s illegitimate brother don John (georgina strawson), develops a plan to ruin hero, and the story unfolds with treachery, death, and, like every shakespeare comedy, marriage. 
The drama between lovers occurred upon a simply-set stage, allowing the imagination to take over as five actors played all eighteen major characters. despite the lack of actors and the fact that women played male characters and vice versa, the character portrayals were spot-on. Through precise gestures and exag­gerated expressions, benedick was able to spar heat­edly with beatrice, and the bumbling watch (claire redcliffe) were able to track down traitors with a sin­ister umbrella. as actors switched roles while still on stage, the transitions were fairly fluid and had a touch of comedy. 
The humor was tasteful as well. The actors, who also directed the scenes, trimmed the script in order to find the humor that contemporary audiences would understand. when acted out on the stage, lines that would elicit a small smile upon reading caused roaring laughter. 
From the muttering of “The imperial march” when the villain emerged to the overuse of the tune “greensleeves,” the added contemporary humor spiced the show with a sprinkle of modern references to make the play more relevant to the audience. 
despite the contemplation put into transitions, sev­eral of the character swaps between a single actor were jarring, but were not detrimental to the overall per­formance. The plot, as per shakespeare, was slightly shallow and stereotypical of comedies. with the ad­dition of modern references and the extraction of hu­mor from most lines, however, the actors successfully brought an antique play to life within the modern the­ater despite the hindrances caused by old language. 
in conclusion, the actors from the london stage’s rendition of “much ado about nothing” was spectacu­lar, and i would recommend viewing their work during subsequent shakespeare festivals. rolling in my seat with laughter, i thoroughly enjoyed the performance of “much ado about nothing,” for the acting and hu­mor brought out the best of shakespeare. 
Contact Lauren Kuta at lkuta@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY NFL | cardinals 23, 49ers 14 
Vikings need to keep Peterson 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
when we think of who the best running back in the nFl is, adrian peterson is one of the first names that comes to mind. but when we think of peterson today, unfortunately we’re haunted with the im­ages of the vikings’ running back beating his four year-old son with a branch. 
The consequences of peterson’s actions have cost him fans, sponsors and pos­sibly his career in minnesota. while his actions were wrong, he doesn’t deserve to have his career in minnesota cut short. 
First, think of how much adrian peterson has con­tributed to minnesota from the start of his tenure there. before peterson, the vikings went through several me­diocre seasons led by brad childress, Tavaris Jackson and chester Taylor. The vikings went six years with­out winning a division title and failed to finish better than 9-7. 
in 2007, peterson was drafted by the vikings with the seventh overall pick in the draft. since then, the vikings have made the playoffs three times, including an appear­ance in the nFc title game in 2009, when they nearly went on to play in the super bowl. yes, brett Favre played a big role in the vikings’ suc­cess that year, but you can’t diminish the importance of peterson’s contributions. 
over the course of his sev­en-year career, peterson has established himself as one of the better players in nFl his­tory, racking up more than 10,000 yards rushing and 91 total touchdowns. Two years ago, peterson fell just eight yards short of breaking eric dickerson’s single-season rushing record running of 2,105 yards. plain and simple, this man is a freakishly good athlete whom minnesota is blessed to have. who are the minnesota vikings without peterson? 
now, i understand none of those statistics justify peterson beating his four­year-old son, but vikings officials told several media outlets they don’t foresee peterson in their future, and that upset me. 
why? because peterson made a mistake, owned up to it, and, given his upbring­ing, you can’t blame him for resorting to corporal punish­ment when he was treated with the same discipline. peterson’s father treated him the same way, punishing him with belts and switches. peterson’s relatives said peterson was hit in public af­ter football practices whenev­er he got in trouble in school. 
Jerome Felton, another viking and friend of peterson, said he also was disciplined in this way growing up and corporal punishment made him a better person. it’s not news to hear of parents hit­ting their kids to discipline them, but peterson’s case is highlighted because he’s adrian peterson and because his son was left with pretty bad lacerations. 
did peterson excessively punish his son? yes, and that should be handled ap­propriately, but talking about the end of his career in minnesota is just absurd. 
ray rice knocked his wife out with a blow to the head. greg hardy has two counts of domestic violence charged against him in which he as­saulted and threatened his former girlfriend. Jonathan dwyer broke his wife’s nose by head-butting her. peterson’s act of domestic violence just happened to fol­low a couple of these terrible events, and that has some impact on the severity of peterson’s punishment. 

i agree with every other backlash resulting from peterson’s actions, includ­ing the loss of sponsors like castrol motor oil and nike and the vikings deactivating him from all team activities. he should be suspended and forced to seek counseling, but for him to have to lose his job is something i won’t agree with. if the vikings let peterson go, the franchise will regret it down the road. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


cardinals rally to top san Francisco, take first place 
Associate Press 

glendale, ariz. — even without their starting quarterback, the arizona cardinals are on top of the toughest division in football. 
backup drew stanton threw a pair of third-quarter touch­down passes to rookie John brown and arizona rallied to beat san Francisco 23-14 on sunday, snapping a four-game losing streak to the 49ers. 
Tommy kelly blocked a field goal for the cardinals (3-0), who outscored san Francisco 17-0 in the second half. 
The 49ers (1-2) mounted 80­yard touchdown drives the first two times they had the ball, then didn’t score again, blowing a halftime lead for the second week in a row. 
stanton, starting for injured carson palmer for the second straight week, completed 18 of 33 for 244 yards and two scores. michael Floyd caught five for 114 yards. 
The 49ers’ colin kaepernick completed 29 of 37 for 245 yards and a touchdown and ran for another 54. 
a week ago, san Francisco led 17-7 and lost at home to chicago 28-20. 
The 49ers were up 14-6 at the break this time be­fore stanton connected with brown on touchdown passes of 24 and 21 yards. 
stanton quarterbacked the cardinals to a 25-14 road win over the new york giants a week ago, his first regular-season game since 2010. he was even sharper against san Francisco. 
arizona showed no sign of being distracted after back­up running back Jonathan dwyer was arrested on a do­mestic abuse charge earlier in the week. dwyer has been placed on a non-football in­jury list and is gone for the season. 
san Francisco was penal­ized nine times for 107 yards. 
The 49ers were without tight end vernon davis (ankle injury) and his backup vance mcdonald (knee), as well as starting right tackle anthony davis (hamstring) and cor­nerback Tramaine brock (toe). 
palmer remained sidelined with a nerve problem in his throwing shoulder. 
a late-hit penalty on dan skuta, followed on the next play by a roughing-the-pass­er call against patrick willis, aided arizona’s go-ahead touchdown drive in the third quarter. 
on third-and-eight from the cardinals 17, stanton lofted a 45-yarder to Floyd for the drive’s big play. stanton found brown alone again from 21 yards out for the score. 
down 20-14, san Francisco drove to the arizona 5 but an unnecessary roughness penalty against anquan boldin for head-butting the cardinals’ Tony Jefferson pushed the 49ers back. 
Then the 6-foot-6, 310-pound kelly knocked down dawson’s field goal try and the cardinals’ ed stinson pounced on it near midfield. 
arizona looked to be driv­ing for another score before michael wilhoite knocked the ball out of larry Fitzgerald’s hands and perrish cox re­covered for san Francisco at the arizona 3 with 6:54 remaining. 
but the 49ers couldn’t move it and chandler catanzaro’s third field goal of the after­noon, from 35 yards, sealed it in the waning seconds. 
kaepernick completed his first nine passes, seven on the initial scoring drive. his two-yard Td pass to michael crabtree put the 49ers up 7-3. 
The cardinals, aided by san Francisco penalties, used 8:08 to drive to the 49ers Francisco 13, but stalled there and catanzaro’s 32-yarder cut it to 7-6. 
MLB | aThleTics 8, phillies 6 
Athletics walk off against Phillies in extra innings 
Associated Press 

oakland, calif. — Josh donaldson hit a towering, two-run, home run into the left field bleachers with one out in the 10th inning to lift the oakland athletics to an 8-6 victory over the philadelphia phillies on sunday. 
nate Frieman singled with one out against miguel gonzalez (0-1) to set up donaldson’s game-winner. 
sean doolittle (2-4) pitched two innings to earn the victo­ry, striking out four. geovany soto drove in three runs for the a’s, who have won two of three to remain atop the al wild card race. 
marlon byrd drove in three runs for the phillies, who have lost six of eight. 
a’s starter scott kazmir last­ed just 5 1-3 innings, allowing six runs on 11 hits. he walked one and struck out nine. since aug. 3, kazmir has an era of 
6.67. it was at 2.37 through July. 
phillies’ starter a.J. burnett gave up six runs on three hits in his 4 1-3 innings of work. he walked six and struck out three, tying him with charlie hough for 43rd on the all-time strikeout list with 3,360. sandy koufax is next at 2,362. 
byrd drove in the phillies first three runs, one in the first and two in the second, each with a double. Freddy galvis, carlos ruiz and ben revere also drove in runs for the phillies. 
soto recorded his first 3-rbi game since July 30 of last year, walking with the bases load­ed in the third and doubling home two runs in the fifth. Josh reddick, brandon moss and adam dunn also drove in runs for the a’s. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Destin FL Call 214-632-2868 
FOR RENT 

www.vrbo.com/71701 www. vrbo.com/582081 BEAT FSU! 
STANFORD -FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/Eddy IRISH CROSSING TWNHM Street - prime location. Email nd-For Rent 2015-16 yr from house@sbcglobal.net ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on 
Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Fall Break at The beach in Text or call John 281-635-2019 “You are a sad, strange little man, and you have my symptathy.” 
“I know what that is. Sandy Plankton saw one. He called it ... uh ... he said it was called a “butt.’” 
“South America. It’s like America, but south.” 


NFL | eagles 37, redskins 34 
Philadelphia bests Washington in heated game 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — a rookie’s breakthrough. an exiled receiv­er’s return. a brawl. 
oh yeah, and another come­back win. 
nothing normal seems to happen this season for the philadelphia eagles. 
Jordan matthews, the draft pick who replaced desean Jackson, and veteran Jeremy maclin lifted the eagles past the star receiver’s new team sunday. philadelphia again stormed from behind to win, beating the washington redskins 37-34 as mathews caught two touchdown passes and maclin had one. 
The eagles are the first nFl team to start a season 3-0 after trailing by 10-plus points in each game. 
“man, that was an emotional one,” said matthews, who scored his first nFl touchdowns. “They are close (games), so i know that coach (chip) kelly is losing some hair.” 

The nasty game was marred by a fourth-quarter brawl near the washington sideline after eagles quarterback nick Foles was blindsided by defensive line­man chris baker during an ap­parent interception return. baker and eagles left tackle Jason peters were ejected — and then the inT was overturned by video replay. That led to maclin’s 27-yard touchdown to break a 27-27 tie. 
maclin credited Foles’ tough­ness with inspiring the eagles. 
“That’s the guy you want, the guy who gets up play after play,” maclin said. 
maclin, who missed all of 2013 with a knee injury, fin­ished with eight catches for 154 yards. matthews also had eight receptions. 
Jackson wasn’t going to let philadelphia forget him. The re­ceiver, cut by kelly last winter, caught an 81-yard touchdown pass and added a rockettes­style kick to his celebration as his former fans loudly booed. he gained 117 yards on five catches. 
“honestly, it’s a new time. it’s a new era,” said Jackson, who was one of the first players to leave the field after the game. “i don’t see them worrying about me, and i don’t worry about them. i’m happy where i’m at.” 
The eagles, who rallied from 17 points down in their first two vic­tories, came back from an early 17-7 deficit to drop washington to 1-2 even though the redskins outgained philly 511-379. 
philadelphia has scored 101 points in three wild games. 
“we stick together and there’s a great camaraderie,” Foles said. “in the locker room during games like that, we lean on each other instead of blaming each other. That’s what football should be about.” 
rookie cody parkey’s third field goal, a 51-yarder with 
5:55 remaining, turned out to be the winning points when washington scored a late Td. 
philadelphia’s chris polk had a 102-yard kickoff return, the first for an eagle at lincoln Financial Field, which opened in 2003. 
washington’s kirk cousins threw for 427 yards and three touchdowns in his first start re­placing injured robert griffin 
iii. cousins came in last week to pass for two Tds when rg3 hurt his ankle. 
as they did in record-setting fashion in their first two victo­ries, the eagles fell into a hole. kai Forbath’s 49-yard field goal made it 17-7. once again, the eagles didn’t flinch. 
The redskins couldn’t handle matthews, philadelphia’s sec­ond-round pick from vanderbilt. he slipped into the back of the end zone off play-action for an 11­yard pass from Foles, who threw for 325 yards. Then matthews took a perfect toss over two de­fenders for a 10-yard Td and the halftime lead. 
Jackson tied the game 27-27 late in the third quarter on a fly 
NFL | seahawks 26, broncos 20 MLB | dodgers 8, cubs 5 
wilson outduels manning in super bowl rematch 
Associated Press 
seaTTle — peyton manning did all he could in the final minute of regulation to get the denver broncos to overtime. 
russell wilson made certain he never saw the ball in the ex­tra session and ensured the super bowl rematch went in fa­vor of the defending champion seahawks. 
marshawn lynch scored on a 6-yard Td run on the first pos­session of overtime and the seahawks beat the broncos 26­20 on sunday in a showdown that lived up to expectations. 
seattle (2-1) blew a 17-3 fourth-quarter lead, watching denver tie the game at 20 on manning’s 26-yard touchdown pass to Jacob Tamme with 18 seconds left in regulation and his 2-point conversion pass to demaryius Thomas. 
but manning never got the ball in overtime, thanks to wilson. after nearly getting sacked for a safety and throwing an inter­ception in the fourth quarter, wilson was brilliant in overtime. he rushed for 21 yards and was 4 of 6 passing in overtime. lynch went the final 6 yards for the win. 
wilson had just 19 yards rush­ing in regulation, then did what­ever was needed in overtime. he twice scrambled for on third downs after seeming reluctant to run earlier in the game. his 7-yard pass to percy harvin was the precursor to lynch’s Td run. 
wilson finished 24 of 34 for 258 yards and two touchdown passes, both late in the first half. lynch had 88 yards rushing and also caught a 5-yard Td pass. 
manning led the rally for denver (2-1), helped by a 

paid adverTisemenT 
number of seahawks mistakes. manning was 31 of 49 for 303 yards and two touchdowns, but also threw a costly fourth-quar­ter interception. 
denver appeared done af­ter kam chancellor intercept­ed manning at the seattle 13 with 2:25 left, leading to steven hauschka’s 28-yard field goal with 59 seconds remaining. but manning pulled denver even with stunning precision, going 80 yards in just 41 seconds and without any timeouts. 
manning found emmanuel sanders for 42 yards on a blown coverage and denver reached the seattle 38. manning hit Thomas for 12 yards to the seattle 26, and k.J. wright lost Tamme in coverage. The backup tight end was wide open for the 26-yard Td with 18 seconds left and Thomas was able to drag both feet on the 2-point conver­sion to tie it at 20. 
denver outscored seattle 17-3 in the fourth quarter thanks to two touchdown passes by manning, a safety and a 2-point conversion. 

pattern, shaking off an attempt­ed tackle by cary williams and turning around as he pranced into the end zone — then making a kicking motion as if to remind the eagles that they kicked him out of philadelphia. 
“Those are spur-of-the-mo­ment type things,” Jackson said. “when i get the opportunity to make plays, whatever comes to my mind, that’s what i’m going to react to.” 
The redskins had a chance to take the lead, but Forbath, who’d made 18 straight field goals, hit the right upright with a 33-yarder with 10:07 left. 
on the next play, the officials ruled on the field that breeland intercepted Foles — leading to the brawl. but replays clearly showed the ball hit the ground. 
and philly was aided by anoth­er video review soon after when maclin’s lunging sideline catch was called incomplete, then re­versed. Two plays later, maclin was in the end zone. 
Kemp’s four RBIs lift Dodgers to win 
Associated Press 

chicago — matt kemp homered and had four rbis, yasiel puig scored a career-high four times and the nl west-leading los angeles dodgers used six pitchers to beat the chicago cubs 8-5 on sunday. 
kemp had four hits for the dodgers, who clinched a playoff berth on Friday and entered with a 3 1-2 game lead over the giants in the nl west. los angeles pushed starter dan haren back a day so he could face san Francisco on monday. 
The dodgers instead used the bullpen. Jamey wright made his first start since sept. 1, 2013, with the rays, allowing a run and three hits in two innings. 
chris perez (1-3) struck out two in 1 1-3 innings for his first victory since aug. 14, 2013. and kenley Jansen earned his 43rd save in 48 chances. 
welington castillo homered for the last-place cubs, who pulled within a run in the fifth. The dodgers had 16 hits, and the teams combined for 59 runs during the four-game series. 
Jacob Turner (5-11) allowed five runs in five innings in his fifth start for the cubs since he was acquired from miami on aug. 8 for two class-a pitchers. 
The dodgers went ahead in the first on adrian gonzalez’s and hanley ramirez’s rbi doubles. gonzalez’s 112 rbis lead the majors. 
kemp’s two-run home run 
— his 23rd — extended the dodgers’ lead to 4-1 in the third. arismendy alcantara’s rbi double pulled the cubs to 4-2 in the bottom of the inning. 
puig remained in the game after an awkward slide in the fifth. his right foot appeared to catch in the dirt and he stopped short of the bag. after the trainer checked on him, puig scored from second on kemp’s single for a 5-2 lead. 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S GOLF 

nd in sixth place after day one 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
at the end of the first day of the windon memorial in evanston, illinois, the irish are right in the middle of the pack. notre dame sits in sixth place after posting scores of 289 and 285 for a first day score of 574. 
irish coach Jim kubinski said he appreciated how his team got into a groove throughout the afternoon. 
“we had a rough start to the day, playing our first nine [holes] ... in eight or nine over par and lost a few shots over our last nine but showed some heart and patience by playing those middle 18 holes of the day under par,” kubinski said. “our boys did a nice job dealing with some adversity early on and post­ed two solid rounds today, which gives us a chance to move up into a strong finish tomorrow.” 
kubinski said sophomore matt rushton exemplified the team’s day. 
“matt rushton did a great job today,” kubinski said. “his opening 72 was hard-fought after an early double bogey. he then came out this afternoon and posted an out­standing 67.” 
The irish are dealing with a strong tournament field, including eighth-ranked california, and are adjust­ing to an unfamiliar course. notre dame has not played in the windon memorial since 2004. kubinski said he was pleased with how the team adjusted. 
“it was tough to make birdies today,” kubinski said. “with the wind blowing a pretty steady 15 to 18 miles-per-hour and some very difficult hole locations, con­trolling the ball well enough to set up good birdie opportu­nities was a huge challenge.” 

in addition to steady play from veterans on the roster, kubinski said he also was pleased with several players making their debuts in the lineup. 
“[sophomore] liam cox was a great addition to our lineup,” kubinski said. “liam led us in the morning round with a 71 and then posted a very competitive 73 this af­ternoon. senior Tyler wingo, our other addition this week, did a solid job too (74-73). both players were playing 36 holes for the first time in months, so i just tip my cap to their strong effort.” 
in the end, kubinski said he thinks the first day of play could be a springboard for even better rounds monday. 
“one thing we did today is keep all five players in the mix,” kubinski said. “no one was to the point where they couldn’t contribute, which cost us in minnesota. we need to continue that tomor­row. we have five very com­petitive players. with good play tomorrow, we can move up into the Top 3, with an eye on those top few teams fall­ing back to the field a little.” 
notre dame resumes play at windon memorial on monday, sept. 22, the tourna­ment’s final day. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 


WEI LIN | The Observer 
Junior Zach Toste tees off during the Notre Dame Kickoff Challenge on Aug. 31 at Warren Golf Course. 

W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

as we did in the first, and we didn’t get the same pressure on the ball. north carolina brought a lot of energy into the second half, and we didn’t match that. we didn’t bring the intensity that we really needed.” 
The last minutes of regu­lation and the first 10-min­ute overtime period left both teams scoreless. Then, 27 seconds into the second overtime, north carolina senior midfielder kat nigro scored the winning goal on a 10-yard shot aimed just inside the left post. 
The irish players were emotional after the close loss, romagnolo said. 
“[The team was] pretty devastated,” romagnolo said. “anytime you’re up at the half and feeling pretty good about yourself, it’s frustrating to lose that. north carolina is not a team you can count out, though. you can’t sit back and rely on your lead.” 
despite a disappointing end, romagnolo said the team played well overall against a very good team in the Tar heels and will work to improve on what caused notre dame to lose its lead. 
“we played some great soccer and some great de­fense,” romagnolo said. “we need to work on being better one-v-one and getting more pressure on the ball high­er on the field so we’re not dropping back into the soft part of our 18. keeping the ball is also something we can improve on.” 
among the highlights was 
the  performance  of  soph­ 
omore  goalkeeper  kaela  
little,  romagnolo  said.  

little had five saves on the night, including one at the beginning of the game that prevented north carolina from scoring first. 
“it’d be terrible of me not to mention our goalkeeper, kaela little,” romagnolo said. “she made some huge plays. They had an opportu­nity early on, and she made a huge save and then a cou­ple more later in the game. she’s continuing to show that she can make huge plays, and we just have to work to limit the opportuni­ties she gets by being better on defense.” 
north carolina was the first of 10 acc teams the irish will face in upcoming weeks. romagnolo is confi­dent that the team will con­tinue to play competitively against them, she said. 
“i expect us to be ready for [no. 2] virginia Tech,” romagnolo said. “we’ll get back to work on monday. For the most part, all the acc teams are going be tough games. it’s the little details that decide games like that.” 
The irish will face the high-powered hokies on Thursday at 7 p.m. in blacksburg, virginia. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 




Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
success hours later, defeating saint louis (10-4), 3-1 (25-21, 21-25, 26-24, 25-21). 
The irish got off to a strong start in their second match of the day, taking a 6-1 lead against the billikens in the first set. momentum swung back and forth between notre and dame and st. louis in the next two sets, but the irish se­cured the match victory with a 25-21 win in the fourth set. 
graduate student outside hitter nicole smith accumu­lated a team-high 16 kills to ac­company six digs, five blocks and a service ace, and senior middle blocker/right side hit­ter Jeni houser recorded 11 kills and a .474 hitting average. 
“i’m really proud of the team,” irish coach debbie brown said. “it was a really dif­ficult schedule playing at both noon and five. even though we won, we weren’t very pleased with how we played against morehead state [on Friday]. we had too many unforced errors and didn’t play crisp volleyball.” 
Though their game was not “crisp” against the eagles, the irish quickly corrected their errors and played a clean game against the billikens. 
“it was incredible how much focus we came out with against saint louis,” brown said. “we really turned it up and made clutch plays when we needed to, so that was a huge win for us.” 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
inside the far post, pushing the match to extra time. Though the irish came up scoreless in over­time, they dominated possession in the extra periods. 
“in oT, we played pretty well as a team,” cicciarelli said. “we definitely had the ball more than virginia and created several more chances. our defense also did great at shutting down their at­tack and not letting them get any real dangerous opportunities.” 
Freshmen forwards Jeffrey Farina and Jon gallagher both had opportunities to score with­in minutes of one another dur­ing the first overtime period. Farina shot a seven-yard lob that deflected off the crossbar, while gallagher sent one sailing over the frame. Farina came close to scoring again in the final seconds of the period off a header. 
in the second overtime period, cicciarelli edged into the pen­alty box for a shot on goal that virginia’s brown deflected out 


despite coming off two vic­tories and holding a strong lead in the first two sets against purdue (10-2), the irish couldn’t capitalize as the boilermakers won the fi­nal match of the tournament, 3-0 (25-15, 25-23, 25-16), on saturday. 
The irish started hot, tak­ing an 11-7 lead in the first set. however, the boilermakers bounced back on an 18-4 run to win the set. in the second set, irish sophomore middle block­er katie higgins and smith tal­lied back-to-back block assists, but a kill from purdue junior outside hitter annie drews fin­ished off the close set, 25-23. The irish couldn’t regain en­ergy in the third set as purdue took an early lead and went on to win. 
brown said the team’s big­gest challenges came against purdue. 
“we started off each set pretty well, but problems came through when we realized that we couldn’t maintain our leads,” she said. “we just didn’t have the consistency to do it, as we gave up big runs and got stuck in rotations.” 
The team earned a second-place finish overall at the tour­nament, with Fry and smith earning spots on the all-tour­nament team. 
The irish return to the court Friday to face miami (Fl) at the James l. knight complex in coral gables, Florida, at 7 p.m. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 
of bounds. cicciarelli attacked again with a shot from the 18­yard box in the 107th minute, but brown was there once again for the save. 
“offensively, we really ex­posed their man-to-man with through balls down the chan­nels,” cicciarelli said. “we were really able to create some great chances. now we just need to put those opportunities into the back of the net.” 
The irish played strong from the opening minutes of the match, with cicciarelli tak­ing his first shot in the eighth minute of play. graduate stu­dent goalkeeper patrick wall had two saves on the day. notre dame also outshot virginia 16­11 and earned 11 corner kicks to virginia’s six. Though the irish could not clinch the win, the team accomplished much in this matchup, compared to its performances against virginia last season, cicciarelli said. 
“i think that anytime you go on the road in the acc and get a result, it is a positive,” cicciarelli said. “virginia is a very good team, and going to their place and giving them the game that we did is great.” 
From one acc rival to the next, the irish move on to host no. 1 north carolina on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish sweep individual titles 

By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 

notre dame continued their run of success at the 35th annual national catholic championships on Friday, taking home both the men’s and women’s individual titles, as well as the women’s team crown. 
The women’s victory marked the 21st time in 23 years the squad has finished first at this race, while the men’s team saw its streak of five straight titles snapped by canisius. 
“we definitely met our goals for this meet,” irish junior molly seidel, who won the women’s race, said. “we can’t rest on our laurels, but we can be happy with how we raced.” 
in the first varsity race of the day at notre dame golf course, seidel led a pack of irish runners, as notre dame put all five of its scoring run­ners in the top seven, adding three more runners in the top 20. 
“going into the race, coach [matt] sparks had wanted us to go out and race as a group and get a good team effort in for the first two miles,” seidel said. “Then, for the last mile, we were supposed to kind of go out and see what we could do. i think originally we went out a little bit too fast and got a bit broken up, but i felt like we kept a good pack up at the front, and it put us in a good position to go and get a strong team finish.” 
seidel’s winning time of 17:09.04 put her more than 11 seconds in front of junior danielle aragon, who finished second. seidel’s win is the 12th straight individual win for notre dame women at the national catholic championships. on the team side, marquette finished sec­ond, scoring three points to notre dame’s 19. 
“marquette came out and made us run fast,” seidel said. “it’s our home course, and it’s fun racing at home, and so having your family there and your friends coming out, you want to represent the school on your home turf. so i think that keeps us … trying hard year after year.” 
on the men’s side, senior Jake kildoo and sophomore chris marco claimed the top two spots in the five-mile race. while the irish maintained a large pack at the front of the race in the early going, the group began to string out over the last miles. 
however, canisius, led by soph­omore Jeffery antolos, steadily moved up and claimed five of the next nine spots to take its first title. 
“[The men’s team] is definitely disappointed to some degree,” seidel said. “i know chris marco and Jake kildoo went out there and raced a really hard race. … but when they come back for the [notre dame invitational], i know that they’ll be using this as a way to re­ally get angry and go even harder.” 
The squad was also hurt by the absence of juniors michael clevenger and Timothy ball, who typically place in the top three for the irish. clevenger had a minor injury, and ball had a family obliga­tion. The pair is expected to return for the next meet on the schedule, the notre dame invitational, in two weeks. 
despite the loss, seidel said the irish were satisfied with their performance on the whole but already are looking ahead to the notre dame invitational, at which the team will host some of the top teams in the country. 
“we still have a lot of work to do as we go on in the season,” she said. “we have a good two weeks to build on what we got. … [we’re going to use this] to get even more of a fire under us.” 
The irish race next at the notre dame invitational on oct. 3. at notre dame golf course. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Blackhawks 
conTinued From page 16 
training camp games is huge.” 
Three squads — red, white and black — took to the ice for two two-period exhibition games. 
a mix of veterans and rook­ies made up each squad. 
Johns played for the white team, which won its first match, 5-2, over the black team and lost its second match to red, 4-0. 
Johns mainly skated along­side 14-year nhl veteran de­fenseman michal rozsival and often was on the ice with captain and center Jonathan Toews and alternate captain and left wing patrick sharp. 
“i got my first training camp in the books — that was good,” Johns said. “my overall perfor­mance was pretty good. i felt comfortable.” 
Johns said he felt he easily integrated into the blackhawk community. 
“last year when i went from [notre dame] to rockford, it was smooth,” Johns said. “The guys brought me in like i was part of the team right away. in my opinion, it wasn’t a huge jump from college to rockford, but obviously, it has been a bigger jump to here [with the blackhawks]. i just have to keep on working on my game.” 
as the blackhawks return to the united center in chicago for the Training camp Festival tonight, shaw said the team is prepared for the season. 

“we accomplished a lot,” sharp said. “[The coaches] are happy with our fitness and our on-ice play and how we have been playing here.” 
beyond their play, the blackhawks got involved in the community and sought out activities around campus, shaw said. The blackhawks visited the robinson learning center on Friday and played video games with students on campus Friday and saturday. 
“me and bicksie [left wing bryan bickell] went and played mario kart against some of the students here,” shaw said. “i won, but it was the new one, so bicksie wasn’t too good at it.” 
shaw said it is important that the blackhawks show ap­preciation to all of their fans by getting involved in the community. 
“it’s always nice to give back,” shaw said. “The num­ber of fans who are here in the greater chicago area, it’s huge. any chance we have to give back to them, it’s awesome.” 
The blackhawks came on a football bye weekend, but next year’s visit may consist of more activities, shaw said. 
“next year they are trying to plan us being back here for a football game, and i have heard a lot of good things, so i am excited for that,” shaw said. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at             ilorton@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: make the necessary changes to the relationships that are influencing your life the most. cutting ties with some people and joining forces with others will be instrumental in reaching your goals. you have to think about the end result and realize you cannot always make concessions in order to accommodate others, especially if you plan on being successful this year. your numbers are 4, 10, 22, 28, 35, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Tidy up loose ends and prepare for your upcoming week. it’s important to put the emphasis on your work and getting ahead. whether checking out new job prospects or updating your resume, raising your standard of living should be your intent. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t start something you can’t finish or promise what you cannot deliver. Focus on self-improvement, changing your routine and being more health-conscious. romance will improve your state of mind and give your personal life a boost. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do your best to please. go above and beyond the call of duty to make your surroundings comfortable and those you encounter feel at ease. avoid confrontations and emotional blackmail by sticking to the truth. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more you do for yourself and the less you rely on others, the easier it will be to avoid opposition and interference. accept the inevitable changes that come your way and focus on getting the most out of each moment. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): embrace change, adventure and whatever will bring you closer to your goals. don’t let someone else’s uncertainty daunt you. use what you know to your advantage and you will enjoy the comfort of gaining ground and securing your position. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): withhold personal information until you feel you can share without being subject to ridicule. not everyone will understand or approve of your tactics. avoid an argument by refusing to disagree. Focus on you, not on what others are doing. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): venture into unknown territory. Try your hand at something new. get to know individuals who have something unique to offer. showing support or giving hands-on assistance will help you gain allies. share your personal opinion with someone who needs encouragement. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make personal changes to the way you live. explore new ways to give support to someone going through a difficult time. put love first, but don’t feel you have to spend money to win favors. moderation and discipline will bring good results. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tread carefully when dealing with partners, family or anyone who can turn your life upside-down emotionally. you can accomplish a lot and stay out of trouble if you make home improvements that will add to your comfort and convenience. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): say little and do a lot. criticizing won’t get you far, but encouragement will help you round up all the support and help you need to accomplish your goals. Think twice before spending. invest in you, not someone else. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): curb spending habits. set a budget, look over your personal papers and make sure you are on track. an opportunity to take part in an activity that will bring you clout or a chance to join forces with someone looks promising. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): emotional troubles will disrupt your plans and stifle your creative imagination. don’t get angry when you should be focusing on getting things done. getting along with others will make it much easier to be productive. be honest with yourself and others. 


Birthday Baby: you are amiable, appealing and interesting. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | norTh carolina 3, nd 2 (2oT) 

nd hearts broken by Tar heels 
By RENEE GRIFFIN  By ISAAC LORTON  
sports writer alsfirs o had two great goals. That t pk that morgan got was  assistant managing editor  
no. 18 notre dame suffered hu ge, and the second goal had a  Former irish defenseman  
an agonizing 3-2 defeat to no. gre at buildup and great finish.  stephen Johns returned to  
9 north carolina on saturday, “ morgan andrews was excep­ campus with the blackhawks  
giving up the winning goal in tio nal. her ability to control the  for a weekend of practice and  
double overtime after the Tar bal l for us and step up and take  festivities.  
heels were able to overcome a the  pk, and then get the assist  For the second straight  
2-0 deficit at the half. on  Taylor klawunder’s goal was  year, the blackhawks opened  
The irish (5-3-1, 0-1-0 acc) cru cial.”  their training camp at  
struck first, with sophomore n orth carolina came out of  compton Family ice arena  
midfielder morgan andrews hal ftime with a vengeance,  with an exclusive practice  
scoring the first goal of the tho ugh, when Tar heel sopho­ for faculty, staff and students  
game on a penalty kick in the mo re midfielder cameron  of notre dame, saint mary’s  
30th minute. ca stleberry got a shot in to the  and holy cross on Friday. on  
andrews also had an assist rig ht side of the net in the 61st  saturday and sunday, they  
on freshman midfielder Taylor mi nute after finding a hole in  played for the general public  
klawunder’s goal in the 40th the  notre dame defense.  and sold out both days.  
minute that gave notre dame w ith a little more than 14  blackhawks center andrew  
a 2-0 lead, the first time since mi nutes remaining in the  shaw said the blackhawks  
2006 the Tar heels (4-2-1, 1-0-0) ga me, a direct free kick by north  appreciated notre dame’s  
were down by two goals in the ca rolina sophomore midfielder  hospitality and enjoyed the  
first half. Joa nna boyles, placed in the far  trip.  
irish head coach Theresa up per right corner of the goal,  “[The visit to notre dame]  
romagnolo praised the team’s eve ned the score at 2.  was great,” shaw said. “it has  
first-half performance and said “ in the second half, we went  been a good experience. ...  
andrews in particular stood aw ay from what was working  [notre dame] treat[s] us well  
out from the start. for  us,” romagnolo said. “we  here and [has] a great facil­ 
“we put pressure and got the did n’t possess the ball as well  ity. Fans coming out and  
double teams, and we were able  
to move the ball [in the first  see w soccer PAGE 13  see blackhawks PAGE 14  

half],” romagnolo said. “we 
NHL 

Blackhawks spend weekend at Compton 

ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, morehead sT. 2; nd 3, sainT louis 1; purdue 3, nd 0 
Notre Dame claims two wins at Active Ankle Challenge 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 

after two straight wins against morehead state and saint louis university, notre dame lost this weekend to no. 11 purdue at the purdue active ankle challenge in west lafayette, indiana. 
The irish (3-8) emerged victo­rious in their first match of the tournament, beating morehead state (0-13), 3-2 (25-20, 25-18, 15­25, 22-25, 15-11), on Friday. notre dame dominated the court in the first and second sets with hitting averages of .250 and .333, respectively. 
however, the eagles battled back from an 0-2 hole to force a fifth and final set. The irish took initial control of this frame, opening with an 8-3 lead on their way to a 15-11 win. 
Freshman middle blocker sam Fry had an impressive per­formance against the eagles, recording a season-high 13 kills along with six blocks and one service ace. 
notre dame continued its 
see volleyball PAGE 12 


MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, virginia 1 
irish earn high-powered draw 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

notre dame’s search for re­venge against virginia ended in a 1-1 draw on sunday at klockner stadium in charlottesville, virginia. 
The no. 5 irish (3-1-2, 1-0-1 acc) and no. 7 cavaliers (4-1-1, 1-0-1) scored one goal apiece in their heated matchup. virginia handed notre dame its only losses last season — a 2-0 regular-season setback and a 3-3 regular-time draw, 4-3 penalty-kick loss, in the semifinals of the acc tour­nament. Though the irish aimed to avenge those two games with a win sunday, coach bobby clark said he was impressed with the team’s performance on the road against a top-10 squad. 
“i think the team played well,” clark said. “we opened the game very strongly, and i thought most of the first half was a strong per­formance, and we were great in the second half. we played a tran­sition game well and tried to get something out of them, running quick balls into the channels. i think we caused problems for them in that capacity, and that’s where our best shot at goal came from.” 
irish junior midfielder evan panken spurred notre dame’s scoring opportunity when he played the ball to senior for­ward vince cicciarelli, who was taken down in the penalty box by cavaliers redshirt freshman defender wesley suggs, who re­ceived a red card. Junior midfield­er patrick hodan took the penalty kick and scored his first goal of the season. 
graduate student forward leon brown almost tallied another goal for the irish less than a min­ute later, but virginia redshirt senior goalkeeper calle brown pushed it wide for the save. 
“This put us one goal up and one man up, and at that point, you think you are in the driver’s seat, and so i thought that was the disappointing thing [when they tied it up],” clark said. 
soon after, virginia senior mid­fielder eric bird scored the tying goal in the 68th minute with a shot from eight yards out just 
see m soccer PAGE 13 





