The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 130 | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Professor critiques Vatican Library texts 
Classics professor Joseph Amar uses first century manuscripts to attain better understanding of Church 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The vatican library pro­vides invaluable resources for department of classics professor Joseph amar, but in the course of his study, he has worked to correct discrep­ancies in one of the library’s manuscript catalogs, he said. 
using manuscripts from the first centuries of christianity, amar said he studies the writings of early christian thinkers. many of the manu­scripts he studies reside in the vatican library, collected over many centuries and cataloged in the Bibliotheca orientalis clementino-vaticana, an 18th-century tome that lists the authors of documents, their publication dates and descriptions of their contents, amar said. 
he also studies the aramaic language and its dialects, which linked christianity and Judaism and, at times, made them almost indistinguishable. 
“in general, it’s about docu­menting christianity at a cru­cial stage in its history, where it’s still very Jewish-looking but hasn’t become entirely the kind of christianity we recog­nize today,” amar said. “it sort of still has one foot in Judaism 
see liBrary PAGE 5 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Classics professor Joseph Amar examines a copy of the commentary of the Book of Genesis by Jacob of Edessa. Amar said he believes this manuscript was published in the third century. 


prof. discovers new exoplanet SMC to host ethnic 
the planet is 1.1 earth radii,” maybe a little more real estate 
By HENRY GENS 



commencement 
news writer crepp said. “Kepler-186f is the than the earth.” most earth-like planet that we The planet was detected as 
The search for terrestrial 
exoplanets is heating up by 
finding them around cooler 
stars. 

 Freimann assistant 
professor of physics Justin 
crepp was part of team that 
recently discovered the most 
earth-like exoplanet to date, 
Kepler-186f, around an m-star, 


part of nasa’s Kepler mission, 
her message will be one of hope 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
a research project based on and inspiration. 
news writer 
using the titular telescope to 
senior carolina Tapia said she is 
monitor some 150,000 stars 
This sunday, saint mary’s excited to hear mcdonald-Fisher’s 
hundreds of light-years away 
student involvement and speech. 
and to uncover potential exo­
multicultural services (simc) “i know her personally from 
planets via the transit meth-
will host the seventh annual 
the work we did together on the 
od, crepp said. 
multiethnic commencement 
alumnae board,” Tapia said. “we 
since detection relies on 
celebration for 15 multicultural 
worked together in the alumnae 
the most-stable, slowest-have found yet. 1.1 earth-radii planets passing in front of the burning class of star in the is in the habitable zone — star and blocking some universe. and the error-bar overlaps; it 
“This one is special because could be the size of the earth, see planeT PAGE 5 


GlassND builds community 
students of the saint mary’s class of 2014. 
saint mary’s alumna and rolls-royce legal counsel angela mcdonald-Fisher will speak at the celebration. 
according to a press release, mcdonald-Fisher “joined rolls­royce north america inc. in indianapolis in april 2006. she 


By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The graduate lgBTQ and ally student society at notre dame (glassnd) has been working to foster a greater sense of commu­nity and inclusion in the university’s graduate school, Tony cunningham, Quality of life chairperson for the 
graduate student  union  
(gsu), said.  
glassnd  was  formed  

through the efforts of the graduate student union 
as they aimed to fully ad­dress the graduate stu­dent community’s needs, cunningham said. 
“part of this position [Quality of life chairperson] is to work with some groups that were not receiving as much attention as other groups, one of them be­ing the lgBTQ community within the graduate school,” he said. “in the 2012-2013 school year, we held the first two events explicitly for graduate lgBTQ community members and ally members.” 
cunningham said that glassnd works closely with the university’s gender relations center (grc) for events and programming. 
“The grc does a lot of pro­gramming, like ally train­ing, and they do an excellent job with that,” cunningham said. 
glassnd has transitioned this year from educational activities to community-building and social activi­ties, cunningham said. They 
see lgBTQ PAGE 5 

is legal counsel for the supply management organization for the aerospace, marine and energy di­visions in north america as well as for aero engine controls, a joint venture between rolls-royce and goodrich.” 
director of sims stephanie steward-Bridges said in the press release mcdonald-Fisher will have a powerful message for the young women attending the celebration. 
“i look forward to hearing from angela,” steward-Bridges said. “i know she has a passion for en­couraging young women to reach their full potential, so i’m certain engagement committee. she is helpful and easy to talk to. she tells you information straightforward, and you can tell she genuinely cares about the school.” 
senior shanlynn Bias said the choice of speaker continues the college’s efforts to provide stu­dents with advice and perspec­tives on future opportunities. 
“The sims office has been a wonderful support system to me these past four years by surround­ing me with individuals who truly care about my future,” Bias said in 
see mulTieThnic PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 BaseBall PAGE 16 soFTBall PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your go-to study snack? 

Brigid Pikus 
sophomore lyons hall 
“an apple.” 

Catherine Levy 
freshman welsh Family halll 
“Bagel from aBp.” 

Chris Mullen 
junior alumni hall 
“chips and salsa.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Johnny Whichard 
senior sorin hall 
“sunflower seeds.” 

Sarah Witt 
sophomore walsh hall 
“cheez-its.” 


Seung-Jae Oh 
sophomore st. edward’s hall 

“a whole bag of chocolates.” 



Today’s Staff 
News Sports Want your event included here? 
Katie mccarty Katie heit Jack rooney aaron sant-miller Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
henry gens Zach Klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 
erin rice erin mcauliffe 


Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Photo Viewpoint 

wei lin austin Taliaferro 
Four:7 Fellowship AAA Grotto Trip Frankenstein of 1790 Scholars Conference Men’s Lacrosse 
Cavanaugh Hall Bond Hall Hesburgh Library Hesburgh Library Arlotta Stadium Corrections 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 10 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Catholic worship Open to all. One Book, One Undergraduate The Irish take on Army 
in the april 28 edition of The observer 
service. Michiana Lecture. scholars conference. in the ACC tournament. 
in the article “seniors reflect, give advice at panel,” incorrect pronouns were used to refer to annalee rice, will miller and Women’s Softball Outside Sports King Lear Climate Seminar Film: “Inequality for luke pardue. Tori roeck’s postgraduate Melissa Cook Stadium Festival DeBartolo Performing Galvin Life Sciences all” plans were stated incorrectly. roeck will 6 p.m. South Quad Arts Center Center Debartolo Performing pursue an msc in refugee and Forced The Irish take on 12 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Arts Center 
migration studies at the university of 
Western Michigan. Display of outdoor National Theatre Live Discussion of climate 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 
oxford. The observer regrets these errors. 
sports on campus. event. change in US national Examines widening parks. inequality gap in U.S. 




Business professor concludes Spirituality Monday 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
professor of business and economics Jerry mcelroy ended saint mary’s semes­ter-long spirituality monday series with a discussion on the sacramentality of nature. 
“poetry is really a sense language, what did you see, what did you hear, feel and taste, and so sacramentality means that through the win­dow of the senses, we some­how taste and find god,” mcelroy said. “i just saw this article called ‘poetry is the Best Theology,’ and it says, ‘it imagines the unimagi­nable. it describes the unde­finable. it’s theology leaping out of the file cabinet and into the heart. it’s the word of the word that stirs our souls.’” 
mcelroy invited junior rebecca walker to read an opening poem by Fr. gerard manley hopkins, an english poet and Jesuit priest of the 19th century. mcelroy then read one of his own po­ems, the first he ever wrote and sent in for publication, “spring Fine.” 
“[my wife] Birdie and i lived for many years in the tropics, and the first year we came to south Bend, the winter was like this one — the winter would never end,” mcelroy said. “no one knew when spring would come. so this is a poem about when spring really started.” 
“in the year of the late snowmelt, no one knew when spring came, until the one day warble song rolled suddenly through the fence 
row and broke the chill in “as far as i know, the an­winter’s wake, and unex-gels can’t smell the lavender, pectedly, the wild plum tree or smell the creek ice cracks. bloomed so loudly against That’s a privilege we have,” its skin that travelers slowed mcelroy said. just a nod. at last the cold one particular poem de­



“Poetry is really a sense language, what did you see, what did you hear, feel and taste, and so sacramentality means that through the window of the senses, we somehow taste and find God.” 
Jerry McElroy 
professor of business 
was past, and earth would scribed the odyssey of the green and green again,” spawning of salmon, draw­mcelroy said, reciting his ing a parallel to the holy poem. spirit and the paschal 
mcelroy said his next mystery, mcelroy said. poem, “spring delights,” another poem painted a drew heavily upon the sens-peaceful image of an island, es with assistance from allit-a sacred scene right before eration and irony. the break of dawn. 
mcelroy said though he received his doctorate in economics, his interest in nature and poetry began early in his life. 
“i spent a lot of time ob­serving nature,” he said. “when i was a kid on my grandad’s farm, i began to sing, so i know when to start, stop the lines.” 
having already published four books, mcelroy said he will release his fifth book this coming august through Finishing line press. 
“The best part is the po­etry itself,” mcelroy said. “if you really absorb yourself in the poetry, you’re going to get in contact with the di­vine eventually, because the nature is so incredible.” 

Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekafal01@saintmarys.edu 

By KAYLA MULLEN news writer  located  in  an  old  
Franciscan friary,  su  casa  
Two  notre  dame alumni  provides  an  environment  
currently reside as live-in  of healing and hope to dis- 
workers at su casa, a house  placed  latino families.  it  
of  hospitality  in  south  primarily  serves  latino  
chicago, as part of a min- women and children who  
istry class of 2012 gradu­ have left domestic violence  
ate  adam  cowden said is  situations, and workers live  
three-fold.  among the guests.  
“we  provide  hospitality  cowden, with another 2012  
and  a  healing environment  graduate Kyla  wargel live  
for displaced hispanic peo­ and work among the guests  
ple who are poor, homeless,  at  su  casa.  Their  respon­ 
and oppressed; we partner  sibilities  include  cooking,  
with our neighbors to make  cleaning, daily house up- 
our  community  a  better  keep, tutoring, information  
place to live, and we engage  technology/administrative  
in educational and social  services  and  communica­ 
action activities concerning  tions support.  
social justice issues related  su  casa’s volunteer work  
to our ministry,”  cowden  also includes a soup kitchen  Photo courtesy of Su Casa  
paid adverTisemenT  Class of 2012 graduates Adam Cowden (left) and Kyla Wargel wrap Christmas gifts for guests at Su Casa, a Chicago shelter that serves Hispanic women and children who are victims of domestic violence.  
that serves the larger com- violence  and  immigration  next steps, including where  
munity three times a week  reform.  i wanted to apply for grad  
and an outreach program  “workers also help provide  school.  su  casa  was  the  
that  seeks  to  educate  oth­ … fundraising support, vol- first place i thought of, and  
unteer  coordination,  house  they happened to be looking  
“We provide hospitality and a healing environment  management, food and do­nation pickup and process­ing, maintenance services and occasional childcare,” cowden said. “most of my  for volunteers at the time i inquired.” cowden said the education he received at notre dame influenced his decision to  
for displaced Hispanic people who are poor, homeless, and  responsibilities fall within case management support, tutoring, iT support and communications.” cowden first became in­ come to su casa. “studying political science and ppe [philosophy, politics and economics] with a fo­cus on development at notre  
oppressed; we partner with our neighbors to make our community  volved with su casa when he participated in an urban plunge trip through notre dame’s center for social concerns in the winter of  dame and writing a senior thesis related to interna­tional development allowed me to explore my interest in development and working  
a better place to live.”  2010, he said. “The experience left a lasting impression on me,”  in developmentally disad­vantaged areas and helped prepare me to examine some  
Adam Cowden  cowden said. “after a year  of the challenges that our  
class of 2012  of  living  and  working  in  guests face with a critical  
nashville,  Tenn.,  follow- eye,” cowden said.  
ers on issues that affect the  ing  graduation,  i  wanted  
latino population, such as  to spend a year doing ser- Contact Kayla Mullen at  
homelessness,  domestic  vice while figuring out my  kmullen2@nd.edu  



alumni serve displaced hispanics in chicago 
said. 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 



Boutique benefits local women 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s students were asked to raid their closets over easter Break for cloth­ing, shoes and accessories in an effort to raise donations for the first ever “Just shop” Boutique clothing drive this past Friday in the saint mary’s student center. 
donations were dropped off in labeled containers lo­cated at various sites around campus including the student center, spes unica hall, moreau hall, madeleva hall and even the residence halls, adrienne lyles chockley, in­terim coordinator of the smc 
Justice  education  program,  
said.   
in  conjunction  with  the  

Justice education depart­ment, junior meredith mersits created the boutique after be­ing moved by the stories and issues facing incarcerated women, mersits said. 
“The end of last semester, i started thinking about differ­ent issues that i was passion­ate about, and one of them happened to be the incarcera­tion of women, thrift store shopping, and then how wom­en who are incarcerated can get justice just because they go through so many problems 

“This year has definitely been great working with all the people in the Justice Education department. Everyone is also really supportive of everyone’s ideas.  There’s so many people who are passionate about it.  The whole group is dedicated to bringing justice to the world.” 
Meredith Mersits 
junior 
after incarceration such as sexual assault,” mersits said. 
By incorporating the saint mary’s and south Bend com­munity, mersits said she hoped to bring a little light to the lives of women currently or previously incarcerated. 
“By putting those ideas to­gether, i kind of figured out i wanted to bring light to the lives of incarcerated women, [and the] idea evolved into this boutique,” mersits said. 
open to both the south Bend and saint mary’s com­munity, the “Just shop Boutique” had the layout of a thrift store with a classier ap­peal, mersits said. 
“i’ve seen all sorts of things. it’s old students clothing, clothing from parents, i’ve seen children’s clothing, [just all] across the board. we’re just calling it a boutique, though, [instead of a thrift shop],” mersits said. 
mersits said she began the project on her own with the gracious help of the saint mary’s community. 
“we had a lot of people sup­port it. everywhere on cam­pus i’ve gone to, they [were] so helpful,” mersits said. 
“everyone was open to the idea, but it was definitely dif­ficult to plan everything, be­cause when you plan an event you don’t think about the fine details like getting together the donation boxes, because that was definitely tedious and time-consuming.  But by Friday night when i finally put the boxes out, i could fi­nally see the work [coming together].” 
lyles chockley’s help really pushed the project forward with publicity within both communities, mersits said. 
“dr. lyles chockley has a lot of connections.  we also [talk­ed] to people from the ywca. Through networking and [other associations], we’ve really been trying to bring in the south Bend community,” mersits said. 
lyles chockley’s big project last semester, the symposium on Female incarceration, had a strong influence on mersits’s inspiration for the “Just shop” boutique, mersits said. 
“going to that really sparked my interest in want­ing to do something for those women, giving them more of a resource and a chance and not just, ‘here’s charity,’” mersits said. 
“when i decided my ma­jor, social work, i feel like [it] helped me to see the bigger picture of things, because the biggest thing you can give is your time,” mersits said. “definitely what the justice education department has been organizing is a revival. you can talk all you want, but it doesn’t really mean any­thing if you can’t walk the walk.” 
“This year has definite­ly been great working with all the people in the Justice education department. everyone is also really sup­portive of everyone’s ideas. There’s so many people who are passionate about it.  The whole group is dedicated to bringing justice to the world,” mersits said. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



students develop off-campus housing directory 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
looking for off-campus housing? The search just got easier with south Bend student housing, a new web­site created by six notre dame students in the engineering, science, and Technology entrepreneurship excellence masters program (esTeem). The website makes finding residences, contacting land lords and securing listings faster and more convenient. 
graduate students Keith marrero, amanda miller, conor hanley, eric Tilley, nathan higgins and sean liebscher are the co-founders of the website and business south Bend student housing, which went live in February. 
“it’s kind of like amazon,” marrero said. “you tell it what you want and it’ll tell you what’s available that meets your needs, and then you’re able to make an informed de­cision based on that.” 
marrero said the website al­lows students to browse hous­ing options in the south Bend area based on amenities and preferences. 
“one of our goals is to pro­vide information for students about everything that’s avail­able because a lot of students will hear about their housing through word of mouth,” he said. “you don’t really know everything that’s out there.” 

although the co-founders are still in the process of con­tacting landlords and add­ing additional listings to the site, marrero said the site 
“It’s kind of like Amazon. You tell it what you want and it tells you what’s available that meets your needs.” 
Keith Marrero 
graduate student 

already contains numerous housing options available for browsing. 
students interested in a property can simply click the “contact landlord” button to email the owner directly. The website includes additional features such as a compare option. 
“one of our big features is the compare feature,” he said. “it enables you to compare three, four, however many properties you want on one page as opposed to having a million tabs open.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
marrero said there are means of comparison be­tween properties to see if they include various features such as off-street parking or in-unit laundry. The distance from the residence to the university is also included. 
The website is especially helpful for graduate students who travel from various areas around the country and world and are likely unfamiliar with the south Bend area and hous­ing options, marrero said. 
The website first started out as a class assignment, but marrero said the interviews the team conducted for class showed such positive feed­back that students began ask­ing when the website would go live. 
after deciding to make the project a reality, marrero said the team received funding from an anonymous inves­tor for the entrepreneurial venture. a beta site was cre­ated last fall and advertising through social media started in February. 
students interested in learn­ing more about off-campus options can visit the website southbendstudenthousing. com for more information. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 




Planet 
conTinued From page 1 
portion of its light — that is, transiting — it turns out that it is relatively easier to pin down a planet transiting a smaller star because it blocks a greater fraction of the light, producing a larger signal for researchers, crepp said. This is the case with the m-star Kepler-186f, a class of star comparatively tiny on the stellar scale, and this fact entails other exciting implications. 
“The habitable zone is closer because the star is smaller and has a lower luminosity,” crepp said. “so if you’re giving off less light, then the planets need to be closer to be in the warm/ temperate region where they could have liquid water. last time, we called this region the ‘goldilocks zone,’ where it’s not too hot and not too cold. well, we’re again looking for goldilocks-like planets, and Kepler-186f is in the habitable zone. But it’s closer to the star, and this is important because it increases the probability of the transit.” 
crepp’s previous work un­covered larger exoplanets of super-earth-sized radii orbit­ing stars around a still larger star in the Kepler-62 system. what makes this finding so incredible is the smaller size of Kepler-186f, which means that the composition is almost certainly rocky, he said. 
“if i did the thought experi­ment where i made all the material completely gaseous, i have to heat it up to room temperature because it’s in the habitable zone,” crepp said. “well, it turns out that it’s not massive enough; if it’s all hydrogen and you heat it up it will just evaporate — it will just go away. you have to have so much mass, so how do you do that? you have to have really high density. so what’s that made out of? rock. we suspect strongly that it’s high-density, that it’s rock. it turns out, unfortunately, that we cannot measure the mass, only the radius, for this par­ticular planet.” 
The type of star the exoplan­et orbits is intriguing as well, crepp said. The super-sized, self-destructing supernovae-to-be that are o-stars are at one extreme of the size and volatility spectrum, with our sun, a g-star, somewhat in­termediate in both size and volatility. 

“and the other extreme is an m-star, so small that it’s just barely fusing hydrogen,” crepp said. “so it’s sitting there, just burning, burning very slowly, very stably. and the age of universe is 13 billion years. This star, Kepler-186, will burn its hydrogen for 56 billion years. so why should you care about that? well, that gives you a lot of opportunity for life to develop.” 
one of the more provocative realizations from the Kepler project is the sheer abundance of this phenomenon, crepp said. 
“why is this profound? m-stars are 75 percent of all stars,” he said. “and we can calculate the occurrence rate of planets around these kinds of stars, and we find that it’s tens of percent — it’s not one percent or 0.1 percent; it’s tens of percent. one out of ev­ery five stars has a terrestrial planet in the habitable zone. This is a result that Kepler is telling us — we did not know this a few years ago.” 
not only are the chances of finding an exoplanet simi­lar to earth around any given m-star surprisingly high, but also the enormous number of these systems in the universe makes finding an incred­ibly earth-like entity almost a foregone conclusion. 
“There’s another thing that’s going on here,” crepp said. “how many stars are in the milky way? 400 billion. so 300 billion of them are m-stars. Kepler is telling us one out of five — so 60 billion, to an or­der of magnitude — 60 billion stars with a terrestrial planet comparable in size to the earth, in or near the habitable zone. 60 billion. and that’s just one galaxy. There are a trillion galaxies. ... i do this for a liv­ing, and i still don’t compre­hend it.” 
To further the search for these highly probable occur­rences of exoplanets, crepp is building the ilocater, a near-infrared doppler spec­trometer to be used in the ground-based large Binocular Telescope in arizona, which will work with nasa’s Transiting exoplanet survey satellite (Tess) to gather data on nearby exoplanets. 
“so here’s the problem: Kepler-186 is 500 light-years away,” crepp said. “if it has life, even if it can communicate with us, it’s a really slow chess game. even if you travel at the speed of light, it takes 500 years to say ‘pawn to e6.’ so, we’re building an instrument at notre dame, ilocater, and it’s going to find these planets around that type of star. it’s specifically designed for infra­red wavelengths; it turns out that to see an m-star, you can’t just look up in the sky and say, ‘oh, there’s a nice m-star, and there’s a nice m-star.’ your eyes aren’t sensitive to the light they emit, near-infrared. so there’s a technology hurdle there; ilocater works in the near-infrared, and it’s going to find planets around m-stars that are ten light-years away instead of 500. and we know, thanks to Kepler, that they must be there.” 
in addition to finding these earth-like planets much clos­er to earth, the ilocater will gather unprecedented data on the planet’s mass and at­mosphere to complement the radius measurements from Tess. 
“and here’s what’s really profound about ilocater: when a planet transits, some of the light goes through the atmosphere, so you can actu­ally figure what it’s made out of because it will absorb some of that light,” he said. “iloca­ter’s not just going to tell us the mass of the planet — by the way, when you combine mass and radius, you get the density of the planet, and that tells you what it’s made out of — ilocater’s also going to tell us the composition of the planet’s atmosphere. it’s go­ing to give us low-resolution spectra. ilocater is tuned to find planets in the habitable zone around the stars that mother nature likes to make the most and also the planets that mother nature likes to make the most.” 
although there’s still a lot of work to accomplish, crepp said he plans to have the ilo­cater launched in 2017-2018. 
“it’s a lot of fun,” he said. “i insist upon having fun at work. it’s basically my one rule.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 

Library 
conTinued From page 1 
and one foot in christianity. This is preserved in these an­cient manuscripts because Jews and christians were us­ing the same language.” 
amar said as he delved into the texts over the course of his career, documenting the ideas of early christian thinkers and studying everything from the content of manuscripts to handwriting styles, he noticed that the vatican library had a record-keeping problem. until recently, he would find the documents he needed . often the only copies in existence . stacked on shelves, unorga­nized and unprotected. 
amar also found serious dis­crepancies between the man­uscripts themselves and the catalog that was supposed to guide the scholars researching them, he said. some descrip­tions misidentify the author of a text or the date of its pub­lication, amar said. others misrepresent the manuscript’s argument, in what amar called a “catholicizing tendency.” 
“it gives the impression that the manuscripts are in agreement with contempo­rary catholic teaching, when of course many of the manu­scripts are very ancient and pre-date anything that was go­ing on in any church,” he said. “But you only know that when you look at the manuscript it­self and compare it to what’s in the catalog, and you say, ‘someone has been fudging the information here.’” 
part of amar’s job is to cor­rect these errors, he said. in addition to his research on the time period itself, amar works as a consultant for the vatican library, pointing out where the manuscripts and the Bibliotheca orientalis clementino-vaticana differ. 
“i look at [the manuscript], i look at the way it’s described in the catalog, and i say we have to change a, B and c,” amar said. “sometimes we have to change the century in which it was written and the author that we thought wrote it.” 
Because the manuscripts often have pages missing, finding the right information, especially the document’s au­thor, involves some sleuthing, amar said. 
“it’s really hard,” he said. 
“[you find the author] by the language itself. you look at the words the author used, and you say to yourself, ‘if this is written by X, did X use this kind of writing? did he use these words? does this fit what we know about him?’ Then ei­ther you say either the manu­script attribution is correct, that the guy they say wrote it actually wrote it, or you make an educated speculation that, ‘i’m pretty sure that this isn’t who they say it is, but it could be y or Z. But it sure isn’t X.’” 
amar’s work has taken on new significance in the digi­tal age. in addition to improv­ing its organization, in recent years, the vatican library has begun to digitize its oldest and rarest documents. whereas the Bibliotheca orientalis clementino-vaticana was once the only source of infor­mation on a text, the library can now update the descrip­tion on the web, incorporating amar’s research, he said. The project involves many schol­ars who are largely in charge of the digitization in their own fields. 
“They sort of let me take the lead,” amar said. “They say, ‘when we draw up a list of pri­ority, of manuscripts to digi­tize, which ones do we own in The vatican that no one else has copies of?’ Those are num­ber one. and which of those do we need to correct as far as the catalog goes to give people a clearer understanding of ex­actly what’s in them?” 
amar said the process often leads to new discoveries. For example, scholars believed for centuries that Jacob of edessa, an influential Biblical scholar, had written a commentary on the Book of genesis . but no one could find it. meanwhile, a catalog contained a mis­identified genesis commen­tary, amar said. By comparing that manuscript’s writing and handwriting style with Jacob’s known works, amar said he was able to correctly attribute the commentary to him. 
“it’s like reinventing the wheel,” amar said. “This is something altogether new, from way in the beginning of christianity, in a part of the world that we don’t even think about in christian terms.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 


LGBTQ 
conTinued From page 1 
held a happy hour & Trivia night at legends on monday. 
“That [was] our big mar­quee event for the semester, but we’ve also been doing smaller stuff, like getting to­gether to watch movies or go­ing out and just establishing the social network, so that people don’t feel ostracized or alone when they’re here,” he said. “one of the hardest parts, people tell me, is that they just feel alone, that they don’t have someone to con­fide in or talk to, so we’re trying to build a community that they can feel open and safe with.” 

cunningham said glassnd is currently subgroup of the gsu, not an official club. he said glassnd is looking to increase its membership and involvement before it be­gins the process to become a group recognized by the university. 
glassnd hopes to serve as a welcoming entity for pro­spective graduate students at the university, cunningham said. 
“at the moment, espe­cially for lgBTQ students that are investigating [the university], they hear the long-standing rumors about how notre dame is with lgBTQ members,” he said. “what we’d like to do is pro­vide the structure so that they have a group to come and join. another pro of be­ing an official, recognized group would be a structured community that people could reach out to and look to for support, not just when they’re looking to apply here, but also once they are here.” 
cunningham said that the graduate school and admin­istration has been very sup­portive of the group’s efforts. 
“i work really closely with the administration and the people in the graduate school, and they’ve been ab­solutely fantastic as we’ve gotten things off the ground,” he said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

Multiethnic 
conTinued From page 1 
the press release.  “i look for­ward to learning about this alum­na’s journey and how i can better myself to overcome adversity and be the best i can be.” 
The event will take place sunday at 6:30 p.m. in the student center lounge. The event is not open to the public, but media are welcome to cover the event, according to the press release. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

A year well spent 
Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 

everyone told me college would go by too fast. They failed to tell me it would go this fast. it seems only yesterday i was a wide-eyed freshman trying to remember how to get to north from Knott, the names of everyone i met and most importantly, all the traditions of what not to do. step on the grass on god Quad, walk up the front steps of the dome, let a girl walk you around the lakes holding hands and then kiss you under the lyons arch, something or other about mcglinn girls (“or was it howard?” “wait, who’s howard?”), etc. 
yet here i am, a few reading days and one finals week away from surviving my first year at notre dame, still on track to graduate on time (knock-on-wood). and what a year it has been. i think everyone should take a moment and reflect on his or her year here and what has all hap­pened, good and bad. here are a few of mine. 
i have made new friends from all over the globe. if you take the time to think of all the people you have met here, chances are you will be able to count friends from at least a dozen countries . i think my last count was 17. and i now know that if i’m ever in chicago — or, well, a suburb of chicago — i probably have 20 different places to stay. 
i switched majors, but who hasn’t? i think a couple of my friends are on their fourth or fifth, and another still has no clue what she wants to do. 
i bombed a test (or two). well, at least, “bombed” meaning a c, but that’s still an experience that most of us had never had before we came here. 
i sat front row for four or five home football games. i even caught that great touchdown pass to TJ Jones on video under the lights against usc. it’s upside down, but who cares? 
i went to all but five home hockey games, and i got a few other people bitten by the hockey bug along the way. i was even fortunate enough to work with mr. gilbert and the other hockey managers, and i can’t wait to work with them again next year. 
Finally, i joined The observer staff as an interhall football writer where i learned trying to hold a pen and notebook on a cold and windy november evening is pretty awful, but at least it keeps you bat­tling enough that you can’t focus on the fact you can’t feel your toes. sort of. now though, thankfully, i work in a heated of­fice and the eck Tennis pavilion. 
so there are some of my paper-friendly experiences that have made this year go by so fast. Take a moment to think about all the experiences that have made this year great for you and share them, like i had the pleasure of doing. 
it’s o.K. to be jealous that it was my job to do so, though. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at      zklonsin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

By my count, i’ve written 32 viewpoint columns totaling more than 22,000 words over the past three years. 
can you believe there are still things i never said? 
i never said many of my favorite columns are born from 5:30 a.m. wake up calls, black coffee and four newspapers. of course, there was a reason for this; is there any­thing less interesting than reading a column about writing a column? 
i never said how uneasy i am about the 2014 congressional elections. republicans have a real chance to take control of the senate this year, and i hope they do. But every time a conservative pundit or op-ed columnist speaks of the inevitability of it happening, i worry complacency will doom the gop’s efforts. it’s a long road to november, and the gop will be best served if it keeps its eyes on the road and foot on the gas. 
i never said how i felt about col­lege athletes being paid. you think the ncaa should compensate its athletes? Fine. There’s an argu­ment to be made for doing just that. it’s an argument i don’t en­tirely disagree with. But to those who ludicrously compare college football players to exploited work­ers in america and around the world — stop. paid or not, college athletes are doing something they love by their own free will. anyone with half a brain knows there is no comparison between this and sweatshop labor. 
i never said how inconceivable it is that many students at this university, myself among them, are allowed to graduate having fulfilled requirements in fine arts and natural sciences, yet never having taken the most basic courses in accounting and finance. There’s something unsettling about venturing into the post­graduate years knowing more than i need to about leonardo’s mastery of chiaroscuro yet very little about setting up an investment fund for my retirement. 
i never said how impressed i am every day by notre dame’s food services workers in the dining halls. is there anyone who works harder than them? 
i never said how surprised i was when former viewpoint editor meghan Thomassen took a chance and let an unknown transfer stu­dent start writing columns the week he got to campus in 2012. Thanks, meghan. 
i never said what i thought of a certain controversial speaker com­ing to notre dame’s campus be­cause i didn’t think she deserved the ink and paper that would require, not to mention the extra attention she and her rabid sup­porters desired. and i don’t plan on giving her more than a para­graph now. 
i never said what a mistake it is that the department of american studies is letting its best professor, Joshua roiland, leave at the end of this school year. students who have had his classes know that no­body teaches modern journalism better than him. congratulations, university of maine. you’re getting one cool professor. 

i never said my biggest regret in writing these columns is that i didn’t endorse mitt romney for president sooner in 2012 and with the strongest words possible. romney would not only have made a good president, but his intellect, fundamental decency and proven leadership in the public and pri­vate sectors are things that the gop, not to mention washington in general, need more of. 
These are just a few of the things i wanted to say but didn’t have the words or patience to put into a well-articulated column. 
i’ve enjoyed writing about poli­tics and other big ideas because i enjoy meaningful conversation. i enjoy the challenge of starting a conversation, rather than just getting a rise out of readers. after all, isn’t that to be expected from a great university and a great university newspaper? 
my time at the observer has end­ed, but the big ideas and political debates of our time have not. 
let the conversation go on. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Support all women 
Sarah Karchunas 
guest columnist 

i almost submitted a very angry viewpoint a couple of weeks ago. you can ask my friends, among whom the copy of said “scathing” viewpoint was spread and discussed at quite some length. From friends telling me it was brilliant, to friends telling me that i had personally offended them at their core, it seemed to have struck quite a chord. after my par­ents managed to convince me that somehow submitting this viewpoint would shatter my public image forev­er, i decided to hold off on pressing that send button. 
let me explain this vaunted view­point. as a junior, whose prospects of receiving a ring in the next few weeks seem at this point fairly slim, i was disgruntled by what seemed like to me to be constant talk from pro­fessors, friends and classmates alike about how life seemed to culminate in getting married and having chil­dren as soon as possible. after years of conversations revolving around majors and possible career choices, i was slightly perplexed at what seemed like the complete shift to discussions about things like favor­ite proposal spots or the number and names of potential future children. and i admit it, i felt judged — i felt like many of those around me, espe­cially in my major, were subtly look­ing down upon me because my path to marriage and children has not yet been neatly paved in front of me. all of this culminated in an angry rant about how these students needed to get over themselves and stop making everyone who wasn’t wedding dress shopping just feel like failures. 
after having a discussion with my mom over easter break though, and hearing about how she was made to feel bad by some of her working friends after making the decision to stay home and raise her children, i realized that i was angry at the wrong thing. i’m not angry at the choices of others; i’m angry that there needs to be an antagonism between these different choices. 
This might be speaking too far to the future, but why can’t all those who plan on marrying and having kids right after college credit and support women who are planning on making progress in their career for those early post-college years? why can’t women with an eye towards working their way to success or try­ing to impact the world outside of the household acknowledge the great value of their fellow sisters who are putting their energy at the time into raising their children? 
For each individual woman, there will be many different choices, and just because someone else is choos­ing a different path does not make yours any less valid or beautiful. i think this simple message has got­ten garbled in a typical notre dame combination of competitiveness, wanting to change the world in every way and philosophy professors who tell you that if you aren’t engaged by the time you leave notre dame, you’re in trouble. 

let’s ignore those people who try to tell us how to live our lives and on what timetable to operate our rela­tionships, whether those people are friends, parents or professors. let’s work past our own insecurities and stop operating under the idea that we constantly need to prove to oth­ers that the way we are living our lives is the only “successful” way to live. as many of us prepare to enter the “real world,” let’s promise to sup­port each other as women, from the future stay-at-home mother of five to the future president of a nonprofit. 
Sarah Karchunas is a junior studying political science and theology who lives in Pasquerilla West. She can be contact­ed at  skarchun@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

don’t be afraid to take mental health days 
Ade Ilesanmi 
old gold & Black 

we are at a time in our lives in which we feel ourselves to be invinci­ble. we quietly pride ourselves in our completion of long weeks with mini­mal hours of rest and multiple exams piled on papers piled on presentations and projects piled on the slew of ex­tracurricular activities we sign our­selves onto each semester. 
we seldom ask for help because — to put it as simply as possible — we would be letting down our guard, showing the weaker hand. 
now, when i refer to our tendency to avoid admitting to our weaknesses, to our lack of invincibility, i am not nec­essarily referring to how we address our academic weaknesses. 
i’ve seen many a student take full advantage of the tutoring services available to us, as well as office hours with their professors, whether they are for academic guidance or mentor-ship for the future. 
no, when it comes to our grades and our futures, we are quick to ask for help. on the surface, we can admit to areas in our lives where there are voids. 
what about those areas, however, that lie beneath the surface? what do we as students tend to do when those areas that comprise our emotions, our mental stability and our psychological abilities are also experiencing voids? 
i may be wrong, but it seems to me that on our campus — likely because of the greatness and strength of char­acter expected of students — we tend to put our mental “weaknesses” on the back burner. 
it is  those very issues, however, that could be the very source of the added stress in other areas of our lives, espe­cially if unaddressed. 
i guess what i’m really getting at here is, we all go through things in our lives that can be just as debilitat­ing as getting mono for a week or sus­taining a severe injury. Just as those events require rest and recuperation so that you can return to your scho­lastic responsibilities stronger than before, a traumatizing life event, a relapse into a habit you thought you’d overcome or an episode of severe depression require attention so that you can return to your day-to-day activities. 
Because of things like stigma and fear of appearing unstable or as though one is “complaining” about things that are not “really important,” we might think it’s better to just ig­nore these underlying problems and move on with our lives. But, are we really helping ourselves by staying in denial. 
how much good will studying for your exam do you if you are spend­ing 60 percent of your time worrying about a family member that is ill or staying in bed because you are too depressed to be productive? wouldn’t it be better if you used that time to deal with whatever it is you’re going through now so that you can actually focus on school later? 
i know that in the environment in which we now find ourselves, it’s easy to say “school comes first” and end the discussion there. That, how­ever, could not be further from the truth. The truth is that life — with all of its ups and downs, trials and turnarounds — comes first. There is no one component of our lives that won’t be affected by the other. we cannot compartmentalize different parts of our individual experiences because those experiences comprise the essence of who we are. we must acknowledge that being “sick” is not limited to how high of a fever we have. 

mental illness, sickness, instability, discomfort or however you want to describe it is no less legitimate than any physical form of those states. it is what it is, and it — whatever it is — is worth taking the time out to address. a sick day is a chance to help yourself. having to borrow someone’s notes is a small price to pay for some piece of mind. 
This article was originally published on April 24th for Old Gold & Black, the daily student newspaper of Wake Forest University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The oBserver | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Matthew Munhall 
scene writer 

dear pop stars of the world, why does this keep hap­pening? it has been a decade since gwen stefani’s use of the harajuku girls, her Japanese and Japanese-american backup dancers, was widely perceived as fetishizing asian women. Just last year, the discourse surrounding miley cyrus’s use of black women as props in her “we can’t stop” video and vma performance was widely pub­licized. so why does a new instance of cultural appropria­tion by a pop star arise seemingly every week? 
These conversations were revived most recently with the release of avril lavigne’s new music video “hello Kitty.” while the song itself is an offensive aural assault, it is its terrible video that has proved controversial. like stefani, the Japanese women lavigne uses as backup dancers are presented as expressionless props. The cli­chéd representations of Japanese culture continue as lavigne dances around a neon-colored Tokyo, eats sushi, drinks sake and screams, “arigato, Kawaii.” 
earlier this month, sky Ferreira’s video for her brilliant pop anthem “i Blame myself” faced similar charges. The video, which plays on her 2013 drug arrest, finds her por­traying a gang leader. like cyrus, her recent tourmate, Ferreira was criticized for using black men as props in 
Daniel Barabasi 
scene writer 

welcome to the brand-new experience. 
air-conditioned bathrooms. rehydration zones. Fenced-off relaxation areas with better views. reservation-only four-course dinners. Beauty parlors sponsored by sephora. 
all available at your friendly neighborhood music festival. 
personally, the list above sounds like a friend describing their latest family vacation to a cancun resort, not the vip experience at coachella, ultra miami or the reinstated electric Zoo Festival in new york. 
i have heard many critics complain about the main­stream pop turn many lineups have taken over the years, however, in the meantime, organizers have been slowly whittling away at the discomfort a music festival entails. suddenly, we realize the rugged, dirty, “dangerous” festi­val we once loved is all but gone. 
in its place, we have the “safe” festival: if the sun gets too hot you can hide in the baths or have the layers of mud quickly whittled away at the local spa. don’t worry though, you won’t miss your favorite artists. in fact, with an extra few hundred dollars you can get priority viewing ERIN RICE | The Observer her drug dealer fantasy. although Ferreira envisioned the video as homage to michael Jackson’s “Bad,” her black dancers were seemingly cast as signifiers of toughness to contrast with her image as a white woman. 
Katy perry’s video for her new single “Birthday” fea­tures the pop star dressed in elaborate costumes as hor­rible party entertainers. Though most were harmless, if cringe-worthily unfunny, one of these characters was a Bar mitzvah mc named yosef shulem. The character traffics in well-worn Jewish stereotypes, with perry don­ning a prosthetic nose and yarmulke while joking about circumcision. This follows her similarly offensive perfor­mance at last year’s american music awards, a stereo­typical representation of a “geisha” in which she wore a kimono and powdered face. 
what is most frustrating — if expected — is the way these pop stars go on the defensive in the face of back­lash. “racisT??? lololol!!! i love Japanese culture and i spend half of my time in Japan,” lavigne tweeted last monday in the midst of the controversy. “i flew to Tokyo to shoot this video specifically for my Japanese fans, wiTh my Japanese label, Japanese choreographers and a Japanese director in Japan.” 
in a Facebook post, Ferreira defended her video, “no, i did not use black back up dancers as “props.” i never have and never will look at any human being as a prop. … should i consciously only cast white dancers for now on? 
with no lines in the vip section. did i mention no lines for drinks either? 
here, the poor college student questions, “where’s the fun in that?” let’s see the cliché comparison to the origi­nal woodstock. over 400,000 participants, all organized without online tickets or vip passes. Barely any safety considerations, around half of the attendees didn’t have tickets, and the venue had to have its fences cut down in order to avoid a riot. all this, and yet only one overdose death, one death by tractor in a neighboring field and two on-premise births. The backlash? governor rockefeller considered sending 10,000 national guard troops, but was talked out of it by festival organizer John roberts. 
There was the potential for danger, rioting and looting in the presence of nearly half a million people, but the fes­tival is remembered as the touchstone for hippies, peace and love. They achieved this in pouring rain and knee-deep mud, without “rehydration zones” or beauty parlors. 
so, what’s the big fuss 45 years later? on top of the aforementioned comfort items, the city of miami tried to push ultra out of its center, and electric Zoo announced last week a safety review board staffed by doctors, secu­rity experts, music industry specialists and dJs steve aoki and armin van Buuren. Furthermore, the festivals con­tinue to ramp up their efforts to spread their zero toler­ance drug policy. 
if i’m racist does that mean you’re pro-segregation?!” 
The criticism these artists face stems from a genuine place; rather than dismissing it outright, i wish pop stars would listen to the honest complaints about videos that are racially insensitive and engage in the conversation about cultural appropriation taking place. These contro­versies allow for moments of learning and dialogue—for both the pop stars themselves and their audiences. in his recap of 2013’s pop culture phenomena, grantland’s rembert Browne wrote, “cultural appropriation has been occurring forever, but it has been long addressed in homogenous silos. … a ton of uncomfortable things hap­pened in 2013. But we finally began talking about them together.” 
The first four months of 2014 alone have proven pop music will continue to produce “uncomfortable things.” yet, i’m also certain that pop stars can create interesting, even controversial art without reducing peoples’ identi­ties down to simplified stereotypes. This certainly won’t be — and shouldn’t be — the last time we talk about race and cultural appropriation. and while i hope pop stars learn from these instances going forward, at the very least we’re finally having these conversations together. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The drug-proofing is a noble cause, as in a city envi­ronment the attendees can present a danger not only to themselves, but also to the commuters on their way back to their lodging. Festivals should be for the music and the live experience, not to worry about the state of the crowd. in 2014, party drug users, especially those who can afford major music festivals, should know enough about their choices to avoid danger. 
yet drug-proofing doesn’t entail an overall streamlin­ing of the festival process. rehydration tents make sense, but why turn a music festival into a spa day? it’d be hard to believe that the commercialization of the festival expe­rience is a financial issue, considering recent ticket prices and on-site refreshment costs. 
unfortunately, the music industry has made its path clear. small-scale festivals may still retain their rustic and rugged environment, but if you want the best collection of big-time performers, you’ll have to attend the new music festival. 
That means rounded edges, pay-per-use toilets, safety doorknobs, steak dinners and spa breaks, just to see your favorite artists. child-proof, idiot-proof, fun-proof. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The oBserver | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 
while you’re away: 
i have some unfortunate news. 

with summer arriving soon, you will be tragically without the constant stream of valued, serious opinions from the beloved and respected writers of scene. i know cam­pus is panicking as this realization dawns, and i am no exception. 
But fear not — here’s a list of recommen­dations in all things arts and entertainment to get you through the summer months. so read up, tune in and check out these highly anticipated summer happenings, and we’ll be back with our unsolicited pop-culture advice in no time. 
To Watch: 
Television 

“orange is the new Black” – with a com­pelling preview just released, the netflix­produced show will be back for a second season June 6, and after its stellar first season and a cliff-hanger finale, there’s no doubt season two will result in cancelled weekend plans and a netflix binge for many a fan. 
“The leftovers” – if you couldn’t get enough of “lost,” writer and co-creator of the drama damon lindelof is back with “The leftovers” on hBo. premiering June 29, the new series will star Justin Theroux and liv Tyler in a post-rapture world based on the Tom perrotta novel of the same name. 
“welcome to sweden” – amy poehler is television’s rock, so this poehler-produced comedy on nBc will be worth checking out. starring aubrey plaza and poehler’s brother greg poehler, the show reportedly is about a man who dates a swedish woman and sub­sequently moves to sweden with her. sure, that pitch has the potential to go very badly, but i’m cheering for the poehlers on this one. The show is scheduled to premiere July 10. 
Film 
The Fault in our stars – i probably don’t need to remind most, but the highly an­ticipated movie version of John green’s bestselling novel premieres June 6 and stars shailene woodley and relative-newcomer ansel egort. i have never read the book, but i sobbed at the trailer so i’ll be avoiding this one. 
wish i was here – despite receiving plenty of criticism for his crowd-funding approach to the film, Zach Braff did fundraise from fans successfully enough to release “wish i was here.” Braff stars in, co-wrote and di­rected the film, which is easy to believe be­cause its trailer is so Braff-esque, it’s almost painful. Braff plays a struggling actor trying to find himself (sound familiar? so does the shins track in the background), except this time, he’s a dad. as much as i complain, i know i’m going to see it when it premieres on July 25. 
The giver – it should be law that everyone has to reunite with his or her eighth-grade english class to watch and discuss the up­coming movie adaptation of lois lowry’s “The giver,” out august 15. The film stars meryl streep and Jeff Bridges, which is en­couraging, as i have high hopes for this take on a classic. 

To Listen: 
clap your hands say yeah – after releas­ing “hysterical” in 2011 and a seldom-talk­ed-about ep in 2013, clap your hands say yeah has announced the release of a new album, “only run.” The lp was made al­most entirely by front man alec ounsworth, who has been touring on his own, similar to James mercer’s role on the shins’ “port of morrow” But along with plenty of behind­the-scenes changes within the band, “only run” will have plenty of noticeable changes in the band’s sound, including a guest vo­cal appearance from The national’s matt Berninger. The release date for “only run” is scheduled for June 3. 
sharon van etten – indie/indy (based in Bloomington) record label Jagjaguwar will put out sharon van etten’s fourth album this may. The record, titled “are we There,” was produced entirely by the remarkably talented singer-songwriter etten, and its 11 tracks will feature collaborations with sev­eral musicians, including mackenzie scott of Torres and Jana hunter of lower dens. 
how To dress well – alternative r&B artist how To dress well, a.k.a. Tom Krell, has announced a new album, “what is This heart?” The singer has already re­ceived praise for the upcoming album’s single “repeat pleasure,” and the pitchfork-favorite will drop the full, 12-track lp on June 24. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

history is riddled with young artists . prodigal talents whose skills have pushed them into the eye of their com­munities and eventually, their nations. in the digital age, more and more of these artists are appearing. new technology allows young men and women to produce professional-grade pieces across all mediums. in the case of digital media, this art can then be displayed and dis­tributed online with little to no difficulty. it’s no surprise, then, that the modern music scene is one that, more than ever, is fronted by teenagers and young adults. alongside boy-bands and pop stars, diy producers and singer-songwriters have risen drastically in the indie scene. 
with such young independent acts rising in popularity, many critics are presented with a new set of questions: is there some value to the flaws in a young person’s record that represents the mental or artistic development yet to come? is there value in lyrics that showcase naivety and immaturity? at the heart of this question is the idea of the incomplete artist. can the output of a budding musi­cian somehow be better for the flaws that better reveal its creator? 
an excellent place to start this investigation is the lat­est album by 18-year-old singer-songwriter-producer Juansolo, whose album “alight” poses all these questions and more. written through the elementary production program Fruity loops and recorded on stock laptop speakers, the album showcases the rough edges of its production. lyrics boast traces of accompanying static and background noise. guitar lines are alternately sharp and thin. drums boast clattering highs and overwhelm­ing lows. The extreme ends of the musical spectrum are at the forefront, often barraging the ear in a challenging way. 
amazingly, these sounds are framed in extremely friendly contexts. The songs of “alight” are pop songs through and through. each track is built around a cen­tral melody or musical trademark; some take the form of verses and choruses, while others follow a perpetuat­ing element through a series of evolutions. “True wuv” and follower “moon” are clear examples of the former, rolling through maximalist verses that build their way to and around catchier choruses. meanwhile, “atlantis” is a standard, non-vocal edm track that goes build-fake drop-build-drop, and hip-hop inspired “snow” simply bends and releases a single vocal motif. 
and yet, given the central conflict between uneven, jagged production and pop-song structure, “alight” man­ages to achieve a cohesive whole through lyrical voice and maximalist arrangement. every song here is burst­ing at the seams with youthful energy, both musical and vocal. opener “hogwarts letter” mirrors the excitement inspired by its title with synths swirling around multiple pitch-shifted voices that bellow, “don’t you shy away.” “True wuv” cloaks a last-guy-and-girl-in-the-world fan­tasy in a relentless string sample. obvious highlight “Tagalong” crunches through two verse-chorus rotations of lo-fi production before bursting into vivid hi-fi, where Juan declares repeatedly, “we could be so great together, i just want to share your weather.” it’s a record where ev­erything is turned up to 10 on the excitement factor, with neither the music nor lyrics getting lost along the way. 
“alight” does manage to balance this out a bit by placing smoother, more laidback . but still layered and lush . songs among the anthems. “snow” and closer “asleep” are clear examples of this. Both are relatively dark. “snow” asks a lover, “if we fell from here, would it take forever to fall out of love?”  while “asleep” tries to find optimism in death. But even these tracks are full of life and brightness, look­ing for light at the end of their respective tunnels. 
in the end, “alight” is the perfect youth record. it’s rough around the edges, has a heart of gold and is bursting with energy. and although it’s no immaculate, innovative mu­sical moment, it’s certainly an exciting and engaging one that brings the listener intensely close to the artist. From a critical perspective, it’s a fantastic work that echoes the best and worst of the adolescent years. “alight” may be a trip down the twisting, unpredictable road of teenage life, but it’s definitely one worth taking. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Alight” 
Juansolo 

Label: Green Dragon Rewards 
Tracks: “True Wuv,” “Tagalong,” “Alight” 
If you like: Youth Lagoon, Deadmau5, Owl City 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Owners should reject Sterling 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
congratulations to daniel snyder and Jim irsay — for this week, at least, you are out of the headlines and off the hook. 
This week’s award for the most odious behavior in sports — owner’s division — goes to clippers owner donald sterling. it’s not even a contest. sterling has a long history of racist behavior and discrimi­nation suits, but over the week­end audio of a conversation purportedly between sterling and his girlfriend, v. stiviano, made him america’s most fa­mous racist. in the recording, a man alleged to be sterling criticizes stiviano for posting an instagram photo of herself with magic Johnson, saying she shouldn’t “broadcast” the fact she associates with black people. 
i could mention how ridicu­lous it is that sterling thinks it is socially unacceptable to as­sociate with african americans but perfectly fine for an 80-year-old married man to flaunt his relationship with a very young woman who is cur­rently being sued by his wife. 
i could point out the massive amount of double-think that must be necessary for a man to demonize a photo-op with a fantastically successful and re­spected black man like magic Johnson and then turn around and field a team where most of the players and the coach are black. 
But that is hardly necessary: i think most reasonable people in the united states realize that anyone who behaves like this is disgusting, lecherous and despicable, and it’s al­most certain sterling will be suspended from the nBa as soon as they can verify that the voice on the tape is his own. 
i would not be surprised if nBa commissioner adam silver and the rest of the own­ers find a way to force him out of the league in the near future. 
in the meantime, we’re faced with a more difficult question: what’s a clippers fan to do? (don’t laugh — there must be a few in existence). 
The problem goes to the heart of professional sports in their current form. as sports fans, it’s the players who own our hearts, but the owners who control our wallets. sure, some owners are well-liked by their fan bases and respected within their sports — robert Kraft of the new england patriots and the rooney family of the pittsburgh steelers are good examples — but you’d be hard-pressed to find a sports fan who chose his or her favorite team based on the owner. 
mark Jackson, the coach of the golden state warriors, has called on both warriors and clippers fans to boycott game Five of the playoff series between the two teams, which will be played tonight at the staples center. and while that would certainly benefit his team more than it would the clippers on their home floor, he has a point. The only real way for fans to hurt an owner is to refuse to spend money on his product. 
But what about the clippers players? They have more right to be offended by the audio than anyone else. it’s bad enough to hear the comments when they come from a per­son you’ve never met.can you imagine how much worse it must be to hear such opinions from your boss, the man who has the ultimate say in your contract and your status on the team? in fact, point guard and player association president chris paul said the team dis­cussed boycotting the games themselves before deciding on a silent protest before game Four on sunday night. 
after decades as one of the worst franchises in american sports, lob city is finally giv­ing its fans a reason to get excited. why should the fans turn their backs on players who have done nothing wrong, and in fact have probably been hurt more than anyone else? why should the players be de­prived of post-season success or fan support? Blake griffin, chris paul, danny granger, doc rivers: they should be the faces of the clippers, not donald sterling. 
maybe i’m being naïve, but i think it is the fellow nBa own­ers who need to step in and fix this problem. They are the ones who voted him into their club back in 1981. it is their job to kick him out. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NASCAR 

Busch to drive ‘the double’ 
Associated Press 
Kurt Busch will drive the no. 26 suretone honda for andretti autosport in his at­tempt to run the indianapolis 500 and nascar’s 600-mile race on the same day. 
only John andretti, Tony stewart and robby gordon have attempted the “double,” and no driver has tried since gordon in 2004. 
Busch’s no. 26 was unveiled monday in indianapolis. The 35-year old Busch will hit the track in the no. 26 on Tuesday at indianapolis motor speedway. 
he will attempt to make the may 25 indianapolis 500 in a fifth entry for andretti autosport. he drives the no. 41 chevrolet for stewart-haas racing. 

suretone is an american re­cord label founded in 2006 as a joint venture by Jordan schur, former ceo of geffen records, and interscope record. 
“i couldn’t have found a bet­ter group to attempt to run this double,” Busch said monday. 
he’s expected to spend a week testing andretti’s honda, and make at least 10 trips be­tween indy and charlotte as he participates in nascar’s all-star race and attempts to qualify and race in the 500 and the 600. 
he said he’s worked out sev­eral scheduling issues with nascar and has permission from charlotte motor speedway to helicopter onto the frontstretch of the track to speed up his arrival for the second race. Busch won the coca-cola 600 — which is a full 100 miles longer than any other race on the nacar schedule — in 2010. 
suretone was glad it’s aboard for Busch’s run in the black-and-white no. 26. 
“we are honored to have suretone entertainment stand with andretti autosport and Kurt Busch in this historic event as Kurt enters his first indianapolis 500 qualifying run, as well as attempts to be­come only the fourth driver in motorsport history to contest the ‘double’,” shur said. 
LPGA 

Ko wins in san Francisco 
Associated Press 
after a whirlwind week fea­turing a multitude of celebra­tions that included her first lpga Tour victory as a pro, lydia Ko planned to sleep late monday before catching a san Francisco cable car for a little bit of sightseeing. 
what a successful, memora­ble trip she had to the Bay area. 
Ko turned 17 and had “happy Birthday” sung to her at the first tee box to kick off the inaugural swinging skirts lpga classic, earned a spot as one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time magazine, and captured her first lpga Tour title as a pro­fessional — all while playing with a fill-in caddie from the local club. 
“normally they would say sweet 16, but i would say it’s sweet 17,” Ko said. “i don’t think i could have any better birthday week.” 
poised and unflappable, Ko made the perfect pitch up to the green from the rough to birdie the final hole sunday, holding off stacy lewis and Jenny shin for her third lpga win in all. 
it went down to the final shots, and the teen made a 6-foot birdie putt moments before lewis knocked in a 4-footer of her own to finish one stroke back. 
after beginning the day a stroke behind lewis, Ko bird­ied three of her final four holes 

WANTED 
PERFECT SUMMER JOB Child care provider for two boys for the sum­mer. Crafts, sports and other activities 

on the front nine on the way to a 3-under 69 and 12-under 276 total at lake merced. 
Ko earned $270,000, cel­ebrating on the 18th green three days after celebrating her birthday at the first tee box with the gallery singing “happy Birthday.” 
Ko, born in south Korea and raised in new Zealand, will move up two spots to no. 2 in the next world ranking. 
her father, g.h., got to see her win sunday. 
“Tears nearly ran down my face. you may lose friends, but you’re always going to have your parents,” Ko said. “i try to make myself not cry of happi­ness, but it was coming to that point.” 
she won the canadian women’s open as an amateur the last two years and took the swinging skirts world ladies masters in december in Taiwan in her second start as a professional. she has six victo­ries in pro events, also winning in australia and new Zealand. 
all three of Ko’s lpga wins have come on courses most of the other golfers also played for the first time. 
The third-ranked lewis fin­ished with a 71 for her sixth runner-up finish since win­ning the women’s British open in august. she will head to her home state of Texas next week looking to build on a disap­pointing near miss in which she struggled all day with her short game. 
“i knew she wasn’t going away. lydia played great,” lewis said. “every time i hit a shot in there, she answered.” 
shin, still looking for her first tour win after her best finish this year, had a 68 to finish two shots behind. 
“They were fearless,” shin said about her playing part­ners, “They just went for it.” 
playing together for the fourth straight day, neither Ko nor lewis hit any dazzling shots early. Ko’s second of three bogeys came on the 417-yard, par-4 seventh in which her tee shot hit a tree and dropped in the rough. lewis’ 10-foot birdie putt on no. 9 lipped out. 
Ko pulled into a first-place tie at 10 under as they made the turn on a picture-perfect spring day, then took the lead with a birdie on no. 13. lewis went in the bunker, missed the green and two-putted for bo­gey to fall two back. 
“The front nine, i did every­thing i wanted to do, the putts just didn’t go in,” lewis said. “i expected her to do exactly what she did today. ... she hit every shot she needed to make from 13 on in.” 
There were two holes-in­one sunday: Jimin Kang on the 164-yard third and dewi claire schreefel with a 7-iron on the 157-yard 12th hole that earned her a $100,000 prize from china Trust Bank. 
The weather held for the fi­nal day after fog and rain de­lays earlier in the tournament. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
required. Flex. hours, FT or PT, com-boys ages 10 & 12 from mid June petitive wage. Call 574-271-0747 to mid August. Personal transporta­
tion required and experience swim-

ND alumni seeking an energetic, mer preferred. Please contact Emily organized and experienced student Neufeld at 574.532.7295 for more to provide full-time childcare to 2 information. 


SMC GOLF | 2nd 

Belles claim second at the MIAA NCAA qualifiers 
By MANNY DeJESUS 
sports writer 
at the end of the miaa ncaa qualifying round, the Belles finished in second place, 50 strokes behind the fall confer­ence champion, olivet. 
The Belles started strong on the first day of the qualifier, fin­ishing the day with a score of 329, only four strokes behind olivet. 
over the next two days, the Belles recorded scores of 344 and 349 in round two and three, respectively, but it was not enough to win the automatic qualifying bid in the division iii ncaa championships. 
on day two, olivet broke the course record with a score of 316 and improved its lead over saint mary’s to 32 strokes. Belles coach Kimberly moore recog­nized the gap widening and knew that it would be difficult to make a comeback. 
“after the first round, i was extremely confident; we were only four strokes behind,” moore said. “i felt my players did a great job for the weather and the conditions. after the second round yesterday, we did not help ourselves out.” 
in the final round, olivet golfed a 331, and, unfortunately for the Belles, saint mary’s was only able to record a 349, al­lowing the gap to widen even further. 
in the final round, senior adrienne plourde led the way for the comets and won honors as an individual medalist with a score of 77, only four over par. For saint mary’s, senior cap­tain paige pollak, freshman ali mahoney and sophomore claire Boyle all shot 87 and finished in a three-way tie for seventh. 
moore said that the leader for the team throughout the quali­fier was junior Janice heffernan who shot an 80, 85 and 88 in her three rounds. 
“i would say the biggest leader we have had this spring is a bit of a surprise,” moore said. “i always knew that this person could shoot the scores and be as consistent as she has been. Janice heffernan has really stayed steady this entire season. she has been the one person 

Miami sweeps Charlotte 
Associated Press 
leBron James scored 31 points, and the miami heat completed a first-round sweep of the charlotte Bobcats with a 109-98 victory monday night. 
James scored 19 points after injuring his thigh in the third quarter. he finished the game 10 of 19 from the field and had nine assists. 
chris Bosh added 17 points and dwyane wade battled through foul trouble and fin­ished with 15 as miami won 
its  20th  straight  game  over  
charlotte.  
The  two-time  defending  

champion nBa champions will await the winner of Brooklyn-Toronto series, which is tied 2-2. 
Kemba walker led charlotte with 29 points. 
The Bobcats played with­out al Jefferson, their leading scorer and rebounder who has been bothered by a foot injury since the first quarter of game 1. 
The loss signaled the end of an era for the Bobcats. They will become the hornets next season. 

The heat improved to 16-2 in first-round games since James’ arrival four years ago. This was the second straight year the heat swept their first-round se­ries, taking out milwaukee in four games last season. 
This was miami’s ninth con­secutive series victory. 
miami began to take con­trol midway through the third quarter shortly after James gave his teammates a scare when he drove to the basket and his right thigh collided with Bismack Biyombo’s knee, sending him to the ground. 
James remained on the floor for more than a minute and concerned teammates began gathering around him. he even­tually got up and hobbled to the bench and sat down during a timeout, but he stayed in the game. 
The injury only seemed to in­spire James after fans cheered when he went down. 
after the timeout he buried a 3-pointer and a long jumper before a one-handed dunk to help give miami a 73-66 lead with 4:51 left in the third quar­ter. miami pushed the lead to 13 when norris cole knocked down a 3-point buzzer-beater from the right corner at the end of the quarter. 
charlotte never got closer than seven points in the fourth quarter. 
with wade on the bench for most of the fourth quarter with foul trouble, the heat went al­most exclusively to James. The four-time nBa mvp scored 11 points in the final period and cole and James Jones knocked down big 3-pointers to keep the Bobcats at bay. 
despite being without Jefferson, the Bobcats led 54­52 at halftime behind 12 points from walker. 
walker, who finished 11 of 15 from the field, did a little bit of everything to keep charlotte in the game. 
with the shot clock wind­ing down on one possession he purposely fired the ball off the backboard from just inside the 3-point arc and raced to get his own rebound and put it in. on the next possession, walker drove the lane and found Biyombo with a no-look feed for a dunk. 
that i could consistently rely on shooting a countable score for the team. she is a junior, and i hope she will continue to work on her game over this summer and come back next year being one of the best players for us as well as one of the best players in our conference.” 
now that the season has ended, moore said she has had the opportunity to reflect on her team’s success over the last year. 
“looking back at this spring season i am most proud of the patience of this team,” moore said. “coming into a spring season, you are used to having a few weeks of practice indoors and then by the time the first tournament rolls around you have been outside practicing for at least a solid week. This spring was anything but that. we only played in one tournament this season that we were able to pre­pare outside for a week prior. it is extremely difficult to prepare for an outside sport when all you can do is prepare inside.” 
Though heffernan will be returning for the Belles next season, after this tournament, saint mary’s says goodbye to senior captains alexi Brown and pollak. 
with its season over, saint mary’s turns its eyes to next season, when seven golfers will return for the Belles. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
NBA 

hawks claim lead 
Associated Press 
mike scott made five 3-point­ers during a 30-6 second-quar­ter run monday night, and the atlanta hawks fended off a furi­ous fourth-quarter rally to beat top-seeded indiana 107-97 and take a 3-2 lead in the best-of-sev­en series. 
atlanta can clinch the first-round series at home Thursday. 
scott scored all 17 of his points during an incredible 12-min­ute stretch when atlanta went 13 of 16 from the field and out­scored indiana 41-19 to take a 61-40 halftime lead. The hawks and the 1970 milwaukee Bucks are the only road teams in the shot-clock era to score at least 40 points and allow fewer than 20 in any quarter of a playoff game. 
shelvin mack led the eighth-seeded hawks with 20 points. 
paul george had 26 for indiana, which got as close as eight points in the final minute. 
For the pacers, it was another bleak chapter in a second-half implosion that could go down as the worst in nBa history if they can’t survive this series. 
on monday, one of the league’s best defensive teams inexpli­cably collapsed in the second quarter. atlanta was 9 of 11 from beyond the arc in the quarter and shot 81.3 percent from the field during a second quarter in which the pacers allowed their most points ever in a playoff game and the hawks matched their second-highest scoring to­tal in the same quarter during a postseason game. 
atlanta previously did it against detroit on april 17, 1986. The st. louis hawks scored 45 points against Fort wayne on march 14, 1957. 
and it was every bit as impres­sive as it seemed. 
atlanta opened the quarter with a free throw from mack to tie the score at 21. scott then made four consecutive 3s to push the lead to 33-21. 
it didn’t stop there. 
mack hit a midrange jump­er, Kyle Korver made a 3, scott scored on a putback and Korver hit his second 3. mack followed that with two free throws and scott closed the run with his last 3 of the game. That gave atlanta a 48-27 lead. 
indiana never recovered. 
NHL 

penguins clinch after win over Blue Jackets 
Associated Press 
evgeni malkin had a hat trick and the pittsburgh penguins almost blew a four-goal lead be­fore beating the columbus Blue Jackets 4-3 on monday night to clinch their first-round playoff series in six games. 
The Blue Jackets, closer to making tee times than think­ing about a game 7, scored three times in a 4:52 span in the third period to turn up the pressure on the penguins. 
pittsburgh awaits the winner of the new york-philadelphia series, with the rangers leading 3-2 going into Tuesday night’s game 6. 
Brandon sutter also scored and matt niskanen had two as­sists as the penguins became the first team in the series to score first and win — but bare­ly. marc-andre Fleury made 24 saves. 
Fedor Tyutin, artem anisimov and nick Foligno scored late to thrill a crowd of 19,189 who stood and roared for the final 4 minutes. 
The penguins were hard pressed to just fight off the up­start Blue Jackets after goalie sergei Bobrovsky, who also had 24 saves, was pulled for an extra attacker with under 2 minutes left. 
columbus’ matt calvert was wide with a potential tying shot with 3:30 left. 
it was malkin’s 10th career three-goal game. he hadn’t scored in the first 332:52 of the series, then scored three in a span of 26:11. 
The Blue Jackets, one of the nhl’s youngest teams, found consolation in earning the first two playoff victories in the fran­chise’s 13 seasons. 
malkin, who ended a nine-game playoff goal drought, made up for lost time by scoring twice in a 4:02 span of the open­ing period. 
chris Kunitz won a puck bat­tle along the short boards and then slid a pass from the left cor­ner to malkin, who was alone at the edge of the right circle. he settled the puck and then beat Bobrovsky high on the stick side at the 9:11 mark. 
Foligno, who had the game 4 overtime winner the previ­ous time the teams played in columbus, went sent to the pen­alty box for a roughing penalty before malkin scored again. 
columbus’ derek macKenzie appeared to have cleared the puck, but niskanen got a stick on it to keep it in the offensive zone. The puck ended up going to malkin, who unleashed a hard wrister from the high slot with Kunitz blocking Bobrovsky’s view. 



SMC SOFTBALL | smc 6, alma 4; alma 7, smc 5 (8) 
Belles finish .500 after splitting double header 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s drew its season to a close over the weekend, splitting a dou­ble header with alma. The Belles (16-16, 6-10 miaa) took the first game, 6-4, be­fore dropping the second, 7-5, in eight innings. 
senior pitcher callie selner pitched game one in her final start for the team. she pitched a complete game, tallying two strike­outs and earning the win, finishing her college career with a record of 10-7. selner said her feelings on the mound were a mix of con­centration and excitement. 
“it was obviously an ex­citing day,” selner said. “i was focused on having fun, enjoying the time with my teammates and just execut­ing all the things i needed to do to help the team.” 
while selner held the scots (16-16, 8-8) to four runs, the Belles’ offense got going early before ex­ploding in the fifth inning. selner and sophomore first baseman Jillian Busfield led off the second inning with consecutive singles and Busfield came around to score on a groundout and rBi bunt. The Belles added one more in the third, but alma pulled the game even at two in the fourth. 
in the fifth, saint mary’s got started with back-to­back singles from junior catcher cecily reyes and Busfield to put runners on the corners. sophomore first baseman maria roberts entered the game to pinch run for reyes and the Belles executed a double steal to take the lead. The big hit in the inning came from junior outfielder victoria connelly as she hammered an rBi double. she scored on sophomore outfielder sarah callis’ single and the Belles led 6-2 at the end of the fifth. 
selner allowed a two-run home run at the top of the seventh. The scots then put runners on the corners with just one out. The next batter, senior first base­man christina snoblen, hit a deep fly ball to right field, which sent Belles junior outfielder nina vlahiotis to the warning track. vlahiotis made the catch with her back at the fence, and she fired the ball into first base to end the game on a double play with the final score at 6-4. 
The drama continued into the day’s second game. The Belles scored in the open­ing frame on an rBi from Busfield, but the scots re­sponded immediately and pulled even in the second. 
callis then rounded the bases for a run without a sin­gle hit to give saint mary’s a 2-1 lead. she got on base on a walk, got to second on a sacrifice fly, reached third on a groundout and scored on an illegal pitch. 
alma bounced back, scor­ing four consecutive runs off Belles sophomore pitch­er sarah Burke. The scots got one run each in the third and fourth, before extend­ing the lead to 5-2 with two runs in the fifth. 
saint mary’s rallied in the sixth. Freshman shortstop caitlyn migawa led off with a single, and Busfield hit a home run to cut the lead to one. selner batted next, and after fouling off two pitches with a full count, she tied the game with her fourth home run of the season. 
“i just wanted to keep the at-bat alive,” selner said.  “i didn’t want a strikeout to be the last thing i did at the plate and i finally got the contact i wanted.” 
selner and the Belles came up a bit short of the ending they wanted, however. The scots got a runner on base in the first extra frame, and scots sophomore catcher Kayla marice connected on a walk-off homerun that gave alma the 7-5 win. 
selner was on the mound for the season-ending home-run, but selner said the un­fortunate ending would not ruin the entire season or the positive future she thinks is ahead for the Belles. 
“it was a disappointing end, but it was a solid sea­son,” selner said. “we had fun as a team, drew clos­er together, and i think the girls have great things ahead. caitlyn migawa, season at 16-16 with a 6-10 Jillian Busfield, sarah miaa record that left them callis. i think those three in seventh place in the will provide great leader-conference. ship for the future on the field and in the lineup.” Contact Josh Dulany at 


The Belles finish their jdulany@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS | smc 7, norTh cenTral 2; KalamaZoo 7, smc 2 
saint mary’s tops cardinals after falling to hornets 
Observer Staff Report 
after a weekend loss to no. 9 Kalamazoo, saint mary’s bounced back with a 7-2 vic­tory over north central on monday. 
against the cardinals (10­10, 2-4 cciw), saint mary’s (11-7, 5-3 miaa) swept all three doubles flights, adding four singles victories as well. 
in doubles, Belles senior captain mary catherine Faller and sophomore margaret Faller claimed a de­cisive 8-4 victory over north central freshman Kelsey Forkin and junior reynolds cross. additionally, Belles junior shannon elliott and junior captain audrey Kiefer slipped past cardinals fresh­man Katie drone and fresh­man miranda grizaffi 9-8 (7-3), while Belles sophomore andrea Fetters and fresh­man sam setterblad defeat­ed north central freshman clare o’connor and sopho­more Kassandra Bernardo 8-4. 
in singles, drone and grizaffi claimed north central’s two victories, while eliott, Fetters, Kiefer and setterblad all claimed singles wins to go with their doubles victories. 
as a whole, the cardinals carry eight freshmen on their roster of 15 total players, as such youth accounts for over half of north central’s roster. conversely, only two of nine players on the saint marys roster are freshman, setterblad and freshman Kaity venters. 
monday’s victory was a nice change for the Belles af­ter a 7-2 loss to Kalamazoo on saturday. The loss was saint mary’s third miaa loss in eight matches this season. 
Kalamazoo (14-4, 8-0 miaa) stole all three doubles matches from the Belles, as hornets sophomore sarah woods and senior captain Jenna riehl handled Belles mary catherine Faller and junior Kayle sexton 8-5. likewise, Kalamazoo se­nior captain Kelsey moran and junior captain olivia Bouchard defeated saint mary’s Kiefer and elliott 8-3, and Kalamazoo freshman sabrina dass and sophomore ania latala topped saint mary’s margaret Faller and Fetters. 
The Belles’ two wins came in singles, where Fetters and saint mary’s junior Jackie Kjolhede claimed victo­ries. For Kalamazoo, woods, riehl, dass and Bouchard claimed singles victories to go with their wins in doubles. 
saint mary’s will get a second crack at Kalamazoo on Thursday, when the Belles travel to Kalamazoo for the miaa Tournament. after their victory over the Belles, the hornets claimed the miaa title outright, as Kalamazoo went undefeated in the conference this season. 
in particular, dass, Bouchard and woods were not beaten in any miaa matchup this season, win­ning eight, eight, and seven matches respectively. as a whole, dass posted a 19-5 re­cord, while Bouchard went 14-2 and woods went 17-4. 
due to Kalamazoo’s re­sume, Thursday’s competi­tion will be a matchup of the first and fourth seeds in the tournament. 
Tournament play will begin at noon Thursday, when saint mary’s travels to Kalamazoo, mich., for the miaa tourna­ment semifinals. 




Winter 
conTinued From page 16 
circle. i want to be out, and i want to be interacting with my team.” 
it’s a method that has worked for winter, as the irish senior winds down her softball career as one of the greatest pitchers to ever wear a notre dame uni­form. Through april 28, winter (23-4) is ranked first on the all-time list in program history for wins and strikeouts, sitting at 106 wins and 1,025 career strike­outs. she is also the only pitcher in program history win both the conference pitcher of the year award (2012) and conference player of the year award (2013). 
yet, amusingly enough, when winter first started playing at the age of seven, pitching was the last thing on her mind. 
“i actually didn’t want to be a pitcher,” winter said. “i didn’t want to be the center of atten­tion, i always wanted to hide behind the catcher’s mask. They forced me to go out for one inning, and when i came out i was like ‘alright, i’m done.’ But i was thinking about it, and the next day i came downstairs and i was like ‘dad, i kinda wanna pitch.’ and he was like ‘well, alright, we’ll get you ready next season and you’ll be a starter.” 
“and i said, ‘no, no, no. i wanna pitch this season.” 
it’s that drive that led her to eventually be named the palomar league pitcher of the year during her high school senior season in 2010, and it played a role in how she burst onto the scene for the irish her freshman year in 2011. winter led the team with 25 wins, 12 complete games, 179.1 innings pitched, and her 216 strikeouts were more than half the team total of 413. From there, she’s never looked back. each season she has led the team in strike­outs, wins, innings pitched and complete games. 
But winter wasn’t thinking about that when she started; all she was looking to do was earn her spot on the team. 
“coming in, freshman year, my whole mentality was just to ‘do your job,’” winter said. “if you get an inning here or there, you know, fantastic. make sure you prove yourself for next year. when things started to kind of roll, people came up to me and were like ‘we see the energy change when you’re on the mound, ’ and that changed my mentality to ‘alright, it’s going to be a bigger role than i thought.’” 
it’s a decidedly modest ap­proach, but like any success­ful pitcher winter knows her accomplishments cannot be reached without the support of her teammates behind her. 
“a couple of girls came up to me [saying] ‘look at the team behind you, we rally behind you, and you’re the one we want out there,’” winter said. “That is a humbling experience, to know that people behind you also believe in you, and just to have that vocalized is really an eye-opening experience. it’s a whole team effort.” 
For irish coach deanna gumpf, who has coached winter all four seasons of her career, it is almost difficult to find the words to describe winter’s effect on the team. 
“i feel like she’s grown so much and i feel like she brings so much competitiveness to this team,” gumpf said. “she has drive, she has desire, and she’s never satisfied. There’s no one who wants to win more than she does, and she wants to do anything she can to help this team win.” 
“what does she mean to this team? well, we’ve been jump­ing on her back for four years. she is the center of our team.” 
and though she’s spent her entire senior season knocking down records left and right, she’s never let that affect her approach. 
“[we don’t] talk about it, it’s almost like a superstition, like throwing a no-hitter,” winter said. 


But winter won’t be hang­ing up the cleats just yet. The information technology man­agement major studying at the mendoza college of Business looks to take her career profes­sionally, having been drafted by the akron racers of national pro Fastpitch. 
But for all of the success winter has achieved during her stay on the irish mound, it is an inevitable reality that it is almost finished. winter said it didn’t really start to hit her until hearing announcements for the next summer’s youth softball camps, when she re­alized that this would be the first time where she wouldn’t be looking forward helping out at the clinics anymore, and be preparing for the next step. But ask her what she’ll miss most, and perhaps it’s no surprise that her response is immediate. 
“The team,” winter said. “absolutely. Just the team men­tality, the friendships that we have, the team activities off the field, everything. it’s definitely been worth it.” 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 

SMC LACROSSE | alma 26, smc 6 
Belles fall behind early, fail to recover 

guerrero made a few quick the Belles struggled to keep ended up playing more than dee had a great game defen-
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 

sports writer moves to work her way past up with the scots. alma (12-half the game man-down be-sively. she led our team with alma’s defenders and score 5, 7-1) rattled off a 14-0 of-cause of two injuries,” long six ground balls and caused 
saint mary’s wrapped up the first goal of the game for fensive run over the rest of said. “alma scored 14 of their four turnovers.” its inaugural season with the Belles (2-13, 1-7 miaa) in the first period and the first 24 goals while playing man-despite ending the season a 24-6 loss at home against the middle of the first half. minutes of the second half to up. our team’s main struggle 2-13 with a 1-7 record in the alma on saturday. The scots Freshman midfield aubrey establish an 18-2 lead. was the number of healthy miaa, the Belles are keeping scored the first three goals golembieski scored a free golembieski scored back-players we had available at a positive attitude, focusing of the game, taking a 3-0 position goal late in the to-back goals with fresh-the end of our season. each on player development and lead over the Belles only four opening period to make it a man midfield cathy Baxter and every one of our players team foundation, according minutes into regulation. 4-2 game. assisting on the second goal worked tirelessly the entire to long. long said these ele­
sophomore attack Tess despite shaving the deficit, to make it an 18-4 contest. season including the final ments will help saint mary’s with only minutes remain-week of play, which featured as the program looks ahead paid adverTisemenT 
ing in the second half, ju-three conference games in to its second season. nior attack colleen conway five days with no subs.” “i am looking forward to fired a shot past the scots’ despite the challenges having a larger team next goalie while sophomore de-the Belles faced this week-season,” she said. “we will fense sarah neeser scored a end, long said many play-have eight to 10 incom­free position goal to make it ers stepped up their games ing freshmen on the team, a 22-6 game. alma added a and showed major im-and i know that our play-pair of late goals for the 24-6 provements, especially ers are looking forward to final. Freshman goalkeeper golembieski. the growth of our program. stephanie szymas posted “aubrey played a great it will be great to have subs nine saves for the Belles in game with three goals, scor-for our games and have our her final game of the season. ing two of them while we players push each other even 
Belles coach amy long played man-down,” long more next season. overall, said she attributed her said. “it was also great to see i am incredibly optimistic team’s difficulties to the colleen, Tess and sarah fin-that we will have a winning overwhelming number of ish the season strong with season next year.” injuries. each of them tallying a goal 
“we began the game ver-of their own. additionally, Contact Rebecca Rogalski at sus alma with 12 players and [freshman defense] Katlynn rrogalsk@nd.edu 

The oBserver | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
a highly successful major leaguer, they spent a good portion of their childhoods in the astros clubhouse. 
“’[The astros] were very supportive of that, but there were certain rules and guidelines that the kids had to abide to. The number one rule was guys are there to work and get ready for a game and do their jobs,” craig said. “in our house, it was always, ‘listen, we are very fortunate and lucky to do what i do; let’s not ruin it for everybody.’” 
conor and cavan had the opportunity to get to know their father’s teammates (both mentioned former catcher and current detroit Tigers manager Brad ausmus as a favorite) and see the sort of work ethic required of professional athletes. Then there were more painful ex­periences: during one bat­ting practice at wrigley Field when cavan was seven or eight, he was hit in the chest by a line drive and was car­ried off the field by sammy sosa. 
and it wasn’t always a breeze to go through little league with such a famous last name. 
“whenever you’re a profes­sional athlete, people are go­ing to expect your kids to be just as good as you are, and that comes with the territory a little bit,” craig said. “is it fair? no, it’s not fair, but that’s just kind of the reality of what it is. so they have to deal with some things grow­ing up as far as on the athlet­ic field, on the baseball field, that the other kids really didn’t have to deal with.” 
cavan said he was always able to keep the extra pres­sure at bay. 
“growing up playing, es­pecially on travel teams because your name’s on your back, everyone recog­nizes the name and every­one wants to play their best against you and they want to say they beat you or struck you out,” cavan said. “There was always that edge of com­petition against me. i always just kind of ignored it and 
played baseball.  it wasn’t  
that hard to do.”  
craig  retired  from  the  

astros in 2007 and became his sons’ baseball coach at st. Thomas high school in houston. and while conor admitted to chaffing at tak­ing instruction from his fa­ther at first, both he and cavan agreed the most im­portant lesson they learned from their father was a sim­ple one. 
“Just have fun, play the game the right way and don’t take anything for granted,” conor said. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Softball 
conTinued From page 16 
irish coach deanna gumpf said arizmendi adds reliabil­ity to the hitting lineup. 
“she’s seeing the ball really well,” gumpf said. “The great thing about [arizmendi] is she might miss once, but she won’t miss the same pitch twice.” 
The irish batters faced three different Terrapins pitchers. redshirt fresh­man Brenna nation started for maryland (8-35, 4-16) and is charged with the loss. nation was replaced by ju­nior Kaitlyn schmeiser in the third inning. martin took over in the circle for maryland after arizmendi scored her homerun in the fourth. 
senior laura winter, who was recently named acc pitcher of the week for the second time this season, al­most earned a shutout. she started the game off with back-to-back strikeouts. she struck out six more bat­ters in the four innings that the irish held the Terrapins scoreless. 
gumpf said that winter’s pitching improved through­out the game. 
“i think laura overthrew early, and when she over­throws, her spin isn’t as crisp,” gumpf said. “But she got better as the game went on.” 
at the top of the fifth, maryland’s junior outfielder erin pronobis scored her team’s only run when junior catcher shannon Bustillos doubled to right center field. 


wednesday’s victory complet­ed a three-game series sweep against maryland. The week­end continues Thursday when western michigan comes to melissa cook stadium. 
The Broncos (16-31, 7-11 mac) enter the contest in the midst of a five-game losing streak. Their most recent defeat came at the hands of Kent state. 
despite the losses, Broncos’ sophomore allyson Kus was named mid-american conference west division pitcher of the weekend last week. This is the second time this season that she has earned this honor. Kus currently holds a 
3.56 era and a 13-18 record on the season. 
gumpf said the irish need to continue what they have been doing well, but also work on smaller details in the upcoming game. 
“we want to continue to at­tack the pitches, because that’s working for us,” gumpf said. “[we also need to] make sure that we’re doing the little things really, really well.” 
The irish take on the Broncos at 6 p.m. Thursday at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Across 33 Material for a 66 Symbol of 1 “OMG ur so military uniform sturdiness funny!” 35 Vassal 67 Blue-green 4 “You flatter me shade
37 Peculiar too much!” 68 Sends to the 
38 Tom Cruise’s 

10 Vatican locale dump
“Risky Business”
14 “Who ___?” co-star 69 Soph., jr. and sr. 15 Complain 
42 Fury 16 Any of the Down
43 Mtn. stats 

singers of the 1 Drink greedily
44 Sonnets and 
1973 #1 hit 
2 O
such
“Love Train” 
3 “Star Wars” 
17 Something to 45 Big cake maker 

weaponhang your hat on 48 Paneled rooms, 
4 Gold, in

18 “Platoon” often Guadalupedirector 49 Igor player in 5 State capital20 “That tastes “Young whose main awful!” Frankenstein” 
street is named comments 54 Audibly amazed Last Chance 22 Leandro’s Gulch
57 Old nuclear partner in a regulatory org. 6 Vice president 
Handel title Agnew
58 Modern prefix 

23 Camel refueling 7 Saves for later
with mom

spots viewing, in a
59 What the starts 

24 Comedian who way
of 18-, 24-, 38­
voiced the lead 
8 2000 Beatles
and 49-Across
role in 
album or its
each won

“Ratatouille” peak chart
63 Navy noncom 

28 It gets flatter as positionit gets older 64 “Fifteen Miles on The “p” of r.p.m. 
9 29 Little blobs on the ___ Canal” 10 Spin on an axis slides 65 Necessary 
11 13-Down, southof the border ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Neck line? 13 11-Down, northof the border 19 Unaided 21 Feed, as a fire 25 Like much of Pindar’s work 26 They might behawked 27 Kind of radio 
30 Sci-fi physicianplayed byDeForest Kelley
31 Leading man?32 Ben & Jerry’scompetitor33 ___ Kross (’90srap duo) 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Puzzle by Caleb Madison  
34 Juno, in Greece 35 Bob of “How I Met Your  46 Brew named for a Dutch river 47 Nordic native  54 Help in crime 55 Actor Richard  
Mother” 36 N.Y.C. summer hrs. 39 “If I Could Turn Back Time” singer, 1989 40 German car  48 Edict 50 Rowdy ___,“Rawhide” cowboy 51 Fights that go onand on 52 For face value  56 Most of Turkeyis in it 60 Stat that a QBdoesn’t want to be high: Abbr. 61 Corp. honcho  
41 Sonata part  53 Crannies  62 Mag. staff  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: handle each situation that arises this year with confidence. a direct approach will help you source out your best options and prepare you to make critical alterations that will enable you to show how efficient and responsible you can be. don’t hide or step back when taking action will lead to opportunity and new adventures. your numbers are 7, 13, 20, 28, 32, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t feel the need to buy favors, attention or friendship. overdoing it will be exactly what holds you back. concentrate on being unique, creative and following your heart. Being true to who you are and those you love is all that’s required. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional matters will escalate quickly if you aren’t careful. choose your words carefully and authorize only what you feel is necessary and within your capabilities. The process of eliminating what isn’t a top priority will help you focus on what’s important. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take action and be thorough. False information will weigh heavily on the results you get. Take the time to find out what you need to know before you make a decision that can have a lasting effect. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): check out the pros and cons of a situation. you can offer help, but don’t make a donation you cannot afford. your time and effort will be what counts. consistency will help you get things done and give you the recognition you deserve.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): uncertainties regarding work or status will arise. concentrate on different ways you can use your expertise. defend your position, values and plans. concentrate on getting as much done as possible without jeopardizing your long-term goals. Keep the peace. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel, learning and interacting with people from different backgrounds will help you advance. use your intelligence and your imagination and you will attract both personal and professional interest. love is in the stars and romance will improve your life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) money matters will be a concern. creative accounting will help you gain financial stability. don’t let anyone bully you into spending on something you don’t need. a change in the way you feel about someone will alter the way you live. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): relationships should take top priority. whether it is a business or personal partner, you are best to nurture what you have by suggesting innovative plans to pull you closer together and head in the same direction. self-improvement will boost your confidence. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful how you handle your personal life and your relationships. problems will occur if you aren’t honest about what you really want. avoiding issues will only add to your discontentment. make changes that suit your needs and help you achieve your goals. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): home improvement projects will also help you improve your domestic situation. stick close to home and avoid being around unpredictable people. use caution if you get involved in physical activities that stretch your abilities. arguments are apparent. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put your time and effort into raising your income. whether you pick up a second job or apply for a position worth more monetarily, it is a good time for you to focus on improving your standard of living. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): reconnect with old friends. sharing your experiences and collaborating to reach a common goal will be beneficial and result in strong relationships that can lead to ongoing favors. love is highlighted and rekindling an important relationship will lead to benefits.  



Birthday Baby: you are dramatic, sensitive and stubborn. you are proactive, reliable and heroic. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The oBserver | TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 9, maryland 1 
Winter wins another 
No. 21 Irish complete sweep of ACC rival Maryland behind Laura Winter’s eight strikeouts and nine runs 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 


By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer sports writer 
The no. 21 irish nearly shut 

The first thing you notice out acc rival maryland in a 9-1 
about laura winter is that victory monday at melissa cook 
she’s always in motion. as she stadium in the kickoff to the 
stands in the circle waiting for Fourth annual strikeout cancer 
the catcher’s signal, she rocks weekend. 
slightly on her left toe, back and The irish (34-10, 13-5 acc) 
forth and back and forth, before were leading 8-1 at the bottom 
coiling and snapping forward of the fifth. with two outs and 
like a whip. The ball zips past the bases loaded, junior catch-
the batter, but she’s already er cassidy whidden stepped 
moving. she’ll catch the throw up to bat against maryland’s 
back and walk around a little sophomore pitcher madison 
bit before getting right back to martin. whidden knocked a 
business, gently rocking and single down the left field line, 
waiting to throw the next pitch allowing junior emilee Koerner 
right past a hitter. to score and give the irish a 9-1 
it seems uncanny, almost lead. The run ended the game 
an unconscious tic of muscle in five innings. 
memory, but as strange as it Koerner, junior infielder Katey 
sounds, winter does it to relax. haus, and sophomore outfielder 
“i have a thing where i just and catcher casey africano led 
can’t stay still,” winter said. “i the irish with two runs apiece. 
have to be moving around, have Koerner and sophomore infield-
to be doing something, because er micaela arizmendi also con-
i don’t want to be the pitcher tributed homeruns. 
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer that only stays in the pitcher’s 
Irish junior catcher Cassidy Whidden prepares for the incoming pitch against Ball State during Notre see soFTBall PAGE 14 Dame’s 11-4 win on April 1. On Monday, the junior finished with two hits in three at bats. see winTer PAGE 13 
BASEBALL 

Biggio brothers bond through baseball 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
like many younger sib­lings, freshman second baseman cavan Biggio spent much of his childhood tail­ing his older brother, conor, now a junior outfielder for the irish. But unlike some older brothers, conor never seemed to mind. 
“i consider him my best friend,” conor said. “we do everything together, we al­ways have, and it’s kind of fitting that we went to the same college together.” 
But that almost didn’t hap­pen. cavan originally com­mitted to virginia in June of 2012, but changed his mind during his senior year of high school and decided to reunite with his brother in south Bend. 
“i looked at too much of the baseball part and not enough at the school,” cavan said of his initial commit­ment to virginia. “notre dame is just such a great place, and i just knew i loved notre dame and i’d be happy here.” 
now in his second semes­ter, cavan has settled into the irish lineup, starting in all but one of notre dame’s 43 games. he and junior first baseman Blaise lezynski are the only two irish play­ers who have played in every game this season. conor has an on-base-percentage of .386 . tied for the highest on the team . in 65 at-bats. 
not that it’s a competition. 
“They weren’t really com­petitive with each other,” their father and former astros second baseman craig Biggio said. “They’re two totally different kids. They probably had . and their mother would prob­ably tell you the same thing . they had maybe a handful of fights, if that, ever growing up. and that doesn’t happen brothers are always fight­ing. But they never really fought.” 
and one more unusu­al thing about the Biggio brothers: as the children of 
see BaseBall PAGE 14 



ND Softball vs. Maryland W 9-1 ND Softball vs. Western Michigan 6 p.m. Baseball vs. Western Michigan                 Wed., 5:35 p.m. 





