The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 59 | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Seniors revel in final game as students 
Senior Day halftime marshmallow fight and other traditions carry on despite rainy weather 
By OWEN LANE 
news writer 
notre dame fans witnessed a disappointing conclusion to the home games this season with a 31-28 irish loss to the louisville cardinals on saturday. 
The result of the final football game was especially disappoint­ing for the hundreds of seniors who came out for their final home game at notre dame. 
senior matthew metzinger said the game reminded him of the first football game he watched as a student at notre dame against south Florida in 2011. The south Florida game also ended in a loss and had to end early due to lighting. 
“you know what, you stick with the irish through good times and bad,” he said. “it would have been better if it were a vic­tory, but it was still a lot of fun to spend the game with the rest of the seniors, the student body and all the fans.” 
Fans expressed their disap­pointment with the irish’s in­ability to win the close game and stressed the insufficient efforts by the defense as a major com­ponent in the loss. 
Freshman meghan brennan said the loss cannot be attribut­ed to one player alone. 
“it’s unfair to say it’s [Kyle] brindza’s fault,” she said. 
Freshman elisa villafana said the efforts of the offense were not supported by a strong defense. 
“i think the switch in the safety 
see louisville PaGe 4 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Seniors in the student section partook in a Senior Day tradition by throwing marshmallows during halftime of Saturday’s game. The loss dropped the Irish to a 7-4 record. 


man behind nd logo dies 


‘Shark Tank’ judge 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
a memorial service and mass for Jim T. butz, class of 1949, who worked in the notre dame stadium press box for decades and was instrumental in the creation of the iconic Fighting irish leprechaun logo, will take place at the basilica of the sacred heart on monday morning. 
butz, who died oct. 12 at the age of 90, will be buried at cedar grove cemetery on campus. 
butz was on the sports infor­mation department staff for the football team from 1947 to 1949 
see buTZ PaGe 5 


By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer 
addressing a maximum-capacity crowd in mendoza’s Jordan auditorium last Friday, investor Kevin o’leary of the hit abc show “shark Tank” shared his thoughts on great entrepre­neurship and judged three busi­ness proposals pitched by notre dame student entrepreneurs. 
before transforming the au­
ditorium into a mock ‘shark 
tank,’ o’leary first explained 
Photo courtesy of Jim P. Butz 
Jim T. Butz, class of 1949, died Oct. 12. Butz played a key role in the creation of the Fighting Irish logo. 
what the show reveals about 


visits campus 
entrepreneurship. 
“The american dream is alive, and we watch it happen on shark Tank,” o’leary said. “watching shark Tank is watching the pur­suit of freedom.” 
o’leary shared clips from a previous episode of shark Tank in which mother-and-daugh­ter team Tracey noonan and danielle vilagie pitched their cupcake-in-a-jar business called wicked good cupcakes to dem­onstrate how the show acts as a 
see sharK TanK PaGe 5 

SMC seniors promote Type 1 diabetes awareness 
basketball staff during her time at here, and yet we’re still doing every-nonprofit group, and [the class] students selected an “open mic 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer saint mary’s, entered a diabetic thing we can to make [the event] does pr for them,” parillo said. “but night” format in order to create 
coma this summer as a result of successful. if you were to tell me a this is a different case. she decided a unique event for schwab that 
nine saint mary’s seniors in Type i diabetes, senior loretto couple months ago i would be this to change the curriculum, and would provide opportunities for communication professor colleen evans, a student in the class, said. into a class, i wouldn’t believe you.” we’ve been building ground up.” student interaction as well as dis­Fitzpatrick’s non-profit public rela-hearing about schwab’s situa-in august, the hands-on class Through collaboration and cussion about Type i diabetes. tions (pr) class will put the phrase tion encouraged Fitzpatrick, who learned pr content such as fun-brainstorming, parillo said the “That’s part of the goal of the “once a belle, always a belle” into was schwab’s peer mentor dur-draising and publicity, senior nia class decided to host a bake sale event, to not only fundraise for action tonight when they host ing her time at saint mary’s, to re-parillo said. once the class covered and an “open mic night.” The class Katie and her family, but to raise “open mic night” to raise aware-structure her class in order to help all the necessary material, parillo exceeded their monetary goals awareness about Type 1 diabetes ness for Type i diabetes in support raise support, evans said. said they directed their focus to during the bake sale, and she said and the risks inherent with hav­of class of 2013 alum Katie schwab. “i would definitely say this is supporting schwab. they are hoping “open mic night” ing Type 1 diabetes, especially as 
schwab, who spent time work-unique to this year,” evans said. “usually what [Fitzpatrick] does will be even more successful. ing with the notre dame women’s “[schwab] is no longer a student is take an already pre-existing local senior Julia dunford said the see diabeTes PaGe 5 

news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 7 scene PaGe 9 FooTball InSIde 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



Which football game was your favorite this season? 

Savanna Dinkel 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“michigan.” 

Melange Gavin 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“stanford.” 

Corinne Sullivan 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“The ones we won.” 



Ed Kreienberg 
freshman morrissey hall 
“stanford.” 

Faisal Shariff 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“The ones where everett didn’t fumble.” 

Francis Liang 
freshman welsh Family hall 
“northwestern.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 





Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: margaret hynds christine mayuga Katie mccarty 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

ACMS Colloquium Women’s Basketball Crèches from Around Thanksgiving Day Turkey Skate 
Jodi lo gabriela leskur 
Hayes-Healy Center Purcell Pavilion the World Run Compton Family Ice 
4:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Campus-wide Niles, Mich. Arena Alex Perkins will speak. Notre Dame vs. All day 6:30 a.m. - 10 a.m. 2:30 p.m. - 4:20 p.m. 
Corrections 

Quinnipiac. Nativity scenes from Register online. $5 for ND/SMC/HCC 
The observer regards itself as around the world faculty, staff and a professional publication and 
displayed on campus. students. 
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, 
Women’s Basketball Four:7 Catholic Men’s Basketball Thanksgiving Dinner Volleyball 
however, recognize that we will make 
Purcell Pavilion Fellowship Purcell Pavilion North Dining Hall Purcell Pavilion 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 12 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Notre Dame vs. 8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. The Irish take on Free to all with an on-The Irish take on 
we can correct our error. 

Harvard. Faith and fellowship. Grambling. campus meal plan. Pittsburgh. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | The observer 

Boardroom Insights: Case talks risks, non-profits 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO-LEE 
news writer 
Jean case, ceo of the case Foundation, gave a lecture on the importance of measured risk-taking and failure in the 

philanthropy sector as part of the boardroom insights lecture series on Friday. 
case, who is nationally recognized for her philan­thropic work, also serves as an advisor on the national geographic society board of Trustees and the harvard business school social enterprise initiative. in 2011, case and her husband joined the giving pledge, a chal­lenge in which members commit most of their wealth to philanthropic causes. 
Throughout the lecture, case said the path to suc­cess, far from being simple, is a very “circuitous road filled with potholes.” 
“The fact of the matter is, almost anything signifi­cant i’ve accomplished in my life came out of failure,” case said. “something either didn’t go right, or there was an unexpected turn in the road.” 
case said well-established philanthropic organizations, fearing the mismanagement of donor funds, are generally unwilling to take risks. 
“The big foundations now ... don’t want to talk about failure,” she said. “They don’t want to feel like they wasted someone’s money. They don’t want to feel like they’re wast­ing grants, but if you’re trying new things, experimenting, taking risks, failure should be an option.” 
contrasting the more tradi­tional philanthropic business plan, the case Foundation takes measured risks when investing in people and ideas, case said. 
“if we’re going to innovate, we have to try new things, and it’s hard to find innova­tion without risk taking,” she said. “we came up with a se­ries of principles that really could be brought together under the umbrella term ‘be Fearless.”’ 

drawing from insights from her philanthropic work, case 
“The big foundations now ... don’t want to talk about failure. They don’t want to feel like they wasted someone’s money. They don’t want to feel like they’re wasting grants, but if you’re trying new things, experimenting, taking risks, failure should be an option.” 
Jean Case 
CEO 
Case Foundation 

said she challenges young people who have ideas to ac­knowledge the importance of failure in crafting a success­ful product. 
“i have one really big concern with this genera­tion, and that is, particularly those of you ... that have had some kind of privilege, they fear failure,” she said. “your generation has the great­est ideas ... but if this fear of failure stops you, you won’t be able to fully leverage your greatness.” 
case said the most innova­tive products are not always original, but rather are some­times refinements of existing ideas. 
“many of the people we think of as geniuses didn’t come up with the ideas we as­sociate them with,” she said. “They often came later, or they perfected it. you might see something that has po­tential, but someone hasn’t figured out how to take it mainstream.” 
when solving challeng­ing problems, case said it is important to recruit people with diverse backgrounds and opinions. 
“what’s often not under­stood is the importance of having people around you who are not the same as you,” she said. “and i don’t just mean in the talent and skill areas ... but people with totally different points of view, totally different back­grounds. innovation happens at intersections.” 

setting big goals in person­al and career commitments is 
“To everyone, a big bet is different. Have one in your life, have one in your chosen profession. If you don’t burn to wake up ... to take forward your mission, you’re in the wrong place.” 
Jean Case 
CEO 
Case Foundation 

a crucial step to maintaining passion in life, case said. 
“To everyone, a big bet is different. have one in your life, have one in your chosen profession,” she said. “if you don’t burn to wake up ... to take forward your mission, you’re in the wrong place.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello-Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Lecturer examines international law 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
news writer 
brigham young university (byu) law professor david h. moore gave a lecture focused on the relationship between international law and its do­mestic enforcement in the united states at the eck hall of law on Thursday, sponsored by the Federalist society for law and public policy. 
moore said there is a funda­mental conflict between two concepts: the effectiveness of international law and the integrity of proper domestic governance. 
“in my opinion, the supreme court is trying to ac­commodate both concerns in their decisions,” moore said. 
according to moore, the pri­mary sources of international law are treaties, which are for­mal legal agreements between nations, and customary inter­national law, which consists of non-binding conventions that countries traditionally follow. illustrating this distinction with an example, moore said diplomatic immunity existed as a informal mutual agree­ment between countries be­fore it was codified into law with formal treaties. 
moore then explained the principle of self-execution. international law that is rati­fied by the u.s. must include a provision that specifies in what way it should be en­forced to fulfill the standard of self-execution. otherwise, moore said, international law cannot be enforced in the u.s., absent of authorization from a branch of government. 
“however, a broad notion of non-self-execution vio­lates the supremacy clause [of the constitution],” moore said. “This is because the supremacy clause states that formally ratified treaties must be treated as the law of the land.” 
moore said the case of medellin v. Texas demon­strates the principle of non­self-execution. medellin, a convicted mexican national on death row, appealed his conviction because Texas le­gal authorities failed to allow him to contact the mexican consulate in accordance with the vienna convention on consular relations. The supreme court sided with Texas and decided that in­ternational treaties are not applicable to domestic law unless congress implements an enforcement statute or the treaties include self-executing provisions. 

“There are two basic views on relationship between cus­tomary international law and federal common law,” moore said. 
The modern position be­lieves international law can be enforced to a large extent by the courts while the re­visionist camp argues it can only be enforced as autho­rized by congress or the ex­ecutive branch. 
moore referenced the case of sosa v. alvarez-machain to show how the supreme court interprets these two views. The case involved a suspect­ed cartel member who had been abducted to face mur­der charges by the u.s. drug enforcement agency. The court held that an abducted foreign national could face prosecution, but the act of kidnapping itself might be a violation of international law and thus provide grounds for civil litigation under the alien Tort statute. 
“most scholars see the court’s decision as a victory for the modern view, but i think they confuse two ques­tions: whether alien Tort statute creates a cause of ac­tion and whether customary international law is federal common law in the absence of political branch intent,” moore said. 
in fact, moore said the court’s analysis actually endorses the revisionist position with its focus on congressional intent and concern with separation of powers. 
“academic commentary is out of step,” moore said. “incorporation [of inter­national law] through the political branches is the ap­propriate direction.” 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 
prof considers ethics of rhetoric 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 

associate professor of english John duffy examined the quality of american public discourse and its social impact saturday in his lecture “beyond civility: The cri­sis in american public discourse.” 
The lecture, the final install­ment of the snite museum’s saturday scholars series, exam­ined both the current trends in american civil discourse and the measures needed to address the problem effectively. according to duffy, the problem with contem­porary public discourse lies in its polarizing and factually question­able nature. 
“we seem to have reached the point in our public deliberation in which there is no widely shared agreement as to the nature of a fact,” duffy said. “There is little place in our public arguments for deliberative language that might express doubt, explore ambigui­ties, admit errors or acknowledge positions that might depart from orthodoxy.” 
duffy said some of the main factors behind the nature of con­temporary civil discourse lay in economics and technology. he said sensationalized, polarizing rhetoric has become more mar­ketable for lucrative corporations and media, while the accessibil­ity modern technology has given to news channels and public ra­dio has created a media climate saturated with misleading and combative discourse from both politicians and media pundits. 
“There is nothing new about vil­ification, but what makes our mo­ment extraordinary is not the fact of our corrosive discourse, rather it’s the technologies that allow us to disseminate the discourse so effectively,” he said. “we’re unique not because of the toxic nature of our rhetoric, but because of the methods we have to liberate the toxins.” 
according to duffy, in order to create a more fruitful rhetoric, we must begin to understand the purpose of argument not merely as a tool of persuasion, but also as a way to engage in a relationship with another human being where opinion is well articulated and re­spectful of the other’s intelligence. duffy said this requires a knowl­edge of “rhetorical virtues.” 
“To understand rhetorical virtue is to understand that speak­ing and writing are not merely in­strumental but are fundamentally ethical activities,” he said. “That means we are obliged to answer certain questions of ourselves be­fore we speak or write. how does our speech or writing reflect, say, the virtues of respectfulness, gen­erosity? how does our writing re­spect the practices of tolerance?” 

while many believe the solu­tion to polarizing, ineffective discourse is to encourage greater civility, duffy said civility is often a “misleading metric.” since civility is both too vague to define and too limited in its approach to rhetoric, duffy said what is needed in civil discourse is a better recognition of rhetorical virtue and purpose. 
“what the rhetorical virtues of­fer is something different. They of­fer a language of assessment and practice of public discourse,” he said. “They call upon us to speak and write, not as republicans or liberals, libertarians or democrats, but as a people com­mitted to an ethical discourse and a common good.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
students delve into solidarity 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 

students, faculty and staff gath­ered in the student center at saint mary’s college on Friday to hear volunteer groups talk about soli­darity from both local and global perspectives as part of the Justice Fridays lecture series. 
students stated that their defini­tion of solidarity was unclear before their experiences, but many, in­cluding sophomore Tere valencia, said their lives were positively im­pacted after their service. 
“[solidarity is] a connection with people and not just people we un­derstand but people who we want to understand and find justice with,” she said. “it is finding peace and a movement that unites and creates a reaction within us.” 
The first group of students pre­sented their experiences from a fall break peru pilgrimage that in­volved travel to lima, piura and matucana, where they visited resi­dents and built a home for a local family. 
senior sarah lipinski said she was one of the students who trav­eled to peru. 
“[i] felt the presence of christ in every interaction we had,” she said. “a little village [was] trying to do so much for one another.” 
Junior haleigh ehmsen, who also participated in the pilgrimage, said the experience was faith-based. 
“we were the hands and feet of christ,” she said. 
The students described the peo­ple of lima, piura and matucana as immensely kind and loving toward one another. 
Junior anne cahill said language was not a barrier during the pil­grimage and “being human con­nected us.” 
“it was a very humbling ex­perience being in those people’s homes,” cahill said. “They em­braced us as almost a part of their family.” 
The second group to present shared local experiences of discov­ering solidarity from st. adalbert’s church and the community cen­ter, la casa de amistad. as part of the Justice 305 course, church in the city – which is offered every fall for one credit hour – the students did a home stay during the week­end and experienced life through the perspective of another family, according to the smc bulletin. 

“we have heard about [families in need], but it hasn’t really affect­ed us until we see it in the light,” valencia said. “and whether it’s with ourselves or with our commu­nity, going five minutes away from saint mary’s really taught me that you don’t have to necessarily go abroad to get an impact although it is so great to do so.” 
valencia described her experi­ence as both having an emphasis on understanding others and work­ing together to seek understanding. 
“like the group that went to peru, this group found solidarity to have a focus and purpose of under­standing people from all walks of life,” she said. 
sophomore maria hernandez also shared her discoveries on working with immigrants. 
“[i was] able to meet other people who trust me with their [immigra­tion] stories with a purpose to edu­cate me so i can go forth and be the voice for them.” 
“This experience gave me a face to immigration,” valencia said. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 
Louisville 
conTinued From page 1 
position was good,” she said. “but i think our defense gets a little lazy sometimes.” 
The heavy attendance of louisville fans also made an im­pression on the irish. metzinger said he was surprised at the large number of cardinals fans he saw tailgating in the lots, and it was definitely the greatest showing of opposing fans this season. 
villafana said while some of the chanting from the opposing team was obnoxious, they were generally a well-behaved crowd. while the sea of red shirts loudly supported their team during the game, one post-game incident left a bad impression on some irish fans. 
“it was a little rude, their chanting through the ‘alma mater,’” freshman sheridan Foy said. “That was not okay.” 

The traditions of senior day were alive and well, with a mas­sive marshmallow fight breaking out during half time. 
“it was a good time,” metzinger said. “with the rain, it was espe­cially gross, and they stuck ev­erywhere. it was a lot of fun to find your friends around you and just start whipping the marsh­mallows everywhere.” 
students in other sections en­joyed watching the white frenzy erupt in the senior section. 
“it looked cool,” brennan said. “i’m excited to do that as a senior. it will be awesome.” 
despite the game’s disap­pointing conclusion, the seniors enjoyed their traditional senior day privilege of walking onto the field after the game. 
“it was a lot of fun,” metzinger said. “i didn’t really become emotional during the game or when we were on the field, but when we were leaving through the tunnel and you can see Touchdown Jesus, that was a really cool moment, really sur­real. i will always remember and cherish that.” 

notre dame fans now turn their attention toward the up­coming game against usc. The irish hope to close their season with a victory over their long­time rivals this saturday in los angeles. 
Contact Owen Lane at olane@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | The observer 

butz 
conTinued From page 1 
and returned to notre dame every home football game for 31 years to work in the press box as a stringer for united press, Jim p. butz, the son of Jim T. butz, said. in the mid-1960s, the university planned to change its current mascot, an irish terrier called clashmore, but Jim p. butz said his father, who worked at wilson sporting goods at the time, im­mediately thought of Ted drake, an illustrator for wilson. 
“dad said, ‘i know exactly the guy you need to be work­ing with,’” Jim p. butz said. “he called on Ted and said, ‘can you create some symbol for notre dame, some example their irish heritage that they want to exem­plify?’ and [the leprechaun] was what Ted came up with.” 
Jim T. butz gave drake’s draw­ing to the university, and in 1965, the leprechaun became the of­ficial mascot, Jim p. butz said. drake, who died in 1999, went on to design the logo for the chicago bulls. 
“when you think of how many millions of people know that Fighting irish logo – the vast ma­jority of the people who are alive never knew the university had a different mascot,” ric Jarrett, a friend of the butz family, said. “They see the nd and Fighting irish logo ... That one little tiny aspect of his life has touched a couple hundred million people.” 
Jim T. butz was devoted to notre dame and a lifelong fan, his son said. a native of akron, ohio, Jim T. butz grew up lis­tening to irish football on the radio, and after high school he was drafted into world war ii. whenever he could find a type­writer, Jarrett said butz would write a letter to notre dame’s dean of admissions and express his interest in attending the university. 
“he would tell him he had sur­vived this or survived that and wanted to go to school,” Jarrett said. “he did that the entire time he was gone.” 
Jim p. butz said after the war, his father had trouble getting into notre dame since all the soldiers who had been drafted while they attended notre dame had pri­ority so they could finish their degrees. Jim T. butz asked some friends to put in good words for him, and he caught the attention of sports information director charlie callahan, who brought butz’s case to then-university president John J. cavanaugh. 
“Fr. cavanaugh called for his file, and all of the letters in the file were neatly typed, nothing handwritten,” Jim p. butz said. “it was easy to read. everything was documented. That’s when cavanaugh said, if Fr. sorin had not established notre dame for students such as this, who did he establish the university for? he asked how many beds they were already short, and he said, ‘we’re going to be short one more.’” 
before he even started as a student in 1946, butz was hired by callahan as a staff member, and butz soon became a public-relations writer for athletic di­rector and football coach Frank leahy. For the three years butz was a student, the football team never lost a game, and in 1947 the team won one of the four nation­al championships under leahy’s leadership. For all that time, butz was “leahy’s right-hand man; he was the one speaking for him,” Jim p. butz said. 

Jim T. butz married in 1948, had the first of five children and graduated after three years. afterwards, he moved to a chicago suburb to raise his fam­ily and work for wilson sporting goods’ marketing department. he continued to write, ghost­writing for sports greats such as bowler Joe wilman and golfer arnold palmer, his son said. 
eventually butz settled in the golf industry, running a variety of golf-related companies until he became acting executive di­rector of the professional golfers association (pga), which took him to palm beach, Florida, his son said. he also lived in los angeles for a time before retiring in the chicago area near his fam­ily. For the entire time he worked in chicago, butz returned to ev­ery notre dame game in a media capacity, and he was unfailingly courteous to fans of every team. 
“my dad would make a point of greeting visitors from other schools and welcoming them from notre dame,” Jim p. butz said. “he’d pull them over to our tailgate, wherever he found them.” 
Throughout his life, Jim T. butz always remembered when some­body helped him succeed, his son said, whether callahan, leahy or a belgian family. Jim p. butz said when his father was behind en­emy lines during the battle of the bulge in wwii, his squad hid for days in the basement of a house in wye, belgium. years later, Jim 
T. butz returned to wye. 
“he would bring blue jeans. he would bring candy bars to the family whose house they hid out in,” Jim p. butz said. “he just wanted to thank them for having a house, for having someplace for him to hide. They didn’t really play any material role in his sur­vival, but he just felt that burden of responsibility, that obligation to them. he felt that toward so many people in his lifetime, and he was always trying to repay fa­vors to people who had helped him.” 
Jarrett said Jim T. butz’s was devoted to the university for his entire life and several of his chil­dren and grandchildren attend­ed notre dame or saint mary’s. 
“his family was first; his friends were second,” Jarrett said. “anything and everything notre dame would have been right up there. he loved every­thing about the university. he loved his time there; he loved supporting the school. having lived through wwii, in his mind it was … the ideal place to be. he loved it. he loved it in his 20s and he loved it in his 90s.” 
Jarrett said butz embodied the qualities of a notre dame graduate. 
“if you were to roll up all the things which as an outsider you’d think of notre dame, that’s what he would be,” Jarrett said. “he was a kind man, smart, intelli­gent. he was a real people per­son. he got everything done … he lived the real deal.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
diabetes 
conTinued From page 1 
a young healthy woman,” she said. 
all fundraised money goes directly to a fund in support of schwab, who is still in a diabetic coma, evans said. schwab’s family will attend the event as well, she said. 
“They are excited we’re doing this,” evans said. “They’re all ed­ucators, so i think it’s even more impactful that [the support] is coming from a group of students who made this their mission.” 
anyone is welcome to stop by to listen to music, share a talent, read some poetry, sing a song or share a good joke, parillo said. 
There is a $5 admission fee, which includes two raffle tickets for an array of prizes, which are all donations from local com­panies and restaurants, evans said. 
dunford said she hopes at­tendees walk away with a bet­ter understanding of Type 1 diabetes and a greater sense of community. 
“we already have such a strong sense of sisterhood on campus, and this is a way to re­inforce that, to help a fellow sis­ter and learn a little bit along the way,” she said. 
open mic night will take place monday night from 7-9 
p.m. in rice commons of the student center. 
more information about Katie schwab can be found on her caringbridge website. 
Contact Kathryn Mashall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Shark Tank 
conTinued From page 1 
platform to such freedom. 
noonan and vilagie were put to what o’leary calls the true test — taking a commodity that is ubiq­uitous in america and building a national brand. o’leary said the addition of a platform like shark Tank to a business like wicked good cupcakes substantially contributes to its success and made it possible to build a nation­al brand on something with little proprietary value. wicked good cupcakes is now the fastest grow­ing cupcake company in america. 
“shark Tank is a giant platform, is a giant infomercial worth about $12 million,” o’leary said. 
Following its appearance on shark Tank, o’leary said wicked good cupcakes saw sales in­crease to 15 times what it was be­fore the show aired. 
“The shark Tank factor is very much alive, and i think america has figured that out,” he said. 
shark Tank and entrepreneur­ship are all about personal free­dom, and that’s why o’leary said he came to notre dame — to discuss how that personal free­dom can be achieved by future entrepreneurs. 
o’leary organized his thoughts into three different lists that exhibit key traits neces­sary to becoming a successful entrepreneur. 
The first list he shared with the audience stated the three com­monalties of all deals ever funded on shark Tank. 
First was the ability of the en­trepreneurs to articulate the busi­ness’ vision in 90 seconds or less. second was their ability to con­vince investors that they were the right team to execute the business plan, and third was a complete comprehensive understand­ing of their business models and numbers. 
The second list elucidated six attributes of what it takes to make a great entrepreneur. 
The first attribute is one’s prep­aration to make a “life/balance sacrifice,” o’leary said. 
“There will be no balance dur­ing the period you are growing your business because you have to fall in love with your business,” he said. “it must consume you. it will eat your hours. if you don’t have the passion, your competitor will.” 
o’leary said great entrepre­neurs have a little knowledge about everything but a lot about what they are selling. put share­holders first, have a passion for what they sell, use technology to improve efficiency and un­derstand business is a global competition. 
an entrepreneur’s concept of a global market is one of the most important attributes to have, es­pecially in the modern business world, o’leary said. 

“For the first time there are more than a billion market cap companies outside the united states … so in every industry there is a giant competitor,” he said. 
addressing the students in the audience, o’leary said when “when you graduate, think global because your competitor is, and they want your share.” 
after being an investor for a long time, o’leary said busi­nesses that sustain and maintain profits understand the following rules: employees are the primary assets and are to be anchored by culture, the customer always come first, service trumps price, the boss does not necessarily make the most money, everybody is replaceable and business is war. 
o’leary said knowing business is war is of utmost importance for any entrepreneur hoping to pre­serve a business, and he warned prospective entrepreneurs to not be distracted by a desire to solve all of society’s problems. 
“your job is go out into the world and understand who you serve, but not solve all of society’s problems,” he said. “your job is go into war everyday and win. stay focused to the mission that busi­ness is war.” 
next, o’leary entertained three business pitches from three groups of student entrepreneurs, and he only had harsh remarks for the first business pitch called aerofit, a chain of airport fitness centers. 
“The truth is some ideas are in­herently flawed and this [one] is,” he said. 
The second team, seniors Joe mueller and Federico segura, pitched their business called sessa, a social investing app, and o’leary said he was interested and would be in touch. 
The final student entrepreneur was freshmen michael mcroskey who pitched his business called red bag, which sells $5 homeless care packages. 
o’leary said he was reluctant to invest in the company for fear it would become more of a charity than an actual business. 


audience members then voted for their favorite business idea via poll everywhere. sessa won the audience vote and walked away with a $100 cash prize and an expectation of a phone call from o’leary. 
o’leary concluded his lecture with the cheer “go irish!” and spent the following day tailgat­ing with fellow irish fans before attending the notre dame vs. louisville football game. 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 

The observer | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
InSIde CoLuMn 

More to going home 
Madison Jaros 
news writer 

it’s almost Thanksgiving break. and we all know what that means — having five days off of school, eating twice your weight in turkey and mashed potatoes, and finally being able to play christmas music without being yelled at by everyone you know. and i mean, being thankful for everything we have, of course. 
as much as i love all of those things, i’m not going to talk about any of them. instead, this is a note to the freshmen about another thing that’s as closely tied to Thanksgiving as tur­key is — going home. 
There’s this saying that’s pretty popular at notre dame — “home is where the dome is.” it’s a cute, snappy phrase that i think describes the atmosphere here pretty well. but when i was a freshman, that cute, snappy phrase scared me. because to me, notre dame didn’t feel like home at all. 
maybe some of you freshmen feel like that too. maybe you hear all the students here talking about home and family and you’re confused. you’re confused because you would never say this campus feels like home, and you don’t think you could call the friends you’ve met here family. and maybe that makes you wonder if you’re actually meant to be here. 
or maybe you’re struggling in gen chem, or econ, or some other class you’re taking. and you’re starting to question if you’re ac­tually smart enough to go to notre dame. maybe that type a, competitive spirit that so many of us here share is leading you to compare your scores to those of your friends 
– and you feel like when you do that you come up short. or maybe your experience in college hasn’t been what you had hoped it would be so far, and you definitely don’t think it measures up to what all your friends from home are saying and posting about college. or you feel like everyone here already has a million friends and you don’t even know how you could meet that many people that quickly, much less become friends with them. or maybe you feel all of those things. i definitely did. 
For any of the freshmen that feel this way, let me tell you right now — you’re not alone. 
one of the things that i realized at the end of freshman year was that a ton of the people i thought had it all together had actually felt the same way i did. 
Freshman year is a tough transition for everyone, but at the same time everyone feels the pressure to act like they know exactly what they’re doing. in the end, everyone thinks that the only one struggling is them. i promise you that’s not the case. For anyone who worries they’re not meant to be here — you are. The reason you were accepted here is because you have the ability to succeed here. This place might not seem like home now, but give it time. soon enough, coming back to campus after a break won’t just feel like leav­ing home, it’ll feel like coming home too. 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LeTTer To The edITor 

give thanks to dining hall workers 
Thanksgiving is upon us. in a day or two, many of us will jump in a car or board a plane to head home, seeking to satisfy the dreams of relaxation and sleep that have been haunting us since fall break. 
This Thursday most will gather around the table with family or friends to share an elaborate Thanksgiving meal and give thanks for bounty and blessings. 
but why should we wait until then to give thanks for the food in front of us? 
let me ask you another question. how many times have you looked into the eyes of the dining hall at­tendant serving you when you ask for “two slices, please”? or how many times have you simply handed your card to a card swiper upon entering the din­ing hall without even saying hello? do you know the name of that woman who makes your salad just the way you like? have you smiled at the man who refills the broccoli tray for you? not to mention the many anonymous workers in our dining halls who toil be­hind the scenes to prepare, cook and clean up after each meal that we eat. 
i think most days we take the dining halls for granted here at notre dame — not only for their sus­tenance, but also for their employees. 
Trust me, i’ve been there too, more often than not. because when you’re late to lunch since your advis­ing meeting ran over, and you’ve got 29 minutes before your next class, and you’re worrying about having enough time to finish your reflection paper and problem set tonight while also having to apply for two jobs and call your grandmother by tomorrow, it’s the simple things that suffer. but in the words of mother Teresa, “we shall never know all the good that a simple smile can do.” 
so this week, show that smile and give thanks for the food in front of you – and for the hands that put it there. 
Stephanie Sonnick 
senior cavanaugh hall nov. 21 

Black Friday: a cautionary tale 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

we hear about it every year on the news, headlines like “shoppers trampled at local Target” or “Fight breaks out at Toys ‘r’ us, shooting leaves two dead;” all this to get an extra 20 percent off of holiday-themed slippers or dvds at half price. are we so motivated by our desire to get that high-powered, ultra-high-tech cheese grater that we are willing to treat the retrieval of it as a military directive, aiming to get it at all, however discounted, costs? 
as part of an ap psychology project in high school, i went to a Target on black Friday to people-watch. i remember my sister standing there with me (as she was kind enough to give me company) in the Target line, hundreds of people long, listening and laugh­ing at the conversations of people around us. There was a group of five friends in front of us who actually drew up a detailed strategic plan to get in and get all the items they wanted, and were reviewing it in line for clarity of purpose and execution. 
i was amazed to see how quickly people moved once we got inside. i was further astonished when i saw the quantity of items people were buying. who knew one person could ever need five digital cam­eras, eight toasters, and a dozen copies of the movie Tangled? The scary part is that i’m not even mak­ing this stuff up; i counted and recounted all of it. now, as a confession, i gave in and bought a copy of the movie invictus for something like four dollars. i heard a lot of good things about it, hadn’t seen it, and saw it in passing, and i figured, “why not?” i still haven’t watched it. 
it was 9 a.m. by the time i had completed my peo­ple watching, and i had been at it for hours. people seemed to fit into a few categories: parents who wanted that sought-after toy for their child, young teenagers and 20-somethings who had their eyes on a few specific items, or parents who had to spend their money carefully and had to take advantage of the black Friday sales to make their children’s holi­day season special. i wouldn’t condemn any of these groups for going out on black Friday and, frankly, if anyone were to tell me where i could find complete series collections of The west wing or m*a*s*h for less than $50, i would probably go out myself. 
while i don’t condemn black Friday shoppers, i would, however, caution against a few of the peren­nially infamous issues surrounding the de facto con­sumerist holiday. 
First, if you go black Friday shopping, just please be mindful of others there. if anyone has fallen down, don’t just assume someone else is going to help him or her up. given how much stores stock up for black Friday, the extra 30 seconds it takes to help someone out likely won’t make you miss out on that military grade microwave. 
second, just because you can buy three washer-dryer sets for the price of one doesn’t mean you should actually buy all three sets. moderation is a good thing, and prices still add up, however dis­counted they may be. during my venture to Target, it was not uncommon for people to be shocked at the total price of the items they had thrown in their cart. 
Third, get some actual sleep before heading out at 3 a.m. for some ridiculous doorbuster sale. plan it out and be safe while you’re out there, which in­cludes being watchful for drowsy drivers on the road that aren’t you. 
my last precaution is one that ties into debates on black Friday that have taken place in recent months. in the vast majority of cases, you have some fam­ily you could otherwise be spending your time with instead of taking part in black Friday. as more and more stores try to get the jump on competitors by moving their opening times ahead, Thanksgiving is continually encroached upon. Target, best buy, wal-mart and macy’s are all opening at either 5 or 6 
p.m. on Thanksgiving day, right when many families would have otherwise planned for a Thanksgiving feast. The time you can spend at home cultivating relationships and having fun worth reminiscing is immeasurably more valuable than buying an extra present. remember the holidays that you might be buying presents for, including the purpose and mes­sage behind those holidays. 
be careful out there, and don’t do anything that might plague future holiday seasons with bad mem­ories or regret. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions, and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LeTTer To The edITor 

Rebuttal to ‘SCOP stands against hate’ 
in “scop stands against hate,” Tiernan Kane and Tim bradley argue that, “what is hateful is to choose an action deliberately aimed at depriving oneself or another of living out the comprehensive sexual union of male and female.” i disagree with this argu­ment on several fronts. 
Firstly, i am perplexed as to which actions Kane and bradley refer. 
They specify that remaining celibate or unmarried are not hateful actions, but fail to include examples of what actions do actually deprive people from “liv­ing out the comprehensive sexual union.” possibly because no one is really being deprived. a man and a woman can marry each other in all 50 states. no one is preventing them from entering into sexual union that is “exclusive, permanent [and] procreative.” while marriages that do not fit into scop’s specific definition are increasingly legally recognized by the state, this has no effect on the personal relation­ships of couples that choose to adhere to this strict definition of marriage (unless they are extraordi­narily preoccupied with regulating other people’s sex lives, which unfortunately is too often the case). 
secondly, i disagree with Kane and bradley’s premise that comprehensive sexual union is a good in itself. 
some people find “comprehensive sexual union” to be a good, but others do not. not everyone sub­scribes to this definition of sexual union and mar­riage. not everyone is able to have children. not everyone wants to have children. not everyone wants to get married or thinks that sex must be for procreation or is in love with someone of a differ­ent gender. if i don’t value comprehensive sexual union as a good, then it is not an act of “self-hate” to “deprive” myself of such a union. rather, it would be much more damaging to force myself (and a spouse) into a situation where i would be miserable. 
i could argue, however, that love is a universal good in itself. 
i personally think that being able to marry the person you love, regardless of their gender or the ability to procreate, is a good. Fortunately, men and women can marry each other in all 50 states whether or not they plan on procreation. however, same-sex couples are not legally allowed to marry in 16 states. in fact, there are even groups that actively seek to deprive same-sex couples of this good by advocat­ing against same-sex marriage. using scop’s own definition (“to hate a person is to make it one’s delib­erate purpose that the person be deprived of some good”), such groups are being hateful instead of standing against hate. 
Michelle McCarthy 
junior pasquerilla west hall nov. 20 

Thanks for nothing, betty 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

The shadow-laden east side of the samuel hahnemann monument in washington offers homeless persons a dark and secluded overnight oasis. Tucked away off scott circle — a mere six blocks north of the white house at the intersection where massachusetts and rhode island avenues converge with 16th street — a handful of street people congregate there each evening. 
some, like a woman i call “betty,” roll with them as many as three shopping carts overflowing with bulging plastic bags and milk crates. others have only the clothing on their backs. regardless of the number of his or her possessions, everyone who sleeps on that triangle of land actually has nothing. 
one morning recently, during a predawn walk with my dog peso, i wandered towards the circle following the source of distinctly different shrill sirens. First a fire truck and then a police car zipped by us and stopped just around the corner. when the monument came into my view, that usu­ally shadowy area had burst into an array of red and blue strobe lights. 
as two ambulances arrived screaming their deeper pitched woops, the fire truck trained white spotlights on the motionless body of betty. upon my arrival, emT officers covered her and the po­lice began cordoning off the area with yellow tape. 
while it saddened me that i had witnessed her last day on earth, it would have been a bit haunting for me if i had not known her fate. with our long history of street meetings, i would have one day wondered to myself why i had not seen her in some time. i was reminded of lucius seneca (4 bc – 65 ad), the roman philosopher and tutor to emperor nero. Known as seneca the younger, he lived dur­ing the prime of Jesus. so it seems natural that he is credited with saying, “nothing is so expensive as that which you have bought with pleas.” 
i had oftentimes during the past few years spo­ken to betty and contributed to her daily existence. 
one warm day, i handed her money and told her to get something cool to drink. she promised that she would, explaining that she might also get a pack of cigarettes even though she was try­ing to quit smoking. but she made it a point to say that only after she got the cool drink that i had requested. 
each time she saw me, she made it a point to say hello. she told me that she was saving up to go back to north carolina and that she almost had enough money for an apartment. after i handed her $10, she noted that she would put the entire amount towards her apartment since she already had cigarettes at the time. i told her to at least get a cool drink, which she promised she would do. 
For about two months i did not see her, and i wondered if she had actually gone to north carolina or had something happened to her. near the end of summer, i did not recognize her since her weather-beaten face had darkened and wrinkled like leather. she saw me from across the street, abandoned her shopping carts and made an effort to dodge rush hour traffic to speak to me at my bus stop. no, she had not gotten to north carolina but was still trying. 
i next saw her in the autumn sitting on a step near my bus stop, but she did not recognize me. i noticed that a bottom tooth had weirdly grown about an inch longer than the others and was now staying outside her top lip. she was babbling at the sky while flailing her hands to accent her points. i heard north carolina mentioned, but not in any coherent context. she had no words or promises for me on that day. 
when the frigid canadian air arrived, i ignored her calls from across the street one day when the traffic prevented her from catching up with me. later that week, she did not see me, but i sought her out in an attempt to right my karma inequities. while i handed her money, i told her to buy some hot soup to warm up. she promised that she would. 
a day later she came up to me and asked if i could help her get some soup. i handed her money and asked if she was warm enough. she said that she was warm and expected to be going to north carolina soon. i promised her that i would help her get placed in a warm shelter if she got cold. she replied that she did not like shelters, but promised to buy soup. That was the last time i spoke to her. 
it is ironic to think of seneca knowing that those of us with plenty are nothing without those who have nothing. 
what would a rich tenet of our religion be with­out betty’s expensive plea for soup? For betty, and for the opportunity to have bought her cigarettes for sure, Thanksgiving will be a richer experience for me this week. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administra­tion. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

To me, there is no statement more cringe-worthy than the three-word as­sertion that “women aren’t funny.” still, i hear it in various iterations and degrees of seriousness by friends, family and anony­mous commenters online nearly every day. 
The opposite side of the coin can be just as cringe-worthy: the telling of profession­ally-funny women they are great “female” comedians acknowledges their humor but also qualifies it. so, what’s a “female comedian” to do? 
chelsea peretti hilariously and intel­ligently addresses this question — and many more — in her latest stand-up spe­cial, “one of the greats,” now available for instant streaming through netflix. 
The comic, writer and star of Fox’s “brooklyn nine-nine” tackles everything from the public and media’s perception of women to her own questions and inse­curities about being a comedian, weaving together layers of jokes and observations through both live stand-up and some especially great editing and off-stage additions. 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
scene writer 

The era of the unsecured connection is over. with leakers Julian assange and edward snowden becoming dinner table topics and net neutrality being a growing concern outside of inner reddit circles, there has been a general reevaluation of one’s online activity and security. 
recently, silicon valley has ramped up their response to the wary public. in the past month, Facebook announced a Tor-specific site available to those interested in extra levels of security, then in the two past weeks whatsapp implemented end­to-end encryption for android devices, with plans to extend the service to ios devices. 
before you get too lost in the tech mum­bo-jumbo in the last paragraph, here’s a bit of background. Facebook’s unveiling gained more visibility for the dark web, a collection of websites hidden behind mul­tiple levels of encryption with tools like 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
For example, the stand-up set, which the oakland, california, native per­formed in san Francisco (she occasionally quipped with the audience about being from the bay area) was intercut with short, surreal shots of peretti dressed up as a clown, mocking herself on stage. at an­other point, she’s confronted by an image of herself in middle school in the audi­ence, the shot flickering from adult peretti dressed in young clothes to a photograph bizarrely sitting in a theater seat, coming to life and assuring peretti she doesn’t have to turn her problems into jokes. 
This extra layer of self-awareness within the special makes it especially rich. peretti is able to simultaneously riff about awk­ward silences at dinner parties while call­ing attention to the existential questions she faces by taking the stage. The result is a strange and wonderfully executed meta-comedy that pulls back the curtain on the darkness behind standup while still pull­ing in laughs. 
it seems at first glance that peretti con­tradicts herself or doesn’t give us answers we want to the questions she raises about comedy, especially being woman in come­dy. at times she talks about the stupidity of the question “what’s it like being a female comedian?” but at other times talks about 
Tor and i2p that hide user and site ip ad­dresses. while the dark web is famous for big names like silk road, an online drug black market, and child pornography, re­cently it has been enabling more produc­tive services, such as securedrop, which allows for the secure upload of leaked documents to news sites. 
it may not be clear at first why a site like Facebook, which requires users to give an identity upon entry, would be on the dark web, but Tor and i2p work by encrypt­ing and decrypting web traffic in layers through various servers chosen at ran­dom around the world. since each step only removes one layer of encryption, it becomes next to impossible to track the relay of signals back to the user. although using Tor on Facebook won’t make you a ghost on the network, it gets around local censorship and surveillance. The move from Facebook comes as the next step of customer security, following up on the general ssl security offered by most tech companies today. 

uniquely female experiences, what some may interpret as a contradictory act. 
but that’s the genius of peretti’s special. by doing this, both sharing her experi­ences through traditional standup and re­vealing her self-awareness and reservation about the act in the off-stage segments of the special, peretti beautifully reveals the double standards faced by comedians who are women. “one of the greats” ex­poses anxiety felt by not just female come­dians, but women who want to share their experiences without the threat of seeming cliché or perpetuating stereotypes. 
The stand-up is at its best during these most self-aware moments, but to execute such a statement in a special, peretti also had to be hilarious — and she is.  The spe­cial cuts to absurd and delightful plants in the audience, perfectly mocking the genre of comedy specials. within her stand-up performance, her impressions of surfer bros and “hot girls” who give bad dating advice are excellent, and her physical comedy prompts plenty of big laughs sev­eral times throughout the show. 
To top it off, peretti wonderfully bal­ances more subtle humor and nuanced meta-comedy with bold, unapologetic confidence. by titling her special “one of the greats,” planting super-fans in the 
whereas Facebook’s appeal to Tor us­ers is rather specific, whatsapp’s new en­cryption service seeks to enable the the security of all users, whether or not they understand what is happening behind the user interface. whatsapp integrated Textsecure into its software, which al­lows for end-to-end encryption. in the past, messages would be shielded while traversing the space between the users’ devices and whatsapp servers, however end-to-end security now scrambles mes­sages on the device itself, and only un­scrambles them when reaching the target. This allows user conversations to be hid­den from not only prying eyes, but the Facebook-owned company itself. 
The only other messaging software of similar capacity, according to wired, is apple’s imessage. however, Textsecure has been lauded as a much stronger alter­native to the apple service. a major con­cern with imessage is a lack of so called “forward security,” meaning that a single encryption key is generated for each user. 
audience and jokingly calling herself a “one of the top touring comedians in the country right now,” peretti’s attitude is both funny and wildly thought-provoking. (i repeatedly asked myself, “what would i think if a male comedian said that?” or “That sounds like something a male comedian would say,” which i don’t be­lieve was an accidental on peretti’s part.) at times, she abruptly switches between talking about her insecurities and anxi­eties to unabashed self-assurance, and through this dissonance reveals so much more than could simply be delivered via punch line. 
The subtlety and smartness of “one of the greats” puts peretti at the top of my list of comedians. The special is complex, political and hysterical, and peretti makes it look easy. i can’t wait to see what the comedian has in store. luckily, “one of the greats” can be watched again and again, with new layers of jokes and commentary emerging with each viewing like sifting for gold. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Thus if the user’s key is cracked or ob­tained in some way, all of her encrypted data is vulnerable. even more striking though is the prompt to back up imessages to apple’s icloud, which would probably be considered one of the least secure plat­form by the general public after the photo leaks scandal earlier in the semester. 
both Facebook and whatsapp repre­sent the necessary next steps that need to be taken by tech companies. many con­sider Tor access to be a necessity for any company hoping to keep pace. with the nsa building bigger and better and all the while less-regulated facilities, it makes sense to fear for our information and de­mand the private sector to address the issue. even if you have nothing to hide, if you’re uncomfortable with someone looking over your shoulder in person, why should someone doing it online be any more natural? 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 


LOUISVILLE 31, NOTRE DAME 28 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2014 | NDSMcObSERVER.cOM 
Free fall 
Notre Dame suffers its fourth loss in last five games, falling to No. 24 Louisville, 31-28, on Saturday 
Irish should have gotten more on Senior Day 

Mary Green 
Sports Editor 
This team deserved better than a loss on Senior Day, especially one that came so close to being a win. 
We thought if the Irish stayed clean and kept the ball secure the entire game, they would come out with a victory. They turned the ball over only once on a second-quarter interception, but the score still read in Louisville’s favor when time ran out. 
They deserved better for stick­ing together when no one thought they could. Many people doubted how good a team this young and inexperienced could be after losing talent like Stephon Tuitt, Prince Shembo and Louis Nix. Then they stuck together after an NcAA investigation took away five of their teammates from games and practices right before the season kicked off. 
They deserved better for Everett Golson, who came back from his suspension with a vengeance, boosting himself into Heisman contention for the first half of the season, and who put all of the blame on himself for a horrid 55­31 loss to Arizona State that, for all intents and purposes, derailed Notre Dame’s season. 
This Golson displayed noth­ing but maturity and leadership throughout the entire season, and he deserved to walk off the field with a win, even if he gets to re­peat Senior Day next season. 
The team deserved better for Austin collinsworth, who went around the locker room after the game and hugged each of his teammates and told them how much he loved them. collinsworth captained the Irish from the sidelines despite suffer­ing injuries in the early part of the season that kept him from regu­lar playing time until last week’s matchup with Northwestern. 
They deserved better for Matt Hegarty, who recovered from a stroke he suffered sophomore year, got stronger and better the last two season and became a starter on the offensive line this year. 
The Irish deserved better for Joe Schmidt, the heart, soul and 
see SENIORS PAGE 3 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Writer 
After a slow start, Notre Dame’s late fourth-quarter comeback bid was just inches off, as it fell to Louisville on Senior Day, 31-28. 
The Irish (7-4) had a late chance to send the game to overtime, but senior kicker Kyle brindza’s 32-yard field goal slid wide of the right up­right, handing Notre Dame its first loss on Senior Day in Irish head coach brian Kelly’s tenure. 

With the Irish on the Louisville 10-yard line and 
1:42 remaining, a rush by sophomore running back Tarean Folston moved Notre Dame to the nine, before a de­signed quarterback draw was blown up by the Louisville defense and lost six yards. 
“We ran a quarterback draw, and we got our butts kicked up front,” Kelly said. 
A pass by senior quarter­back Everett Golson sailed over the head of junior re­ceiver c.J. Prosise on third down from the 15-yard line, setting up brindza’s attempt. Kelly said after the game that the hold by sophomore quar­terback Malik Zaire was not “executed at the level it need­ed to be.” 
see LOSS PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME QUOTE OF THE GAME 
Young, depleted ND defense exposed vs. Cardinals 
By GREG HADLEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
On a day devoted to its seniors, the exceedingly young Irish de­fense struggled to play with veteran poise in the first quarter, dooming Notre Dame to an early deficit that it would not escape. 
Entering the game, the Irish were already suffering from the losses of junior captain and defensive lineman Sheldon Day and senior linebacker Joe Schmidt, forcing Irish head coach brian Kelly to play five true freshmen and seven sophomores. 
Then, on Louisville’s first play from scrimmage, junior defensive lineman Jarron Jones collected a sack, only to come up hobbling and go to the sideline. 
“We played pretty much the whole game without Jarron Jones and [all of it without] Sheldon Day [and] Joe Schmidt,” Kelly said. “We had a lot of freshmen in there, a lot of young guys, and they battled as best they could. I mean, we’re get­ting everything out of them. They played with great effort. We just made some mistakes.” 
Jones’s absence on that first drive was felt right away as the cardinals racked up 61 rushing yards on eight attempts, capped off by a 12-yard touchdown rush from freshman quarterback Reggie bonnafon. Even when the Irish forced Louisville into a third-and-14 situ­ation, senior running back Michael Dyer was able to break through several arm tackles, picking up 21 yards and the first down. 
“Just the little mistakes that are adding up to big plays are the things that are really killing us,” Irish sophomore defensive line­man Isaac Rochell said. 
“The effort was there,” Irish sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith said. “It’s just about having that physical and mental mental­ity to the point that we’re not going to be denied. And that’s where age plays a picture.” 
For most of the game, the lone veteran on the field for Notre Dame’s defense was graduate stu­dent safety Austin collinsworth. collinsworth missed seven games this year while dealing with in­juries to his McL and shoulder and said the injury to his shoulder changed his tackling approach. 
see DEFENSE PAGE 3 
REGGIE BONNAFON 
CARDINALS FRESHMAN QUARTERBACK 
The redshirt freshman passed for 180 yards and one touchdown and added 35 more yards and two scores on the ground. He contributed to all but one of the cardinals’ touchdowns, and his game troubled the Irish defense all day. 

“We’ve lost back-to­back games because we couldn’t put down a ball and kick it 32 yards.” 
Irish head coach brian Kelly explains Notre Dame’s late losses to Northwestern and Louisville. 

THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2014 | NDSMcObSERVER.cOM 

REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

The good news for the Irish was that Golson turned the ball over only once. However, one of his recovered fumbles cost the Irish offense 32 yards in one of the team’s worst blun­ders of the night. His 236 passing yards weren’t enough to cancel that one out. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Tarean Folston continued to impress, picking up 134 yards on the ground, including one rush for 26 yards and another for a touchdown. However, his performance alone was not enough to balance out the rest of the group, which accumu­lated just 20 yards. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller again contributed the bulk of the load for the receiving corps, and his touchdown off a deflection off a Louisville defender tightened the Irish deficit to three in the fourth quarter. brown, Prosise and Robinson all added catches of more than 20 yards. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Golson was sacked three times, the Irish picked up a mea­ger 99 total rushing yards, and Nick Martin’s attempt to land on a Golson fumble added to the overall 32-yard loss. On the best play of the game for Notre Dame, the touch­down to Fuller, Golson had to scramble like a madman to avoid the Louisville defense. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The line may have been hurt by the absence of Sheldon Day and the early loss of Jarron Jones, but it stepped up to sack Louisville quarterback Reggie bonnafon four times for a loss of 32 yards. That being said, it also let the cardi­nals rush for 229 yards. 
LINEBACKERS 

This was another group that felt the loss of veterans and had to rely on freshmen to fill the gaps. Nyles Morgan picked up 10 tackles before his targeting ejection, and brian Kelly said Greer Martini impressed him in taking over for Morgan. However, they also let brandon Radcliff rush for 136 yards and allowed bonnafon two scores on the ground. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Like Folston, cole Luke seems to get better in every game of his sophomore campaign. Luke largely limited the im­pact of DeVante Parker. The rest of the unit struggled, with Devin butler’s blown coverage on Parker’s touchdown and Austin collinsworth missing several tackles. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Plain and simple, Kyle brindza’s missed field goal with less than a minute left cost the Irish the game. Kelly said he didn’t know if that was the fault of brindza or holder Malik Zaire, but either way, special teams fell through when it needed to put points on the board. 
COACHING 

At least the two-point conversion worked this week. but early gains by cardinals receivers brought up the question of why Kelly stuck with collinsworth and Tranquill in the secondary and barely rotated in Elijah Shumate and Max Redfield. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.18 (C) 

The Irish didn’t play a bad game, but they certainly did not play one good enough to earn a Senior Day victory. Golson corrected his turn­over problems for the most part, but he struggled in other areas. The young defense may have gained experience valuable for next year, but so much inexperience wasn’t ideal for Notre Dame on Saturday. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
KYLE BRINDZA’S 32-YARD MISSED FIELD GOAL 
Notre Dame had a chance to tie the game up at 31 with less than a min­ute left, and brindza’s kick fell wide right instead of through the uprights. Louisville took over on downs and promptly closed out the game to deny the Irish a victory in their final home contest of the season. 
Loss 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

Golson said Zaire held him­self responsible for the miss. 
“Yeah, I talked to him vaguely about it,” Golson said. “I think he took accountabil­ity for it.” 
Notre Dame’s penultimate drive ended on the bounce that gave Irish fans hope for a win after one slipped away last week against Northwestern. Down two scores and facing a third­and-13 from the Louisville 28-yard line, Golson broke a couple tackles in the pocket before rolling right and heav­ing the ball towards the end zone. Intended for 6-foot-4.5 sophomore receiver corey Robinson, the ball bounced off a cardinal defender into the air, falling into the wait­ing hands of sophomore re­ceiver Will Fuller for the Irish touchdown. 
“[Golson] keeping the play alive, anything can happen,” Fuller said. “I saw corey cov­ered pretty well, so I was just waiting to see if there was any batted ball, and luckily, it was right there.” 
Golson worked similar mag­ic on the ensuing two-point conversion attempt. He rolled right originally before back­ing out and following a cou­ple blockers all the way back across the field to convert the try and move the Irish within a field goal with 11 minutes re­maining in the game. 
The senior finished the game 16-for-24 with 236 yards and two touchdowns through the air. Fuller led the team with five receptions for 105 yards and one touchdown. 
Near the end of the game, cardinals freshman quarter­back Reggie bonnafon was sacked for a 14-yard loss by freshman linebacker Greer Martini on third-and-goal. Louisville redshirt junior kicker John Wallace pushed the 37-yard field goal attempt wide right, but the Irish were unable to capitalize. 

“We had a chance with the ball in our own hands with a minute to go and a chance to win, and we’ve got to cash that in and score,” Kelly said. “That’s how I see it.” 
The disappointing end fol­lowed the Irish battling back into the game after a slow first half offensively. The cardinals jumped out to an early lead as bonnafon ran for two early touchdowns en route to build­ing a 17-6 halftime lead. 
After forcing a Louisville three-and-out to start the sec­ond half, the Irish marched 51 yards in three plays. Folston reversed field and escaped around the left edge for a six-yard touchdown run that cut the Louisville lead to 17-13 just more than two minutes into the third quarter. 
“We knew what we had to do coming into the game, com­ing into halftime,” Folston said. “The second half was just continue to play hard and execute better.” 
“We definitely got back to running the ball a little bit more,” Golson said. “I think that opened up a couple things for us.” 
After another Louisville three-and-out, Irish sopho­more running back Greg bryant returned the punt 61 yards to the Louisville three-yard line. Golson found Robinson on third-and-goal from the seven-yard line to give Notre Dame the 20-17 lead. 
“I knew he was going to make something happen,” Folston said of bryant’s return. “I told him, ‘Just keep your head in it, and you’re going to make something happen,’ and that’s what happened.” 
The cardinals regained con­trol after an eight-play, 81-yard drive capped by bonnafon’s 21-yard touchdown toss to se­nior receiver DeVante Parker to seize control once again, 24-20. Sophomore running back brandon Radcliff’s 15­yard score on the next drive extended Louisville’s lead to 31-20. Radcliff’s 136 yards on the ground led the cardinals, who gained 229 yards on 50 rush attempts. Folston paced the Irish with 134 rushing yards, and senior running back cam McDaniel added 20 more. 
The Irish have played many underclassmen this year, and this year’s seniors said they tried to impress a positive message upon the younger players after the game. 
“I just walked around to every one of the players and told them that I loved them and thanked them,” gradu­ate student safety and captain Austin collinsworth said. “I told them beforehand, ‘You leave your soul on that field, and there’s no regrets.’ And they did, and I love them for it.” 
The Irish have to regroup to travel west next week for the regular-season finale against USc in Los Angeles. The se­niors also had a message ready for their team about that. 
“We’re a close team and we talked — cam McDaniel started talking to the team after the game, and we’ve just got to come together and fin­ish strong,” senior offensive lineman and captain Nick Martin said. “but there’s no doubt about the talent we have on this team, and we’ve just got to make plays in those situations.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


NDSMcObSERVER.cOM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2014 | THE ObSERVER 

SCORING SUMMARY 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish senior kicker Kyle Brindza misses a 32-yard field goal in the final minute of regulation Saturday 
during Notre Dame’s 31-28 loss to Louisville at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Defense 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
“It’s just hard for me to wrap with that arm. That’s the only thing,” collinsworth said. “[I had to change my form] a little bit.” 
While the Irish suffered from mental errors, they failed to pun­ish the cardinals for theirs. On its second drive of the game, the Lousiville offense committed three false start penalties over an eight-play sequence but was still able to convert on a third-and-16 from its own 35-yard line. 
blown coverage down the middle of field left redshirt se­nior receiver Kai De La cruz wide open for a 52-yard bomb from bonnafon, setting up another rushing score and putting the Irish down 14-3 at the end of the first quarter. 
Seniors 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
“Papa bear” of the defense, whose injury against Navy ended his senior season in a place no one wanted it to — on the sidelines. If you don’t think Schmidt still continues to inspire his teammates, just ask Jaylon Smith why he wore a No. 38 jer­sey Saturday. 
Notre Dame deserved better for Kyle brindza, who has taken much of the heat for the last few losses and has not received enough credit for going down in the record books as one of the best kickers in Notre Dame history. 

“[It was] zone read, we’re [in] great coverage and we’ve got two guys playing the wrong cover­age,” Kelly said. “[We] just made mistakes. When we were lined up properly and in our right fits and doing the right things, we did a pretty good job.” 
collinsworth took responsibil­ity for the hole in the Irish defense. 
“We’ve got to close in the middle of the field,” collinsworth said. “We just came up a little short, but I’ve got to be able to overlap a little better than I did.” 
by halftime, the Irish defense had allowed the cardinals to con­vert on four of eight third-downs, including three of 10 yards or more. However, after the open­ing two touchdowns, Notre Dame rallied to allow just a Louisville field goal the rest of the half. 
“We just started to get our cleats 

They deserved better for the entire senior class honored at midfield before Saturday’s game, but they also deserved better for the younger players who had to step in and learn on their feet, like Drue Tranquill, Nyles Morgan and Greer Martini. Those freshmen almost led the Irish to a victory on the last day their oldest teammates took the field at Notre Dame Stadium. 
And Notre Dame deserved better for all its seniors, includ­ing the ones in the stands in­stead of on the sidelines. Those seniors stuck with the team through a lackluster 8-5 fresh­man year, a crushing defeat to Alabama in the bcS National in the grass, talking it over on the sideline,” Irish sophomore cor­nerback cole Luke said. “We went over the mistakes that we made.” 
However, led by redshirt soph­omore running back brandon Radcliff, the cardinals rallied to collect 102 yards on the ground in the third quarter on just five attempts. Radcliff also provided a fourth-quarter score that put Louisville ahead, 31-20. 
Despite the young defense’s mistakes, Smith said there were still positives to take away from starting so many underclassmen. 
“Just the experience … the at­mosphere, even losing in this case, it’s something that we’re all learning,” Smith said. “We’re all just continuing to learn.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
championship Game and a final season that saw their team lose at least four of their final six regular-season games. They deserved to sing their final Alma Mater with their heads held high in victory. 
Maybe the Irish can earn a win against USc next weekend and then a bowl-game victory after that. 
They deserve to have their fi­nal season end that way, at least. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Hayes debuts for Irish 
Observer Staff Report 
When freshman defensive lineman Jay Hayes took the field for the Irish on Saturday, he be­came the ninth true freshman to play defense for Notre Dame this season. 
Freshman linebacker Greer Martini notched a sack after fellow freshman linebacker Nyles Morgan was ejected for a targeting penalty in the fourth quarter. Under NcAA rules, Morgan will also be suspend­ed for the first half of Notre Dame’s game against USc next Saturday. 
It was Morgan’s third personal foul in the past two games. 

Louisville’s eight-play, 93­yard touchdown drive in the first quarter marked the first time this season Notre Dame has surrendered a scoring drive of 80 yards or more. 
When sophomore receiver Will Fuller grabbed a touchdown pass late in the fourth quarter, he upped his season total to 14, one score away from the program re­cord of 15, most recently tied by Golden Tate in 2009. 
Fuller also entered the matchup tied for the FbS lead in touchdown receptions. He currently sits in second. 
Greg bryant’s 61-yard punt return in the third quarter was the longest since 2009 and of brian Kelly’s career at Notre Dame. 
Senior quarterback Everett Golson now has 41 career touchdown passes, tying him for fifth in Notre Dame history. 
Golson also threw an inter­ception for the eighth straight game. That brings his season total to 13. The Notre Dame re­cord is 18, set most recently in 1984 by Steve beuerlein. 
Golson and the Irish offense failed to score a touchdown in the first half for the first time this season. 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
14  3  7  7  31  
3  3  14  8  17  

NOTRE DAME 3, LOUISVILLE 0 
Kyle brindza 28-yard field goal 
11:54 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 43 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 7, NOTRE DAME 3 
Reggie bonafon 12-yard run (Wallace kick) 
7:01 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 4:53 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 14, NOTRE DAME 3 
Reggie bonafon eight-yard run (Wallace kick) 
0:54 remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 93 yards, 3:43 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 14, NOTRE DAME 6 
Kyle brindza 37-yard field goal 
14:51remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 53 yards, 1:03 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 17, NOTRE DAME 6 
John Wallace 26-yard field goal 
9:01remaining 

Drive: Four plays, two yards, 1:54 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 17, NOTRE DAME 13 
Tarean Folston six-yard run (brindza kick) 
12:47 remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 51 yards, 0:45 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, LOUISVILLE 17 
Robinson seven-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
9:20remaining 

Drive: Three plays, three yards, 1:26 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 24, NOTRE DAME 20 
Parker 21-yard pass from bonnafon (Wallace kick) 
5:46remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 81 yards, 3:34 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 31, NOTRE DAME 20 
brandon Radcliff 15-yard run (Wallace kick) 
14:55remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 80 yards, 3:11 elapsed 
LOUISVILLE 31, NOTRE DAME 28 
Will Fuller 28-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 

11:17 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 73 yards, 3:38 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
PASSING 
Golson 
RUSHING 
Folston McDaniel Prosise Golson 
RECEIVING 
Fuller Brown Robinson Prosise Hunter Jr. Koyack 
TACKLES 
Smith Morgan Farley 
Collinsworth Matuska Tranquill 
16-24-236 
18-134 2-22 1-(-2) 6-(-48) 
5-109 4-49 3-41 2-25 1-7 1-5 
11 
10 7 6 5 5 Bonnafon 

Radcliff Dyer Bonnafon Brown 
Parker De La Cruz Christian Rogers 
Floyd Kelsey Sample Reve 
8-21-180 
17-136 13-61 15-35 
1-4 
4-65 2-70 1-38 1-7 
8 6 5 5 

Gaines, Mount, Brown 3 Rankins, Burgess 3 

THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2014 | NDSMcObSERVER.cOM 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Louisville redshirt sophomore safety Gerod Holliman (8) defends a pass from Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson in the end zone during Notre Dame’s 31-28 loss to the Cardinals on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish have lost four of their last five games. 
Kyle Brindza pushed a 32-yard field goal wide right with 51 seconds 
left in regulation, and Notre Dame ended up losing, 31-28, to Louis­ville on Saturday on Senior Day at Notre Dame Stadium. The young 
NOT IN THE 
Irish defense surrendered 409 yards of total offense to the Cardinals. The Irish have lost four of five games and now sit at 7-4 heading into 
CARDS 
the regular-season finale against USC on Saturday. 




The observer | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

i might be biased because i was born in the fall, but the transition from autumn to winter holidays is on top as my favorite stage of the year. it’s like ordering bottom­less pancakes with each one more deli­cious and mouth-watering than the next. we’ve checked the box on halloween, and now, in the eloquent words of mr. charles brown, “we’ve got another holiday to wor­ry about.” 
no, it’s not considered the “most won­derful time of the year,” for some. as an 8-year-old, i likened Thanksgiving to the christmas eve of the christmas season. every little preparation for Thanksgiving was a glorious reminder as to how close christmas was, replacing the turkey plates and cups with fake pine trees, vibrantly colored lights and the apotheosis of all that is merry and bright: christmas music. i take an unbreakable vow following every halloween to shield my ear from the temp­tation of the early birds’ chirp, the sound of those who skip Thanksgiving altogether and project pandora’s holiday station from their cars and quads. 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

in 1997, pop group aqua sang, “i’m a barbie girl, in a barbie world. life in plastic, it’s fantastic.” 
but it’s not realistic, attainable or some­thing young girls should aspire to, so this past week saw “life in plastic” redefined. 
nickolay lamm, a pittsburgh graphic designer, created the lammily doll with proportions reflecting the average 19-year­old girl. his crowd-funded campaign raised $500,000, and he has announced the dolls will go into production before the holidays. 
The dolls not only channel a more realis­tic body type — one that can fit a full liver and would be able to walk on two feet in real life, unlike barbie — but can also be given acne, freckles, scars and even cellu­lite via a sticker pack. 
in a video on lamm’s youTube channel, second graders at st. edmund’s academy in pittsburgh were interviewed about the lammily doll. The children gave heart­warming feedback like “she looks like my sister.” all of the girls interviewed thought the lammily doll looked more like them 
Therefore, in honor of Thanksgiving and all it encompasses for each of us, al­low me to turn this page into a sample feast of Turkey day’s finest in entertain­ment and tradition. you may have tasted some of these before, others you might try for the first time this year. i encourage you to hold off on christmas for just a smid­gen bit longer so that you can savor and enjoy the family, friends and memories of november’s last Thursday. 
Macy’s Thanksgiving day Parade 
if you did not grow up watching this sig­nature Thanksgiving spectacle, i seriously question what you were doing instead. To this day, my bucket list includes performing in this cornucopia of giant floats, balloons and performances in every fine arts cate­gory, from high school bands to broadway musicals. The 88-year-old parade is appro­priately referred to as the official kick-off to the holiday season, seen by more than 3.5 million people on the streets of new york and an additional 50 million people from the comfort of their home. originally the parade was called the macy’s christmas parade, started by macy’s employees and instantly proclaimed an annual event, 
than barbie and said they would rather re­ceive a lammily doll than a barbie. 
barbie has a reputation for bolstering restrictive gender role ideals, famously pointed out by lisa simpson who worried that her malibu stacy doll would have girls growing up thinking they could “never be more than vacuous ninnies.” mattel, however, has tried to expand her career endeavors past model and make-up art­ist — careers the second graders at st. edmund’s pictured her doing. however, an attempt at a computer engineer barbie proved futile and has gone viral. 
in 2010, mattel released a computer en­gineer edition of their barbie book series “i can be …” now, the book has come un­der media fire after blog posts exposing the book, which perpetuates the idea that women need men in shining armor — or graphic tees — to help them solve prob­lems. excerpts include a conversation be­tween barbie and her sister, skipper about the computer game barbie is working on. 
“i’m only creating the design ideas,” barbie says, laughing. “i’ll need steven’s and brian’s help to turn it into a real game.” 
mattel and random house have since announced the print and e-book according to the event’s website. The first giant character balloon debuted was Felix the cat in 1927, starting a trend of iconic pop culture character balloons including mickey mouse, popeye, hello Kitty and the character with the most balloons in history, snoopy. more than 8,000 volun­teers participate in the parade every year, marching all of the 2.5 miles through the streets of manhattan. also,  the national dog show is live immediately after the parade if you find yourself craving cute canines. 

Thanksgiving Television Specials 
Thanksgiving always manages to bring out the best in cable. when done right, the general themes of family and friend­ship aren’t overly forced upon any char­acters because the ideals of Thanksgiving provide a backdrop of warm, fuzzy feels. before wisdom reflects and waxes regret and nostalgia at new year’s, it heats up at the table of charlie brown, Fraiser crane and president Jed bartlet. don’t forget all the side dishes of wordplay such as “slapsgiving” in “how i met your mother,” “merry Thanksgiving” from “Two and a half men” or “seinfeld’s” chaotic “mom 
publications will be discontinued. 
in the midst of the controversy, the story has been reworked by casey Fiesler, a phd student in computing, into “i (really) can be a computer engineer.” she features barbie as a competent coder, frustrated that her friends would assume boys coded her game for her after she posts a screen­shot on Twitter. 
it is refreshing to see the call for an up­dated, empowering role model for young girls, but elsewhere, the focus has shifted to a fresh series of toys aimed at young girls aspiring to more than a malibu beach house. 
chances are you’ve seen the viral com­mercial set to the beastie boy’s “girls” that features three girls bored with the pageants on Tv and proceed to repurpose their pink toys to create an elaborate rube goldberg machine and empowering mes­sage from the emerging brand goldieblox. 
according to the company’s website, its goal is to “disrupt the pink aisle and inspire the future generation of female engineers.” goldieblox’s ceo, debbie sterling — an engineer and stanford graduate, wants to increase the number of females in engi­neering. as of now, only 11 percent of the and pop store.” 
“a charlie brown Thanksgiving” taught me some of my first full sentences, like, “where’s the mashed potatoes? where’s the cranberry sauce? where’s the pump­kin pie?” another peanuts Thanksgiving-related special not nearly as well-known is “This is america, charlie brown: The mayflower voyagers,” one i strongly rec­ommend if you want to brush up on your history snoopy-style. 
why rush through the quintessential americana festivities of this upcoming day of thanks? it’s consistent in date and time and promises copious amounts of each individual food group. christmas is more marketable in comparison, but the retail of Thanksgiving touches exclusively upon the identity and foundation of united states’s history. The reunions and togeth­erness celebrated are bittersweet as fami­lies grow, shrink and alter with each year’s circumstances. however, in spite of what is lost by year’s end, the joy of Thanksgiving manifests in the blessings found in life’s unrest, what and who pursues. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekafal01@saintmarys.edu 
world’s engineers are women. 
in a more recent commercial the goldieblox marketers set the gold standard even higher, channeling a “1984”-esque scene in which big sister repeats: “you are beauty and beauty is perfection.” young girls in pink fur vests and sparkly heels pick up dolls off of an assembly line to metric’s “help i’m alive.” 
conveying a message addressed in the “girls” commercial, a girl in denim overalls and red converse takes a hammer to the machine. The doll production stops and the girls gleefully take off their heels. The ad is to sell an action figure for girls that channels the overall-ed rebel and chal­lenges fashion dolls that fly off the shelves. 
The idea of toys that allow girls to do more than take clothes on and off of unat­tainable — or “normal”— plastic bodies is a promising trend. These new toys break the pink, bedazzled, bow-shaped mold and encourage girls to become indepen­dent problem-solvers. 
These days, it’s hard to be a barbie girl in an evolving world. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



SPorTS auThorITy 

Okafor aims to lead Duke to top 
Manuel De Jesus 
sports writer 
The road to march madness — one of the greatest american cultural phenomenons — is now underway, and as we watch the elite teams distinguish themselves from the pretend­ers, it would be a travesty if we fail to recognize the play of some of the best players on the court. specifically, i would like to highlight the play of duke’s preseason all-american, Jahlil okafor. 
The freshman center is al­ready terrorizing opponents in the paint, five games into his collegiate career. he is averaging 
15.8 points, eight rebounds and shooting 60 percent from the field while leading duke to an early 5-0 record. before going to play for blue devils coach mike Krzyzewski, okafor was pro­jected to be an nba lottery pick based solely on his high school play. 
okafor played his high school ball at whitney young high school in chicago, where he led the dolphins to a state title as a senior. being from chicago my­self, i was lucky enough to watch him play a couple of games. against another basketball pow­erhouse, simeon, okafor played an outstanding game against another former duke star, Jabari parker, but lost. 
despite that, it was clear that okafor was incredibly talented. his physicality was second to none, and he was unstoppable when scoring. similar to his current style of play, okafor combined old-school physical basketball with a smooth finesse in the post. his versatility obvi­ously served him well, as he went on to win mvp of the 2014 mcdonald’s all-american game, 2014 illinois mr. basketball and national player of the year for usa Today and the chicago sun-Times. 
in addition to his success in chicago, okafor made his stamp in international competition. he won gold medals in three straight summers playing for team usa’s u-16, u-17 and u-19 teams. while playing for Team usa, his recruitment activ­ity shot through the roof as he was working with elite college basketball coaches like Florida coach billy donovan. 
Following parker’s footsteps, okafor decided to commit to duke after carefully consider­ing other offers from Kentucky, michigan state, north carolina and Kansas. competing against other recruits like center cliff alexander from curie high school for the top spot in the 2014 recruiting class, okafor proved that he was a national recruiting gem after leading whitney young to the class 4a state title while scoring well over 20 points per game his senior year. 
when it was time to announce where he would be playing col­lege basketball, okafor’s deci­sion came down to being able to play with his childhood friend, Tyus Jones, who is now the point guard for the blue devils. already on the watch-lists for the wooden and the naismith awards, okafor is primed to have a big season at duke. 
not surprisingly, okafor’s family consists of former and current basketball players. both of his parents received athletic scholarships to play basketball, and his distant cousin emeka okafor is a free agent center in the nba. after losing his mother when he was nine, okafor was raised by his father chukwudi okafor, who was an all-city basketball player in high school, and his aunt chinyere okafor­conley, who became a mother figure for Jahlil. 
To clear up any questions, i’m not a duke fan. it just happens that one of the more interest­ing and dominating players in the country plays for duke. regardless of who you are a fan of, it’s only fair to recognize when someone’s great play un­folds before our eyes. 
Contact Manuel De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nd voLLeybaLL | norTh carolina 3, nd 0; norTh carolina sTaTe 3, nd 0 
irish suffer double losses 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame continued to struggle in acc competition this weekend, losing at home to no. 7 north carolina on Friday and north carolina state on sunday in a pair of 3-0 sweeps. 
The Tar heels currently top the acc leaderboard with a 15-1 conference record and 24-2 re­cord overall, but north carolina struggled Friday in the first set, as the irish (6-21, 3-13 acc) came back from an 18-12 defi­cit to tie the match at 20 points apiece. notre dame fought hard to keep the game tied at 23, but dropped the first set after back-to-back kills by redshirt senior outside hitter chaniel nelson and junior middle blocker paige neuenfeldt gave the Tar heels the victory. 
north carolina took com­plete control in the second set. despite the irish’s attempt to stay on par with the Tar heels early on, north carolina went on a 4-0 run midway through the frame to give themselves a 19-13 lead and ultimately the set. 
north carolina’s dominance continued in the final frame, as the Tar heels jumped out of the gate with a 7-2 lead. They main­tained control throughout the rest of the frame and kept the point margin wide to take the last set, 25-16. 
notre dame continued to struggle in sunday’s match against north carolina state, losing in a 3-0 sweep against the wolfpack. The irish could not offer any response to the wolfpack’s powerhouse of­fense. The wolfpack (15-13, 4-12) amassed 53 kills throughout three frames of play, with three north carolina state players reaching double digits. 
notre dame held its own in each set, tying the wolfpack at 23 in both the first and third set, while falling one point behind them in the second set, 23-22. The irish offense was led by freshman middle blocker sam Fry, who finished the match with 12 kills, and sophomore middle blocker simmone collins, who recorded 6 kills, 3 blocks and a .417 attack percentage. 
in the sunday loss, senior middle blocker Jeni houser re­corded nine kills to bring her career kill total to 1,291, moving into 10th place in notre dame history. she is only nine more kills away from becoming the eighth notre dame volleyball player to reach 1,300 career kills. 
The irish look ahead to their final match of the season when they welcome pittsburgh to purcell pavilion at 4 p.m. Friday. The panthers swept notre dame, 3-0, on oct. 10  and are 10-5 in conference play with an overall record of 22-6. 

nd CroSS CounTry | ncaa championships 
Seidel races to top 20 
By  MANUEL DE JESUS 
sports writer 

after being among the last teams to qualify for the women’s ncaa championships, notre dame finished in 29th place out of 31 teams saturday, add­ing another all-american to its program in junior molly seidel at Terre haute, indiana. 
seidel, who has led the irish in each race she had run in throughout the season, com­pleted the six-kilometer race in 
20:23.4. in addition to placing 19th overall, seidel was the first acc runner to cross the finish line. although seidel said she was excited to have won all­american honors, the first irish woman to do so since 2009, she also said she knows she has po­tential to be even better. 
“it’s really amazing to step to the line at a national meet with the fastest women in the coun­try, and then to come away from it as an all-american is just an unbelievable honor,” seidel said. “it’s great to know that the enor­mous amount of work you put in over the summer and fall and all the sacrifices you’ve made re­ally have paid off when it matters most, so i’m pretty ecstatic about how the season finished up. 
“at the same time, i’m really not satisfied yet — i know that i can do better and want to keep 

FOR RENT 

Attn: graduate students! Tri-level home for rent almost immediately! 
pushing so that i can be up with the girls at the very front of the race. i think that’s what great about cross country — that you always have something bigger to strive towards no matter where you finish.” 
seidel’s most impressive per­formances this season include finishing first at the national catholic championships, fifth at the acc championships and fourth at the great lakes region­al championships. leading the women’s squad all the way to a ncaa championship appear­ance, seidel said she is satisfied with the way she carried herself throughout the season. 
“i’m pretty happy overall with how i finished throughout the season since i was able to keep building and getting stronger as time went on,” seidel said. “in the past two years i’ve had a pretty good start only to get in­jured and then race poorly or not at all the rest of the season, so it was really important for me to stay healthy and keep gradually improving at each race.” 
seniors emily Frydrych, Karen lesiewicz and Katie moran finished 122nd (21:23.1), 174th (21:43.7) and 216th (22:07.7), respectively. Junior danielle aragon wrapped up the top five, finishing in 226th place (22:17.9). 
in terms of improving the overall team’s performance for next season, seidel said she is confident in her team’s ability to become a national champion­ship contender. 
“cross country is such a team-oriented sport, and because of this, i think the all-american honor is more of a reflection of our team rather than me indi­vidually,” seidel said. “i run with these girls every day in practice, gotten my butt kicked more times than i can count by them too, and i know that there is so much potential for success in ev­ery one of them. 
“i think from here it’s not a matter of practicing harder but rather practicing smarter and mastering the mental compo­nent of racing. it’s doing all the little things over time, like get­ting enough rest, managing small injuries and having confi­dence to race aggressively, that’s going to take us from being a team that is 29th at nationals to one that’s contending for the na­tional title.” 
on the men’s side of the race, junior michael clevenger rep­resented notre dame as an individual. he finished the 10-kilometer race in 31:29.9, put­ting him in 92nd place. 
now that the cross country season is over, the irish will look towards the indoor track and field season on dec. 5 when they host the blue and gold meet. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 
Have a happy early Thanksgiving everyone! Have a safe trip to the family. 

Everything nice and new. 3 bed­room or could be 4, 2 full bathrooms, open concept main floor! 2 1/2 car garage. Call Laura for more details 574-532-9167 

ndsmcobserver.com | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | The observer 

hoCkey | nd 2, umass lowell 2 
Notre Dame settles for tie after video review 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
a controversial overturned goal was the main story of the weekend as notre dame and no. 5 umass lowell tied 2-2 Friday night at the compton Family ice arena. 
with the teams tied 2-2 and just more than six minutes to play, it appeared the irish (6­6-2, 2-2-2 hockey east) went ahead on a goal that would have been credited to senior winger austin wuthrich. however, af­ter a lengthy review, the officials waved off the goal as junior cen­ter Thomas dipauli was in the crease. 
“i’ve never seen a ref call it that close, especially because i never touched the goalie,” dipauli said. “so that was a little bit soft, but at the same time, we kind of knew they were looking for something the whole game. 
“it is what it is; you can’t do anything about it, but it kind of sucks.” 
rule 73.1 in the ncaa hockey rule book states that “if an at­tacking player enters the goal crease and, by these actions, im­pairs the goalkeeper’s ability to defend the goal either visually or physically, and a goal is scored, the goal will be disallowed.” 
while dipauli did not physi­cally make contact with river hawks junior goaltender Kevin boyle, it was ruled that he ob­structed the goalie’s vision while entering the goal crease. irish coach Jeff Jackson dis­agreed with the call. 
“[The referee] wouldn’t talk to me about it,” Jackson said. “i got a chance to watch it too. ... i saw a power-play goal.” 
The waved-off goal was not the only — or first — source of frustration for the irish on the evening. umass lowell’s first goal came directly following what could have been an offside call against the river hawks. 
video replay may be used “to determine if a goal was scored as the result of an offside play”; however, the play was not re­viewed, and river hawks fresh­man center John edwardh’s goal stood to cut the irish lead to 2-1 with 1:23 to play in the second period. 
Jackson said he tried to get the play reviewed, but the official did not acknowledge his desire. 
“[The referee] wouldn’t look at me,” Jackson said. “i tried to call a timeout so they could review it, but he wouldn’t look at me.” 
unlike in Thursday’s 3-1 loss to umass lowell, notre dame struck first Friday as junior winger mario lucia broke a five-game scoreless streak with his ninth goal of the season. 
The river hawks botched a clearance attempt that fell straight to lucia, who one-timed 
paid adverTisemenT 

the puck past boyle to give the irish a 1-0 lead just 1:52 into the game. 
notre dame got some assis­tance from video replay to go 2-0 up in the game when junior winger sam herr deflected the puck just over the line for his fifth goal of the season. 
The goal was initially waved off on the ice, but the officials later deemed that the puck did in fact fully cross the goal line. Freshman winger Jake evans picked up an assist on the goal as did freshman defenseman luke ripley — the first point of his collegiate career. 
umass lowell closed the gap to 2-1 with just 83 seconds re­maining in the period when edwardh poked home a shot that irish sophomore goaltender chad Katunar seemed to save. after the initial stop, the puck trickled behind Katunar, and edwardh was in prime position to put secure the score. 
The visitors leveled the score just 3:23 into the third period when sophomore center Joe gambadella beat Katunar for his sixth goal of the season. 
after neither team could find a goal in the rest of the third period, the two teams headed for a five-minute, five-on-five, sudden-death overtime period. in the final seconds, the irish nearly gave the game away. 
a turnover in the attacking zone sent gambardello off on a breakaway with a chance to bag his second goal of the game and the win for the river hawks, but Katunar came away victo­rious in the one-on-one battle, saving gambardello’s shot with his left toe in the game’s final 10 seconds. 

“you want to back your team­mates up, you know, my guys played their [butts] off tonight,” Katunar said. “an unlucky play like that at the end? i don’t want that to determine the outcome of the game.” 
The sophomore goaltender finished with 32 saves on the night. 

“[Katunar] played extreme­ly well,” Jackson said. “you don’t shut a top power play in the country without great goaltending.” 
notre dame is back in ac­tion this weekend as the irish host the shillelagh Tournament at compton Family ice arena. Friday’s first-round game will pit the irish against no. 15 union, the defending national champion. The puck is sched­uled to drop at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

SMC baSkeTbaLL | smc 79, TriniTy 36 
belles claim first win of season 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s stifled Trinity’s of­fense saturday to claim its first victory of the season, 79-36, at the chicago marriott naperville Tip­off Tournament. 
The belles (1-3) quickly took a ten-point lead over the Trojans (0­8), establishing their presence in the paint early with points from se­nior forward ariana paul and fresh­man forward gabby diamond. 
saint mary’s did not relinquish this early lead for the remainder of the game. The Trojans did not establish a shooting presence throughout the game, particularly in the first half, when they con­verted only three field goals in 32 attempts. The belles, on the other hand, made 36 percent of their first-half field goals. 
The belles also performed well at the foul line in the first half, mak­ing eight of 10. The Trojans went to the free throw line only five times and converted three. several scor­ing runs for the belles gave them a 32-11 lead at the conclusion of the first frame of play. 
Foul trouble continued to be a problem for the Trojans in the sec­ond half. The belles scored thirteen more points from the line to bring their total free throw percentage to 75 percent on the evening. The Trojans totaled 26 total personal fouls compared to 16 for the belles, allowing saint mary’s to com­pensate for the scoring of Trinity sophomore guard ariel miree, who paced the Trojans with 16 points on the night. 

The belles pulled away with a 16-4 run midway through the sec­ond half, giving them a 30-point cushion. 
The belles also out-rebounded Trinity by a 69-35 margin. Three belles — paul and junior forwards Krista Knapke and elani shea — ended the game with more than 10 rebounds, earning each of them a double-double. diamond and junior guard sarah macius also scored in double digits for the belles. 
saint mary’s concluded its par­ticipation in the tournament with one win and one loss. paul’s efforts earned her a place on the all-tour­nament team. 
The belles continue their road swing with a trip to anderson, indiana, where they will face the anderson ravens (1-1) at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. 


W basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
“i love it,” loyd said of Johnson’s game. “everyone on the bench was going nuts and encouraging her, and we were telling her, ‘Keep shooting, keep playing defense.’ everyone who comes off the bench is ready, and we love it. we loving cheering them on. i’m their biggest cheerleader for sure, and it’s great to see.” 
Though the irish held a slim re­bounding advantage at the half, with 15 to chattanooga’s 11, they controlled the boards in the sec­ond half to put together a final 40­25 margin. 
“we finally started rebounding, and i think that’s what changed the game,” mcgraw said. “… we finally hit the boards, and mychal came in and hit some 3s, and that was pretty much the game.” 
against holy cross, on the other hand, the irish set the tone right away when freshman forward brianna Turner easily won the tipoff to pave the way for a quick layup by loyd, who finished with 17 points, six rebounds and five as­sists. Those two points turned into a double-digit lead in less than 13 minutes of play. 
“i was pleased with the game,” mcgraw said. “i thought there were a lot of good individual per­formances but i thought we really shared the ball well today and shot a little bit better from the perim­eter. defensively, i thought we did a lot of good things. we were able to get some traps, get some steals, and our transition game was in high gear.” 
when junior guard michaela mabrey started hitting 3-pointers, holy cross was forced to abandon 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
absolutely shut down one of the better teams i’ve seen all year. The defense was also fantastic and the forwards created a lot of opportunities ...” 
The irish finally broke through to tie the game in the 72nd min­ute when freshman defender sabrina Flores sent a corner kick into the penalty area, where the ball found freshman forward Karin muya, who poked it by se­nior goalkeeper Jordan day. 
muya’s goal marked her fourth of the season and second in the past two games. she also added an assist in notre dame’s 2-1 second round win over Texas on Friday. 
“[Karin’s] always dangerous on the ball,” romagnolo said. “she can score. she can get an assist. she’s a very exciting player.” 
Texas a&m entered the match with the nation’s 11th best scor­ing offense (2.57) and average over 20 shots per game, but the irish limited the aggies to below their season average with just 12 shots, six of which were on goal. still, letting up multiple scores in a contest was something the irish could not afford to do, romagnolo said. 
“you just can’t allow two goals at this stage of the tournament,” its zone defense game plan, which allowed notre dame to run over the crusaders in the paint. 
in particular, holy cross had no answer for sophomore forward Taya reimer or Turner, who took charge on the inside both offen­sively and defensively. reimer re­corded eight points, four blocks and 10 rebounds, while Turner ended the game with 19 points and seven rebounds, though she played only 17 minutes. 
“i’m particularly pleased with what brianna did in just 17 min­utes,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “she’s an amazing defender when she can get out on the perimeter and get some steals. we were hoping for a dunk, but we didn’t get one of those tonight, so we’ll have to keep waiting.” 
The score was 46-16 at the end of the first half, and the irish did not let up as they began the sec­ond stanza with 21 unanswered points. 
before long, most of the start­ers were sitting, but the irish re­serves continued to widen the gap. Freshman forward Kathryn westbeld added 15 points to lead all reserves. 
“i really like what the bench is doing right now,” mcgraw said. “everyone that comes in the game is doing exactly what we want them to do. … i think we’ve got 10 people [we’re comfortable with] right now and all of them are really contributing.” 
notre dame continues the hall of Fame tournament monday with a game against harvard in purcell pavilion at 6 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu and Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
romagnolo said. “defensively, you have to be better. ... you can’t allow two goals and expect to win a sweet 16 matchup, and certain­ly beyond that as well.” 
Texas a&m came out aggres­sively from the opening whistle, recording three shots in just over five minutes while notre dame stayed back on defense. Then, in the seventh minute, monogue took a corner kick that curled towards the net, deflected off a notre dame defender and got by sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little to stake the aggies to an early lead. 
“The first goal was definitely savable,” romagnolo said. “but if people are going to make mis­takes, then the rest of the team needs to respond to that.” 
Texas a&m took the lead for good in the 82nd minute when a poor clear from the notre dame defense squirted loose at the top of the 18-yard box. monogue grabbed the turnover and beat little with a right-footed blast. 
“The second goal was a bad clearing decision,” romagnolo said. “we didn’t take care of the ball so two poor goals allowed.” 
The loss, notre dame’s first true road loss of the season, knocks the irish out of the ncaa cham­pionship and ends their season. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

M basketball 
conTinued From page 16 

coach mike brey said in an in­terview with und.com. “but you know, when you’re playing on the road, a lot of times you don’t get that call.” 
henton’s end-of-game block closed out a frenetic second half that featured several lead changes. notre dame, which trailed by four at the start of the half, took an 66-58 lead with 
5:22 left in the game, but the irish saw that lead evaporate less than two minutes later. The teams traded leads over the next few minutes, but providence went ahead with henton’s 38th point of the game, his career-high. 
henton made 14 of his 19 field-goal attempts, include four of eight 3-pointers. 
“henton was fabulous,” brey said. “we had a hard time deal­ing with him, and we tried a couple different guys on him. we doubled him a couple of times, but he made every big shot.” 
all five notre dame starters finished the game in double figures. grant led the irish in scoring with 20 points, while connaughton scored 13 points and snatched 11 rebounds for 
Please recycle 
The Observer. 

the double-double. Junior for­ward Zach auguste finished with 15 points and sophomore guards steve vasturia and demetrius Jackson totaled 11 points apiece. 
“… i love our group,” brey said. “There’s a lot to work with here, and i love our character and toughness.” 
brey said he was particularly impressed with the efforts of grant, who scored 16 points in the second half. 
“Jerian made unbelievable plays to make us believe,” he said. “… it’s great to have him back because he’s one of the great closers in the game.” 
The irish bested the minutemen (4-1) on saturday afternoon behind a 33-9 run to end the first half and start the second. massachusetts jumped out to early leads of 19-9 and 24­15 before notre dame’s defense clamped down to limit it to only two field goals in the final eight minutes of the first half. 
grant led the team in scoring with 24 points on 10-of-13 field goals from the field while also dishing out a team-high eight assists. connaughton chipped in 18 points while going 4-for­7 from behind the 3-point arc. Jackson and auguste also reg­istered double figures for the 
paid adverTisemenT 
irish, with 16 and 11 points re­spectively. auguste recorded his first double-double of the season as he also pulled down a team-high 10 rebounds. 
The irish forced the minutemen into 18 turn­overs on the night. Jackson led the team with five steals while sophomore guard steve vasturia had four swipes of his own. however, the irish also turned the ball over 17 times, well above their 8.3 turnovers per game average coming in to the game. connaughton turned the ball over seven times after only turning the ball over twice combined in notre dame’s first three games. 
The irish turned those 18 takeaways into 23 points whereas the minutemen man­aged only 17 points off irish turnovers. 
notre dame out-rebounded massachusetts, 31-28, but gave up eight offensive rebounds, leading to eight massachusetts second-chance points. 
notre dame will return to ac­tion wednesday night when the irish host grambling state at purcell pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu and Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | The observer 

WoMen’S InTerhaLL | pangborn 18, welsh Family 7 
pangborn upsets welsh Family behind gargan 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 3 pangborn upset no. 1 welsh Family, 18-7, to take home the women’s interhall championship at notre dame stadium on sunday. 
The game came down to the final minute with a goal-line stand by the phoxes (8-1) end­ing the whirlwinds’ hopes of completing a perfect season before pangborn added anoth­er score as time expired. 
phoxes senior quarterback caitlin gargan had three total touchdowns on the day, mak­ing her responsible for all 12 of her team’s scores this post­season. however, she said she owed much of her success to her teammates. 
“i’ve been able to find a lot of success because my team is so strong around me,” gargan said. “i’ve definitely had a lot of help on the outside.” 
gargan added that the phoxes’ preparation was the reason why they were able to claim the championship. 
“Today, i think we came out and ran our plays really well,” gargan said. “everybody knew their job and executed their role on our offense today. we practiced a few times this week and that really helped.” 
The whirlwinds entered the game 8-0 on the season. on the game’s first drive, sophomore quarterback rachel wimsatt connected with senior receiv­er mary Knapp for a touch­down after only three plays. sophomore receiver ariel navotas made a fingertip catch on a low pass for the one-point conversion. 
pangborn, however, was quick to reply. after complet­ing a fourth-down pass and making a 31-yard run earlier in the drive, gargan threw a screen to junior running back Katherine mcmanus, who scored from 12 yards out. an unsuccessful point-after try made it 7-6. 
conditions soon made the game difficult for both offens­es as heavy rain fell and nei­ther team found the end zone during the remainder of the half. 
The rain eased in the second half, and the phoxes took ad­vantage. gargan found sopho­more receiver anne arnason on three consecutive plays to set up a first-and-goal at the eight. From there, she escaped heavy pressure and ran for a touchdown to give her team a 12-7 lead. 

with the league’s top two scoring defenses on display, neither offense created an extended drive for the rest of the half until the whirlwinds found some momentum late in the game as the heavy rain returned. 
wimsatt led welsh Family down the field, and an interfer­ence penalty against pangborn extended the drive on fourth­and-five. after a series of runs, the whirlwinds were faced with another fourth down, this time needing a touch­down from three yards out. wimsatt’s pass into the end zone was tipped and almost landed in the hands of a receiv­er, but ended up incomplete. she gave credit to pangborn’s defense for the the offense’s inability to convert. 
“They put good pressure on me, so i had to scramble, and they had our receivers cov­ered,” wimsatt said. “it was an incredible defensive play by them.” 
on the game’s final posses­sion, gargan had the option to kneel, but chose instead to run and made it 71 yards down the sideline to the end zone as the clock hit zero. 
“i think everybody thought i was just going to kneel, but once i was outside with my flags still on i just went for it,” said gargan. “i don’t know if they were too happy about that, but it was great to seal the win and bring it home.” 
wimsatt said just playing in the championship game at notre dame stadium was a ing in the stadium,” wimsatt said. “we had a great turnout this year also. i feel like the stadium really legitimizes the flag football program here at notre dame.” 


great achievement for  welsh  
Family.  
“it  was  incredible  play­ 

Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
Men’S InTerhaLL | morrissey 3, Keenan 0 
Manor claim first title in eight years over Keenan 
game. the entire game, morrissey drove game on a number of occasions Keenan junior captain and 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 

sports writer “we kind of know my range is the ball to the nine-yard line, but and recorded sacks on Keenan’s middle linebacker Jon wiese has around that, and i mean it’s the Keenan (5-1-1) was able to push opening possession and late in already shifted his focus toward 
in an old-school defensive championship game,” lindquist, them back to the 28 by fourth the fourth quarter. redemption next season. struggle, morrissey completed also the quarterback for the down. unfortunately for the Keenan junior quarterback “we have to focus a little more its perfect season by knocking off manor offense, said. “we figured Knights, however, this was not aaron digenova was intercepted on our offense,” wiese said.” i Keenan in the interhall champi-if we could put some points up, enough to push lindquist out of three times over the course of think we showed that our de­onship game with a 3-0 victory we knew our defense could hold field goal range, and he convert-the game — by defensive backs fense is far and away the best in sunday at notre dame stadium. them, so just grab that lead and ed on what would turn out to be freshman declan Zidar, sopho-the entire league. it was a game of 
The game-winning points never look back.” the deciding factor in the cham-more nicholas sywyj and senior inches today, and they won it out. came early in the second quar-Forced to play under unrelent-pionship game. James mcentee. i think these are two teams, if we ter from the foot of morrissey ing rain, the game was a defen-Though the game turned out to The Knights showed promise play ten times, i think each one (7-0) junior ryan lindquist, who sive struggle, and both teams be a low-scoring affair, it was not on several drives, moving the wins five. we’re losing some good launched a 45-yard field goal combined to enter the red zone without drama or excitement. ball efficiently and attacking talent in our senior class, but our through the uprights to give just once. sophomore defensive lineman morrissey’s secondary. early in freshmen are going to continue the manor the only score of the on the only scoring drive of nicholas haydel affected the the second half, digenova found to grow. we’re getting some guys 
sophomore receiver michael back from abroad next year, and Koller on a fourth-down play to we’re hoping we’re going to have keep the drive alive, then fol-a strong freshmen class as well. i lowed that up with a completion can tell you that this team is hun­to freshman receiver gregory grier than ever to win next year.” brainard to push the ball deep morrissey junior running back into manor territory. and captain erik rayno said the 
The drive came to halt when title means a great deal to his sywyj came down with his inter-squad. ception on a long fourth-and-15 “[The championship] means a pass play. ton to all of us,” rayno said. “i say 
as the game entered the fourth it all the time, we’ve had the tal­quarter, morrissey aimed to run ent. it was really nice just to see out the clock as junior running it come to fruition. everybody back hunter white touched the put it all together. you know, ball on nearly every snap down this team has been playing for the stretch. four years, and i couldn’t think 
The manor relied on their of a better way to send them off strong defense to keep the before graduation. i couldn’t be Knights off the scoreboard, the happier. it’s been an eight-year first time any opponent shut out drought, so i’m really proud of Keenan all season. The strategy everybody.” worked, and morrissey celebrat­ed their first interhall champion-Contact Hunter McDaniel at ship in eight seasons. hmcdani1@nd.edu 



M Soccer The buckeyes almost took create more space.” Forest, illinois, native said he 
Shipp 
the lead shortly before half-perhaps the brightest spot of cherishes playing for the team he 

conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 
time when Jensen appeared to 

shipp’s first season came when grew up rooting for. the intended target. redirect a free kick past wall. 
provided him with several im-he netted a hat trick against the “it’s definitely special,” shipp “by the time we finished our however, the referee ruled 
portant skills that have prepared new york red bulls on may 10. said. “i remember going to games warm-up, the pitch was just Jensen had intentionally de­
him for mls. but shipp said it was not a clear-with my sisters and parents waterlogged,” gallagher said. flected the ball with his hand, 
“another thing for me was cut top moment. when i was younger, and my club “it turned into a kick-and-run canceling the goal and earn-
leadership,” shipp said. “not just “The hat-trick game was obvi-coaches growing up were ex-Fire game just because we can’t ing Jensen a yellow card. 
... yelling-at-people leadership, ously special,” shipp said. “but players. ... it’s kind of crazy now play those short passes with “i was disappointed that we 
but knowing how to do the little i think, not even in the regular that there’s guys on our team the puddles.” took too long to adapt,” clark 
things every day to make people season, just playing that first pre-that i’ve been watching for eight, “it was not ideal conditions said. “it took us until we came 
respect you and kind of how to season game and getting a goal 10 years, and it’s kind of weird to for the way we play,” irish in at halftime and said, ‘look, 
earn people’s respect, and bobby and having the first time in an be playing on the same field as graduate student goalkeeper we’ve got to change this a lit-
kind of forces you to do that. actual scrimmage playing with them.” patrick wall said. “luckily tle bit.’ and it’s maybe not the 
“and also we do a good job of the guys that i was going to play shipp said that playing in our grounds crew did a very way we would want to play 
responding to negative things with for the rest of the year [was chicago keeps him from feeling good job. They got the field in all the time, but i always say 
that might happen. we’re calm just as special].” too much pressure. the best position it could have to the boys that the game is 
whether or not things at notre after a blazing start, how-“i was so familiar with the city been in.” going to give you things. … 
dame were going well. ... once ever, shipp did not record a goal and the people there that it took buckeyes (9-8-5) junior you’ve got to recognize how 
you get to the professional game, or an assist from mid-July to the pressure away from actual midfielder Zach mason, who you should play.” 
the highs are higher, and the lows mid-september, a run that saw soccer practice and even soccer played hero for ohio state (9-The action slowed after 
are lower, so the more you’re able him dropped from the starting every day because i had a life out­8-5) in the 15-round shoot-halftime before gallagher’s 
to stay calm and not worry about lineup. side of soccer,” shipp said. “so for out victory in the first round third goal of the year came on 
things when things aren’t going “i think my body got worn me, i enjoy that because it lets me against akron, had a chance the first irish chance of the 
the best, that’s going to lead to down a little bit physically, and just stay relaxed and not put so to put the buckeyes up in the half. notre dame missed ex-
success.” when that happens, you kind much pressure on myself when i 10th minute, but wall made a tending its lead twice in the 
of break down mentally,” shipp am playing.” diving save to his right to keep minutes following the fresh-
The ups and downs of year said. “but i went into the season and as for what shipp thinks the match scoreless. wall fin-man’s goal when junior mid-
one knowing there would be ups and of his prospects of playing for the ished with five saves on the fielder patrick hodan’s drive 
when shipp came to the Fire down and that it wouldn’t be national team someday? night. slid inches past the left post. 
from notre dame, he was used to perfect. ... There were a couple “obviously, that should be “our style of play is short, “we had a little chance with 
playing in the center of the field. of weeks where i wasn’t playing every american soccer player’s and we try to play through patrick hodan,” clark said. 
however, with the Fire, shipp my best soccer, but i thought i re-dream if they’re playing profes­teams, but it was kind of hard “it just slipped past the post. 
was deployed in a wide midfield sponded in the last month or two sional soccer ... but it’s not some-to do that,” wall said. “we if that goes in, you can cruise 
role for long stretches of time by of the season” thing i think about on a daily were kind of sticking to our home. you can light up your 
Fire coach Frank yallop. basis,” shipp said. “it’s one of guns and being a little bit cigar. but that didn’t happen, 
“you’re dealing with a lot more being Chicago’s first those things that’ll be the next stubborn, and then in the sec-so we were camped, playing 
athletes out wide,” shipp said. homegrown star step in my career when i hit that ond half, we stepped out and right to the very end.” 
“defensively, it’s tough — you’re when shipp signed for the Fire path. i’m not ready right now, but clipped some balls farther ohio state pushed its of-
more isolated so, you know, in January, he started the pro-hopefully in the next few years down, and it worked better for fense forward as the time 
there’s more pressure on you to cess of becoming one of major i’ll keep improving and growing us.” ran down but was unable to 
take responsibility defensive-league soccer’s first homegrown as a player, and one day, i will be in the 29th minute, irish se-generate a dangerous scoring 
ly, and attacking-wise, i think stars. as shipp played with the ready, and hopefully then, stars nior forward vince cicciarelli, chance. The buckeyes fin-
sometimes you’re kind of forced Fire’s youth teams earlier in his align to make it work out.” returning to the lineup for the ished with a 12-10 shot advan­
to things that you wouldn’t nor-career, he was eligible to forego first time since nov. 1 against tage and 6-5 in shots on goal. 
mally do centrally in terms of the mls superdraft and sign for Contact Alex Carson at pittsburgh, was brought down “it’s quite good to learn to 
having to overlap players, kind of his hometown team. The lake acarson1@nd.edu inside the penalty box by play like that because if you 
paid adverTisemenT 

buckeyes junior defender Kyle think of last week, we were culbertson. culbertson was playing to the end against shown a yellow card on the clemson,” clark said. “we play, and sophomore defender were holding a lead, and then brandon aubrey buried the we lost that lead with under penalty shot inches inside the two minutes to go.” right post to put the irish up with the win, notre dame 1-0. advances to play a familiar 
“That was [the players’] foe in the third round. The decision,” irish coach bobby irish will host acc rival no. 16 clark said of aubrey’s tak-virginia for the third time this ing the shot. “i always just let season. The two teams tied them — whoever is feeling 1-1 sept. 21 in charlottesville, good at it take it.” but it was notre dame who 
The lead lasted all of four clinched the 3-0 victory in the minutes. ohio state sopho-quarterfinals of the acc tour-more forward danny Jensen nament on nov. 9. slammed home a loose ball off The round of 16 match will a corner kick in the 33rd min-kick off sunday at alumni ute to tie the game at 1-1. wall stadium at 7 p.m. made a save on a free kick just prior to the goal but was un-Contact Zach Klonsinski at able to keep the clean sheet. zklonsin@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MonWday, noveMber 24, 2014 | The observer 

CroSSWord | will shorTZ 


hIGhLy PunLIkeLy | chrisTopher brucKer 

doMe nuTS | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Sudoku | The mepham group 


horoSCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: be careful not to overload your plate. excess will be your downfall. Focus on what’s truly important to you, and you will maneuver your way through the year. Try to get more rewards for your efforts. it’s all about believing in yourself and following through instead of just talking. call the shots and make your dreams come true. your numbers are 4, 12, 13, 21, 28, 33, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): hard work will pay off. you will find strength and success, even in a difficult situation. enjoy your good fortune. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what you love the most. make a point to get out with people you find interesting or who have something to offer you. altering your outlook will encourage professional advancement. learn something new or pick up helpful skills. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ve got the right idea, so figure out how to implement the information you have in an orderly but unique manner. don’t let uncertainty in your personal life cost you. Take care of business, regardless of what’s going on around you. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep a cool head and a diplomatic approach. what you do at work will make a bigger impact on your future than how you deal with personal matters. don’t let the complaints regarding your work hours slow down your progress. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): say what’s on your mind. you need a little excitement in your life. Follow a new path, learn, form alliances and expand your creative dream. express your feelings, concerns and plans for the future. love is on the rise. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a chance and do things a little differently. look at the facts and add your unique touch to stylize the way you intend to move ahead. bring any concerns you have out in the open and disclose your plans. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let others see your vulnerability. Keeping your beliefs and concerns a secret will allow you to find out what everyone else thinks before you commit to anything that entails working with others. an argument will result in an unexpected change. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): check out destinations that intrigue you or courses that can help you develop greater insight into an unusual interest. don’t get sidetracked by someone using emotional tactics to get you to spend money or make a contribution. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make personal changes that will help you get ahead professionally. put your reputation on the line and gather as much knowledge as you can to help support your ideas, plans and concerns. love is highlighted, and romance will help improve your personal life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): speak up, but don’t act out emotionally. you have to have your strategy in place and your information accurate. Knowing exactly what you want will help you avoid being coerced into an emotional battle. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you know what you want, but trying to get it will be difficult. use reverse psychology to improve your chances of closing a deal or getting someone to agree with your plans. romance is in the stars. plan a celebration with someone special. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): go over important papers and any plans you have to contribute to something you feel is worthwhile. sending out a positive message will help you reconnect with people you’ve worked with in the past. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, spontaneous and determined. you are outgoing and generous. 
JuMbLe | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | Monday, noveMber 24, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Men’S SoCCer | nd 2, ohio sTaTe 1 WakInG The eChoeS | harrison shipp 
Notre Dame tops Ohio State, Shipp conquers advances to third round new challenges 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
a steady rain failed to dampen notre dame’s out­come in sunday’s ncaa championship second-round contest, as a Jon gallagher goal in the 69th minute lifted the irish, 2-1, over ohio state at a soggy alumni stadium. 
The freshman forward made good use of the first irish chance in the second half. Fellow freshman for­ward Jeffrey Farina played a through ball just inside the buckeye penalty box, and gallagher sped by the ohio state defender to give no. 1 notre dame (12-4-4) the lead on a shot into the bottom left corner. 
“[Farina] did what he does best, just flicked it around the corner,” gallagher said. “i just ran on and saw the cor­ner of the goal and scored.” 
wet conditions affected 


By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
harrison shipp won a national championship last year in his senior season at notre dame. This spring, he became the first homegrown player to appear for the chicago Fire. Today, he might be named major league soccer’s rookie of the year. 
“[winning the award] would kind of validate the hard work i put in,” shipp, a midfielder for the Fire, said. “not just this year but kind of since i got to notre dame and just continually growing and improving as a player. ... but, you know, it’s not the end-all, be-all — win or not, you’ve still gotta grow as a player, and it’s gonna be more important where i am five years down the road than winning this 

the game’s flow from the be-of the ball or plant of a foot award.” 
ginning. The grounds crew caused a large splash. players shipp is also up for the xbox 
tried to fill in puddles form-overran their own dribbles, individual Fair play award, given 
ing on the pitch before team and passes died en route to to a player that exhibits sports-
introductions, but as the manlike behavior. 
game wore on each bounce see m soccer PaGe 14 “To be honest, i didn’t even know it was an award,” shipp said. “i was not consciously trying to win the Fair play award, but it would be funny if it happened.” 
Preparation for the pros 
shipp is up against Fc dallas forward Tesho akindele and d.c. united defender steven birnbaum for rookie of the year honors. if he were to win, it would mark the second straight year notre dame produced the mls rookie of the year. colorado rapids midfielder dillon powers took home the hon­or in 2013. 
“i think [irish coach bobby clark] really more so than most college coaches, he makes you think about the game,” shipp said. “in turn, it makes players really mature soccer players and ready to play their first year, i think. They’ve been forced to think so much about the game their four years here.” 
shipp said the irish program 
see shipp PaGe 14 

Men’S baSkeTbaLL | nd 81, mass. 68; prov. 75, nd 74 
Squad splits weekend on road 

By BRIAN HARTNETT and ZACH KLONSINSKI 
managing editor and sports writer 
notre dame took to the road for the first time this season over the weekend, splitting a pair of games with massachusetts and former big east rival providence in the hall of Fame Tipoff Tournament at the mohegan 
sun  arena  in  uncasville,  
connecticut.  
The  irish  (4-1)  beat  
massachusetts,  81-68,  on  

saturday, but fell to providence, 75-74, on sunday in a game that came down to the final possession. 
notre dame trailed the Friars (5-0) by one point af­ter providence senior forward ladontae henton sunk two free throws with 14.8 seconds left. irish senior guard Jerian grant went for a layup, but was blocked by providence freshman for­ward ben bentil. on the ensuing throw-in, senior guard/forward pat connaughton had a look at the rim, but henton tipped his attempt as time expired. 
“i thought maybe [Jerian] got bumped a little bit,” irish head 
see m basKeTball PaGe 12 

nd WoMen’S SoCCer | Texas a&m 2, nd 1 
irish knocked out of ncaas 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 

entering the final 10 minutes of regulation in the third round of the ncaa tournament, the fourth-seeded irish were domi­nating almost every facet of play and seemed prepared to enter overtime tied, 1-1, against top-seeded Texas a&m on sunday. 
however, one poor clear by the irish was all it took for the aggies to pounce, break the tie and abruptly end notre dame’s season, 2-1, in college station, Texas. 
“i was very proud of the effort,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “i thought it was the best game we played all year. it was unfortunate that we weren’t able to score goals and the other team was the one to put two in, but overall i thought we were the better team, which in some ways makes it sting more.” 
Texas a&m senior midfielder Kelley monogue accounted for both aggie goals, bookending the game in the seventh and 82nd minutes on unassisted attempts. 
in the 70 minutes between those goals, notre dame held the advantage in shots, shots on goal and corner kicks, while dominating possession in the midfield to push the aggies de­fense to the limit. 
“The midfield was the best i’d seen it all year,” romagnolo said. “They dominated. They won everything in the air. They won every 50-50 ball. They came away with the possession. They 
see w soccer PaGe 12 

nd WoMen’S baSkeTbaLL | nd 88, chaTTanooga 53; nd 104, holy cross 29 
nd overwhelms opponents 
By MARY GREEN and RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports editor and sports writer 

notre dame dominated in all phases of the game in a pair of weekend wins, blowing out chattanooga, 88-53, on Friday and holy cross, 104-29, on sunday. 
The victory over the Knights was the fifth biggest margin of victory in program history and marked the first round of the naismith memorial hall of Fame challenge. 
The mocs (2-2), on the other hand, kept it close with the irish (4-0) through the opening min­utes, holding a lead until almost nine minutes into the first half. 
at that point, irish sophomore guard lindsay allen sprint­ed downcourt after a missed chattanooga 3-point shot and weaved through moc defenders to notch a layup at the other end. 
notre dame took the 17-16 lead, went on a 29-5 run to close the half and never looked back. 
“a little sluggish at the start — i couldn’t figure out why that was happening, but we worked it out,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. 
Junior guard Jewell loyd paced the irish with 20 points, but it was the game of freshman guard mychal Johnson that fired up the crowd at purcell pavilion. 
Johnson hit five 3-pointers in six attempts, collecting 17 points off the bench. 
shortly after allen made her la­yup to give notre dame the lead, Johnson blocked a chattanooga 3-pointer and then hit her own shot behind the arc at the other end off an assist from allen, send­ing the irish bench and fans into a frenzy. 
see w basKeTball PaGe 12 






