The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 64 | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Fire department celebrates 135th anniversary 
Founded after much of campus burned down in 1879, NDFD is the oldest university FD in the country 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The notre dame Fire department (ndFd) con­ducts a fire drill for each dorm twice a semester. Thursday afternoon, it was mod Quad’s turn. 
The firefighters on shift — captain michael holdeman, firefighters damien cruz and wayne bishop and fire pro­tection technician dwight niles — as well as amy geist from the office of human resource and her yellow lab dakota, piled into two fire trucks and drove around the corner to pasquerilla east hall for the day’s first drill. 
ndFd’s job was to walk in, trip the fire alarm, ensure ev­eryone left the building in a timely manner and check for any fire code violations. They took the elevator, one man getting off at each floor. cruz reached the fourth floor, where a few pe residents were studying in a lounge. 
“let me know when you guys are ready,” bishop’s voice said from a walkie-talkie. 
“we are ready on four,” cruz replied. 
one by one, the firefighters radioed in. one of them re­minded bishop to check the chapel. 
a few seconds later, the fire alarm screeched through the 
see ndFd PAGE 5 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Firefighter Damien Cruz and fire protection technician Dwight Niles drive to Pasquerilla East Hall for the first of five fire drills on Mod Quad on Dec. 4. Cruz said the fire trucks can pump 1,500 gallons of water a minute. 



Lecturer examines gender, citizenship 
Power outage affects DeBartolo Quad, Ryan Hall 


By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
claudia nelson, an english professor at Texas a&m university, examined the definitions and implications of child citizenship in the lec­ture titled “The lady or the Tiger? The shifting gender of the girl citizen” on Friday in mckenna hall. 
The keynote address, part of the Fun with dick and Jane gender and childhood conference, explored the phenomenon of “child citi­zenship” in victorian and contemporary literature. nelson defined child citizen­ship as the process by which children learn to understand 
see gender PAGE 5 

By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
early sunday morning, 10 buildings centered around debartolo Quad, including one dorm, lost power for several hours due to “a fault in a circuit that sup­plies power to parts of the south side of the campus,” according to university spokesperson dennis brown. 
“The exact reason for the fault is still to be determined, but it does not appear to be related to previous outages,” brown said. “The outage began at 12:03 a.m. and affected stinson-remick hall, the debartolo performing arts center, mendoza college of business, debartolo hall, ryan hall, eck visitors center, eck hall of law, mckenna hall, the hesburghcenterforinternational studies and legends.” 
The buildings regained power over the course of about seven hours, brown said. 
“power to a part of the cir­cuit was restored at 1:42 a.m. to ryan and eck visitors center,” brown said. “all but mckenna, debartolo hall and the hesburgh center came on line between 3:30 
see ouTages PAGE 3 


seniors discuss social work 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s final Justice Friday’s lecture of the fall semester engaged students and faculty in a round table discussion on social work experiences and intern­ships, titled “social work students: south bend as their classroom.” 
several senior social work majors shared their experi­ences in the field, including work at riverbend cancer 
see JusTice Friday PAGE 4 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Saint Mary’s senior social work majors speak to fellow students and faculty members at the final Justice Friday lecture of the semester. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 w baskeTball PAGE 16 FooTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What is your favorite Christmas movie? 

Sarah Toner 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“The nightmare before christmas.” 
Rosalyn Tan 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“a christmas story.” 
Taryn Stamper 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“hallmark christmas movies.” 

Christy Lucas 
junior 
ryan hall 
“Jack Frost with michael keaton.” 
Kris Thieneman 
sophomore 
keough hall 
“The nightmare before christmas.” 
Bre Thomas 
senior 
off-campus 
“The polar express.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com katie mccarty Zach klonsinski margaret hynds christine mayguga 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 
ACMS Colloquium Men’s Basketball Hesburgh Library Mindful Meditation President’s 

michael yu bianca almada 
Hayes-Healy Center Purcell Pavilion Renovation Launch Coleman-Morse Christmas Reception 
4:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Hesburgh Library Center Main Building Paolo Zunino will The Irish take on 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

speak. Mount St. Mary’s. “Farewell to the Floor” Open to students of all Open to all University The observer regards itself as Open House. faith. employees. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Mass in the Basilica Four:7 Catholic Fall Concert: ISI Fellowship Mass in the Basilica 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Basilica of the Sacred Fellowship Collegium Musicum Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred 

however, recognize that we will make 
Heart Cavanaugh Hall DeBartolo Performing Center Heart 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Arts Center 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Mass for the Feast of Faith and fellowship. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Interdominational praise Mass for the Feast of 
we can correct our error. 
Immaculate Conception Open to all. and worship. Our Lady of Guadalupe. 



Irish Studies professor talks high modernism 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
news writer 
professor of irish language and literature brian Ó conchubhair delivered the lecture “1916 and high modernism,” focused on a re-evaluation of eoghan Ó Tuairisc’s novel “dé luain” in the context of modern­ism Friday in Flanner hall. This was the final lecture in the lectures and public Talks series sponsored by the keough-naughton institute for irish studies. 
“dé luain” is set during the easter rising of 1916 when a number of irish republicans proclaimed independence and launched an armed cam­paign against british forces. Ó conchubhair said the novel is a profound piece of modern­ist literature rather than a de­tailed historical novel. 
“Tuairisc draws attention to ‘dé luain’s’ own fictional nature with a clear divide be­tween the physical and the in­tellectual, emotional world,” he said. 
Ó conchubhair said the novel intentionally avoids portraying the action and violence of the conflict in fa­
“Tuairisc draws attention to Dé Luain’s’ own fictional nature with a clear divide between the pysical and the intellectual, emotional world.” 
Brian Ó Conchubhair 
professor 
vor of examining character’s thoughts and reactions. 
“This is not a straightfor­ward action-driven narra­tive,” he said. 
many parallels are evi­dent between James Joyce’s seminal modernist work “ulysses” and “dé luain,” Ó conchubhair said. both novels share the same set­ting, dublin, and depict events over a small window of time with similar themes. Ó conchubhair also said the 
work had other influences, 
including  shakespeare and  
Tolstoy.  
“macbeth  provides  a  

soundtrack in the back­ground,” he said. “Ó Tuairisc owes a great debt to Tolstoy’s masterpiece ‘war and peace.’” 
as for the characters in Ó Tuairisc’s work, Ó conchubhair said Tuairisc maintains a reasonably im­partial but broadly sympa­thetic view for most of his characters in contrast to most portrayals of the 1916 uprising. 
“Ó Tuairisc’s main char­acters are irish language ex­emplars of the modernist anti-heroes,” he said. 
“dé luain” was published at a time when the events of 1916 were already receiving attention from various forms of media, including television programs and documentaries, Ó conchubhair said, which further reinforces his claim that “dé luain” is more of a modernist novel than a work of history. 
“it is prevented from being a pure historical novel because it stops before the actual events of the easter rising,” he said. 
Ó conchubhair said “dé luain” is also not very accessi­ble for an unprepared reader. 
“‘dé luain’ is a dense, multi-layered text that requires readers to read and reflect,” he said. “we must remove ‘dé luain’ from the basement and reposition it in the sunlight of high modernism.” 

Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 

Lecturer revisits controversial FDR decision 
student center on Friday. ward, phillips said. is causing the instability nevertheless began to ex-
By JEREMY CAPPELLO-LEE 

news writer many of Fdr’s new deal “what we’ll see after the … [must be removed],” she press their dissatisfaction. initiatives curbed the pow-war is a huge pro-business said. “in this case, Fdr or-“They can’t run the busi­
lisa phillips, associ-er of corporations, which attack on new deal regu-ders the u.s. army to remove ness in a way they see fit,” ate professor of history at phillips said partially led to lation,” she said. “i think sewell avery physically and she said. “They have to ad­indiana state university, the stock market crash of the sewell avery represents the take over the operations of here to what the union says, gave a historical account 1920’s. This check against first line of that pro-busi-montgomery ward.” and they have to agree to of president Franklin big business created tension ness crusade against this phillips said Fdr had what the government is tell­delano roosevelt’s war-between corporations and new deal regulation.” enough presidential influ-ing them to do in terms of time takeover of retail store government, especially af-avery’s refusal to ac-ence and there was enough regulating the conditions of montgomery ward, as part ter world war ii. knowledge union repre-disapproval of big busi-wages and work.” of the higgins lunchtime leading an anti-regulato-sentation for thousands of ness to justify such extreme phillips said businessmen labor research, advocacy ry effort against Fdr’s poli-montgomery ward’s em-measures. challenged Fdr’s new deal & policy series in the notre cies was sewell avery, then ployees drew the ire of “The reason that Fdr de-policies by launching pub-dame room of laFortune chairman of montgomery Fdr, who phillips said had cides to do this is because lic campaigns and lobbying 
supported union growth it’s war time,” she said. efforts. paid adverTisemenT 
throughout his presidency. “Fdr had enough power, “part of what the business 
“what sewell avery was and there was enough pub-community was doing was protesting here was not only lic outcry to generate this to convince the american abiding by the war labor regulatory machinery.” public that business was board’s recommendations, Fdr’s decision to exert the epitome of american de­but he also simply didn’t presidential power through mocracy in that it needed to want to recognize the union sewell avery’s removal from spread worldwide,” she said. representing montgomery office demonstrated his fear “[The business community] ward’s employees,” she said. of business interference literally took on an ad cam­“he was refusing the union’s with regulatory policies, paign through advertising existence at all.” phillips said. to convey this particular 
avery’s resistance to em-“[Fdr] feels that if avery message. ployee unionization and his defies what the national “campaign finance re-further refusal to cooperate war labor board’s recom-form, taxes, tax struc­with Fdr’s administration mendations are, then ev-ture, all of these things, led to his forceful removal ery other business owner i think, were bolstered from montgomery ward, will become emboldened as through these networks of phillips said. well,” she said. businessmen.” 
“Fdr’s logic here is that despite the president’s we need to have stability in strong message, phillips Contact Jeremy Cappello-Lee the industry, and whoever said business owners at jcappell@nd.edu 


affect campus within a week. notre dame power plant’s steam 
Outages 
Twelve buildings concentrated on generation system partially col­
conTinued From page 1 
the south side of south Quad lost lapsed aug. 20, and a software 
power for about four hours nov. 30. failure caused a campus-wide and 4:10 a.m. power was restored to earlier this year, more than blackout Feb. 27. those final three buildings at 8:18 20 buildings also experienced a a.m.” 10-minute power outage sept. 3. Contact Lesley Stevenson at 
This is the second outage to The interior of a cooling cell in the lsteven1@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Justice Friday 
conTinued From page 1 
services and united way. each student had a unique field placement experience to discuss, giving their audi­ence a glimpse of what social work involves, senior social work major meredith mersits said. 
a research assistant in the saint mary’s social work department, mersits said internships help prepare students for their future in social work. 
“everyone’s doing some­thing different and awe­some,” she said. 
senior Jessica hoffman said she works at a charter school in south bend where often finds herself deal­ing with typical high school drama. 
“it’s high school drama i have to sift through,” she said. “it can be from a school fight to suicide. you get the whole range of problems in a school setting.” 
similar to hoffman, se­nior krista mathews said she works with a social worker at James whitcomb riley high school in south bend. 
“it’s a wide range of social work problems at riley,” she said. “i’m very lucky because i get to observe the social worker there, and then i also get to meet with students one-on-one if it’s not that serious of a problem, which is good because i get to work on my interviewing skills. 
“i talk about things like managing stress, and that’s a lot of fun. i get to go to case conference meetings. i really become part of the school.” 
senior samee chittenden said she is an intern at kidspeace national center, a respite center for children in the foster-care system. 
“we currently have 30 kids in our care,” chittenden said. “a lot of them are re­spites, which means [there is a short] time when foster families can get a break and send the [foster] kids to re­spite care. 
“we work with a lot of dif­ferent cases. Today we actu­ally went over a case where a child just lashes out uncon­trollably. They can’t figure out what’s going on with him. we go on home visits every week. we provide different services to all the kids. it can range from speech therapy to counseling. we have kids ranging from as young as six months old to 21 years old.” 
senior molly smith said she currently works at the young women’s christian association (ywca) with clients seeking drug and do­mestic violence treatment. 
“it’s very interesting [with] a lot of different things,” she said. “The interesting thing about the drug treatment is 
“I talk about things like managing stress, and that’s a lot of fun. I get to go to case conference meetings. I really become part of the school.” 
Krista Mathews 
senior 
Saint Mary’s College 
that it allows clients to bring children. we get women who are referred to by the po­lice, and we work with them. They can stay there for six to eight weeks. There’s actually a kids’ therapist there now, which is great. it’s a really great placement.” 
senior kelly crooks said she also works with vic­tims of domestic abuse at the Family Justice center of st. Joseph county, where she also manages the crisis line from 6 a.m. to noon on Fridays. 
“we’re kind of like a one-stop-shop,” she said. “The idea behind the family cen­ter, we have a counselor. The special victims unit is in our building. 
“The casie center (child abuse services, investigation and education) is [used] if somebody thinks a child has been sexually assaulted. we also have a protective or­der attorney. we go over our safety training, [and] we’re working on updating all our resources right now. s-o-s [rape crisis center], which is part of the family center, [accompanies] victims to the hospital. we’re on call for the crisis line.” 
senior Jessica richmond said she interns at united way, a new placement option for first-year social work ma­jors this year. 
“united way has just this year done a poverty tran­sition so they’re an issue-focused agency,” she said. “The cool part about united way is that we fund a lot of the agencies we have girls placed at. part of my job is working some of the pro­grams that united way funds specifically, [and] helping the agencies in the room ap­ply for allocations.” 
a double major in social work and communications, cat Zalduendo said she works at real services in the development offices to understand and get exposure to the different areas within a non-profit organization. 
“i’m involved in a lot of different parts of the agency from program research to donor research,” she said. “i help organize fundrais­ers for the agencies. i have done a lot of client inter­views, just gather their sto­ries, and those go into our e-newsletters. i’ve done a lot of grant proposals. real services is an agency catered to older people, but there’s also a community service side so i’ve been able to get a sense of a lot of different programs.” 
mersits said she feels those in social work are very lucky to have their select field placements to assist them in their future career endeavors. 
“i think the program we have here is great, and all the professors have taught us so well that we are prepared to go out into the field,” she said. “i feel we are all very equipped to enter into our field as social workers.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




place for them, he said, but as today, most of the station’s NDFD long as they didn’t obstruct runs, or responses to calls, conTinued From page 1 fire detectors or firefighters deal with something other 
themselves, they could let it than fire. building. slide. “we do a lot of medicals, 
cruz said the fire drills “something that’s really a lot of investigations — we have only been this frequent going to catch our eye is if it’s smell this, we smell that, we for awhile, since the clery wrapped around a sprinkler spilled this in this chemical act required them, but ndFd head or if it’s struck in a door-lab, we spilled this in this sci-has been doing this sort of way that’s supposed to close,” ence lab,” he said. “The ma-thing — inspecting build-cruze said. “usually little jority of our runs — we don’t ings, overseeing drills and re-stuff like this, we’ll let it go.” have too many fires on cam­sponding to emergencies, fire The firefighters and geist pus. every building on cam-and otherwise — since 1879. congregated in the lobby as pus is sprinkled … i wouldn’t according to a university pe residents filed back in say [fire is] impossible, but press release, it is the first after only a couple minutes it’s not very likely.” and oldest campus fire de-outside. Then they walked when the station gets a partment in the country. it over to knott hall and re-call — cruz said it happens celebrated its 135th anniver-peated the procedure. (“i about three to five times a sary nov. 21. just wanted to take a nap!” day, and ten times as often 
when the fire alarm rang one resident said on the way on football game days — it’s on Thursday, the pe residents down). either a dispatch from notre in the fourth floor lounge after the second drill, the dame security police or a fire jumped, then began to make firefighters stuck around for alarm in a building, which much about the emergency as having a firefighter there for their way downstairs and out a few minutes and chatted in runs through an analog sys-possible. what we call fire watch to of the building. lobby with students and hall tem that alerts the firefight-“we get to the dorm and make sure nothing happens.” 
“is this real?” one girl asked staff. a few guys pet dakota ers through a series of bells. we’ve got one guy who will go cruz said the department is cruz. he said he gets that a and tried to convince rec-“every building on campus to the alarm panel, and he’s also one of the main groups lot. tor patrick kincaid to get a and at saint mary’s and holy stationed there. That’s his responding to electrical 
“we’re supposed to treat dog, while the firefighters cross has a number assigned location, to silence it or tell problems, such as the recent everything like it’s real,” talked about getting a dog to it, and the number of times us, hey, we’ve got something south Quad power outage cruz said. “i’ll stand right themselves. it rings signifies where we else going on in here. The rest or the larger outage in June, here just for a few seconds. This part of the job, 32-year go,” cruz said. “For example, of the guys go upstairs or to which left several people it clears out, the other wing, veteran bishop said, is his the number of the firehouse wherever the alarm is, and stuck in elevators. then i’ll give the all clear on favorite. is 333, so it rings three times, we’re investigating it.” “They were dealing with el-this floor.” “interacting with students, two second break, ring three when the department isn’t evator entrapments,” he said. 
cruz began to walk down faculty and staff,” he said. times, two second break, ring responding to emergencies, “so the power goes out; the one hallway, nudging and oc-ndFd was created af-three times. so we count the cruz said it performs vari-elevator stops where it’s at. casionally knocking on doors. ter most of campus burned bells, and we know where ous services, whether main-i think they did maybe 10 of after only a few seconds, the down in march 1879, the we’re going.” taining fire safety at football those.” floor appeared to be empty. press release said. cruz said ndFd has three fire trucks games or overseeing normal cruz said the station often 
“we’re a little more le-until 1995, when it hired its at its disposal, all of which campus activities. receives visitors, whether in­nient if there’s anybody in first full-time firefighter, hold 500 gallons of water “we cover everything on terested visitors or alumni the shower or anyone with the station was staffed with and can pump 1,500 gallons campus that goes on, so bon-who participated in ndFd’s crutches or wheelchairs,” priests, brothers and student a minute, cruz said. in addi-fires we have to light and 135-year history. cruz said. “in a real emer-volunteers. tion to buildings, the station babysit. any kind of sports “we get visitors from every­gency, we ask them to wait in now, with 18 staff mem-covers five lakes, so it also on campus we’re involved where who stop by,” he said. the stairwell, and we’ll come bers, four of whom cover each has a boat at its disposal. at in, either watching … we’re “That, to me, is always the ex-up and get them.” 24-hour shifts, the depart-least one firefighter per shift managing it,” he said. “or, citing part.” 
“Third floor is clear,” niles ment covers all buildings on is trained in diving. for instance, they’re having The anniversary, said fire said from the walkie-talkie. the notre dame, saint mary’s cruz said the department’s a dinner at dpac for a snite chief bruce harrison, was cruz turned around, went and holy cross campuses, average response time is two gathering, and we have to business as usual. through the floor’s second and gives and receives help minutes. The station has provide emergency medi-“we quietly did our job,” he section and gave his own from nearby fire departments computers on each floor as cal coverage and fire watch. said. “That was our celebra­all-clear. for bigger emergencies and well as in the apparatus bay They’ll have live flames on tion. we’re just happy to be 
on the way back, cruz football games, cruz said. and in the fire engines them-candles for the dinner, so here.” pointed at christmas lights Though the department selves, so by the time they get they’ll shut the fire alarm hung from the ceiling in a was created because of a to where the call is — a dorm, system down. you can’t do Contact Emily McConville at zigzag pattern. not the best devastating blaze, cruz said for example — they know as that for any building without emcconv1@nd.edu 

Gender 
conTinued From page 1 
and engage in their social roles and become active partici­pants within a community. 
“For some years now, critical debate in the field of children’s literature has been addressing the question of the child’s citi­zenship,” she said. “The term citizenship embraces a range of areas, if not the ability to vote or the requirement to pay taxes, then the expectation that the child will nonethe­less engage in other activities that contribute to the commu­nity, from fulfilling domestic responsibilities to engaging in religious and or patriotic movements.” 
although the role of child citizenship is often examined from a historical perspective, nelson said it is not common­ly examined from a gendered perspective. nelson, who fo­cused mainly on the process of child citizenship in young girls, said textual analysis of children’s literature through a 
“The process of creating the girl citizen in a particular community is often represented as involving acts of public non­conformity to gender norms that the text identifies as inadequate.” 
Claudia Nelson 
professor 
Texas A&M 
gendered perspective reveals unique details about differ­ences in child citizenship be­tween boys and girls. 
according to nelson, while the process of citizenship for boys requires conforming to social norms, young girls achieve growth when they re­ject traditional female gender norms. 
“The process of creating the girl citizen in a particular com­munity is often represented as involving acts of public non­conformity to gender norms that the text identifies as inad­equate,” she said. 
nelson focused on texts ranging from 17th century to contemporary literature and analyzed the work of authors such as James Janeway, sarah Fielding, louisa may alcott, carol ryrie brink and suzanne collins. 
nelson said the trend she noticed in religious puritan and even secular, morally-fo­cused literature is to use the child’s process of denouncing conventional gender roles as a path towards morality, while more contemporary literature focusses on young girls adopt­ing gender roles from parental and societal figures. 
“The principled noncon­formist becomes crucial to the text’s presentation of the twin 
“In gendered terms, the pain works to establish a girl’s feminine vulnerability or sensitivity while later events establish that, as a mature citizen, she is nonetheless strong.” 
Claudia Nelson 
professor 
Texas A&M 
ideas that the girl is indeed a potential citizen and that her citizenship requires a particu­lar stance within her society,” she said. 
an important part of the narrative of child citizen­ship in young women is the transformative process of trau­ma, which nelson said is usu­ally represented by a central conflict within the novel that forces the girl to break from conventional gender norms. 
“in gendered terms, the pain works to establish a girl’s femi­nine vulnerability or sensitiv­ity while later events establish that, as a mature citizen, she is nonetheless strong,” she said. 
nelson said children’s litera­ture that explores the process of child citizenship in girls is able to provide valuable criti­cisms against dominant cul­tural values and norms. nelson said these novels help create alternative roles for young women and demonstrate the constructive power of child­hood trauma. 
“it is time to turn our atten­tion from the victimized child to the empowered child,” she said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 


Taking a job risk 
Carolyn Hutyra 
news writer 

while students tend to eagerly look for­ward to their senior year, this final step of the college process is accompanied by the frequently asked question, “what are you doing next year?” 
The lucky students secure their posi­tions following their summer internships while others must wait until the final months of the school year to hopefully open the prized acceptance email or letter. 
despite the show of confidence to oth­ers, many students succumb to a panic during this uncertain time. There is a secret inner joy any time one uncertain student meets another who  has also yet to figure out his or her future plans. 
another commonly told job search story is the acceptance of positions stu­dents really do not want. i have already too often heard of students signing with companies they have no interest in or simply choosing the first company they hear back from in the name of security. 
a friend of mine recently questioned this trend. students would rather be safe and take the first job that comes their way, he said, than wait for a job they truly love. 
i think students these days play it too safe. while students search for job securi­ty, an entry-level position and the ability to move up in a company, they often miss out on other opportunities along the way. 
accepting simply any position should not be good enough. while i don’t like being told by older generations that my generation does not take risks and that we lack the drive to go out on a limb, to a certain extent i can understand where they are coming from. 
one of my family friends, a notre dame graduate who is now the ceo of a successful company in california, told me that he had no idea what he was go­ing to do when he graduated. he packed up his car, drove across the country and eventually started his own company. There was no job security in that move, but he was willing to take the risk. 
Today, some students argue they do not have the luxury to go out on this limb, but few people will ever have this luxury. making a calculated risk does not always turn out the way we want, but there is so much to learn in the process. 
while i personally have no grounds on which to tell other students to go out and take risks, my one piece of advice would be not to settle so easily. yes, we do have the rest of our lives ahead of us and we have the option of changing professions if we wish, but why not start off closer to where we want to be in the first place? 
This may take time, this may not be easy, but sometimes doing what we love is worth the risk. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 
as with any controversial ruling or decision, i saw a lot of Facebook comments this last week ranging from unin­formed to misinformed and from judgmental to apathetic regarding the decision not to indict officer daniel pantaleo in the case of eric garner’s death in staten island, new york. it was astonishing to me how people equated the case to the Ferguson, missouri, case in which a grand jury chose not to indict officer darren wilson in the death of michael brown the week prior. The two cases are very different, but frustration and contention with both is understandable. 
The Ferguson case included conflicting witness ac­counts and involved one police officer who claims his ac­tions were in response to resistance or assault. The case likely would not have met the burden of proof required in a criminal case (although that is not what an indictment is, but more on that later). The staten island incident, on the other hand, was videotaped and involved multiple of­ficers arresting one man based on his selling cigarettes without tax stamps. The man was not causing harm to the officers, his death was caused by one of the police officers employing tactics that were banned in the new york police department and there very well could have been a convic­tion of the officer on the charges of excessive use of force or wrongful death. 
before getting too deep into the issue, let me start with a basic lesson: an indictment is not a criminal verdict. given what i have seen and heard, many people either forget that or simply do not know that in the first place. a criminal verdict determines whether a person is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt or not guilty if there is reasonable doubt. an indictment means that there is probable cause for a trial and does not leave any formal indication of guilt or lack thereof. an indictment simply calls the question. 
in Ferguson, an unarmed man was left dead and the details leading up to his death were not at all definite. The dispute of circumstances and the fact that a death oc­curred perhaps should have resulted in an indictment of the police officer, leading to a trial. if the case had gone to trial, it is my belief the jury would not have ended up ren­dering a guilty verdict for the officer who killed the man based on the fact there was reasonable doubt stemming from the conflicting witness accounts. by no means am i saying the police officer was guilty or innocent here, i am just stating that the burden of proof likely would not have been met in a trial. 
in staten island, a man was left dead and the details leading up to his death were fairly clear. a man was sell­ing cigarettes and multiple police officers wanted to arrest him for breaking a rule. he showed no physical resistance until a police officer came up behind him and put him into a chokehold, a practice explicitly banned in the nypd. according to the coroner’s report, the man died as a result of the chokehold. i strongly believe that this case should have at least gone to trial, and i think there is a good chance the officer would have been found guilty. i think the question was worth calling. it is worth finding out exactly what the circumstances were to determine if the police officer was guilty of excessive force and causing the wrongful death of an unarmed man. 
The evidence against the police officer was simply more substantial in the staten island case than in the Ferguson case, which is one reason many prominent political fig­ures have called the grand jury’s decision not to indict into question. Former president george w. bush said, “how sad. you know, the verdict was hard to understand.” speaker of the house John boehner stated, “The american people deserve more answers about what really happened here, and was our system of justice handled properly?” president barack obama said, “Too many americans feel deep un­fairness” in the criminal justice system. both senator rand paul and former secretary of state hillary clinton have called for reform in our criminal justice system. 
i do not think the staten island case is only a race issue. i do not think it is a necessarily partisan issue. i think the death of eric garner is above all a justice issue. our justice system should be based on the principle of investigating as thoroughly as possible to find the truth and deal with those guilty of injustice appropriately. a man should not die for the simple, though illegal, act of selling cigarettes. if a police officer ever uses excessive force, he should be severely reprimanded. we should hold law enforcement to a higher standard, not let them get away with more. if there is ever a reasonable possibility of guilt, we should call the question. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes easonable debate on all his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Black lives matter 

i’ve been followed in a store once in my life when i was buying an expensive mask for halloween. once. 
i’ve been addressed by the color of my skin once in my life. during a basketball game, a girl i was defend­ing said, “back off, whitey.” That is the only time i’ve come remotely close to having a racist comment di­rected at me. The only time. it wasn’t even racist. 
but you know what i’ve seen repeatedly throughout my life? stepping off the bus with my predominantly black track team and having everyone in the vicinity stop and stare at us. i’ve heard people use the n-word derogatorily too many times to count. i’ve listened to white people express how they fear people of color for no other reason beside the shade of their skin. i’ve seen on the news unarmed black men, women and children murdered by white people of authority, or by white people who believe they have authority but really don’t. and no one is held responsible. 
i’ve thought, “hey, putting cameras on police of­ficers is a great idea. That way, when we get to see exactly what happened, justice will be served and will protect everyone involved.” and then two days later, eric garner became a trending hashtag. he was a human being. he was a black man. he is now a trending hashtag because neither of those facts seem to matter. 
To my black friends, i have never experienced the deep-seeded, multi-generational bigotry and hatred that has unfortunately always been a part of your lives. and trust me, i recognize that you are aware of this fact. you were aware of it years before i was. i can watch and be enraged. i can watch and be terrified, but not terrified for the lives of anyone in my family. i’m terrified for the people of color i grew up with, their families and strangers i see on the street. we live in two different realities because of our skin tones, and it is not okay. 
you deserve better, which is an egregious under­statement. an entire race has been and continues to be told through countless examples that they do not matter, when in fact they are of the utmost impor­tance. There should never have to be a reason why you matter. you are human. you deserve to be treated like it. 
Katie Mattie 
class of 2014 dec. 4 

Should NDtv have an ‘Irish Bachelor?’ 
last nov. 4, more than 2,800 people tuned in to the series premiere of “irish bachelorette.” groups of students huddled around common room television sets to watch 10 of their male peers vie for the affection of one notre dame woman. Twitter exploded. students talked. and for the first time in years, notre dame Television made a big name for itself on campus. 
This semester, the ndtv staff returns to campus to ask the long-anticipated question: should we have an “irish bachelor”? 
we want your feedback. 

Throughout our six-episode season, the buzz around campus grew into articulate criticisms and praise of the real­ity television inspired saga. students complained the show trivialized relationships, turning them into heteronormative contests. as one senior put it, the show equated the start of a relationship to “choosing meat at a butcher shop.” he later admitted this would not prevent him from watching the remainder of the series. 
in reality, given last year’s cast of easygoing contestants, very little damage was done in the way of lost love and heart­break. when asked if he was personally affected by getting “kicked off the show” one contestant shot back, “is that even a question?” he added, “it’s ‘irish bachelorette.’ i’m not sure you can fall in love on such a show.” he did however, attest to later meeting many a stranger who approached him at parties with positive comments about his television appearance. 
ndtv consulted the gender relations center (grc) on campus for its input on the idea of a repeat of the show, this time as an “irish bachelor”. dr. christine gebhardt, director of the grc, replied with the response: “if the goal is to show how the dating process is about learning about yourself and others in ways that can be fun and healthy, then it reflects who we want to be as a community. This would mean that the message is about finding people who bring the best out in each other and not about a ‘win’”. 
if the ndtv staff decides to go forward with a second season, we would make an effort to highlight some of the opportunities for dates within south bend and the surround­ing community. amidst what many might consider to be a university hook-up culture, “irish bachelorette” proved refreshing, to at least some degree, in its revival of the exciting yet awkward first date. did the show reveal something greater about already uncomfortable gender relations on campus, or did the presence of a camera lens amplify relationship jitters? 
The honest answer is probably a little bit of both. 
what we at ndtv can agree on is that the social experiment offered high entertainment value to friends and family who headed online to download their familiars’ 15 minutes of ndtv fame. The show created a lively debate about the state of romance on campus and the culturally-instituted social norms that affect the college experience. 
before we solicit your feedback, we would like to clarify our decision to have “irish bachelor.” a few viewers and former contestants have informed us that such a flip-flop in male-female roles could present a “difficult gender dynamic” and that what was a fun-to-watch, light-hearted television pro­gram could turn into a “cat-fight” quickly, presenting no real substance. however, we had so many incredibly intelligent, confident women audition for our program last year that we would welcome the prospect of casting more females. 
at ndtv, we are excited about the opportunity to further our mission of serving the campus community by providing relevant programming to those who want to watch. That is precisely why we want your feedback. after all, the purpose of television is to provide audiences with the kind of entertain­ment that evokes discussion, laughter and joy. 
email us or give us your opinion on Facebook or Twitter: 
ccrommet@nd.edu 
facebook.com/notredameTv 
twitter.com/ndtv53 
also, be on the lookout for our cameras around campus, asking for your opinions in the coming days!
      Caitlin Crommett
          station manager ndtv dec. 2 

a misconceived position: traditional marriage 
gay rights and the marriage debate. Few other top­ics are more polarized in our society. This debate is often depicted as a battle between good and evil. on one side we have young, enlightened and open-minded individuals that fight for the equality and acceptance of all members of society. on the opposing end we have close-minded people, raised in a bigoted tradition and too set in their ways to see the goodness of change. but is this really a true representation of either group? does supporting a traditional view of marriage automati­cally imply bigotry and ignorance? 
i will state two things: i support traditional marriage, and i love gay people. These statements may seem con­tradictory to some, but they needn’t be. i have always held the beliefs of the catholic church, the most im­portant of which i consider to be the law of love. it was only a matter of time before i became confused about how the church expected me to love everyone, yet deny happiness to my homosexual brothers and sisters. For a while i supported the idea of civil unions and almost that of same-sex marriage as a whole. but had i done that, it would have been out of confusion and not con­viction. i did not understand the debate at hand. my faith told me i should oppose same-sex marriage and society told me the only way to love my neighbor was by supporting it. 
Then, in the midst of a very confusing time, i ran into book called, “what is marriage? man and woman: a defense.” it eloquently explained the position of traditional marriage supporters with purely secular arguments. although the authors were catholic, their reasons for traditional marriage were not just based on religious conviction, but on a logical reasoning about why society has and needs marriage. it was a life changer for me. not only was i, for the first time, truly convinced by the traditional marriage argument, but i transformed the way i look as marriage as a whole. i learned that marriage can only be between a man and a woman not because society decides so, but because it’s in the basic essence of it. To say marriage is also be­tween two members of the same sex, or between more than two people, or not a permanent and exclusive union would be to redefine the understanding of mar­riage itself. it would no longer be marriage, just some­thing called by the same name. The debate is not about equality (who can marry) but rather about redefinition (what it means to marry). 
nevertheless, my intention in this letter is not to defend traditional marriage, but rather to defend the well-intentioned group of people who fight for it. president obama himself has said that there are people of goodwill on both sides of this legitimate debate. i do not deny that there are also mean-spirited people fueled by anti-gay sentiment supporting traditional marriage, but that’s not everyone and i dare say the hateful are probably the minority. i oppose those ill-intentioned people entirely and think they are wrong in their reasoning. yet, i can say with full certainty that many people who support traditional marriage do not do so out of hatred or intolerance, but rather out of love for society. i know i do. i believe traditional marriage is essential for the sake of children and their families, and i would be betraying the members of society who i am called to love, gay and straight alike, if i did not de­fend what i believe to be right. may i add that many gay and bisexual individuals also share this point of view. 
i do not expect all people to agree with me on what marriage is and what it isn’t. diversity of ideas is key to a healthy society. what i expect of people, especially of the members of this great university, is to respect the ideas of others and to listen to them. let’s do away with hate speech on both sides of the debate and instead promote the tolerance we all so fervently desire. let’s be open to respectful dialogue on the difficult ques­tions and keep in mind that good-intentioned people can hold different ideas and perspectives. 
Luis Erana Salmeron
                 sophomore keough hall dec. 2 



The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

as finals draw near and christmas is just around the corner, it's time to take advantage of the pletho­ra of holiday movies on netflix to get yourself in the christmas mood (and avoid studying). abc Family’s 25 days of christmas shows us that there’s nothing quite like movies to get into the holiday spirit — and that the classics are absolutely the best. 
michael curtiz’s 1954 “white christmas” follows two army privates ten years after world war ii. They’ve started a musical act, “wallace and davis,” together and become rather famous. after they receive a letter from another member of their division, they head down to Florida to see his sisters’ act. davis (danny kaye) quickly decides to set up wallace (bing crosby) with one of the sisters, betty (rosemary clooney) and enlists the other’s, Judy, played by vera-ellen help in the effort. 
wallace and davis end up following the sisters up to a vermont ski lodge, which happens to be run by their former commander, general waverly. like south bend this winter, the snow has all melted since Thanksgiving and the ski resort is entirely empty. worried for their old commander, wallace and davis enlist betty and 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

riFF raFF’s latest record “neon icon” is number zero on my top albums of 2014 list. it’s better than every other album and it’s also worse than every other album. it de­fies classification. it is a stereotype. it is "iceberg simpson Tip Toe wing in ya Jawwdinz." it costs less than $15 – but you probably can’t afford it. 
essentially a hybrid of trap music, hip-hop and glitzy electronica, "neon icon" is subject as form. everything riFF raFF (aka Jody highroller) stands for and repre­sents – rainbowed fashion that struts the line between cheesy and aesthetically pleasing, a kaleidoscopic, inter­connected view of popular culture — is mirrored through his pristine and vibrant production, his propulsive scat­tershot flow and his genre-hopping stylistic switch-ups. in this way, "neon icon" is simultaneously expensive and trashy, ridiculous and deadly serious. 
if anything, riFF raFF’s “neon icon” is an awesome product of charisma. it resonates highroller's personal­ity and breathes welcome life into the fairytale-esque im­ages of lavish wealth and style that so many rappers slog through. it’s the sort of record that lives in a very specific, unique world of its own, one that makes a great case for riFF raFF’s cult following. 
i know that i speak for my fellow riFF raFF fans when i say the world of riFF raFF can sometimes feel sadly Judy’s help in a plan to restart the general’s inn. 
punctuating the plans to help the general are davis and Judy’s continuous attempts to set up wallace and betty, which ends up including a fake engagement and driving betty to take a new job in new york city. The romantic mix-ups are hilarious, especially when it be­comes clear that despite his desires for wallace, davis is equally frightened by the concept of commitment. 
The best part of this movie is the singing-dancing duos that are created by both the male and female pairs. bing crosby is excellent vocally and danny kaye shows off his fancy footwork. rosemary clooney and vera-ellen work similarly to balance each oth­er. perhaps the best scenes in the movie come when danny kaye and vera-ellen combine forces to create some rather fun and incredible dancing scenes. 
similarly, bing crosby and rosemary clooney team up for some lovely duets throughout the movie. 
The plot line is often obscured by fancy singing-and­dancing scenes, which are purportedly rehearsals for the final christmas eve performance at the general’s ski resort. still, this is exactly what makes this movie fun (and perfect for studying — you can definitely fol­low it even while working on your final paper or finish­ing practice problem sets). 
distanced. i just don’t have the dough to pick myself up a versace sleeping bag and i probably never will. but have no fear! riFF raFF constantly references fashion houses and cologne in his raps, giving away the secrets of the his olfactory aura. The second half of this article is here to have you “smelling like miami,” whatever the heck that means. 
DOLCE & GABBANA 
any riFF raFF fan’s secret dream is to rock dolce & gabbana. after all, if you were to walk into riFF raFF and you weren’t wearing it, highroller wouldn’t, uh, chill with you. Thankfully, the highroller knows what he’s talking about — dolce & gabbana makes some quality cologne. representing the more subdued side of riFF, dolce & gabbana’s “The one” will have any girl using the vip pass to your heart. a subtle, sexy blend of understat­ed spices, amber, tobacco and citrus, "The one" never overpowers the nose — only the soul. an alternative is "light blue pour homme," a summery citrus that smells like the beach at sunrise. obviously, the best thing about dolce & gabbana cologne is being able to ask random people, “how do i smell?” and right when they’re about to respond, yell “dolce & gabbana.” 
JOOP 
riff raff mentions the famed pink cologne during one of his first raps, “larry bird.” it’s a classic youthful blast of 
one of the best scenes in the movie takes place in Florida, just after wallace and davis meet the haynes' sisters. The police come to talk to the sisters, and wallace and davis help them make their escape by performing their act for them, copying their choreog­raphy and creating facsimiles of their blue outfits for the song “sisters.” 
This movie is perfect for preparing for the holidays this year. despite its name, there’s not a lot of snow in the movie, and the december the cast experiences in vermont bears remarkably similar to the weather we’ve had in south bend the last couple of weeks. The songs are catchy (and their song about snow, which make very little logical sense, will still make you wish there was some on the ground, just to make it feel like christmas). 
The plot, while simple, is heartwarming and per­fectly christmas-y. The singing and dancing scenes are impressive and fun — you will end up singing the tunes for days and adding them to your christmas/fi­nals studying playlist. all in all, “white christmas” is a perfect holiday movie, great for a long study break or stress relief session during these next two weeks. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
floral notes, cinnamon, vanilla, woods and whatever the heck else will have people turning their heads every time they pass you. riFF raFF makes statements. so should you. 
VERSACE 
i mean, come on. This is obvious. riFF raFF is a walking, very strange advertisement for versace. unfortunately, most of the things he references — like “versace rim with lemon tint” — don’t exist. Thankfully, versace will have you smelling like everything mr. highroller claims to smell like. need to smell like a mysterious bed of magi­cal midsummer wildflowers? "The dreamer." need to smell like vanilla-mint waterfalls? "eros." need to smell like versace little rain drops? hit yourself up with some "versace pour homme." you really can’t go wrong as a college student with any of the versace colognes — they have character and energy, and they’re bold enough to get you noticed without overpowering your neighbor (ex­cept maybe "eros," which will literally fill the room you walk into if you’re not careful). 
alright, reader. you’re ready to walk into the club smell­ing like power ranger with a working knowledge of the "neon icon" himself and an artistic excuse to pick up a new record. you have a vip pass to the heart of riFF raFF — it’d be a shame if you don’t open it. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

Best KGB Operatives: “The Americans” 
This ‘80s spy drama stars keri russell and matthew rhys as kgb officers undercover in suburban washington, d.c. while the thrilling second season upped the suspense, it is elizabeth and phillip’s mar­riage that remains the show’s emotional core. as their line of work begins to have repercussions on their american-born children, “The americans” continues to beautifully explore the humanity of soviet spies and what it means to be a parent and a spouse. 
Best TV Friendship: “Broad City” 
not since “louie” has a comedy had such fleshed-out characters from its first episode. abbi Jacobson and ilana glazer’s fictional versions of themselves find endless entertainment in the mundanity of lives of two 20-something slackers. no Tv characters this year made me laugh harder nor make me wish they were my best friends more. 
Most Underrated: “Mad Men” 
in the first half of its seventh season this year, “mad men” somehow became the most underrated drama on television. as america descended into the chaos of 1969, don draper continued his descent into unhappiness — and the seven episodes that aired this year were as great as the show has ever been. 
Best Terrible People: “You’re the Worst” 
while the broadcast networks gambled on rom-coms this fall, it was FX’s comedy about two selfish silver lake 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

when you meet someone from the same hometown or school as you, you instantly have favorite foods, sport rivalries and local news in common with them. it’s an in­stant bond. 
For example, watching football is much more enjoy­able now that i can think, “oh, hey he’s in my finance class” or “i tripped in front of that guy last week.” 
(although, this common bond is prone to discernment as charles manson went to my high school.) 
walk the moon is a four person indie-pop band from cincinnati — my hometown. before they made it big with their 2010 single “anna sun” — the one-take dance fueled music video has over 10 million views on youTube — they did free concerts around cincinnati. The audience would paint their faces with the extra face paint they would bring (a signature to their concerts) and enjoy their ener­getic stage presence that drew hoards of devoted fans to every sweaty concert. 
at the bunbury music Festival in cincinnati in 2013, their set was more exciting and engaging than bigger, more experienced bands like Fun. or mgmT. it was dur­ing this set that they announced they were in the process of recording their next album — and it was released nov. 
hipsters that best portrayed romance on Tv. underneath the cynical facade of chris geere and aya cash’s char­acters os a fairly conventional narrative — two people falling for each other despite their best efforts to keep their relationship casual — that still manage to be sur­prising and hilarious. 
Best Unnecessary Adaptation of a Film: “Fargo” 
noah hawley’s FX adaptation of the coen brothers’ film brings the quirks of small-town minnesota to the small-screen. The miniseries take the film’s basic prem­ise and steer it in its own direction, becoming a com­pelling show about the decency of human beings in the face of a  freezing landscape and a sinister hit man. 
Best Dysfunctional Family: “Transparent” 
Jill soloway’s brilliant amazon series focuses on the pfefferman family, as maura (the amazing Jeffrey Tambor) comes out to her adult children as a trans wom­an and begins her transition after a lifetime pretending to be someone else. The show has a languid pace and gorgeous cinematography reminiscent of independent film; it slowly reveals its layers over 10 episodes as maura and her children all explore their identities in ways both poignant and funny. 
Best Fictional Place: Shondaland 
shonda rhimes’ three-hour block on Thursday nights showed the continued vitality of the network drama. addictive newcomer “how to get away with murder” joined established hits “scandal” and “grey’s anatomy” for an evening of primetime soaps that, in an era of streaming, demanded to be watched (and tweet­ed) live. 
28 with early streaming available on spotify. 
“Talking is hard” is the up-tempo, danceable album i’ve been waiting for. The record mixes the band’s sig­nature pop beats with eighties stylings and lively lyrics. The radio and parties have both picked up the single “shut up and dance” — and it requires you to do just that. however, belting out the catchy lyrics is also an option. 
“up 2 u” builds into a chris martin-esque falsetto that drops into a scrappy guitar and drum jam session. although somewhat jarring, it fulfills the ideal of the “this is the best part” music listening mentality. 
“down in the dumps” features a heavy eighties in­fluence, with synthy keyboard riffs that sound like they could fit in gary numan’s 1979 hit single “cars.” The eighties influence is a little much, however, frontman nicholas petricca’s vocals carry the track out of the past and into today’s danceable, shout along realms. 
“work This body” has a tribal feel with bongos and swirly chants and bird-calls, adding depth to the album. 
“spend your $$$” offers a funny, ironic commentary on today’s consumerist culture with lyrics like, “so i shop my face off at urban / just trying to look a little more like myself” and “i'm not sure what's more disarming / than fake breasts and miniature terriers.” 
songs like “we are The kids,” “portugal” and “come 
Best Late-Night Upstart: “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver” 
when it first premiered, John oliver’s sunday night talk show seemed like a carbon copy of his former em­ployer “The daily show.” but what distinguished “last week Tonight” from Jon stewart’s show was the way oliver used hbo’s commercial-free format to discuss complex issues in longform journalistic segments. From net neutrality to mass incarceration to police militari­zation, it turned out a brit could satirize american poli­tics better than anyone. 
Best Stoner Programming: “Too Many Cooks” 
This ‘80s sitcom parody justified adult swim’s 4 
a.m. time slot as a testing ground for absurd one-offs. over the course of its 11 minutes, this piece of pop cul­ture nostalgia becomes a surreal, macabre piece of art through sheer repetition of its endlessly catchy theme song. if the legalization of marijuana means more bi­zarre late night programing like “Too many cooks,” bring it on. 
Best Weed Dealer: “High Maintenance” 
each episode of this vimeo series provides a glimpse into a different client of a new york pot dealer, played by creator ben sinclair. These fantastic character stud­ies mine the depths of why people smoke weed, running the gambit from humorous to heartbreaking. 
honorable mentions: “boJack horseman,” “looking,” “nathan for you,” “orange is the new black,” “masters of sex,” “parks and recreation,” “silicon valley,” “veep” 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
under The covers” instill that wanderlust, young love, "this is probably on someone’s pinterest board" feel. 
The breathy, slowed down “aquaman” will leave you envisioning “slow dancing in the darkness” as you dive deep into love with this album. 
The danceable melodies and charming lyrics leave this album at the borderline between indie and trying-too­hard-to-be-indie pop, but the strong vocals, inventive guitar and drum parts and overall consistent strength of the album prove it to be more than a frilly work that will produce a couple of billboard singles. 
“Talking is hard” is an upbeat, chanty album will have you jumping, singing and moonwalking. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
“Talking is Hard” 
Walk the Moon 
Label: RCA Records Tracks: “Up 2 U,” “Portugal,” “Shut Up and Dance” If you like: Grouplove, The 1975 



SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Aaron’s Holiday Wish List 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
i find myself wishing for a lot of things during this holiday season, none more so than a playoff birth for my beloved ravens. yet, this is the sea­son of giving. so, rather than publicizing all the things i am wishing for, i’ll take a moment to note all the things i wish i could share with my best friends in the nFl. 
Joseph randle: a year’s sup­ply of underwear. no man should ever feel the need to steal underwear just to have a fresh pair ready. 
Johnny manziel: pettine’s favorite holiday desert (i’m going to guess pumpkin pie… he strikes me as a pumpkin pie kind of guy). Johnny, i think bribes may be required to get you on the field (insert famous money-sign hand-motion) 
espn: a Johnny manziel Fathead, so they can to talk to the Fathead about the con­troversial quarterback, rather than us, when he does get the nod. 
marshawn lynch: a louder microphone and more skittles for encouragement. i had trouble hearing the seventh “yeah” of his twelve postgame affirmative responses. i also respect you for standing up to a very weird rule in the nFl. 
cam newton: some superhe­ro help. after sunday’s brawl, i think it’s best if we stay dressed as clark kent and keep the superman celebration on the shelf for a couple weeks. 
antonio brown: slippers. much safer for kicking punters with. 
spencer lanning: an ice pack. see above. it has to still hurt. i’m sorry spence. 
rob gronkowski: better friends. leave bieber for the girls, gronk. There are people closer in age to hang out with, i promise. 
The Jets: a quarterback. note: Tommy rees is an avail­able free agent. it’s Tommy Time in the big apple. 
Tom brady: a pair of Timberland boots. put the uggs away Thomas, there is better winter gear out there. 
kyle orton: more chewing tobacco. if the addiction has gotten so bad you have to chew during the game, i’m sure you could use some more. 
odell beckham Jr: an extra hand. stop making everyone else look bad. 
haloti ngata: a babysitter. warning: mixing adderall with childrearing can lead to severe side effects, including excessive crying and diaper changes. i don’t think any young father wants to have better focus when changing diapers. 
Jay gruden and robert griffin iii: couple’s counseling. we all hit rough patches, and successful relationships take work. hug it out boys. 
The nFc south: more wins and no home field advantage in the playoffs. you’re making the league’s terrible rules look even more terrible. 
nFl officials: more restraint during the most penalized year in nFl history. be a nice fellow and avoid throwing the yellow. 
The bills: a dome. it will probably snow again soon. 
J.J. watt: receiver gloves. Three routes run, three touch­down receptions. Think bigger J.J., you can make a career on that side of the ball too. 
ryan Fitzpatrick: a calcula­tor. we get it, your son is re­ally smart. stop rubbing it in; knowing how to multiply 93 and 97 in your head is an im­practical skill. 
demarco murray: a better nickname. you can do better than “spray Tan.” also, be bet­ter to your college teammates. 
Jonas gray: a better alarm. no more sleeping through meetings, especially when your coach is bill belicheck. 
nFl fans: more popcorn. The absurdity of this season is far from over. 
listen, i know my writing is well-read in many nFl circles. so, if you’re an nFl player and feel slighted that you were off the list, feel free to reach out to me. i’ll be sure to hit up the man in red so that your wishes, like those of the players men­tioned in this article, come true. 
To all, a happy holidays and much love. wish for wonderful things and may they all be­come a reality. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL | colTs 25, browns 24 
luck rallies colts over 
Associated Press 
cleveland — andrew luck was indecisive, unsteady and inaccurate. For 57 minutes, he looked nothing like a fran­chise quarterback or one of the nFl’s biggest stars. 
given a final chance by the browns, luck redeemed him­self and rescued the colts. 
bottled up all afternoon by cleveland’s swarming defense, luck threw a 1-yard touchdown pass to T.y. hilton with 32 sec­onds left, rallying indianapolis to a 25-24 win on sunday. 
“he just had that fire in his eyes,” colts running back daniel herron said. 
luck had helped the browns build a 14-point lead with his fumble that was recovered in the end zone for a touchdown, and by throwing an intercep­tion returned by rookie cor­nerback Justin gilbert for a Td. starting at his own 10 with 3:46 left, luck took the colts (9-4) on an 11-play, 90-yard drive. 
“some real bonehead mis­takes,” luck said. “can’t do that, 
browns  
but it feels good to win on the  hoyer’s hold on his starting  
road, in this fashion against a  job over rookie Johnny manziel  
very good team. made enough  has never been more tenuous.  
plays when it mattered just to  he completed 14 of 31 passes  
get it done.”  for 140 yards and threw two in- 
before luck, who threw two  terceptions, a performance that  
picks and was sacked three  did nothing to solidify hoyer’s  
times, connected on his sec- standing on the depth chart.  
ond Td pass to hilton, herron  pettine said he did not consider  
picked up 2 yards on a critical  switching to manziel during the  
fourth down to keep the drive  game like he did last week in  
going.  buffalo, but would not commit  
luck finished with 294 yards  to hoyer for next week.  
passing, picking up 208 in the  “i have to play better,” hoyer  
second half.  said. “with each game that goes  
The browns (7-6) got two de­ by, there are less and less oppor­ 
fensive Tds, but cleveland’s  tunities to figure out how this  
offense, led by struggling quar­ season is going to go.”  
terback brian hoyer, couldn’t  down 24-19 and time running  
do enough to keep the team’s  out, luck completed a 27-yard  
playoff hopes from fading. The  pass to rookie donte moncrief  
browns picked up only three  on third down, and the colts got  
first-downs after halftime  35 yards when browns corner- 
and missed a chance to host  back buster skrine was called  
cincinnati next week with the  for interference on the next play.  
aFc north lead on the line.  herron, though, made the  
“it’s a kick in the gut,” browns  drive’s biggest play. on fourth  
coach mike pettine said. “it’s  down at the 3, he ran right and  
an opportunity that we let go.  was initially stopped at the line.  
we know our margin for error is  but herron spun away from the  
now zero, that we’ve got to win  pile and cut inside safety donte  
our last three or we’re done.”  whitner for the first down.  

NFL | sTeelers 42, bengals 21 
Steelers beat Bengals, make AFC North a race 
Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — The only fans left at paul brown stadium in the final minutes were the ones twirling those yellow towels and celebrating another significant steelers victory in december. 
This  one  was  bigger than  
most.  
ben  roethlisberger  and  

le’veon bell came up big in a game that pittsburgh had to win sunday, leading the steelers to a 42-21 drubbing of the cincinnati bengals that left the aFc north race wide open. 
roethlisberger threw three touchdown passes, including a 94-yarder to rookie martavis bryant, and bell scored three times as the steelers (8-5) ran away by scoring 25 points in the fourth quarter. 
now, it’s a four-way race to the top. 
“we have a great oppor­tunity in front of us, so i’m 

FOR RENT 
Attn: graduate students! Tri-level 
going to embrace it,” said bell, who ran for two touch­downs and caught a touch­down pass. “This is the part of the year where things get a little tight, they get more ex­citing. everybody in the lock­er room is excited about this last couple of weeks.” 
The bengals (8-4-1) had been in control, up by a game and a half over everyone else. another meltdown at home against a division rival left it anyone’s title. 
The defending division champions are in trouble. 
in their last two home games, the bengals have lost to both cleveland and pittsburgh by 21 points. it was pittsburgh’s most lopsided win at paul brown stadium since a 38-10 victory in 2008. The bengals play at cleveland next sunday, host denver in a monday night game, and then finish at pittsburgh. 
“i’m kind of at a loss for words,” bengals linebacker vincent rey said. 
given how they dominated on sunday, the steelers figure it very well could be them. They’re tied with baltimore for second place, with cleveland (7-6) right behind. 
bell steadied pittsburgh’s offense by running for 185 yards, catching six passes for 50 yards and scoring three touchdowns in the second half. he became the sixth player in nFl history to have 200 all-purpose yards in three straight games. 
The steelers ran for 193 yards and piled up 543 over­all — 229 of them in the fourth quarter. 
“we ran the same play three or four times in a row and those guys just couldn’t stop it,” bell said. 
roethlisberger emerged from a three-game funk by making big plays as well, in­cluding the longest touch­down pass in the nFl this season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
home for rent almost immediately! Everything nice and new. 3 bed­room or could be 4, 2 full bathrooms,  open concept main floor! 2 1/2 car garage. Call Laura for more details 574-532-9167.  




Music City 
conTinued From page 16 
kelly said the desire to play in a new region of the coun­try factored into notre dame’s bowl preferences although the ultimate decision came down to conference tie-ins and bowl committee members. 
“if geographically there’s a preference, we’d like to con­tinue to explore areas that we haven’t been to before,” he said. “… we knew that an sec matchup would be most fa­vorable, and then certainly it became outside of our control what that ultimate matchup would be with the sec because of how they tier their football teams.” 
Facing the Tigers will be a tough test, but one notre dame is looking forward to, kelly said. 
“There’s no sense going into this bowl game situation and feeling like you’re not going to be challenged,” he said. “i feel like there are matchups there that don’t give you the same kind of challenge. This is one that we wanted.” 
Irish to receive extra practice time 
in preparation for the music city bowl, notre dame will re­ceive eight additional practic­es on campus, five practices on site in nashville, as well as some extra sessions in the weight and film rooms. 
“essentially, you’re talking about another spring ball,” kelly said of the additional practice time. “when you get that opportunity with these younger players, it’s invalu­able in their growth and de­velopment. … we need it desperately.” 
kelly said there will be open competition for all positions, including the starting quar­
terback  slot,  when  the  irish  
return  to  practice  Friday.  
senior  quarterback  everett  

golson started all 12 games this season, but he was pulled in the second quarter of notre dame’s 49-14 loss to usc on nov. 29 for sophomore malik Zaire, who threw for 170 yards against the Trojans. 
“The best [standard] i can give you is there’s a way i want that position to operate, and it’s going to operate the way i want it to operate,” he said. “if you operate it the way i want it done, you’ll be the starting quarterback at notre dame.” 
in preparation for the matchup against lsu, notre dame will put an emphasis on physicality in its practices, even with a shorthanded irish defense, kelly said. some of­fensive linemen might even move over to the defensive line to simulate the Tigers’ defense. 



“we’re going to practice physical even if we have to put out guys that are not going to play this year,” he said. “we’re going to bang and play physi­cal because that’s the kind of football we’re going to see. it can’t be flag football here for the next eight practices.” 
Injury report 
kelly provided updates on several injured notre dame players sunday night. kelly said he thinks sophomore safety max redfield (broken rib), freshman linebacker 
paid adverTisemenT 
greer martini (quad), gradu­ate student cornerback cody riggs (foot) and freshman defensive lineman daniel cage (knee) will play against lsu. kelly added that senior cornerback matthias Farley would receive extra practice reps at the safety position in case redfield “can’t answer the bell.” 
Freshman defensive line­man Jay hayes (ankle sprain) is “limited right now,” but kelly said he expects hayes to be back to “pretty good health” for the bowl matchup. sophomore defensive line­man Jacob matuska (pinched nerve) will return to practice at the end of the week, kelly said. The irish will work on getting matuska’s “volume [of snaps] up” over the next few weeks, per kelly. 
kelly said he is hopeful ju­nior defensive lineman and captain sheldon day (knee) will return for the music city bowl. according to kelly, “it doesn’t look promising” that another captain, gradu­ate student safety austin collinsworth (separated shoulder), will be available. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Fall action concludes, Reaney earns silver medal 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
notre dame found success all over the country — the world, in fact — this weekend. The swimming team picked up 13 ncaa ‘b’ cut times at the Texas invitational, the diving program earned six top-four finishes at the hawkeye invitational and senior emma reaney earned notre dame’s first ever Fina short course championship medal in doha, Qatar. 
“we swam faster than we had all season [in Texas],” irish in­terim coach Tim welsh said. “in most cases than we swam faster than we had anytime in 2014, so it was a very good meet for us.” 
reaney, already the most dec­orated notre dame swimmer in the program’s history, added a silver medal in international waters as part of Team usa’s 200-meter medley relay. The team set an american record in the event and qualified for the ‘a’ final in the 50-meter breast­stroke, placing sixth in the world. 
“everything that emma has done nationally and interna­tionally just raises the profile of notre dame and certainly strengthens her chances and her opportunities looking ahead to further international meets,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “This is a giant step for her. no other [notre dame] swimmer has been to this meet so she’s the first notre dame swimmer to compete at this meet. … we are just so proud of all that she has done.” 
diver allison casareto swept the top spots in the hawkeye invitational behind a meet-re­cord performance Friday in the 1-meter event. she proceeded to record a narrow victory over ju­nior teammate lindsey streepey on the 3-meter board. streepey also finished second in the 1-meter dive, while fellow junior emma gaboury placed fourth in the 1-meter and then third on the higher board. 

“allison had just a phenom­enal diving meet,” welsh said. “They went 1-2-3 [saturday], and the whole diving team had just a terrific meet.” 
in austin, Texas, swimming closed its fall season with 13 times that are now up for ncaa consideration, welsh said. ncaa ‘a’ cuts earn a swimmer automatic berths in to the ncaa national championship meet in the spring, while the remain­ing spots that are not filled with ‘a’ cuts go to the fastest ‘b’ cut times. 
“This was a big step forward for us,” welsh said. “but there’s a lot to go, and there’s a lot of preparation that we still have to do and there’s a higher level of achievement that we want to ac­complish. This is a great end to the first semester.” 
Junior catherine galletti earned ‘b’ cuts in the 100-yard butterfly and backstroke races while sophomore catherine mulquin joined her in the 50­yard freestyle, 100-yard freestyle 
irish finish second in iowa 



and backstroke events. senior courtney whyte was fast enough in the 100-yard butter­fly and backstroke as well as the 200-yard butterfly, and fresh­man katie miller was the fourth irish swimmer to earn multiple cut times, earning consider­ation in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke. 
Freshman sherri mcintee (200-yard breaststroke), junior genevieve bradford (200-yard breaststroke) and senior bridget casey (200-yard butterfly) also earned ‘b’ cut times. 
“one of the things i joke about every year is we take our final ex­ams in swimming first,” welsh said. “This meet was like our final exam to see how the fall swimming season went.” 
so did the team pass their swimming finals? 
“we did! we had a great meet,” welsh said. “we are very happy with how everyone did, very proud of how everyone did.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
after three weeks off, notre dame returned to the water this past weekend for their its consec­utive appearance in the hawkeye invitational in iowa city, iowa. 
The irish (3-2) placed a school-record nine ncaa b cuts on saturday afternoon, and as a team, they scored 918 points, finishing second only to the host hawkeyes. 
b cuts are the time standards es­tablished by usa swimming and the ncaa that swimmers must surpass in order to be considered for qualification in the national championships. 
notre dame jumped to a fast start on Friday, the first day of competition. eight irish swim­mers placed in the top five, led by senior Zach stephens who earned the first ncaa b cut of the season for notre dame in the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 
1:44.26. stephens would go on to earn two additional b cuts on the weekend, including a time of 52.79 in the 100-yard breaststroke that would also earn him first place in saturday’s preliminary round. 
stephens was not alone, how­ever, in his attainment of qualify­ing times on the weekend. seniors Jonathan williamson, patrick olson and cameron miller, as well as sophomore Trent Jackson all se­cured return trips to iowa city in march for the ncaa champion­ships based on their performanc­es saturday. 
Jackson earned his ncaa b cut in particularly dramatic fashion saturday afternoon. he swam a 
1:37.8 in the 200-yard freestyle, besting the qualifying time of 
1:37.9 by just .1 of a second. 
The relays also delivered strong performances for notre dame over the weekend, placing sec­ond in both the 200-yard medley relay and 800-yard freestyle re­lay in the prelims saturday. The medley team of freshman robert whitacre, miller, stephens and freshman Justin plaschka earned a time of 1:28.73. The freestyle re­lay team of Jackson, senior kevin hughes, sophomore reed Fujan and freshman benjamin Jany clocked in at 6:34.27, just over a second ahead of third place. 
on the diving boards, sopho­more Joe coumos once again led the irish. he placed fourth Friday in the 3-meter competition. coumos was joined in the top five by senior michael kreft. The two combined for another strong per­formance in the 1-meter event, placing first and fourth. 
The irish are finished swim­ming for 2014. They are slated to resume action after the start of the new year with a dual meet against michigan and northwestern in ann arbor, michigan, on Jan. 
10. notre dame will not return to rolfs aquatic center until it hosts the shamrock invitational from Jan. 30-31, after nearly three months of swimming on the road. 





Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
1:13 into the final period to tie the game up at 3-3 off an assist from hinostroza. it was lucia’s 10th goal of the season. after go­ing four games without a point, hinostroza halted his skid with two assists Friday night and three more saturday. Jackson said he was pleased with the produc­tion of his second line consisting of lucia, hinostroza and senior right winger austin wuthrich, but also that he expects more of them moving forward. wuthrich added a goal of his own in the second period Friday, also off of an assist from hinostroza, to tie the game 2-2. 
“vinnie [hinostroza] had a good weekend,” Jackson said. “it was real encouraging to see that line, all being productive. That’s what we need from them. we need them to be a top-two type of line. They have to be able to play those kind of minutes and be productive. The next step is for them to be more consistent in being productive on the power play.” 
after earning the Friday night start, sophomore goaltender chad katunar struggled between the pipes Friday, Jackson said, as he gave up five goals on 25 shots. 
“chad earned the opportu­nity based on his performance last weekend to start on Friday,” Jackson said. “he didn’t have a great game. he even admitted he thought he was fighting the puck on Friday night.” 
There is no starting goalie, Jackson said, and the rotation be­tween katunar and freshman cal peterson will continue until one proves to be the most consistent. 
“i think we still have a com­petition in place,” Jackson said. “i don’t think either one has stepped up to say, ‘hey i’m the guy,’ and as long as that continues we’ll keep on rotating through guys. if one guy steps up to be the starter, it will be based on consis­tency. you’ve got to be able to play night in and night out, period­to-period. i think they both have had some real good moments, and they have both have had some average moments. so that’s still a competition as far as i’m concerned.” 
peterson collected his second-career clean sheet saturday, fac­ing 14 shots, and leading notre dame to the 4-0 win. 
“cal peterson played well on saturday,” Jackson said. “… he didn’t have nearly the kind of work that chad had, but he played well. he was in control and he did a really good job in the shots that he did face.” 
russo had two goals saturday — one coming in the second period and the other coming in the third — to bring his season total to seven. wuthrich and lucia rounded out the scor­ing, with each picking up a goal. Jackson said russo has been very valuable to the irish, both offen­sively and defensively, as he leads the irish with 17 points this sea­son and anchors a young back line. 
“robbie has probably been our most consistent player in the first half,” Jackson said. “he’s done a good job for us leading in the back end with that young defense and has played a lot of minutes for us, but he’s been productive in those minutes.” 
overall on the weekend, Jackson said he saw much-need­ed improvements from the irish. 
“i thought we did a really good job of possessing the puck,” Jackson said. “we did a bet­ter jobs with face-offs. we did a much better job coming out of our zone and entering into the offensive zone. our cycle game was pretty good. penalty killing was pretty good. … For the most part, i thought there was some progress made.” 
despite the positives, Jackson said he still needs to see more out of the power play. The irish went 0-2 Friday night, and a dis­appointing 1-10 saturday, with their only goal coming on a five­on-three. on the season, the irish have only converted on five of their 73 power plays for a conver­sion rate of .068. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“still a little bit of an issue with the power play,” Jackson. “we had a lot opportunities and only scored one goal, on a five-on­three. so it’s still an area of con­cern that we have to continue to try and progress on.” 
The offensive production notre dame displayed this week­end was a good sign going into break, Jackson said, adding that the team placed themselves in a good position in hockey east for the second half. 
“yeah, outside of the power play, i thought five-on-five, we showed some depth offensively, which is more similar to what we’re accustomed to seeing with our program. hopefully that will continue. at least conference-wise, we’re in decent shape. we haven’t played a lot of games, but you know we are going into the second half knowing that that’s going to be the priority, where we place in the conference. 
The irish will take a rest and return against miami (ohio) on dec. 28, in the Florida college hockey classic in estro, Florida. 
Contact Issac Lorton at             ilorton@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
Jackson is becoming more of a voice and a leader in that locker room. and that’s a good thing.” 
“we have older guys who know every game counts,” grant said. “some may be big­ger than others, but every game counts as a win or a loss so we came in focused.” 
The irish extended their lead to 18 points after connaughton knocked down three of his team-high 19 points with 12:24 remaining in the second half. notre dame led by as much as 20 over the final 12 minutes, yet the knights used strong 3-point shooting to keep the game interesting, drawing within 11 points on a shot from downtown by freshman guard marques Townes with 6:43 to play. The irish went on a 9-0 run to push the lead to 20, however, and seized control for good. 
Freshman guard matt Farrell, who entered the matchup av­eraging 4.8 minutes per game, matched that figure in the first half alone, entering the period with just over four minutes re­maining. when asked why he brought in the freshman so ear­ly, brey said he wanted to see how Farrell played with sopho­more guard v.J. beachem out with a foot injury. 
“he’s just another perimeter player and i wanted to look at that,” brey said. “it was a really good matchup because they are small and they were play­ing four guards. … we have a logjam of forwards and we want[ed] to get a guard in there and evaluate that this week.” 
Farrell saw eight total min­utes on the night, finishing with three points. 
despite a large size disparity between the two teams, notre dame was unable to translate its advantage into substantial control of the boards. led by junior forward Zach auguste’s 11 rebounds, the irish only out-rebounded the knights 41-30. auguste did register a double-double on the night, match­ing his rebound total with 11 points. The solid performance after a tough game against michigan state was very impor­tant, auguste said. 
“i was looking forward to bouncing back from last game,” auguste said. “we had a great team win [against michigan state], but individually i want­ed to help out the team.” 
“i told [auguste] before the game, ‘be the leading rebound­er,’” brey said. “That’s a great way to bounce back, and get­ting 11 rebounds, i thought he really tried to digest that. … he was strong around the basket and he was active getting the ball off the backboard on both ends.” 
notre dame continues its non-conference play Tuesday when it hosts mount st. mary’s at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
loyd is really hard, and guard­ing her with one player is just not possible,” huskies coach geno auriemma said. 
“we just looked like a deer in headlights,” mcgraw said. “we made some shots early, and i think when things are going good, it’s kind of a young team, and they’re going to roll along with it, and then when things go bad, Jewell’s really the only one that wanted the ball, so that was a problem.” 
The irish and huskies kept a close game through much of the first half, with notre dame holding a 28-18 lead 10 min­utes into the game. 
at that point, auriemma called a timeout, and connecticut went on a 22-4 tear to close the half, leading 40-32. 
outside loyd, the irish struggled offensively, miss­ing support from several key players. 
Junior guard michaela mabrey finished 0-for-5 on her shots from behind the arc and with no points in 29 minutes. 
sophomore forward Taya reimer made four of her 11 field-goal attempts for eight points in the game, and as a team, the irish shot just 31.4 percent from the field. 
“i think Taya, [freshman for­ward] kathryn [westbeld], [se­nior guard] madison [cable] and michaela are all capable of a lot more, and so we’ve got to figure out why it happened that they didn’t perform to­day,” mcgraw said. 
on the other side of the court, sophomore forward morgan Tuck dominated for the huskies, notching 25 points, nine rebounds and two blocks. 
“i thought morgan Tuck was tremendous,” mcgraw said. “she had a heck of a game, re­ally did whatever she wanted in both halves.” 
leading the huskies’ charge on the glass was senior for­ward kiah stokes, who pulled down 18 rebounds in addition to her four blocks. 
near the end of the game, the irish picked up their pro­ductivity, but connecticut matched them each trip on the other end, keeping notre dame from crawling back in the score. 
“we played really well to­day, and we won a game in a place that’s really hard to win against a team that’s really hard to beat, so our players feel really, really good about that,” auriemma said. 
in the other locker room, the irish said they are not going to hang their heads after their defeat. 
“we hate losing, so we never want to lose, and we always want to compete at a high level,” loyd said. “From this game, we’re going to go back to the drawing boards and compete in practice and hope­fully, that transfers over to our games.” 
The irish look to get back to their winning ways in their next game against depaul on wednesday. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
Across 
1 36” 5 Official language of Austria 11 Tiny ___, singer of 1968’s “Tip-Toe Thru’ the 
Tulips With Me” 
14 Oxford or loafer 
15 Entertain, as 
children at a library 
16 Singer DiFranco 
17 Purchasingsystem withpayments madeover time 
19 Video shooter, for short 
20 Golfer’s gouge 
21 “Make ___” (Picard’s command on “Star Trek: T.N.G.”) 
22 Store clerk 
25 Frilly place mats 

28 “Don’t Tread ___” (early flag motto) 29 Former Chrysler 
C.E.O. 31 Elite group 33 Home, in 
Honduras 34 Goldbrick 41 Fidel Castro’s 

brother 42 Ruth’s mother-in­law 43 Healthful food regimen,traditionally 49 Name that comes from Old Norse 
for “young man” 50 Devoted follower 51 Buckles, as a 
seat belt 53 Actress Ward 54 Frizzy dos 55 Assistant to 

Santa 56 He played the Hulk on 1970s-’80s TV 62 ___ v. Wade 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

63 Present at birth 64 Bump off 65 Norm: Abbr. 66 Flew to great 
heights 67 Suffix with cigar 
Down 
1 Designer monogram 2 “Eureka!” 3 Cowboy Rogers 4 Fan of Jerry Garcia’s band 5 Rough road surface 
6 Donkey in “Winnie-the-Pooh” 
7 Engrossed 8 The year 1550 9 One step ___ 
time 10 “Smoking or 
___?” 
11 Ploy 
12 Very soon 
13 Brunch cocktail 
18 Nintendo game 
console 21 U.N. workers’ 
grp. 
22 Fossil fuel 
23 Opposing 
24 Captain Hook’s 
mate 25 Primatologist
Fossey 
26 Hops kiln 
27 Financier Carl 
30 Food-poisoning
bacteria 
32 Kind of eel 
35 What “W” stands 
for on a light bulb 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

Edited by Will Shortz 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  
53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by Michael Farabaugh 
36 Like 43 Surgical beams Michelangelo’s 
44 Spotted wildcat “David” or Rodin’s 
45 Devoured, with “The Thinker” 
“down” 37 Where the United 
46 Miami’s home: Nations is in Abbr. Manhattan 
47 Tired or decadent 38 Jupiter 
48 Smeared with 39 Warning sign pitch 40 Recycling 52 Frat.’s containers counterpart 
54 Miles away 56 Fleur-de-___ 57 Singer Yoko 58 Acapulco article 59 Understood 60 Annual coll. 
basketball competition 61 Pepsi ___ 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

10/8/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ve got plenty of choices, so think big while remaining realistic. The combination will help you reach your goals successfully. adaptability is your saving grace, and chance will keep you from boredom. listen carefully, do your research and stick to the facts, and you will bypass any unfortunate mishap caused by vague conversations. love is highlighted. your numbers are 6, 10, 13, 20, 27, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get together with people you find mentally stimulating. enjoy sharing information and you will find a way to make positive changes to the way you live. don’t let someone you work with bully you. use your intelligence to outsmart an aggressor. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Tie up loose ends. Financial gains can be made if you invest in yourself. add to your skills or knowledge and you will be able to apply for a better position. Talking with someone you respect will lead to a new opportunity. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): strive to reach personal goals. self-improvement will result in compliments. stand up to anyone who gets in your way. your knowledge and expressive way of dealing with others will buy you time. romance looks promising. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): refuse to let your emotions take over. listen carefully and take care of your responsibilities. someone will take advantage of you if you don’t clearly state what you will and won’t do. put yourself on the line and be consistent. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): add a little excitement to your life. plan a trip or indulge in something you’ve never done before. open your mind to learning new skills that can be incorporated into your resume. stop dreaming and start doing. love is beckoning you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): hold on to what you’ve got. don’t give in to someone pressuring you to spend your money. you can make an investment, but stay within your means. do what feels right and works for you. personal problems will be based on false information. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out and meet new people. a partnership will lead to new possibilities. sharing ideas and space with someone looks favorable, as long as you iron out any kinks at the very beginning. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): change can be good if it’s built on solid ground. don’t be a follower or you will have regrets. Take your own unique path and develop what works best for you. recognition is heading your way, along with new opportunities. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): improve your surroundings and start getting ready for the holiday season. you can make financial gains if you take care of unfinished business. concentrate on new beginnings. love and romance are on the rise. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): mull over any suggestions without feeling the need to make hasty decisions. don’t fall for the tactics used by someone who wants to manipulate you emotionally. it’s ok to waffle if the cost is high and uncertainty prevails. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): give whatever you do your best shot and head for the finish line. you have more going for you than you realize. a promotion, change of status or recognition will give you the confidence you need to forge ahead. embrace change. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work on creative endeavors that can bring in extra cash or help you save during the upcoming months. striving for greater stability or financial security will pay off. good fortune can be yours if you make the right choices. 

Birthday Baby: you are aggressive and challenging. you are a lover and a crusader. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ENKTL  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NSURP  

CUTALA CRENTH  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer:  
Saturday’s  (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: UPPER ICING FORGOT ASTRAY Answer: Putting the spire on the building was this — TOP PRIORITY  




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | connecTicuT 76, nd 58
FOOTBALL 
Connecticut runs

Irish set for Music City 
away with win

Bowl against LSU 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
after a season of games played around the country, notre dame’s final test this year will be against an sec opponent in sec country, as it was announced sunday that the irish will meet no. 22 lsu in the Franklin american mortgage music city bowl in nashville, Tennessee, on dec. 30. 
“i know our guys were re­ally excited about the news and the matchups we’ll have in the music city bowl,” irish head coach brian kelly said at a press conference sunday night. “playing in a great town in nashville and in another nFl stadium really is an excit­ing opportunity for us.” 
notre dame (7-5) and lsu (8-4) have met 10 times, with each team earning five wins. The irish and Tigers have met in bowl games twice — the 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
it was a rare phenomenon at purcell pavilion on saturday, featuring a crowd that was largely quiet for the second half and some fans that started to filter out before the final buzzer. 
it was an even rarer phenom­enon that those fans saw no. 2 notre dame lose for the first time in 34 home games and 60 regular-season games, as no. 3 connecticut handed the irish their first loss of the season, 76-58. 
The irish (8-1) faced the huskies (6-1) without fresh­man forward brianna Turner, who suffered a right shoulder injury against maryland on wednesday. 

1997 independence bowl, nashville only once. The irish 
Turner’s absence showed, which lsu won, 27-9, and their defeated vanderbilt, 14-7, at 
with connecticut dominat­most recent meeting, the 2007 vanderbilt stadium on sept. 5, 
ing the boards, earning 52 re-sugar bowl, which lsu also 1996. 
bounds to notre dame’s 34, and won, 41-14. 
the paint, collecting 44 points notre dame has played in see music ciTy PAGE 11 
down low compared to 28 for the irish. 


“defensively, i was really dis­appointed in our effort,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “… i thought our post defense was poor. … obviously, the game was, i thought, lost on the boards, and that was a big key for us. we just went soft, and so it was very disappointing.” 
most of the irish offense ran through junior guard Jewell loyd, who accounted for more than half the team’s points, matching career-highs with 31 points and four steals. her to­tals included three 3-pointers and eight made free throws. 
even then, loyd put up 27 shots from the field but missed 17 of them, and she was respon­sible for seven of notre dame’s 18 turnovers. averaging 22.2 points per game, loyd faced a double team from the huskies for much of the game. 
“i think guarding Jewell 
see w bball PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | nd 7, mass 5; nd 4, mass 0 
Irish sweep Massachusetts 
By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame put an end to its november blues and a five-game winless streak with a sweep over massachusetts on Friday and saturday, its first road sweep since joining hockey east in 2013-14. 
paced by sophomore center vince hinostroza and senior defenseman robbie russo, the irish (8-8-2, 4-2-2 hockey east) had a five-goal third pe­riod Friday to win 7-5 and a 4-0 shutout saturday to complete the sweep over the minutemen (4-11-0, 1-9-0). hinostroza had five assists on the weekend, while russo had two goals and three assists. 
during the month of november, notre dame strug­gled, as it went 1-6-2. luckily, the only two games on the schedule in december were dif­ferent, irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“we had a tough month of november,” Jackson said. “so being able to at least get off to a good start moving towards the second half, i think it bodes well for us to feel good about ourselves going into christmas break before we come back for the second half of the year. so, hopefully we can build upon it.” 
Friday night, the irish trailed 3-2 going into the final stanza of the match, but unleashed their offense in the third period, led by senior right winger and captain peter schneider, who had two goals in the last pe­riod. schneider netted his first goal of the night at 6:53 into the third and added an insur­ance goal with just 26 seconds left to close the game out 7-5. schneider’s two goals took him to three on the season. The five-goal third period showed what the irish are capable of doing, Jackson said. 
“we showed some explosive­ness and our depth showed up,” Jackson said. “we got some momentum and we built on it. guys were doing a good job cycling the puck and getting pucks to the net. i thought we showed good poise and pa­tience in the offensive zone. we just capitalized, which is real encouraging because that’s something that we have lacked consistently, just being produc­tive five-on-five.” 
Junior left winger mario lucia set off the wave of scoring 
see hockey PAGE 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 75, Fairleigh dickinson 57 
notre dame escapes upset 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after wednesday night’s overtime victory over no. 19 
michigan  state,  notre  dame  
took  a  while  to  get  going  
saturday night.  

on a night when four teams who won during the acc/big Ten challenge lost their games, the irish (8-1) pulled away late in the first half to defeat Fairleigh dickinson, 75-57, ex­tending their winning streak to four games. 
“That was a tough one,” irish coach mike brey said. “They are hard to play against because they are so athletic defensive­ly, moving around, match-up zone, defensive press, long pos­sessions, ball screens and quick guards. i think defense was the answer for us. we weren’t in the best of offensive rhythms.” 
“we know all too well from last year there are those non-big name teams who have great players, and this was one of those teams,” senior guard/ forward pat connaughton said. “They played us tough in the first half, and it was just a mat­ter of methodically extending the lead.” 
no. 17 michigan, purdue, miami and georgia Tech all lost games saturday, and notre dame had plenty of fight on its hands to avoid being added to that list. 
after the knights (3-4) cut notre dame’s lead to 15-14 with 7:48 remaining in the first half, the irish used a 17-8 run to go into halftime with a 32­22 cushion. sophomore guard demetrius Jackson sparked notre dame as it began to seize control of the game, converting two 3-point plays on high-flying finishes in the paint. senior guard Jerian grant completed his own 3-point opportunity during the run as well. grant finished with 15 points, while Jackson tallied eight of his own to go along with a team-high four assists. 

“Jerian grant and demetrius Jackson have a great tone of lead­ership,” brey said. “one thing that is clear is that demetrius 
see m bball PAGE 14 





