THe IndePendenT To uncoVer newsPAPer serVInG THe TruTH noTre dAme And And rePorT sAInT mAry’s IT AccurATely 

Volume 47, Issue 100 | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
Conference examines immigration 
Archbishop discusses spiritual dimensions, encourages “different globalization” 
By TORI ROECK 
Associate news editor 
To begin the church and Immigration conference, bishop Alvaro ramazzini of the diocese of Huehuetenango in Guatemala gave the key­note address sunday night in mcKenna Hall. both university President Fr. John Jenkins and bishop eusebio elizondo of the Archdiocese of seattle intro­duced the speaker. 
In Jenkins’ remarks, he said the united states is in political gridlock when it comes to immi­gration reform, and while politi­cians are bickering, immigrants are dying. 
“we need to elevate the terms of the immigration debate onto a higher moral plane,” Jenkins said. “while we certainly rec­ognize the right of a nation to regulate immigration, we must also recognize the economic realities that force people across borders to find the means to feed their families. we must also recognize the undeniable economic benefits that immi­grants, both documented and undocumented, have brought to this nation. 


“we must recognize the his­tory of immigration that has helped define our nation.” 
elizondo, chair of the united states conference of catholic bishops’ (usccb) committee on migration, said the church’s obligation to care for immi­grants began with Jesus himself. 
“The church has been in­volved in the immigration issue 
see conFerence PAGE 4 



library purchases gospel facsimile 
By EMILY MCCONVILLE 
news writer 
According to legend, when Holy roman emperor otto III en­tered the tomb of charlemagne in the early 11th century, he found the great medieval king’s personal copy of the four gos­pels, written with gold ink on purple pages, complete with paintings of the four gospel writers. recently, the Hesburgh library purchased a facsimile of the gospels for $22,000. 
The facsimile, held in the rare book room, is an exact copy of the original coronation Gospels, made for charlemagne in the early ninth century A.d. The original manuscript currently resides in the Imperial Treasury in Vienna, Austria. 
marina smyth, the medieval studies librarian who organized the funds to buy the facsimile, said it was “probably the most expensive purchase [she’s] been 
see FAcsImIle PAGE 5 



Dinner celebrates cancer survivors 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
cancer patient survivors, caretakers, students and families who have been af­fected by cancer celebrated the lives of local heroes at the third annual “don’t stop believin’ celebration of life” dinner saturday night, hosted by saint mary’s stand up to cancer club. 

christie Hutch, a junior at saint mary’s and president of the stand up to cancer club said everyone present made a difference. 
“everyone who comes re­ally is a hero. whether they have dealt with cancer person­ally or taken care of someone who has or whatever the case may be, I think it’s important to recognize these people,” Hutch said. 
To start off the evening, local 12-year-old rising star Justin mccormick sang “don’t stop believin’” by Journey. The tal­ented young singer has been on a variety of singing shows and is in the process of build­ing his career, Hutch said. 
“He does a lot of things for and sings at the relay for life every year,” Hutch said, “His main song that he sings at all these competitions and things is ‘don’t stop believin’’ and because that’s the name of our event, he asked if he could perform.” 
At the event, guests enjoyed an Italian buffet dinner 
the American cancer society see dInner PAGE 5 



Two shot in south bend on saturday 

Observer Staff Report 
Two men were injured in a shooting at the intersection of michigan and wayne streets near club Fever early saturday morning, according to a state­ment from police spokesman capt. Phil Trent published in the south bend Tribune. 
The two south bend resi­dents suffered non-life­threatening gunshot wounds in the incident, and police were called to scene at the 100 block of east wayne street around 2:30 a.m. officers said they saw the gunman fire at a nearby parking garage with a handgun, the Tribune reported. 
when the incident oc­curred, a crowd was leaving club Fever, located at 222 s. michigan street. Trent said several people were fighting, and both of the men who sus­tained gunshot wounds are believed to have been at club Fever prior to the shooting. 
officers approached a 29-year-old man whom they believed to be the shooter. The man had a gunshot wound on his hand, but no gun in his possession, Trent told the Tribune. 
shortly after, a 28-year­old man entered memorial Hospital with a gunshot wound to his forearm and said he was shot while getting into his car on east wayne street, the Tribune reported. both men said they did not know who shot them. officers recov­ered shell casings in the park­ing garage but no guns, and therefore could not make any arrests. Trent said a shooting downtown is unusual, accord­ing to the Tribune. 
The club’s website stated that Fever is open from 9 
p.m. to 3 a.m. on Fridays. The observer could not reach a club Fever representative for comment. Trent could not be reached for comment either. 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining Hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: Ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post office Information The observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining Hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices PosTmAsTer send address corrections to: The observer P.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


What film deserved to win best picture at the Oscars? 

Connor Brown 
sophomore 
duncan Hall 
“American Hustle.” 

Heather Lennon 
freshman 
Pangborn Hall 
“Anything but Frozen.” 

Joe Albert 
sophomore 
o’neill Hall 
“The wolf of wall street” 



Maggie McDevitt 
freshman Pangborn Hall 
“Frozen.” 


Peter Durbin 
junior duncan Hall 
“Her.” 


Sean Casey 
sophomore 
o’neill Hall 

“Jennifer lawrence.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
meg Handelman brian Plamondon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville Alex wilcox charlie ducey conor Kelly 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wedsnesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa daniel barabasi 

Photo Viewpoint 

Spring Town Hall Four7: Catholic Workshop: “From CV Zen Meditation Men’s Discernment 
Karla moreno Gabriela leskur 
Meeting Fellowship to Résumé” 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Lunch Washington Hall Cavanaugh Hall 117 Haggar Hall 102 Coleman-Morse LaFortune Student 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 8:15 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Center Center 


Corrections 

Fr. Jenkins speaks Worship and song. Open to graduate Meditation practice 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as about campus issues. students and postdocs. open to all. Holy Cross vocations. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
UK Fellowships Concert: Schola Grotto Trip “Songs of Weeping ND Women’s Tennis 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Application Musicorum Bond Hall Songs of Praised” Eck Tennis Pavillion 
however, recognize that we will make 
Workshop DeBartolo Performing 10 p.m.-11 p.m. Washington Hall 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
O’Shaughnessy Hall Arts Center Led by Asian American 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Match against 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. 9 p.m.-10 p.m. Association. Recital by guest Clemson. 
we can correct our error. 

In room 242. Gregorian chanting. professors. 




Institute  of Advanced studies wins $1.8 million grant 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
notre dame’s Institute of Advanced studies received the Templeton Grant for $1.8 million to research questions about the nature of human existence. 
The grant, provided by the Templeton Foundation, will 


“You might think religion and science come together on issues like creationism and evolution and that’s going to be where the conversation happens,” he said. “For us though, the more fruitful dialogue happens when you go deeper.” 
Eric Bugyis 
coordinator for undergraduate 
research, Institute for 
Advanced Studies 
be used by the Templeton Foundation to “bring to­gether, particularly, areas of undergraduate research in the Institute for Advanced studies, said the grant would fund two senior researchers analyzing questions about the nature of human creativ­ity and the place of the mind in nature. 

religion  and  science,”  eric  
bugyis said.  
bugyis,  coordinator  for  

“really big questions can unite disciplines,” bugyis said. “That is what the Institute is about, in general 
— trying to bring disciplines and trying to overcome the narrow focus you get often in university research.” 
bugyis said those ques­tions are best answered with interdisciplinary study and working to understand the common core of the different disciplines, especially when subjects don’t share an obvi­ous connection. 
“you might think religion and science come together on issues like creationism and evolution and that’s go­ing to be where the conversa­tion happens,” he said. “For us though, the more fruitful dia­logue happens when you go deeper — so it’s not a flat sur­face, it’s a sphere. The most interesting places where they intersect are not the surface, but the center.” 
bugyis said he has called upon undergraduates from different disciplines to find universal, yet unique, per­spectives and answers. 
“we wanted to bring in stu­dents, because we have this interdisciplinary focus, from various disciplines that were not necessarily specific to the projects these fellows working on. … so more than just lo­gistically, students are really contributing to the project at a conceptual level — challeng­ing the researchers that they work with to think in different to not only how they conduct their research and how they present it,” bugyis said. 
senior Iona Hughan, an un­dergraduate researcher for the Institute of Advanced studies, said collaborating with stu­dents from such different backgrounds has made for in­teresting research situations.
 “Try putting a psychologist who is investigating the idea that a person is only a brain in the same room with an an­thropologist who works with only empty skulls,” Hughan said. “It’s fascinating to watch them force one another to think in new ways and find common ground. 

Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 





Professor discusses Northern Irish poetry and conflict 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
on Friday, eric Falci, a pro­fessor at the university of california, berkeley, presented a lecture titled “northern Irish Poetry after the Troubles,” in which he explored and analyzed the effects of modern political and social strife in Ireland on the art of northern Irish poetry. 
Falci, who spoke as part of Keough naughton Institute for Irish studies’ lectures and Public Talks series, focused his talk on a twofold question of how poets responded to conflict and what patterns emerged therein. 

“From the start of the Troubles of 1968, poets, more than any other kind of cultural figure in Ireland, were called upon . . . to respond to the outbreak of violence.” 
Eric Falci 
professor, University of 
California at Berkeley 

“my question about northern Irish poetry after the Troubles … is considering the very different social and political conditions in northern Ireland in the past 20 years, how have poets ad­dressed those conditions,” Falci said. “The second part of that question is what type of formal shapes have emerged?” 
Falci concentrated on sev­eral specific poetic examples, including michael longley’s “ceasefire,” sinéad morrissey’s “Thoughts in a balck Taxi,” “In belfast,” and “signatures” and Allan Gillis’s “laganside.” of these works, Falci said “ceasefire,” which was pub­lished in “The Irish Times” three days after the 1994 ceasefire between the north and south factions of Ireland, is the most famous. 
“longley’s great poem, the most famous public poem of the Troubles, approaches the com­plex particulars of the political situation from the flank,” he said. “even as it is manifestly about the contemporary situation in northern Ireland and responsive to events there in a stunningly impressioned way, it stages mul­tiple forms of displacement.” 
Falci said the poem, which uses Homer’s Iliad as an allegory for the Troubles, reflects the un­certainty of the ceasefire and its surrounding events. 
“I think ‘ceasefire’ empha­sizes the partial, unfinished quality of both the events of the poem, it was only a pause in the Trojan war, and the events in northern Ireland to which the poem points,” he said. “There had been IrA ceasefires before. The fracture quality of the son­net serves to forestall any too quick acceptance or even belief in the solidity of the peace.” 
Falci said poets in northern Ireland took on a more influen­tial and political role during the Troubles, which resulted in their poetry assuming a dislocated quality. 
“From the start of the Troubles in 1968, poets, more than any other kind of cultural figure in Ireland, were called upon, and perhaps more felt themselves to be called upon, to respond to the outbreak of violence,” he said. 
Falci said many Irish poets re­sisted the call to act as political or ideological spokespersons, or to provide some kind of artisti­cally minded social commen­tary, from the start. 
Falci said the full impact of the Troubles on northern Irish po­etry cannot be measured, but re­gardless, the turmoil profoundly affected poets and their work. 
“It is impossible to say whether the social and political crisis in northern Ireland spurred great poetry or whether the great po­etry would have happened any­way,” Falci said. 
“However we choose to un­derstand the great unlikelihood of so many great poets in such a short time and in such a small space, it is certainly the case that the Troubles becomes a kind of structuring principle for that work and especially for its reception.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 


THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



Conference 
conTInued From PAGe 1 
since her founding, when the lord Jesus christ instructed all of us to welcome the stranger, and in these interfaces we see christ himself,” elizondo said. 
elizondo said the usccb is the largest refugee resettle­ment agency in the world, and has resettled more than one million refugees since 1975. 
“The catholic voice contin­ues to have impact in the pub­lic debate on immigration,” he said. “As a community, we are at the forefront of the moral arguments governing the im­migration reform debate. we should be proud of our rich tradition of defending the mi­grant, both here in the united states and globally. This of course not only includes the bishops but all the faithful and many of you present.” 
ramazzini said immigration crises throughout the world continue because people re­duce immigrants to economic statistics. 
“The economic dimension of globalization places produc­tivity and effectiveness as the values that orient all our hu­man relationships,” he said. “This economic dimension promotes inequality and injus­tices. That is to say, the most important values of truth, jus­tice, love and … human digni­ty and the rights of others are subjective to the world mar­ket. I say [it should be] the God market.” 
ramazzini said a person is not just an economic factor. 
“The crisis of capitalism and also the crisis of socialism is to forget that God is the fun­damental in the reality,” he said. “Pope Francis, in his ap­ostolic exhortation, ‘The Joy of the Gospel,’ emphasized that the church — and I dare to say that I believe christianity to­day is in a profound crisis — is living a new idolatry of money, in that it is money that governs us. 
“we have created a world of inequality and this inequality is one of the causes of the mi­grants today.” 
consumerism has created a “throw-away society” that does not value the inherent dignity of every person, ramazzini said. 
“being a christian is to love God and our neighbor,” he said. “we know that. because of this, we must promote a dif­ferent globalization that em­phasizes love for justice and a respect of human rights. … even people who do not have documents are persons. Is it necessary to have a document in order to be a person? can others be a hindrance in living as a human being? 
“If we truly live with a glo­balization as I mentioned, we will have the capacity to dis­cover who is suffering, and we would then have the capacity of helping them.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



SMC retreat encourages reflection 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
Fifteen saint mary’s students got a chance to retreat and reflect on their personal relationships with christ this weekend at the saint mary’s encounter retreat, assistant director of campus ministry regina wilson said. 
campus ministry offers the weekend event to all saint mary’s students, wilson said. 
“Its purpose is to provide stu­dents with a time away for prayer, conversation, reflection time [in which] they are meeting christ in their lives, and how christ is calling them to serve the world” wilson said. 
The getaway utilizes a popular retreat model aimed to encour­age participants to know them­selves and christ on a deeper level by reflecting on their val­ues, friendship with God, and vocation to be christ to others, senior cellular and molecular biology major and retreat leader emily Krach said. 

she said the retreat included 6 talks, bookended by music and time to journal. 
she said the retreat was creat­ed with a distinct path in mind. 
“First we explored inward and reflected on ourselves,” Krach said. “Then we moved upward and reflected on our relation­ship and friendship with christ. lastly we move outward to bring our gifts and christ’s teachings to the community.” 
The retreat moves from reflec­tion on one’s personal relation­ship with God and christ to how that personal relationship is sup­posed to lead one to be one in communion with other believ­ers so as to bring life to the world, wilson said. 
each leader’s talk reflected the speaker’s personal engagement with the given topic and pro­vided her the opportunity to wit­ness where she has met christ and how her life has changed be­cause of this encounter, wilson said. 
“with Pope Francis talking so much about the culture of en­counter, that our christian life should be about meeting the other wherever she is, that we meet christ when we seek to en­counter the other in life,” wilson said. “These themes have added so much in our understanding of the concept of ‘encounter,’ and in helping me, personally, help the leaders prepare to lead the retreat.” 
wilson’s role is to help the re­treat team collaborate in addi­tion to preparing them for their individual ministries on the re­treat, wilson said. 
“I meet with each of the speakers about their personal witnesses.  I attend the retreat, but the student team really leads the whole retreat.  I basically do the dishes,” wilson said. 
while all retreat leaders give talks, one facilitates the retreat experience, another leads prayer and ice-breakers and several of them lead small group discus­sions, wilson said. 
wilson said the student lead­ers inspire her with their ability to provide a personal witness of their relationships with christ and growth in their faith. 
“The retreatants are usu­ally ready for a time away in the midst of studies for personal prayer and reflection.  And, nat­urally, the Holy spirit always ex­ceeds expectations by what she does among us,” wilson said. 


Contact Emilie Kefalas at eke­fal01@saintmarys.edu 

PAId AdVerTIsemenT 




Facsimile 
conTInued From PAGe 1 
responsible for.” 
she said the library’s existing collection of 43 carolingian fac­similes, or material dating from 800-900 A.d., motivated her to ac­quire the copy of the manuscript. The manuscript was made by swiss publisher Faksimile Verlag, she said. 
“The way it happens is, I look at this thing, and I say, hmm, this would be a good thing to have,” smyth said. “one of my pieces of reasoning would be, we actually already have a very strong collec­tion of facsimiles of carolingian material. 
“we also have two professors who specialize in carolingian stuff — history, and then there’s an art historian who would be very interested in this.” 
smyth said she raised $11,000 from the history, art and theol­ogy departments, the medieval Institute and two medieval stud­ies endowed collections. The oth­er $11,000, she said, came from the library’s special Acquisitions Fund, a competitive grant pro­cess. she said she ordered the facimile by nov. 14 and it arrived in mid-February. 
“what I like about it is that it’s kind of is a crown on a very fine collection of facsimiles of carolingian manuscripts that we have,” smyth said. 
According to visiting paleog­raphy professor david Ganz, the original manuscript is important because it represents a rediscov­ery of a classical painting style, a recognition of the Gospel writ­ers as historical figures. He said its purple pages and gold script denote the work of an extremely skilled scribe. 


He said the value of notre dame’s facsimile lies in how ex­actly it resembles the original manuscript, down to the holes in the page and the flakes in the paint. 
“The fact that the pages aren’t all the same size shows how carefully [the facsimile was made], and you can see the fold in the skin being reproduced — that’s what hap­pens to the poor unfortunate cow on whom this was written,” Ganz said. 
Ganz said the original manu­script, because it has a sculpted gold cover, is inaccessible to most scholars. The facsimile, which Ganz said is one of three in the united states, will be used as a research and teaching tool. It is accessible to all students and faculty. 
“It’s not bought to sit in the rare book room on the shelves,” Ganz said. “Just like the dante collec­tion, just like the robert creeley collection, it’s there for people to study, and therefore, from now on, everybody taking an art his­tory course may have the chance to see it.” 


Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu. 

Dinner and embody the importance of living in the moment. 
conTInued From PAGe 1 
catered by sodexo and were given raffle tickets for a free auction that included bas­kets donated by families of club members and local businesses such as edible Arrangements, let’s spoon and Flourish boutique, Hutch said. she said the event was purely a celebration, not a fundraiser. 
“every other event [the club] does is primarily a fundraiser. ... we raise money for the na­tional organization which is great because that goes purely towards cancer research, but this is the one thing we do that’s local and it’s to show our support as a community and as a college and as a club,” Hutch said. 
To raise awareness for the event, the club placed a press release in the south bend Tribune and hung posters around campus and in lo­cal areas including memorial Hospital, Hutch said. she said approximately 75 people at­tended the event. 
“students joined the guests for dinner, and I think every­one learned something from talking to [the guests].  For me, it was their attitudes that affected me so profoundly,” Hutch said. “each individual seemed to truly understand 
“The families whom I sat with at dinner said that bat­tling cancer really made them realize that you can’t sweat the small stuff. It was so in­spiring for me and the other students to hear this from our guests.” 
Junior bridget condon said she was touched by cancer patient who spoke during dinner. 
“He spoke about his experi­ence with cancer and how the saint mary’s nursing students always made his treatment days a little better,” condon said, “It really spoke to what we, not just as a club, but as a college, are all about. whether we realize it or not, each and every one of our little acts of service can make a huge dif­ference in the lives of other people,” she said. 
condon said she hopes the event made people aware of the immense local support available for those battling with cancer. 
“It was great to be able to treat these heroes to a worry free night of fun,” condon said. “while we cannot do ev­erything, we can certainly do some things to show our love and support in their battles.” 


Contact Kathryn Marshall at Kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 


THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



Surpreme Court examines IQ of death row inmate 
Associated Press 
wAsHInGTon  — A Floridian with an IQ as high as 75 may be diagnosed as mentally disabled and be eligible for help getting a job. but on death row, the state says having an IQ higher than 70 categorically means an in­mate is not mentally disabled and may be executed. 
The supreme court barred states from executing mentally disabled inmates in 2002, but until now has left the determi­nation of who is mentally dis­abled to the states. 
In arguments monday, 68-year-old Florida inmate Freddie lee Hall is challenging the state’s use of a rigid IQ cutoff to determine mental disability. 
Florida is among a few states that use a score of 70, as mea­sured by IQ tests, as the thresh­old for concluding an inmate is not mentally disabled, even when other evidence indicates he is. 
“simply put, IQ tests are not a perfect measure of a person’s intellectual ability,” Hall’s law­yers told the court in written arguments. 
In nine tests administered between 1968 and 2008, Hall scored as low as 60 and as high as 80, with his most recent scores between 69 and 74, ac­cording to the state. 
A judge in an earlier phase of the case concluded Hall “had been mentally retarded his en­tire life.” Psychiatrists and oth­er medical professionals who examined him said he is men­tally disabled. 
As far back as the 1950s, Hall was considered “mentally re­tarded” — then the commonly accepted term for mental dis­ability — according to school records submitted to the supreme court. 
He was sentenced to death for murdering Karol Hurst, a 21-year-old pregnant woman who was abducted leaving a Florida grocery store in 1978. 
Hall also has been convicted of killing a sheriff’s deputy and has been imprisoned for the past 35 years. He earlier served a prison term for assault with intent to commit rape and was out on parole when he killed Hurst. 
Hall’s guilt is not at issue be­fore the high court. 
Florida’s regulatory code says individuals with IQs as high as 75 may be diagnosed as mildly intellectually disabled, poten­tially allowing them to receive state aid. The code relies on the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, the authoritative manual of the American Psychiatric Association, setting an IQ of 70, plus or minus 5, as the upper range of intellectual disability. 
The range reflects something that is true of all standardized testing — results are generally reliable, but not 100 percent so, and they are reported along with a margin of error. 
Psychiatrists and psycholo­gists who are supporting Hall also say that an IQ test alone is insufficient for a diagnosis of mental disability. The groups say there’s a consensus among the mental health professions that an accurate diagnosis also must include evaluating an in­dividual’s ability to function in society, along with finding that the mental disability began in childhood. 
but the Florida supreme court has ruled that the state law regarding executions and mental disability has no wiggle room if an inmate tests above 70. 
In defending Hall’s death sen­tence, the state says it makes sense to set a different thresh­old for vocational services than for criminal justice. 
Providing treatment to a broader group makes sense, Florida Attorney General Pamela Jo bondi said in court papers. but for death row in­mates, “the risk of overdiag­nosis of mental retardation is particularly pronounced,” bondi said. They “have every incentive to secure such a diag­nosis, and the risk of malinger­ing is very real,” she said. 
The outcome of Hall’s case is unlikely to affect the busi­est death penalty state, Texas, which does not impose a rigid IQ test to assess mental dis­ability. Hall’s lawyers, in fact, approvingly cite Texas’ broader approach to the issue. 
Florida said there’s no na­tional consensus about a strict IQ limit, and no reason for the court to impose one. 
The two sides disagree about the precise number of states that employ rigid cutoffs. The state calls attention to Florida supreme court Justice barbara Pariente’s opinion in 2012 that identified eight other states that have such a limit: Arkansas, delaware, Idaho, Kentucky, north carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and washington. 
Hall’s lawyers argued that only in five states — Florida, Alabama, Idaho, Kentucky and Virginia — have state courts held that inmates with IQs higher than 70 cannot be con­sidered mentally disabled. even in Idaho, the ruling appears to give judges some leeway, Hall’s lawyers said. 
Hall’s case has bounced around the Florida courts for decades. 


Jimmy Fallon, Chicago mayor take a chilly dip 
Associated Press 

cHIcAGo — comedian Jimmy Fallon took a quick but icy dip in lake michigan — dressed in a full suit and tie 
— eyes bulging as he darted out of the slushy water and headed straight for a pile of dry towels.= 
“The tonight show” host made good on his promise to make sunday morning’s “Polar Plunge” with mayor rahm emanuel as a condition for the mayor appearing on Fallon’s show in new york, fol­lowing an exchange of tweets and challenges. 
“If you hear a scream like a little girl’s ... know that Jimmy Fallon is swimming in lake michigan,” Fallon told the crowd shortly before running in. 
emanuel, wearing a green chicago Public library T-shirt and shorts, went first, with Fallon just after. both were soaked as they fled the water to cheers from a large crowd. A group of bagpipers, wearing yellow rain boots and traditional kilts, provided the soundtrack for their rapid dash into the 32-degree lake. 
The annual event draws several thousand hearty plungers to raise money for special olympics chicago. 
scores of people dressed in parkas and polar bear outfits, some carrying signs, gath­ered along the lakefront early, hoping to catch a glimpse of Fallon. It was 10 degrees dur­ing the plunge, and chicago firefighters in red wetsuits waded in before the waves of brave souls, throwing chunks of ice out of the area. 
seventeen-year-old high school senior marilyn lamanna and a friend got up at 5 a.m. to snag a spot where they hoped to watch the feat unfold. 
with them was a large, card­board cutout of Fallon’s head, which caught his eye. He gave the shrieking girls brief hugs before darting off to take the plunge, telling them, “I’ve got to go meet the mayor.” 
“between Jimmy Fallon and the special olympics, it doesn’t get much better than that, even though it’s super cold,” lamanna said. 
emanuel said last summer 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 
that if city’s children read 2 million books as part of a chicago Public library program called “rahm’s readers,” he’d jump in the lake. 
An hour before the plunge, emanuel was dressed in sweats and sipping coffee. He got emotional as he talked to reporters about meeting the mother of a special needs child in a chicago grocery store on saturday, saying she was grateful for his participa­tion in the event. He said they cried and hugged. 
“There are parents out there, there are children out there who have something they can give,” he said. 
emanuel was flanked by detroit lions defensive line­man and former bears player Israel Idonije and chicago Public library commissioner brian bannon. 
special olympics chicago President Jen Kramer credits Fallon and emanuel with at­tracting more than 3,000 peo­ple for the run into the lake from the city’s north Avenue beach. That’s more than ever; last year 2,300 people did it. 





Pistorius to be tried for murder in South Africa 
Associated Press 
PreTorIA, south Africa — A drone carrying a camera flew overhead the Pretoria courthouse to capture the opening of the murder trial of oscar Pistorius monday, as the mother of the woman he shot to death says she wants to look him in the eyes when he comes into the courtroom. 
June steenkamp, the mother of model reeva steenkamp who was killed by Pistorius, was quoted in the Pretoria news, publishing an interview she gave to a british newspaper, saying that she will at­tend the trial to see Pistorius. 
“I want to look at oscar, really look him in the eyes, and see for myself the truth about what he did to reeva,” said June steenkamp, 
67. “whatever the court decides at the end of his trial, I will be ready to forgive him ... but first I want to force him to look at me, reeva’s mother, and see the pain and an­guish he has inflicted on me. I feel I need that.” 
steenkamp will be seated near Pistorius’ family, according to lo­cal media, so there is a possibility that their eyes will meet. 
under grey, drizzly skies, journalists, lawyers and secu­rity officials arrived at the Pretoria courthouse in preparation for the trial. several broadcasters massed live broadcast satellite trucks around the courthouse. 

The intense public interest in the Pistorius trial is shown by the launching sunday night of a 24­hour cable channel devoted to covering the court case. 
The start of the trial marks the start of a dramatic new chapter in the life of the double-amputee athlete who ran at the olympics and became a global star before he shot his girlfriend to death. 
Prosecutors charged the 27-year-old Pistorius with mur­der in steenkamp’s death and say it was with premeditation. They say they will seek a life sentence if Pistorius is convicted, the sternest punishment available in south Africa. south Africa no longer has the death penalty. 
If convicted on the murder charge, Pistorius could be sent to prison for at least 25 years before the chance of parole, the mini­mum time someone must serve if given a life sentence in south Africa. He would be older than 50 before he could be released. 
The state says Pistorius inten­tionally killed steenkamp at his home in the pre-dawn hours of Valentine’s day last year by shoot­ing her through a toilet door after an argument. Pistorius denies murder and says he killed his girlfriend by mistake when he fired four times through the door thinking there was a dangerous nighttime intruder on the other side. 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 
A lesser sentence is possible if Pistorius is found guilty of mur­der but without premeditation. He also could be convicted of culpable homicide, south Africa’s version of manslaughter in which someone is killed through negligence. 
Pistorius claims he was acting in self-defense against what he believed at the time was a threat to his life. 
As well as murder, Pistorius fac­es a second charge of illegal pos­session of ammunition for bullets found at his Pretoria house that he allegedly didn’t have proper licensing for. Prosecutors say he also will be indicted monday with two more gun charges relating to him allegedly shooting in public on two separate occasions before steenkamp’s killing. 
The serving of an updated in­dictment to Pistorius in court is expected to be the first move at the trial at Pretoria’s high court. He has not yet been formally served with the papers that in­clude all four charges against him, although his lawyers have had the papers and details of the addi­tional gun charges since last year, prosecutors say. The gun charges reportedly relate to him alleg­edly shooting out the sunroof of a car in one incident and another when he allegedly fired a gun in­side a restaurant, apparently by mistake. 



russian military advances, alarms western observers 
Associated Press 
wAsHInGTon — western powers on sunday prepared a tough response to russia’s mili­tary advance into ukraine and warned that moscow could face economic penalties, diplomatic isolation and bolstered allied de­fenses in europe unless it retreats. 
The crisis may prove to be a game-changer for President barack obama’s national secu­rity policy, forcing him to give up his foreign policy shift to Asia and to maintain u.s. troop levels in europe to limit russia’s reach. 
The ill will and mistrust also could spill over on two other glob­al security fronts — syria and Iran 
— where russia has been a neces­sary partner with the west. 
russian President Vladimir Putin gave no indication that he would heed the west’s warnings. Hundreds of armed men sur­rounded a ukrainian military base in crimea, a pro-russian area. In Kiev, ukraine’s capital, Prime minister Arseniy yatsenyuk alerted allies that “we are on the brink of disaster.” 
senior obama administra­tion officials said they believe russia now has complete opera­tional control over crimea and has more than 6,000 forces in the region. The u.s. was also watch­ing for ethnic skirmishes in other areas of eastern ukraine, though the officials said they had not yet seen russian military moves elsewhere. The officials were not authorized to publicly discuss the situation and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
secretary of state John Kerry said he has consulted with other world leaders, and “every single one of them are prepared to go to the hilt in order to isolate russia with respect to this in­vasion.” obama spoke sunday with German chancellor Angela merkel, british Prime minister david cameron, and Polish President bronislaw Komorowski. 
Kerry planned to travel to Kiev Tuesday for meetings with the ukrainian government. officials said the obama administration would also focus this week on putting together a package of eco­nomic assistance for ukraine. 
The white House issued a joint statement sunday evening on be­half of the Group of seven saying the G-7 had suspended participa­tion in the planning for an inter­national summit in russia this summer. In the statement, the u.s., canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the united Kingdom condemned russia’s “clear viola­tion of the sovereignty and terri­torial integrity of ukraine.” They said russia’s advances in ukraine violate the “principles and val­ues” on which the G-7 and Group of eight economic group, which includes russia, operate. 
In brussels, nATo’s secretary-general, Anders Fogh rasmussen, said russia’s actions have violated a u.n. charter. He said the alliance was re-evaluating its relationship with russia. 
“There are very serious reper­cussions that can flow out of this,” Kerry said. 
beyond economic sanctions and visa bans, freezing russian assets, and trade and investment penalties, Kerry said moscow risks being booted out of the power­ful Group of eight group of world powers as payback for the military incursion. 
Treasury secretary Jacob lew told a washington audience on sunday that the united states is ready to work with other countries and the International monetary Fund to provide support to bol­ster ukraine’s economy. He said he had been assured in discus­sions with ukrainian officials that the new government is prepared to pursue the necessary reforms to overhaul the country’s ailing economy. 
lew said that the administra­tion was ready to supplement emergency ImF loans to cush­ion the impact economic re­forms would have on vulnerable ukrainians. 
“The united states is prepared to work with its bilateral and mul­tilateral partners to provide as much support as ukraine needs to restore financial stability and return to economic growth if the new government implements the necessary reforms,” lew said during a speech sunday night to the annual policy conference of AIPAc, America’s largest pro-Isra­el lobbying group. 
several u.s. senators also called for bolstered missile defense sys­tems based in Poland and the czech republic. 
russia is “going to be invit­ing major difficulties for the long term,” said Kerry. “The people of ukraine will not sit still for this. They know how to fight.” 
still, it was clear that few in the west were prepared to respond immediately to Putin with mili­tary force. 
At the Vatican, Pope Francis used his traditional sunday mid­day appearance in st. Peter’s square to urge world leaders to promote dialogue as a way of re­solving the crisis in ukraine. 
sen. marco rubio, r-Fla., dis­cussing the potential of u.s. military strikes against russian troops in crimea, said, “I don’t think anyone is advocating for that.” one of the administration officials indicated that the u.s. was not weighing military action to counter russia’s advances, say­ing the obama administration’s efforts were focused on political, economic and diplomatic options. 


THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

working for you 



Ann Mare Jakubowski 
editor-in-chief 

All of notre dame’s campus lost power 15 min­utes into my first night as editor-in-chief, right at the beginning of my shift in the office. 
To be honest, it’s slightly terrifying when your one job is to be sure there’s a paper tomorrow morning, and the first time you ever try to pull it off there’s an hour-and-a-half long speed bump like that. but it taught me a few lessons that I’m going to carry with me for the rest of this year. 
First, there are days when it takes a village to make a newspaper. It takes people hunched over laptops editing stories by candlelight, people scouring campus for quotes and information about the power outage, and, of course, people around to reassure me that all this will be a fun­ny story tomorrow and it’ll work out. 
It wasn’t until about 5 a.m. Friday morning that I became convinced that things actually would work out, but it did, and it will every time. And that’s only because of the teamwork and col­laboration across the entire staff. 
And that’s the second lesson: being able to rely on having a new issue made every single week­day is incredible, and I will not take it for granted anymore. 
sometimes, producing a daily paper goes off without a hitch. but sometimes, you spend your snow day laying out pages in the office that have to be finished before the st. Joseph county driv­ing ban goes into effect at 6 p.m. And sometimes, you spend your first night in charge wondering if it’s at all possible to produce a 16-page paper from a laptop with 40 percent battery left. 
which brings me to the third (and most im­portant) lesson: everything we do, every day, is motivated by all of you, our readers. 
There’s no question in my mind that the work that goes in to this paper is worth it every time. we write, take photos, design graphics and shoot videos because we believe that there are stories on this campus that need to be told, and that as your fellow students here, there is no one better equipped than we are to tell them in a way that matters to you. 
In the first issue of The observer, dated nov. 3, 1966, the editors wrote, “To uncover the truth and report it accurately. This is our goal. This is our purpose.” 
because of them, and for you, we make sure that by the end of each weeknight, these stories have made it unto the pages of The observer and our website so that you, our readers, know what notre dame is like today. 
As student journalists, this is more than a busi­ness. For many of us, it has decisively crossed the line between a hobby and an obsession. 
Thursday’s power outage made me realize exactly how committed I am to this paper and to all of you — we would have stayed awake in the office all night waiting for the electricity to come back if it had come to that. until this time next year, I promise I will always be here to take your comments, address your concerns and report accurately on the things that matter most to you 
— with or without electricity. 

This is not my paper. no one in this office works for me. This is your paper, and we are working for you. 
Contact Ann Marie  Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


A dangerous equivocation 
I would first like to preface this letter by saying that I have no intention to rule on the legitimacy or morality of homosexuality or gay rights. 
After having read several articles both in this news­paper and others, I have found a glaring issue with the method of argument. In light of this, I would like to call attention to a rather blatant logical fallacy that seems to constantly arise in the discussion of gay rights or the gay rights movement. Particularly, there is a fallacious equivocation of the civil rights movement of the 1870s that aimed to afford African Americans equality under law and the civil rights movement that is currently raging, which seeks to confer homosexuals certain rights. 
The association seems quite fine at first glance. People should be given the same rights and same pro­tections under the law — the intentions of each move­ment. The problem lies not with the intention, but the execution. 
The civil rights movement of the 1870s is radically different from today’s homosexual rights movement in that the former provided for the emancipation of those who were not being treated as humans. There is a problem with treating people as property, and this movement turned our attention towards it. 
The homosexual movement, though, is not even re­motely the same. I think few, and probably extremely ill-informed people, argue that homosexuals are not people, and probably wouldn’t suggest them to be property. The logic is evidently flawed to evoke the name of the civil rights movement as the same basis for the homosexual movement. Homosexuals are peo­ple and ought to be guaranteed rights that are inher­ent to humanity. 
Therefore, the question is not “Are homosexuals people?” but “what rights are guaranteed?” I can un­derstand why many would want to associate these civil rights movements together, since slavery and objecti­fication have long since been condemned. but, doing so is quite simply manipulative; the subject matter is categorically different. There is an inherent difference between rights afforded by humanity and the rights that the homosexual movement is calling for. 
don’t associate these two movements to draw sup­port simply because people can commonly flock to the idea of emancipation. There cannot be false equivoca­tion simply to progress the movement that is founded on critically different bases. The expansion of what rights constitute humanity and the conferral of those agreed to be inherent are not the same and ought not to be associated. 
Jonathan Baker 
freshman Fisher Hall Feb. 26 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“one is left with the horrible feeling now that war settles nothing; that to win a war is as disastrous as to lose one.” 


Agatha Christie English mystery writer 




THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


The transformative power of adoration 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

It’s not often that I am at a loss for words.  I love to write and talk about any and all subjects.  but in the months I have been privileged to serve at roncalli High school in Indianapolis, I have often times found myself searching for words. People often ask me, “Tell me about roncalli! How are things going there?”  
And I often pause.  but lest my pauses give off the wrong impres­sion, I have become accustomed to clarifying that I do, in fact, have things to say to them.  many things, in fact. 
my problem (if you can call it a problem) is I frequently don’t know where to begin. 
There was the time I attended a pep rally that was unlike any other high school pep rally I have ever seen.  The gym was so loud and so consumed with roncalli pride that I lost my voice (and my hearing) and I didn’t even open my mouth.  or there was the time I watched the roncalli football team pray together with their opponents at midfield after the varsity football game. 
Then there are the students who regularly do the little things: who throw away an extra piece of trash in the cafeteria or wait to hold a door for a fellow classmate.  or there are the teachers who consistently show up early to provide tutoring, or stay late after a full day of work to coach, announce, or watch a game. 
It has taken me a while to put my finger on just how we do it. everybody is stretched so thin, yet things seem to always get done.  we give so much, yet there always seems to be room to give a little more. 
And it hit me just recently that I may have found the answer. 
At any given time on the first Friday of the month, you can see students, faculty and staff gath­ered in the roncalli chapel to spend time in adoration.  Together in front of the consecrated host (which catholics believe to be the body, blood, soul and divinity of Jesus christ) the roncalli community gathers to adore and celebrate one of the most special and treasured realities of all: a God who loved us to such a degree that he could take on flesh and die for our salvation. And there, I think, is the key to roncalli’s success. 
Fr. Pedro Arrupe wrote, “nothing is more practical than finding God, than falling in love in a quite absolute, final way. what you are in love with, what seizes your imagina­tion, will affect everything. It will decide what will get you out of bed in the morning, what you do with your evenings, how you spend your weekends, what you read, whom you know, what breaks your heart and what amazes you with joy and grati­tude. Fall in love, stay in love and it will decide everything.” 

I’ve often thought of the experi­ence of adoration like a big, lighted arrow, blatantly and obviously re­minding us of a truth that we should have etched in our hearts: “Jesus is here.”  In the presence of such an awesome reality and reminder of God’s love, it’s hard not to walk away transformed. 
but the most beautiful thing about our time for adoration is that it gives us pause as a community to remem­ber a deeper reality, that “Jesus is here” every single moment of our lives.  
For me, the roncalli community is a testament to the power of God’s transforming love in adoration. we’ve all heard the old adage: “you can’t give what you don’t have.” And one of the things I think makes roncalli so special is that regular adoration helps nourish us on our journey to consistently remember and live into the words of 1 John 
4:19: “we love because he first loved us.” 
And there, in front of our lord, we have a concrete reminder of that love.  And I think it is easier to give in little ways and little moments when we can remember and cele­brate what we already have: the awe­some and unconditional love of God. 
we are called not to hold onto this love as a possession only for our­selves, but to work to give it away each and every day.  we must work, as the roncalli mission statement proclaims: “to make God’s love com­plete among us.”  we must work to share that love with the ends of the earth. 
Adoration can be our starting point in this mission.  There, we will encounter the lord who gives us the strength to go that extra distance to proclaim his loving witness to the world. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and a student in the Echo Faith Formation Leadership Program in the Notre Dame Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


HHs mandate raises the stakes 
John Madigan 
Guest columnist 
notre dame continues to be em­broiled in federal litigation challeng­ing the obama administration’s HHs mandate. The mandate compels the provision of free contraception (in­cluding abortifacients) and steriliza­tion services to female employees. 
Private employers and their insur­ers subject to the mandate must not only provide access to contracep­tion and sterilization services, but also must provide them at no cost to employees regardless of what they are required to contribute for other healthcare services. 
last Friday, writing for a divid­ed federal appellate court, Judge richard Posner denied notre dame’s most recent appeal for relief from the mandate. His opinion was no surprise. 
earlier this month, Judge Posner badgered notre dame’s attorney on oral argument, demanding at one point to know whether contraception is viewed by the catholic church as a mortal sin or as a venial sin. when our religious liberty rights blow with the winds of executive power or de­pend upon the judiciary’s prodding and parsing of theological consider­ations, we are entering a brave new world of hostility to religiously in­spired moral values. 
The HHs mandate is a serious threat to religious freedom precisely because the catholic church’s teach­ings concerning sexual morality are directly related to our understanding of the relationship between God and man. They flow from the church’s conviction regarding the sanctity of each human life. 
Informed by sacred scripture and authoritative teaching, the church proclaims that each and every hu­man person is uniquely created in the image and likeness of God. catholic philosopher Alice Von Hildebrandt sums this up with elegant precision: “Animals reproduce, humans procre­ate.” That is, man and woman coop­erate together and with God in the co-creation of a unique human being, an immortal human soul. 
because we believe that procre­ation is such an extraordinary gift, literally a sharing of God’s creative power, we catholics view complex questions concerning family plan­ning, pre-marital sex, reproductive technologies, abortion and a host of other issues relating to sexual moral­ity through the lens of our faith. 

Francis cardinal George, arch­bishop of chicago and past president of the united states conference of catholic bishops, speaks often of the grave danger posed by the HHs mandate. while recognizing that anti-catholicism has a long history in the united states, George is also quick to note that respect for moral pluralism has been central to the American understanding of religious liberty. 
reasonable people often differ in their conclusions relating to moral issues. our government has consis­tently respected such pluralism when it comes to religiously-held moral imperatives. President obama’s HHs mandate stands in stark opposition to this legacy of respect for moral pluralism and religious liberty. 
As catholics, we do not demand nor expect that our fellow citizens will embrace our faith and its teach­ings. In fact, we acknowledge that catholicism can be difficult to live out, even for many catholics, and especially in our hyper-sexualized culture. 
but we do expect government to re­spect our right to live and work guid­ed by our faith-based moral values. 
Has it really come to this — that executive branch discretion can be used to force private parties, includ­ing believing catholics, to under­write a value-free notion of sexual liberty? And that this radical asser­tion of administrative power might trump a history of respect for reli­giously based moral norms? 
The stakes in notre dame’s ongoing HHs mandate litigation could hardly be higher for those who hold religious liberty as one of our most treasured constitutional rights. 
John Madigan is a graduate of Notre Dame and formerly served as General Counsel at the Fellowship of Catholic University Students, another HHS Mandate litigant. He can be reached at jepmadigan@yahoo.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

raisins are not particularly deli­cious. “A raisin in the sun,” a play about a struggling African American family in 1950s chicago, is not particularly enjoy­able. employing simple steps of logic, it would seem that “clybourne Park,” a play that is loosely based on “A raisin in the sun,” would be about as juicy as dried fruit. 
Fortunately, logic has failed here, as it often does in the theatre. Accurately ad­vertised as “a biting comedy about race and real estate,” “clybourne Park” was both captivating and challenging. As an audience member, it was hard to believe that the actors were college students; they seemed to be either their characters in the flesh, or at the very least broadway stars. 
between the acts, the setting changed from 1959 to 2009 and the style changed accordingly, from comb-overs to cubs jerseys and from pin-up curls to pixie cuts. The changing times highlighted the frustrations introduced by technology: in the first act, bev, a middle-aged house­wife played by senior Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) major renée rodin, answered one phone call, but kept it short and stayed in the room, since the ro­tary phone was connected to a landline. In the second act, lena, the audacious African American woman played by Zuri eshun, was repeatedly interrupted by ringtones and made priceless vexed facial expressions. 
In fact, every actor masterfully con­veyed their motives and emotions through physical cues. John corr, a senior FTT major, and rodin truly became russ and bev, a middle-aged couple living in a middle-class chicago suburb. corr con­vinced the audience and seemed con­vinced himself that the half-furnished stage was his home. He embodied a drained and disillusioned wAsP, flipping through “national Geographic” and eat­ing spoonful after spoonful of ice cream. He spent much of the first act slouched in his easy chair, looking as if he had sat there every night for thirty years. rodin for her part perfectly captured the pur­poseless housewife whose anxiety and apparent back-pain stemmed from a need to find a purpose and forget the past. 
rodin and corr proved their versatility in the second act when they transformed into completely different characters. rodin became a conceited lawyer who was repeatedly offended by the off-color jokes about color in the second act, espe­cially one that compared a white woman to a tampon, because they were both “stuck-up.” corr became a crazed con­struction worker in the second act, whose swaggering gait, grey beard, and ridicu­lously loud calls to his fellow construction workers won chuckles from the audience. 
Junior Joey doyle, who played Karl in the first act, then steve in the second, deserves kudos for his commanding and convincing presence. In both acts, his character seemed to represent white males who are attacked in the modern age for lacking any qualities that would give them minority status. His character dislikes “tap-dancing” around sensitive topics, such as race, sexual orientation, and economic status, and consequently says what other characters prefer to leave implied. Though he tries to bring every­thing to light, his jokes end up making the play rather dark. It is this darkness, though, that makes the play pointed and profound. 

His pregnant wife, played by freshman sienna wdowik, is deaf in the first act, thus only communicating with her husband in sign language. she has no idea that her husband is trying to stop a black family from moving into the neighborhood be­cause it would “lower the economic value of the community.” Fast-forward to the twenty-first century, and her new char­acter can hear everything that is going on and disagrees with her husband. 
wdowik’s change from betsy to lindsey seems to represent the changing role of women from the 1950s to the present day. wives used to only hear what their hus­bands wanted them to hear, but now they no longer allow their husbands to filter in­formation for them. wdokwik does a for­midable job of transforming from a deaf to determined wife, and her demeanor and haircut is reminiscent of a mature emma watson. 
symbolism was not limited to charac­ters; it was sprinkled over objects as well, misting them with meaning. bev and russ bickered over who would carry a trunk whose contents are concealed from the audience until the end. The trunk seems to symbolize the burden that bev and russ have carried since their son, a Korean war veteran, committed suicide after struggling with having killed inno­cent citizens. 
bev reminds russ about carrying the trunk, but he replies that it is a “two per­son job,” implying that he cannot carry the burden on his own. Instead of volun­teering to help, bev indirectly asks lena and her husband Albert, who was ex­pertly played by both bryce wood and Troy lewis, to bring down the trunk. even though russ was not eager to carry the trunk by himself, he is enraged when he sees other people carrying the load for him. In this way, the playwright bruce norris ingeniously uses the trunk to rep­resent russ’ struggle between grief and pride. 
In brief, the show was phenomenal, and students should tear their hair out and don sackcloths if they missed it. not only did the actors deliver a flawless and realistic performance, the material of “clybourne Park” left the audience with a reminder of the lasting effect of changing demographics and ethnic tensions both in the chicago suburbs and throughout the united states. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 


John Darr 
scene writer 

This past sunday, Jaden smith was be­stowed the glorious ‘worst actor’ razzie award for his ‘performance’ in the mind­blowingly terribad film “After earth.” 
now, I don’t know much about film, but I do know something about Jaden smith 
— from his Twitter account. The young man is famous for his, er, philosophy. In case you’re not familiar, here are some choice tweets for ya: 
1. 
How can mirrors be real If our eyes Aren’t real 

2. 
“It’s your birthday” mateo said. I didn’t respond. “Are you not excited To be 15” He Asked. reading my book I uttered “I Turned 15 long Ago” 

3. 
most Trees Are blue 



despite my limitless knowledge of Jaden’s wisdom, it’s safe to say I’m not a guy who checks Twitter often. but today, I just had to see if Jaden had responded to his razzie ‘win’. clicking on my favorites bar, I flew over to Jaden’s page and began drinking in his recent tweets. 
disappointingly, he hasn’t tweeted since February, so there was no response to be found. Instead, I found his two-line review of Kid cudi’s new album: 
“Kid cudi’s new Album Is next level. I’m starting To Have Hope For modern music Again.” 
now, I’ve heard a lot of people say that modern music is rubbish. As a huge fan of modern music, I usually feel like un­sheathing my great musical sword when such a thing is said. Given that many such people are either friends, family, or ran­dom people on the Internet, I usually just hold my tongue and move on. but Jaden smith, pretentious faux-philosopher of the Internet? His tweet, and his ignorant dismissal of modern music, need to die. 
with a feverish intensity, I set my fin­gers to the keyboard to defeat Jaden’s claim. However, one problem arose im­mediately — the claim is vague. what, ac­cording to Jaden, would be non-modern music? when, according to him, were the good old days?  I needed to find out who Jaden’s favorite composers or artists were. 
It wasn’t long before I found Jaden’s music. The man is a rapper, or at least talks to a rhythm over several beats. 

unless Jaden is aiming to make music that he himself thinks is bad, he must mean older rap and hip-hop when he talks about non-modern-music. To narrow it down to which artists in par­ticular he admires, I needed to do more searching. 
what I found was baffling. Jaden’s mixtape didn’t harken back to ‘80s or ‘90s hip-hop. It didn’t look back upon ‘60s psychedelic or ‘50s big band, and it certainly didn’t go back earlier. Instead, Jaden’s mixtape was ultra-modern. with slick, heavily-produced, atmospheric beats, Jaden’s music was rather similar to the average contemporary hip-hop song. yet even more than that, Jaden chose to rap over two beats built on samples from extremely forward-thinking, chic elec­tronic artists Purity ring and sbTrKT. Jaden’s claim that of modern music was hopeless, sans Kid cudi, just didn’t match up with the music he himself made. 
when I took on Jaden smith’s claim about modern music, I thought I’d end up with something to argue against. As it turns out, the claim was groundless. Jaden smith loves modern music and he wishes to create it. It inspires him. what, then, was there to learn from this dead end? 
As it turns out, Jaden’s musical fallacy is something we often claim ourselves. when we talk about music, we’re pretty dismissive. when an artist or time period of music comes up in a group conversa­tion, people usually choose sides, saying that said artist or time period is fantastic or terrible. 
However, there are so many songs by a particular artist and so many artists in a particular time period. we’re often straight-up incorrect in assuming that we don’t like artist X or time period y. 
I know I suffer from the Jaden smith-style fallacy; maybe you do too. next time a friend or passerby brings up music you think you don’t like, stop and think about it for a minute. maybe there was a catchy chorus or a special song in the pile you once thought was trash. If we can all learn from Jaden’s fallacy, musical world peace may one day be possible. 
Contact John Darr at  jdarr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 
“I’m still not a country fan, that guy was just a great perform­er!” said junior lucas sullivan, resident of Keough Hall, as he justified how much he en­joyed himself saturday night at legends country Fest featuring Jon Pardi and Thomas rhett. 
legends was packed, as it should have been. both acts are breakout stars with recently re­leased albums and chart-topping singles. on top of this, Thomas rhett is a favorite for Acm’s best new Artist of the year award. 
Jon Pardi started the night off, leading the event with a more old school country sound, without any particularly twangy or pop­py undertones. The crowd loved him right from the first song, which transformed into a well-received set. when he crooned “Trash a Hotel room” and “empty beer cans,” my heart nearly exploded with happiness. The crowd was dancing around and singing along in a hot sweaty mess. 

“It was a little piece of summer in the middle of this polar vor­tex,” said junior Hayley Johnson, resident of lyons Hall. 
Throughout the night, legends collected a bit of steam from the sweat of the crowd, but it was a healthy and enjoyable kind of perspiration. 
Things only got steamier when Thomas rhett took the stage. He seemed to know that the crowd wouldn’t know all his songs, so he mixed in covers between his own bigger hits. As a well-known songwriter, rhett tapped some of the pieces he had composed for his peers, while also pull­ing on classic country songs like “Friends in low Places” and “The Joker.” rhett even played some cross genre covers like “suit and Tie” and “beverly Hills.” There were so many of those awe­some concert moments when the crowd knows all the words to a song that the performer steps away from the mic and lets them run with it. when rhett played his slow, sentimental song, “beer with Jesus,” the more tenderhearted members of the audience shed a few tears. Then, amidst a dynamic chant for an encore, rhett sauntered back onstage to warm legends with a final song. 
with such vibrant and emo­tional acts, the combination of Thomas rhett and Jon Pardi onstage left the event as a great memory for country connois­seurs and first-timers alike. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
Photo Illustration by Wei Lin and Maria Massa | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NBA misses the mark with mask request 



Mary Green 
sports writer 
“Those who have seen your face draw back in fear; I am the mask you wear.” 
This lyric might be from “The Phantom of the opera,” and this might be a column about sports, but for those who saw the black mask lebron James wore Thursday in his game against the Knicks, the comparison is not too far off. 
For some, the Heat super­star resembled batman; for others, he looked a little like Hannibal lecter. 
but for the nbA, James just did not look fit for the hardwood. 
normally, I’m all for keep­ing the status quo in athletic attire. I scowl with every new uniform the oregon football team dons each week because heaven for­bid they wear the same one twice, and I cannot stand the corporate logos on soc­cer and wnbA jerseys. I will gladly take the tradition of the Packers and the yankees over the modernity of this year’s nbA All-star Game uniforms and whatever adidas rolled out for march madness last year. 
despite all this, I liked James’s mask, and I wish he had been able to keep it. 
As much as we all know the adage that “there’s no ‘I’ in team,” professional sports, and even high-profile college sports, are all about brand­ing these days. every athlete must have his own image for the sake of marketing, promotion, fan identifica­tion, etc. everyone needs a “thing,” an image that is eas­ily associated with an athlete and that athlete alone. 
some athletes find this with their hair. For Allen Iverson, it was the corn­rows. For Julius ervng and ben wallace, the afro (and sometimes the cornrows for wallace). For Troy Polamalu, the large mass of hair that sticks out from under his helmet every sunday. And for Andre Agassi, it was the lack of hair that so contrasted with his mop-and-headband combination of the ’90s. 
many players have their own shoes, gloves or sticks that help them bolster their popularity by creating a de­mand for that one piece of equipment that one player uses. And if you are michael Jordan — well, you have an entire brand of your own. 
but for a select group, what is on their face is what really makes them stand out. 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar wore his trademark goggles, and the accuracy of his hook did not make anyone question how effective they were. 
mike Tyson has the tattoo that wraps around his left eye, and no one wonders how tough the boxer is, both in and out of the ring. 
The branding potential of facial features is hard to top. If you need further proof, take a look at nike’s recog­nizable line of “cooperstown Hair-itage” shirts with the famous outlines of baseball players’ facial hair. From classic figures like rollie Fingers and ozzie smith to today’s stars like Jason Heyward and Joe mauer, the sportswear giant has taken advantage of the distin­guishable features that fans associate with their favorite athletes. 
so, this makes me wonder: why would the nbA not want to take advantage of a mar­keting opportunity like the one presented by James and his mask? 
There was so much po­tential in this idea. For christmas games, he could hang little ornaments or lights from it and decorate it for the season. After easter, James could switch out the black mask for a white one, since the rules of fashion would finally allow him to wear white. 
but before he did that, he would have to wear a color­ful and probably glittery mardi Gras mask on Fat Tuesday. To add even more fun, the Heat could face off with the Pelicans that day, and the home team could hand out masks for the giveaway. 
what a shame — this was really a missed opportunity. 
but perhaps all this po­tential was the reason why the nbA told James to wear a clear mask like every other player with a broken facial bone has to wear or nothing at all. maybe taking the best and most visible player in the league and adding an­other element of marketabil­ity would create too potent a combination. 
either way, the nbA missed out on this one. And now, how am I supposed to get back all that money I just invested in the mask industry? 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TRACK AND FIELD | Acc Indoor cHAmPIonsHIPs: men THIrd, women THIrd 
men & women finish 3rd 

By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 

In their first ever Acc Indoor championships in clemson, s.c., notre dame men’s and women’s teams both pulled out third-place finishes, and junior sprinter chris Giesting was named the meet’s most valu­able performer. 
The men’s third place fin­ish, however, was very close to being first place. Heading into saturday’s final event, the 400-meter relay, the Irish sat in second place, just six points behind Florida state. The Irish relay, made up of Giesting, senior Pat Feeney, freshman Harvey smith and senior Jarred buchanon, was in the lead during the second leg of the race, but disaster struck when buchanon dropped the baton. The Irish relay’s failure to fin­ish meant they received zero points, dropping the team to third place. smith said that the event was disappoint­ing considering notre dame’s high expectations but gives them motivation for the ncAA championships, the Acc out­door season and beyond. 
“It stings, I’m not going to lie,” 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Today in History: 
For Rent 
1845 -Florida be-

COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: came the 27th U.S. state. Prime location next to campus. Walk to everything. email nd-house@sb-1885 - The U.S. Post Office began offer­cglobal.net for additional info and ing special delivery for first-class mail. photos. 
smith said. “we knew we prob­ably should have won that race. of course it’s motivation. It will give us something to fuel us. success isn’t a very good teach­er, but we’ll remember the loss.” 
The men’s point total on the weekend was 84, bolstered by Giesting’s victory  in the 400-meter dash (46.43) and a pair of second place finishes by graduate student and middle distance runner J.P. malette in the mile (4:09.58) and 3,000-me­ter run (8:16.33). Florida state and north carolina came in first and second with 96 and 89 points, respectively. 
The Irish women also came in third, with 65 points, thanks in part to a victory in the 60-meter hurdles by junior hur­dler Jade barber (8.19). notre dame’s 400-meter relay also had a strong performance, fin­ishing second with a time of 
3:40.05. smith said the Irish believe they impressed the rest of the Acc in their first confer­ence meet. 
“I think we had higher expec­tations [for ourselves] than… the other teams,” smith said. “we thought we had a shot at winning. something went well, some things did not go well. but we thought we’d be right in the mix, and we were. I think [the other teams] were a little bit surprised because it was our first year in the conference.” 
notre dame’s most impres­sive performer was undoubt­edly Giesting, who took home meet mVP honors after earning 18 points for the Irish. His vic­tory in the 400-meter dash, in which Feeney took second, was followed by a second-place fin­ish in the 200-meter dash with a time of 21.31. smith said the veteran relished the opportu­nity to perform on a big stage. 
“I was very impressed with chris,” smith said. “He com­pletely stepped up, I’m pret­ty sure he Pr’d [in the 200]. running a 400 and a 200, and then coming back the next day and running a 400 again, and another 200, that’s a lot to ask out of a guy. And he completely delivered.” 
The Irish have next week­end off before traveling to the ncAA Indoor championships in Albuquerque, n.m. on march 14-15. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
1906 -A Frenchman tried the first flight in an airplane with tires. 
1908 - The U.S. government declared open war on on U.S. anarchists. 
1923 -The first issue of Time magazine was published. 



MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING | Acc cHAmPIonsHIPs 
Irish finish sixth at Acc 

Observer Staff Report 
Fifteen school records fell Friday and saturday as notre dame closed out its first Acc championship meet with a sixth-place finish at the Greensboro Aquatic center in Greensboro, n.c. 
Friday’s finals saw the Irish take their first two gold medals of the meet. senior Frank dyer, who broke the team record in the 50­yard freestyle Thursday, swam his way to first place and a new program best in the 200-yard freestyle with his time of 1:33.20. dyer also earned an ncAA A-cut to automatically qualify for the national meet at the end of march. 
In the meet’s next event, the 100-yard breaststroke, junior Zach stephens set not only a notre dame record but a meet re­cord as well, hitting the touchpad at 52:59 to finish first. Though stephens missed out on an A-cut by five-hundredths of a second, he still picked up an invitation to the ncAA meet with his time. 

Freshman Tom Anderson and sophomore matthew buerger also set new program marks Friday, with Anderson’s 3:45.82 in the 400-yard individual medley and buerger’s 47.17 in the leadoff, 100-yard backstroke leg of the 400-yard medley relay. 
The Irish continued their torrent of success in the four-day meet’s final two sessions saturday. stephens added anoth­er gold to his weekend haul in the 200-yard breaststroke. His time of 1:53.34 was also good for Acc meet and notre dame records. 
dyer and Anderson each broke 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 
another mark in the 100-yard freestyle and 200-yard back­stroke, respectively. Junior John williamson’s 1:43.09 in the 200­yard butterfly netted him a re­cord in the morning’s prelims, and he locked down fifth place in the event in finals. Kevin Hughes closed out the Irish deluge of re­cords for the weekend with his program-best 15:14.70 in the 1,650-yard freestyle. 
notre dame earned 907.5 points to finish sixth overall in the meet. Virginia Tech was the Acc champion with 1,264.5 points, while north carolina state and north carolina rounded out the top three. 
overall, the Irish established 15 new program marks, earned five A-cuts and 59 b-cuts and ncAA invitations and garnered four all-conference accolades — three for stephens and one for dyer. 
The A-cuts and ncAA invita­tions automatically qualify for ncAA championships, while the swimmers who finished with b-cuts are under consideration and must wait to see if their times are fast enough to make the field for the meet. 
After those times are deter­mined, notre dame next com­petes at the ncAA championship from march 27 to 29 at the lee and Joe Jamail Texas swimming center in Austin, Texas. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

Notre Dame splits Irish Classic 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing editor 
notre dame rebounded af­ter losses to no. 19 uclA and michigan to beat youngstown state and Appalachian state this weekend at the usA baseball-Irish classic in cary, n.c. 
“second weekend in a row where I think we were knocking on the door of being 3-1 or even maybe 4-0,” Irish coach mik Aoki said. 
The Irish (5-6) lost to the defend­ing national champion bruins (7­
4) on Friday night 2-1 despite six innings of two-hit ball from senior right-hander sean Fitzgerald (2­1). notre dame managed just one hit off of uclA sophomore right-hander James Kaprielian in eight innings. 
“That’s uclA’s mo,” Aoki said. “They pitch the heck out of it and they try to make a couple of runs stand up. They were able to do that.” 
Helped by a hit batsman, an er­ror and a passed ball, the bruins jumped out to an early 2-0 lead on notre dame in the first two in­nings. Fitzgerald allowed only two bruins to reach second base in his final four innings. 
“when you give two runs away to a club like uclA who pitches it as well as they do and who’s as comfortable playing with a one or two-run lead like they are, it’s dif­ficult,” Aoki said. “That was their recipe for winning the national championship last year and un­fortunately for us, we’ve seen that recipe be successful against us two years in a row now.” 
The Irish also lost to uclA, 2-1, last year in los Angeles. Fitzgerald also started that game, pitching six innings and giving up one earned run. 
“we just didn’t get that equalizer and that go-ahead the last year or this year,” Aoki said. “It’s somewhat the nature of baseball and when you go against a team with the kind of arms uclA has, you under­stand that runs are going to be at a premium.” 
In the first game of a double­header saturday, michigan (2-8-1) beat notre dame 4-2, in 10 innings. The Irish wasted another solid starting pitching effort, this time from sophomore right-hander nick mccarty. mccarty threw 7 1/3 innings and allowed two runs on five hits. 
The wolverines tied the game in the eighth inning with two runs and took the lead in the 10th inning after junior center fielder Jackson Glines led off with a triple. Two bat­ters later, sophomore right-hander Jacob cronenworth drove him in with a sacrifice fly. 
“It’s tough to get out of a runner on third, nobody out situation,” Aoki said. 
Just a few hours later on saturday, the Irish bounced back to beat youngstown state (1-7) 6-3 behind 7 1/3 relief innings from sopho­more left-hander michael Hearne. 
After freshman right-hander ryan smoyer struggled in his first start of his career (one inning, four hits, two walks and three runs, two earned), Hearne shut down the Penguins. Hearne (1-0) escaped from a bases-loaded, no-out situ­ation in the second inning and al­lowed just one hit. 
“Huge innings,” Aoki said. “bases loaded, no out and he gets out of the inning without giving up a run, it gives our offense to equal­ize and sort of settle in a little bit. He took the game and put it under his control and gave us a chance.” 
Hearne allowed just one Penguin to reach second base and the Irish offense scored three runs in the sixth inning to break a 3-3 tie. 
Junior designated hitter blaise lezynski drove in junior right field­er robert youngdahl with an rbI double and senior catcher Forrest Johnson had a two-run single later in the inning. 
In its finale sunday, notre dame outlasted Appalachian state (1-10) in 11 innings to win 4-3. 
In the 11th inning, Johnson reached on an error, advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt and to third on a wild pitch. sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsulis drove in Johnson with a single through the right side to win the game for the Irish. 
“I was proud of the way our kids competed,” Aoki said. “I didn’t sense a lot of panic on the bench or anything. I thought they just kind of stuck to their approach and were able to string a couple of hits together and tie it up and win it late.” 
notre dame will open Acc play on Friday when it faces no. 6 north carolina state in raleigh, n.c. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | PITTsburGH 85, nd 81 (oT) 
Irish come up short in Senior-Day defeat 
Pittsburgh dominates glass, beats Notre Dame 85-81 in OT 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing editor 
Pittsburgh cleaned the glass before shattering notre dame’s comeback bid with an 85-81 over­time win over the Irish on senior day. 
The Panthers (22-7, 10-6 Acc) grabbed 21 offensive boards on their way to 21 second-chance points as they outrebounded notre dame (15-15, 6-11) 38-22. The Irish shot 23 fewer shots than the Panthers, who put up 65 shots. 
“For a team that puts a lot of shooters out there, you’ve got to hurt them in other ways and that’s what we did,” Pittsburgh coach Jamie dixon said. “you always love seeing good rebounding because it’s such an effort stat, and that’s why we’re so good at it.” 
redshirt senior Talib Zanna led the Panthers with 14 rebounds, in­cluding 10 offensive, and added 14 points. 
“They just do a great job of at­tacking the boards,” Irish senior guard eric Atkins said. “They’re athletic and I think they just beat us up. I’m not exactly sure why it was so tough.” 
The Irish are now 3-10 when they are outrebounded by their opponent and drop to .500 head­ing into their final regular season game at no. 19 north carolina. In wednesday’s win over Georgia Tech, notre dame was plus-three in the rebounding battle. 
“As good as our big guys were wednesday, it was a tough night for them today,” Irish coach mike brey said. 
After trailing by 12 in the first half, Pittsburgh opened up a sev­en-point edge with 6:24 left in the second half. but the Irish stormed back, scoring nine of regulation’s last 11 points to send the game into overtime. 
Freshman forward V.J. beachem hit a game-tying 3-pointer in the corner with 7.7 seconds remaining to knot the game at 65. 
on the ensuing Panthers pos­session, Pittsburgh redshirt senior guard lamar Patterson had the ball on the right wing driving to the basket. but dixon called a timeout with 2.8 seconds remaining. 
“I didn’t like the spacing at the end, and that’s what we did,” dixon said. “I thought it was the right play, and it turned out that it wasn’t. we got a good look right after that. Any time you miss a shot, you can ques­tion that shot.” 
coming out of the timeout, soph­omore guard James robinson set­tled for a fadeaway jumper as time expired that clanked off the rim. 
In overtime, it was all steve Vasturia for the Irish. The fresh­man guard scored notre dame’s first 10 points in the extra period and finished with 15 points, all of which came in the final 11 minutes of the game. 

“I was just trying to make an im­pact, same mentality of the whole game,” Vasturia said. “Got some open shots and just didn’t hesitate and everything went in.” 
Vasturia was grabbed a key offen­sive rebound that set up beachem’s game-tying trey. Vasturia led the Irish with six rebounds and snagged three of notre dame’s five offensive boards. 
Vasturia also made all six of his free throw attempts. 
“He’s good with the ball, made good decisions and he does make clutch shots,” brey said. “He hasn’t shot it well in the first half but in the second half and overtime, he made some big ones. 
“He looks like a junior out there. He looks like a guy that’s played 60 college games.” 
Irish sophomore forward Austin burgett had a chance to tie the game with 12.1 when he was fouled on a corner three-point attempt. burgett made the first two free throws, but missed the third and the Irish trailed 79-78. 
The Irish would cut the lead to one once more but Pittsburgh was 14-for-15 at the charity stripe in overtime to secure the win. 
Junior forward Pat connaughton led the Irish with 19 points despite twisting his ankle in the second half. Atkins added 17 points and nine assists in his final regular-sea­son home game. 
notre dame led by as many as 12 points in the first half but watched as the lead shrunk to two when the Panthers went on a 12-2 run over 
4:45 in the first half. 
The Irish led by just four at the break despite shooting 74 percent from the field and 78 percent from behind the arc. The Panthers, meanwhile, shot 39 percent and 22 percent from the field and on 3-pointers, respectively. 
In the second half, notre dame shot just 37 percent while Pittsburgh shot 47 percent. 
The Panthers stayed hot in the second half, opening the period on a 16-6 run to take a 51-45 lead with 14:36 left. when freshman guard Josh newkirk converted a three-point play with 17:02 to give the Panthers a 43-41 lead, it was Pittsburgh’s first lead since 4-2. 
ContactMatthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Senior Day brings Atkins’s journey to a close 


Andrew Gastelum 
senior sports writer 

I don’t remember a whole lot from first day on the men’s basketball beat, three-and-a-half years ago, but I do remember one thing clearly. After that game, I walked into the locker room for my first interview as a wide-eyed, anxious freshman. 
Turns out, there was another sit­ting right in front of me. 
There waseric Atkins sitting on the couch with a crowd of reporters surroundinghim,doingsomething that was completely out of his ele­ment: talking about himself. He had just played 36 minutes and put up double-digit points against a top-25 team, all while showing poise well beyond his years.but right here, he was the rookie speaking in one-word sentences while looking at the floor as if the answer was waiting there to be picked up. 
He was awkward and obviously uncomfortable, but one just had this feeling he was going to be something great . I still have the notepad where I wrote down two words “eA legacy.” I remember that like it was yesterday,. 
Three-and-a-halfyearslater,we dub him as the go-to guy in the locker room, the father figure, the undeniable leader. It was obvious, he would have to become that guy, al­most as if it were a prophecy of some sort. Along the way, you can tell he was uncomfortable trying to break into his role.but he adapted. 
If there was one thing that was certain since his first day, it was his adaptability.when the Irish needed a man to bring the ball up the court and facilitate, Atkins adapted.when Jerian Grant was dismissed from the team and they needed a scorer, Atkins adapted.when a senior-heavy team departed and the team needed a leader, Atkins adapted. 
but instead of bringing the noise, Atkins brought a rest-assured calm to the court.no one brought more recognition to the phrase “leading by example” than him, and he’s been doing it for quite some time. He’s closing in on 1,400 career points and 600 career assists, and recently joined a notable group ofnotre dame point guards (Tory Jackson, chris Thomas anddavidrivers) as the onlynotredame players to re­cord four straight 100-assist seasons. 
onsaturday, he played his last game at Purcell Pavilion, the very place that will surely miss his pres­ence next year and in years to come. It will miss a guy who played all 60 minutes in an unforgettable five-overtime victory overlouisville in 2012. Gone is the point guard who willed a career-high 30 points in the team’s first game without lead­ing scorer Grant.no more will the captain who hit the game-winning 3-pointer at the buzzer against bostoncollege grace this floor. 
so onsaturday, I returned to the couch where that timid freshman once sat in a newly-pressedno. 0 jersey and another eager freshman once stood in a wrinkled dress shirt andmismatchedsocks. 
no longer was he the same shy kid, while I tried my best to dress up a little nicer. 
I looked at him and asked what I had written down on my first day: “what was your legacy?” 
He smiled and looked me in the eye, confident and proud. I didn’t need to hear what he said. I saw where his journey had taken him, from start to finish, boy to man. He knew the answer all along. 
“I became a man here.” 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 



ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 18, VT 9 
ND bests Virginia Tech for first ACC win 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The no. 12 Irish snapped up their first Acc win with an 18-9 victory over Virginia Tech on sunday. 
Irish coach christine Halfpenny said the first con­ference win is a confidence boost going forward in her team’s first season in the Acc. 
“I think obviously we’re re­ally excited to get that win under our belt,” Halfpenny said, “I’m really proud of the girls with the way they did it. They really played our style of lacrosse and it was a re­ally balanced effort playing at the peak of speed and the style that really exhibits all 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 


our strength. I give a lot of credit for the players to come out and play and get our first victory in the Acc and get us some confidence moving forward.” 
notre dame (3-2, 1-2 Acc) pulled ahead early against the Hokies (3-2, 0-1) with a goal from sophomore attack rachel sexton just 30 sec­onds into the game. The Irish scored four more times in the following six minutes to take a 5-1 lead. A single goal from Virginia Tech lowered the gap to four with 23:21 remaining in the first half. 
The Hokies put four more shots past junior goalkeeper Allie murray in the first half, but the Irish offense proved too much for Virginia Tech. 
sexton scored twice more before the end of the half, freshman attack cortney Fortunato notched three in the first period and junior midfielder caitlin Gargan closed out the half with two goals in the final 2:05. single goals from freshman mid­fielder Alex dalton, fresh­man attack Grace muller and sophomore midfielder Hannah Hartman brought the score to 11-5 at the end of the first half. 
The Virginia Tech defense was able to slow the Irish a bit in the second period but could not prevent seven more goals for notre dame before the end of regulation.  The Hokies started the second pe­riod with three goals in the first eight minutes, two on free-position shots, to bring the score to 11-8 with 22:39 re­maining. The Irish responded with a 7-1 run in the remain­der of the game to bring the final score to 18-9 and give the team its first Acc victory. 
Gargan notched two more tallies in the second period, while sophomore midfielder brie custis, sophomore attack Kiera mcmullan, freshman midfielder casey Pearsall and senior attack lauren sullivan each got their first and only goals of the game. muller rounded out the scoring for the Irish for her second goals of the game. 
murray had six saves in the first half before ceding her position to freshman goal­keeper liz o’sullivan, who recorded three stops in the second half. The Irish outshot the Hokies 35-26. 
notre dame’s next con­test will be against rival northwestern on wednesday. Halfpenny said notre dame’s victory against the Hokies will help carry them into the matchup. 
“seeing we have the abil­ity to use different play­ers to score is huge going to northwestern,” Halfpenny said. “we have a huge battle with them … and having that nice offensive flow is going to help against northwestern.” 
Halfpenny said the early exposure notre dame has had to top teams so early in the season will give the Irish a leg up against the wildcats (3-0). 
“we were exposed to hard teams early and we learn to make adjustments,” Halpenny said. “we’re going to use that going forward to northwestern.” 
The Irish are back in action wednesday when they face northwestern in evanston, Ill. at 9:30 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 




M Lacrosse 
conTInued From PAGe 20 
heck of a conference. It’s going to be a dog fight every game, but it’s awfully fun to play in.” 
notre dame outshot north carolina 39-29 and went 4-for-7 on its man-up opportunities. As the Irish move on to play denver next weekend, corrigan said he looks for the team to continue this trend in its performance. 
“I hope we can do what we did after last week’s game [against Penn state] and learn from our mistakes,” corrigan said. “we are getting much bet­ter on 6-on-6 plays, and I love how we are generating offense from different scenarios, so I want us to keep doing that.” 
The Irish prepare to face non-conference opponent denver in the Pacific coast shootout on saturday at 1 p.m. at orange coast college’s lebard stadium in costa mesa, calif. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTInued From PAGe 20 
accelerated in the second half, during which time the Irish out­scored the wolfpack 48-32. 
“we were able to stay in the game, and then at the end of the half we got free for a couple of good looks and made a couple of free throws,” mcGraw said. “And I thought that gave us mo­mentum, and then we started the second half well.” 
senior forward natalie Achonwa led the way for the Irish with 19 points, and four Irish players scored in double digits. sophomore guard Jewell loyd supplied 18 points, and senior guard Kayla mcbride and senior forward Ariel braker add­ed 12 points apiece. 
braker’s all-around perfor­mance, which included eight re­bounds, particularly stood out, mcGraw said. 
“Incredible — she was phe­nomenal,” mcGraw said. “I thought she was player of the game. she rebounded, she scored, she did a nice job defen­sively. she really played well.” 

wolfpack freshman guard miah spencer sparked produc­tion for nc state on offense with 18 points. senior forward Kody burke and senior center markeisha Gatling provided support with 15 and 12 points, respectively. 
As a whole, however, the wolfpack could not find a con­sistent rhythm on offense, as the Irish held the home team to 38.1 percent shooting. notre dame shot 56.1 percent from the field and also bested nc state in the free throw category, with 18-of-19 shooting compared to nc state’s 6-of-11 performance from the line. 
The Irish also outrebounded nc state, 41-27, with braker’s eight boards leading the way. mcbride and Irish freshman for­ward Taya reimer posted seven rebounds each. 
notre dame prevented the wolfpack from making second-chance shot attempts by snag­ging 31 defensive rebounds and holding nc state to just 11 offen­sive rebounds. The Irish record­ed 10 offensive rebounds. 

next up for notre dame is the Acc tournament, which will take place from march 7-9 in Greensboro, n.c. The ncAA championship follows, with the first round beginning march 22. 
“It’s a good way to go into the tournament,” mcGraw said. “I think we feel good. we really need a couple of days’ rest to pre­pare for it because it’s going to be brutal. … no matter who you’re playing, you’re probably playing a team that’s going to the ncAA tournament, so it’s going to be a battle.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTInued From PAGe 20 
the zone, and his linemates both plunged low towards the crease. lind stepped into vacated space in the slot, received a pass from costello with room to shoot and beat demko with a wrister to the top corner. lind leads the Irish in both blocked shots and plus-mi­nus, but he had just one goal on the season prior to the tally that gave the Irish an early lead. 
“The funny thing is, Kevin lind is a guy who does that all the time, he just doesn’t get rewarded for it,” Jackson said. “That’s not his forte. but it was a nice job on the rush, and getting guys to the net al­lowed that pass to be available.” 
boston college (25-5-4, 16-2­
2) answered back in the third period, with a power play goal from Hobey baker hopeful junior Johnny Gaudreau. The junior forward walked past the Irish de­fense and shot past Irish senior goaltender steven summerhays to register his 30th goal of the season and tie the game, but that was as far as the eagles would get. The goal was the first allowed by summerhays in 230 minutes of game action, dating back to a Feb. 14 game against Providence. summerhays turned in three full shutouts since then and helped lead the Irish on their late-season surge. 
Jackson said that summerhays’ sensational play has helped pow­er the team down the stretch and will be crucial in having notre dame’s momentum continue into the playoffs. 
“over the last month, we’ve started to play more consistently, and that’s important as we’re go­ing into the playoffs,” Jackson said. “And that all started with the play of steven summerhays, who’s been great every night for us.” 

with the regular season over, the Irish will begin postseason play by hosting a one-game play­off against boston university on saturday, with the winner set to face boston college in the next round. Jackson said his team is playing some of its best hockey, but still needs to work on the power play, among other things. And regardless of the team’s recent play, all that matters now is the sixty minutes against the Terriers. 
“There’s only five points be­tween us and second place. Just because of where we are in the standings, it makes it that much more challenging. It might be a tough go for us in the playoffs, but right now all that matters is win­ning on saturday night. There’s nothing more dangerous than a single-elimination game. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 



THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

Bouts 
conTInued From PAGe 20 
to compensate for lack of height and size.” 
140-pounds: Niels Seim def. Alex Bogucki-Baran 
The bout started slow but heated up quickly, as the senior captain seim came away with his first championship after a referee-stopped contest. In the first round, both fighters started slow and sized each other up in the opening sec­onds. seim initiated the first con­tact, staying low to the ground while landing hooks to bogucki-baran’s body. The junior bogucki-baran retaliated with occasional hooks and right jabs, but he seemed to focus his energy on defense. seim picked up the intensity in the sec­ond round, throwing a barrage of hooks and jabs at bogucki-baran’s body, forcing him towards the cor­ners. The bout was paused after one of the graduate student’s powerful right jabs bloodied bogucki-baran’s nose. when the fight resumed, bogucki-baran rallied to finish the second round with a strong left hook to seim’s head. In the third round, bogucki-baran went on the offensive and tried to knock seim off balance, but seim did not let up as his strong combinations of up­percuts and jabs forced the referee to stop the bout. 
despite the outcome, seim rec­ognized bogucki-baran’s prepera­tion and hard work. 
“He did a great job preparing for the fight,” seim said. “He knew my strongest punch was my right hook, or at least my favorite punch.” 
For seim, the win meant a lot since the last two times he appeared in the finals, he walked away with­out a championship. 
“Two years ago I lost [in the fi­nals],” seim said. “[This is] some­thing I’ve worked for a long time. Part of me when I was looking to come to notre dame, I was looking at the bengal bouts program and I wanted to be a champ for that. I came so close twice, now finally to get it my last year, it’s incredible. being a senior captain, it all came together, and it’s pretty incredible.” 
146-pounds: Chris Tricarico def. Garrett “Fedex” Schmelling 
In one of the most evenly matched bouts of the afternoon, the 146-pound weight division fi­nal came down to a split decision, with the junior Tricarico taking the win over the freshman schmelling. From the bell, Tricarico unleashed an onslaught of jabs and hooks that connected with schmelling’s head. The freshman from Fisher tried to put a stop to the onslaught with his own combinations of uppercuts and jabs, but Tricarico continued to hammer away and powered through the first round. 
In the second round, schmelling found his rhythm, landing hooks to Tricarico’s body through holes in his defense. Tricarico tried to respond to schmelling’s offense with combinations of his own, but the freshman evaded nearly all of the punches and continued to ef­ficiently land blows to Tricarico’s body and head. In the final round, schmelling’s comeback stalled, and Tricarico put schmelling away with several powerful combinations and won the championship. 
Although Tricarico won the bout, he was very impressed with how well schmelling, a novice, fought. 
“I was incredibly impressed with him,” Tricarico said. “I’ve been do­ing this a whole year longer than him. He’s a novice [and] he had no training before. I think it was my experience kicking in [at the end of the fight].” 
151-pounds: Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler def. “Sloppy” Joe Guilfoile 
This thrilling bout featured a se­nior captain and defending cham­pion in eichler going up against a freshman in Guilfoile. The two were even throughout the first round trading jabs and hooks. both fighters spent the first round fight­ing well defensively. In the second round, eichler was able to separate himself from the freshman by land­ing a seismic right jab to Guilfoile’s head, which led to a barrage of com­binations that bloodied Guilfoile’s nose. Guilfoile ended the round on a strong note, however, landing strong hooks to eichler’s head. In the final round, Guilfoile did every­thing he could to make up ground, pushing eichler into the ropes and corners with a multitude of combi­nations and  lunging into eichler’s body, breaking through his oppo­nent’s parries. The comeback fell short though, as eichler came away with the split-decision win. The se­nior credited his experience for the victory but was quick to compli­ment his opponent. 
“Tremendous amount of re­spect for Joe,” eichler said. “He’s just a freshman, and he fought for 3 rounds against a senior captain.” 
162-pounds: Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker def. Joel “The Supple Leopard” Hlavaty 
The championship bout kicked off with mcosker landing an im­mediate strong left hook to Hlavaty as soon as the first bell rang. The senior continued to show off his power by pushing his offensive at­tack throughout the first round. Hlavaty was forced to fight defen­sively, doing everything he could to slow down mcosker. In the second round, mcosker picked up where he left off by launching a series of combinations towards Hlavaty’s body and head while forcing him to defend from the ropes and corners. near the end of the second round, Hlavaty came to life, connecting with a strong right hook to the side mcosker’s head. In the final round, mcosker struck again with multiple combinations of hooks and jabs and forced Hlavaty to fight defensively. Hlavaty made a late push at the end of the round, but it proved to be too late as mcosker walked away with the title, his second after winning the 155-pound division last year. 
mcosker attributed his cham­pionship victory to the way he was able to establish himself from the start. 
“my plan was to come out, estab­lish my jab,” mcosker said. “I know he’s a good strong fighter and I just didn’t want to get hit. so first round I wanted to establish a good hard jab, keep myself from getting hit, and later on in the fight it got a lot more exchanges thrown by both sides. what helped me out was getting that done at the start of the fight.” 
166-pounds: Jason “Downtown” Ellinwood def. Michael “Greasy” Grasso 
The 166-pound bout featured two sophomores who fought blow-for­blow throughout the entire fight. In the first round, ellinwood overpow­ered Grasso with straight right jabs to push him off balance, but Grasso retaliated with combinations of his own to end the first round, over­coming ellinwood’s distinct height advantage. In the second round, ellinwood took control of the fight again with strong right jabs to the side of Grasso’s head. when Grasso went on the offensive, ellinwood’s defense withstood the assault, and he delivered occasional counter jabs and hooks. The match once again turned towards Grasso’s favor as he finished the second round with powerful hooks and jabs towards ellinwood’s exposed body. In the third and final round, Grasso made a valiant effort to push ellinwood to his limits, connecting on power­ful right jabs and hooks. ellinwood countered with strong jabs of his own to end Grasso’s series of upper­cuts and hooks. when the final bell rang, ellinwood was announced victorious in a split decision. 
“I was able to show up [today],” ellinwood said. “[I] never really showed up before to take hits. And you know I had to do that towards the ends of the last two rounds, but I had to just show up and let him hit me. I thought that was the decisive factor, instead of trying to body him up and fight him close in.” 
173-pounds: Zack “Bedrock” Flint def. Patrick “Patty Cakes” Shea 
In a battle between veteran soph­omores, Flint emerged victorious in a narrow split-decision over shea. both boxers were tentative early, as Flint bobbed and weaved along the outside while shea stayed in the center of the ring, landing the oc­casional jab. neither fighter gained a clear edge in the first round, but Flint came out much more aggres­sively in the second, swinging freely as he continued to dance around the outside of the ring. shea stayed centered and mostly on the defen­sive as the round continued but managed to land several blows to Flint’s body. Flint said he tried to wear shea down by forcing him to control the fight while he waited for his chance. 
“Pat’s a fantastic striker and he’s precise, so I knew dominating the ring was going to be a priority for him,” Flint said. “I let him dictate the fight a little bit. I let him throw some shots from the center and I kind of came at him with heavier blows and it wore him down.” 
In the final period, Flint landed multiple hooks to shea’s face early but opened himself on defense to counterattacks from shea, who found holes and tried to exploit them with quick jabs to the body. In the end, Flint’s bigger hits gave him the advantage as he walked away with the close victory over his oppo­nent, teammate and friend. 

“we’re really good friends so the victory was a little hollow,” Flint said. “but at the same time, com­ing out and fighting one of my boys, [you] can’t ask for anything better than that.” 
180-pounds: Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti def. James “Iceman” Hodgens 
The senior captain sassetti faced a stiff challenge from the se­nior Hodgens but overwhelmed his fellow veteran with hard jabs and combinations to take the vic­tory by unanimous decision. last year’s champion in the 176-pound division stayed low early in the first round, while Hodgens attacked mostly with hooks as the two fighters danced around the ring. sassetti became more aggressive as Hodgens’s punches began to find their mark and the two boxers be­gan to trade punch for punch. 
“[my strategy] kind of went out the window,” sassetti said. “I was going to stick and move, but we started trading more once it started going.” 
sassetti ended the round by land­ing a vicious 1-2 combination and carried that momentum into the second, as both fighters continued to flail away. midway through the round, sassetti used a jab and hook combination to the face to knock Hodgens to the canvas. 
“my coach told me to go the right [because] it was open, so I did, and it kind of stunned him,” sassetti said. “I kept going with the [1-2 combina­tions] and he fell over.” 
After the timeout, sassetti did not relent in his attack, pounding Hodgens with jabs to the face for the rest of the round. Hodgens tried to rally in the third and was able to land several quick jabs to sassetti’s face, but sassetti managed to stay low even as he tired, and he con­nected on a sharp jab that bloodied Hodgens’ nose. Hodgens was un­able to rally and sassetti took the bout by unanimous decision. 
190-pounds: Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo def. Ricky “Scooter” Neville 
In an all-Fisher Hall final that came down to the wire, the junior escobedo edged out the senior neville by split decision. escobedo came out in the first round target­ing neville’s head with straight rights, but was thwarted by neville’s strong defense. For the most part, neville spent the round on defense, out of escobedo’s reach, occasion­ally counterattacking with strong combinations when escobedo opened up on the inside. In the second, neville was more aggres­sive, blocking esocbedo’s jabs and countering with his own to bloody escobedo’s nose. escobedo re­sponded by pushing neville against the ropes and landing several big hooks to neville’s body and head. escobedo gave neville credit for his turnaround. 
“ricky’s a great fighter,” escobedo said. “He’s taught me a lot of what I’ve known. It’s been great working with him … I just tried to react as best as I could.” 
The third round started with a quick exchange of straights to the head, as both boxers connected again and again. escobedo landed a big hook to neville’s head midway through the round and continued to attack, as both fighters began showing signs of exhaustion and clenched several times. 
“my strategy was just to keep the pressure on, 100 miles per hour the whole time,” escobedo said. “This is my last fight until next February, so I gave it all I had.” 
escobedo’s rally proved to be enough, as he took the victory by split decision. 
202-pounds: Brian “Long Arms of the Law” Ellixson def. Tyler “One Shot” Sonsalla 
The bout between ellixson, a law student, and the senior sonsallas started fast and didn’t slow down, as ellixson chased sonsalla around the ring and pushed him against the ropes and into the corner. He con­nected on several hard hook combi­nations to the body as he controlled the pace of the fight. sonsalla tried to slow the fight by clenching mid­way through the round but was un­able to rally or connect on most of his own punches. ellixson came out more patient in the second, as he continued to control the fight and exploit sonsalla’s weaknesses. Four times he cornered sonsalla and unleashed brutal hooks to the body as sonsalla’s defenses weakened. early in the third, ellixson landed a hard straight to the head that sent sonsalla stumbling into the ropes. From there, sonsalla’s defense col­lapsed and ellixson pushed him against the ropes at will. The law student took the victory by unani­mous decision. 
Heavyweight: Daniel Yi def. Erich “Liar” Jegier 
In a much-anticipated fight of the finals, three-time champion yi made it four with another domi­nating victory over the freshman Jegier. yi, captain and president of the men’s boxing club, stayed back on defense early, but came on strong later in the round, exploding with hard combinations of hooks and jabs that excited the mostly quiet, waiting crowd. Just before the bell, yi put an emphatic end to the round by landing a hard jab to the face that bloodied Jegier’s nose. In the second round, Jegier tried to go on the offensive, but yi stayed sharp defensively and countered with a brutal combination that ended with a hook to the side of the head that sent Jegier to the canvas and caused the referee to stop the contest. both fighters reside in sorin Hall, and yi said he had mixed feelings about fighting one of his fellow otters. 
“That was a very interesting expe­rience,” yi said. “I’m a resident assis­tant in sorin and at the beginning of the year, I took a bunch of kids to the rock one morning to show them the basics of boxing. Jeiger was actually one of the kids, and so I was a little conflicted. don’t get me wrong, it was great to face him in the ring, but there was obviously a little conflict.” 
yi is just the 12th boxer in club history to win four championships and was honored at the end of the night as boxer of the year. 
Contact the writers at observersports@gmail.com 


CROSSWORD | wIll sHorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | cHrIsToPHer brucKer 
SUDOKU | THe mePHAm GrouP 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | HIllAry mAnGIAForTe 

HOROSCOPE | euGenIA lAsT 
Happy Birthday: don’t deviate from your original plans. sticking to and presenting what you know has worked in the past will send a strong message that you can be counted on for consistency and dependability. The sure way to reach success is to not lose sight of your goal. your power will come from your reluctance to give in and desire to win. your numbers are 6, 17, 21, 28, 32, 46, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): use discretion when dealing with secret matters. look over your personal papers and sum up what needs to be adjusted to ensure that you will not have a problem with legal, governmental or institutional implications. Proceed with moderation. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): only offer what is feasible. letting anyone take you for granted will end in resentment. Time spent with someone you enjoy being with will calm your nerves and help you determine what you should do and where you should head. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): sharing your ideas will help you avoid a temptation that can turn out to be costly. listen to the advice offered and the possibilities that can result if you don’t take precautionary measures when dealing with risky situations. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take up a creative hobby or anything that will keep you occupied. not everyone will have your best interests at heart. Avoid situations that can lead to a run-in that will result in the loss of your reputation, cash or something you cherish. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do something different. A change will do you good and give you some ideas that can lead to a brighter home, life and future. don’t feel you have to do everything at once. Take your time and arrive at your destination safely. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your spending under control. you may want to impress someone, but let your personality do that for you. offering something that creates the wrong impression will lead to disappointment. don’t overspend on products that promise the impossible. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Participation will make the difference. you can sit back and wait, or you can be forward and go after what you want. don’t let a lazy attitude or demanding people be the reason you remain stationary. The pressure is on to get cracking. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): let your actions lead the way. you are likely to be misinterpreted by someone if you try to explain what it is you want to do. double-check any transaction you want to make. Impulsive moves are likely to be costly. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An emotional situation will lead you down the wrong path. Trying to do something that is impossible or misleading someone to get what you want will not end well. make personal alterations to improve your life, but be careful not to disrupt someone else’s. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Avoid any altercation that can result in an unexpected and unwanted change. you don’t want to upset someone you count on or feel responsible for. let past experiences help you choose the right words and actions to avoid discord. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep an eye on what everyone around you is doing. base your moves and contributions on what you see and hear. change will be required, but it must be well-thought-out and not cost you more than you can afford. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): spring into action when dealing with love, romance and personal relationships. be mindful of others. The respect and integrity you offer will make you that much more likable. Treat others as you wish to be treated. 


Birthday Baby: you make a statement. you are resourceful, astute and observant. 
JUMBLE | dAVId HoyT And JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
P.o. box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

THe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
BENGAL BOUTS 

84th bengal bouts crowns champs 
By MANNY DE JESUS, BRIAN PLAMONDON, CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI and GREG HADLEY 
sports writers 
134-pounds: Andy “Fisticuffs” Fausone def. Daniel “Jet” Lee 
The 84th edition of the bengal bouts Finals started off with a fight defined by speed from both boxers, with the junior Fausone coming out on top by unanimous decision over the sophomore lee. Fausone started the bout with quick blows to lee’s head and body, but lee re­gained momentum with several jabs of his own. Fausone was able to put a halt to the offensive attack with a strong right hook to lee’s head and continued his strong start into the second round, forcing lee to fight defensively. lee attempted to turn the fight around with quick jabs, but Fausone’s speed overcame lee’s rally as he countered with a flurry of combinations to lee’s body and head. Fausone forced lee into the ropes and finished the second round with a left jab to lee’s temple. 
In the third round, Fausone, a resident of Keenan Hall, was able to slow the pace and was more patient with his offense. lee tried to take advantage with a series of combina­tions, but Fausone countered with several combinations of hooks and jabs to end the bout. 
“I think I tried to play it a little more defensive at the beginning of the third,” Fausone said. “He knew he needed the points, so he was try­ing to push it, and I think I fight best when I’m the one being the aggres­sor, so I just brought it right back.” 
Fausone was able to use his speed to get him to the finals, and he used that speed to come away with the title. 
“most of the guys I fight have been taller than me, bigger than me 
— at least in practice” Fausone said. “I find that speed is the easiest way 
see bouTs PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 84, norTH cArolInA sTATe 60 
Perfect ending 
ND concludes undefeated regular season 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 

The no. 2 Irish capped their undefeated regular season sunday with an 84-60 win over no. 13 nc state at reynolds coliseum in raleigh, n.c. 
notre dame (29-0, 16-0 Acc) wrapped up the Acc regular-season championship on Feb. 23 with an 81-70 win over duke and followed that accomplish­ment up one week later by de­feating nc state (24-6, 11-5) and winning its 52nd consecutive regular-season game, a school record. 
“we’re thrilled that we are where we are right now,” Irish coach muffet mcGraw said. “It’s very rewarding to go undefeated in the regular season. I think it shows what this team is made of in terms of their work ethic, their mental toughness to go 

JODI LO | The Observer 

Junior guard Whitney Holloway attempts to gain control of the ball during Notre Dame’s 100-75 home win over UNC on Thursday. 
through the grind of the season close through most of the first and be ready game after game half, but the Irish still took a 36­after game. … I think it’s a phe-28 lead into the locker room at nomenal accomplishment, but halftime. notre dame’s offense you know, we’re not done yet.” 
The wolfpack kept the game see w bbAll PAGE 17 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 11, norTH cArolInA 10 
Irish rally in upset win 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The Irish did not fail to make their first Acc game unforgettable. 
no. 11 notre dame (2-1, 1-0) beat no. 2 north carolina (3-1, 0-1) with an 11-10 comeback-victory saturday afternoon in chapel Hill, n.c. The Irish trailed 8-3 early in the third quarter, but they managed five unanswered goals to tie the game by the first minute of the final period. 
Heading into the second half, the Irish were able to maintain their composure, Irish coach Kevin corrigan said. 
“The biggest thing we talked about [at halftime] was not to panic,” he said. “we wanted to stay the course, because I thought we played well in first half. we were doing a lot of great things but weren’t hav­ing much luck. our quality of play was good, so our focus was to stay the course.” 

Irish sophomore attackman matt Kavanaugh initiated the comeback in the third quar­ter with his second goal of the game. Four minutes later, Irish senior midfielder Tyler brenneman scored his first goal of the season to bring the score to 8-5. 
Following three penalties against north carolina late in the third quarter, notre dame scored a pair of goals within a minute playing two-men up. Irish freshman midfielder sergio Perkovic and senior midfielder Jim martlatt deliv­ered the goals, and Kavanaugh completed his hat trick in the early seconds of the final quar­ter to tie the game 8-8. 
“we were able to get matt the ball in space, and he’s very hard to guard in those situa­tions,” corrigan said. “our de­fense was creating transition opportunities for him, and they did a good job of push­ing the ball down and creating some support and space for the attack.” 
north carolina junior at­tackman Jimmy bitter re­sponded for the Tar Heels, but Irish junior attackman conor doyle responded with a low-angle shot to make it 9-9 with 
11:04 remaining. Irish junior midfielder Jack near brought the Irish their first lead of the day with his goal with a little over six minutes left on the clock. Two minutes later, Perkovic carried the Irish to 11 goals with a man-up score. The Tar Heels responded with a goal 23 seconds later, but the Irish hung on to claim the 11­10 victory. 
with a thrilling victory to open up their conference play, the Irish are excited to move forward with their Acc games, corrigan said. 
“It’s nice to have our first win [in the Acc],” corrigan said. “This game shows we are in a 
see m lAcrosse PAGE 17 

HOCKEY | nd 2, bosTon colleGe 1 (oT) 
nd knocks off top-ranked bc 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
on paper, the game didn’t mean much. The eventual results of the weekend’s games in Hockey east ensured that, whether they had won or lost against no. 1 boston college on saturday, no. 14 notre dame would still end up as the eighth-seed in the conference tournament. 
but hockey isn’t played on pa­per, and a fortuitous bounce in overtime allowed the Irish to upset the eagles 2-1, finish their season on a six-game unbeaten streak and ride into the playoffs with plenty of momentum. 
Just over one minute into over­time, Irish freshman center Vince Hinostroza corralled the puck in the corner, then held onto it, rag­ging the puck back and forth along the boards for a full 11 seconds. He eventually found space near the point and flung a shot towards the crowd in front of the net. The puck hit the stick of a boston college defenseman then arced through the air and over eagles freshman goaltender Thatcher demko. 
Hinostroza’s seventh goal of the season silenced the sellout crowd of 7,884 at conte Forum that had supported an eagles team that hadn’t lost in 19 games. 
“we did a good job of creating traffic, and it just deflected off one of their defensemen into the air and just got over the shoul­der of the goalie,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “In overtime, every shot is an important shot.” 
notre dame (20-12-2, 9-9-2 Hockey east) opened the scoring in the second period off the un­likely stick of senior defenseman Kevin lind. senior captain Jeff costello carried the puck into 
see HocKey PAGE 17 


Hockey vs. Boston College  W 2-1  Softball vs. Fordham  L 7-3  Track ACC Indoor Championships  Men: 3rd, Women: 3rd  
ND W Basketball vs. NC State  W 84-60  Softball vs. Illinois State  W 4-2  Men’s Swimming ACC Championships  6th  
Men’s Basketball vs. Pittsburgh  L 85-81 (OT)  Baseball vs. UCLA  L 2-1  Men’s Tennis vs. Virginia  L 6-1  
Men’s Lacrosse vs. UNC  W 11-10  Baseball vs. Michigan  L 4-2  
ND W Lacrosse vs. Virginia Tech  W 18-9  Baseball vs. Youngstown State  W 6-3  Men’s Basketball vs. North Carolina  7 p.m.  






