The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 34 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame passes reaccreditation review 
HLC report praises the University’s commitment to undergraduates, high quality education 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
The higher learning commission (hlc) gave notre dame the highest marks in all criteria in its decennial reac­creditation review, according to Fr. John Jenkins, president of the university. 
“The report praised the aca­demic distinction of many de­partments and observed that faculty showed an ‘unusual’ commitment to their under­graduates," Jenkins said in a faculty address. "‘in short,’ they wrote, ‘notre dame [provides a high-quality education across the broad] in a way that is truly exemplary.’ … i thank every faculty member for making the university a place that merits such high praise.” 
dan hubert, accreditation program director, said the university must complete this process every 10 years in order to remain accredited. 
“without being an accredited institution, [notre dame] does not qualify for federal financial aid, we don’t qualify for federal research dollars," hubert said. "your credits, if you transfer somewhere else, may not trans­fer and as well as accepting credits from another institution coming in, they have to be ac­credited. There’s a lot that 
see hlc PAGE 4 




‘Take it one step at a time’ 
smart and has incredible in-
By JACK ROONEY and 
ternships and jobs.’ i can’t risk 


HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate news editor and saying i need help with this associate saint mary’s editor because then i’ll risk falling be­
hind. i can’t risk not keeping up
     Editor’s note: This is the fourth with the rest of my peers,” saint installment in a five-day series mary’s senior emily haskins discussing mental health at said. Notre Dame and Saint Mary’sin “people [need to] realize that recognition of Mental Health asking for help is the best thing Awareness Week. you can do.” 
as notre dame and saint 
“it’s so easy to look around a mary’s celebrate national high-pressure environment at mental health awareness week notre dame and saint mary’s with panel discussions, prayer and think, ‘everyone here is services and Touchdown Jesus of mental health awareness — the week also offers students with mental illnesses a chance to reflect on their experiences. 

'You don't know where to draw the line' 
haskins was diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder (gad) last year after struggling with it throughout high school and college, but had refused to see a doctor. she said it can be difficult to distinguish the stress that naturally goes along with 

a rock star and everyone is so bathed in green light — the color see sTory PAGE 5 



Dance Marathon throws 5k event ‘for the kids’ 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
news writer 
saint mary’s dance marathon hosted the organization's an­nual "For the kids" 5k (FT5k), wednesday evening in order to raise money for riley hospital for children in indianapolis. The neon-themed run/walk FT5k began at the college's welcome center parking lot and ended with a party on the island in front of haggar parlor. 
see FT5k PAGE 4 



Prism ND hosts ‘Coming out Closets’ 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
prism nd held its annual "coming out closets" event on wednesday, oct. 8, in support of the lgbTQ community. The event, which took place both in front of debartolo hall and on the Fieldhouse mall, gave stu­dents the chance to walk through a doorframe lined with rainbow streamers and "come out of the closet" as whatever they wished, in an attempt to spread a spirit of acceptance of personal identities across campus. 
"people will go through the door frames as a metaphor for coming out of the closet, but they're going to come out as any part of their identity," vice presi­dent of prism lily crawford said. "They can come out as a business major or an engineer or a band geek or an artist, or whatever they want to come out as. we want to show everybody that the entirety of their identity is valued and they don't have to keep a part of it hid­den if they don't want to." 
president of prism bryan ricketts agreed, saying the meta­phoric "coming out" is a visible way to show support for people. 
"if they want to come out but are unsure that notre dame is a safe place, we want to show them that it is a safe place to come out," ricketts said. 
lgbTQ identity and its place on notre dame's campus has always been something of a shaky sub­ject, according to both crawford and ricketts. 
up until "a culture shift with­in the last five years" the lack of an lgbTQ presence at notre dame was "a much bigger issue," ricketts said. 
"There was a silence on cam­pus. Then people started talking about it, and it turned out that most people on campus are very accepting and loving and it just needed a push to get that out in the open," ricketts said. 
"There are students who e-mail us before they make a school deci­sion," crawford said, referring to lgbTQ-identifying high school students who fear that because notre dame is notorious for its staunch catholic values, it will not be an accepting campus. "we tell them that yes, for a few people 
see closeT PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are your plans for fall break? 

Emily Park 
freshman welsh Family hall 

“visiting chicago with my sister.” 
Jake Maginn 
freshman morrisey manor 
“going to Florida.” 
Kelly Laco 
junio lyons hall 
“going to the beach.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Lisa Wuertz 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“north carolina.” 
Sam Arroyo 
freshman 
sigfried hall 
“going home to spend time with family.” 
Shannon Kelly 
freshman 
badin hall 
“going to boston.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya kit laughlin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen alex carson emilie kefalas ben pandanill 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
sam coughlin erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

14th Annual Blue Pep Rally Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica “Translation, 
wei lin rex shannon 

Mass Location TBA Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Criticism and Basilica of the Sacred 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Interpretation” Heart Pep rally for UNC Undefeated Irish take 11:45 p.m. - 12:45 p.m. DeBartolo Hall 
Corrections 

5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. football game. on the North Carolina Music by the Notre 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Mass for those who Tar Heels. Dame Folk Choir. Hosted by Religion and a professional publication and 
work in public safety. Literature at Notre 
strives for the highest standards 
Dame. 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
“A Streetcar Named MSA Eid Festival Saturday Vigil Mass ND Women’s Soccer Founder’s Day Mass 
however, recognize that we will make 
Desire” Dinner Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Heart 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Heart 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Arts Center Student Lounge 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Cheer on the Notre 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Music by the Women’s Dame women’s soccer Mass for those  Classic film. Featuring Dean Hugh Liturgical Choir. team as they play who first formed a Page. Miami. community of faith. 


Saint Mary’s launches partnership with Zip car 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
on Tuesday, saint mary’s college launched a part­nership with Zipcar to of­fer a car-sharing network on campus. 
The convenient transpor­tation option is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week for students, faculty and staff ages 18 and older. students are expected to be the most frequent users, ac­cording to a press release sent to saint mary's. 
“once enrolled as Zipcar members, the saint mary’s community may also reserve Zipcars at the university of notre dame and, in turn, their community can use saint mary’s Zipcars," direc­tor of media relations gwen o'brien said. 
saint mary’s will initially offer two Ford Focus mod­els for communal use. The Zipcars have designated parking spots located in the regina hall parking lot for convenient pick-up and re­turn. The cars are available on-demand and can be eas­ily reserved by the hour or by the day, o’brien said. 
Faculty and students can join Zipcar for $25, with rates for Zipcar vehicles on cam­pus starting as low as $7.50 per hour and $69 per day, she said. after the first year, members will pay an annual membership fee of $35. gas, insurance, and up to 180 miles of driving per day are included in Zipcar rates, and cars can be reserved for as little as an hour or for mul­tiple days, o'brien said. 
one of the unique fea­tures of this new accommo­dation is its members can download the Zipcar mobile application on their smart­phone to make reservations, lock and unlock the vehicles and honk the horn to help locate the vehicle, she said. reservations can also be made over the phone or on Zipcar’s website. 
o'brien said Zipcars will benefit a variety of people in the community, especially students by offering the free­dom of having a car without the commitment and cost of bringing one to campus. 
“This could open up the possibility for some students to apply for off-campus in­ternships or jobs that they might not have considered because they didn’t have a way to get there,” she said. 
“we have a lot of students in majors like nursing, edu­cation and social work who serve in the community as part of their coursework. many students also volun­teer at schools and non­profits around town. Zipcars offer a possible way to get to those locations,” o’brien said. 
she said another great ben­efit of bringing Zipcars to saint mary's is that they are environmentally friendly. 
“reducing the college’s carbon footprint is some­thing the administration is very cognizant of and they’re excited to bring Zipcars to saint mary’s [for that rea­son]," she said "offering Zipcars potentially reduces the number of student cars on campus while offering students the convenience and freedom of a car when they need it." 
according to Zipcar's web­site, “Zipcar reduces conges­tion and parking demand. studies have shown each Zipcar takes approximately 15 personally owned cars off the road. Zipcar reduc­es emissions. studies have shown Zipcar members re­duce their overall mileage by about 40 percent after join­ing, helping to reduce co2 emissions.” 
vice president of student affairs karen Johnson said these statistics play into saint mary's strategic plan, titled boldly Forward, which aims to reduce the college's carbon footprint and raise awareness of the importance of sustainability on campus. 
“offering Zipcars here is an example of an effort to reduce the number of stu­dent cars on campus while offering students the conve­nience and freedom of a car when they need it," Johnson said. 
nursing major and sopho­more kathryn gessert said she is excited about Zipcar coming to saint mary’s. 
“i don’t go off-campus nearly enough to invest in my own car, and while rid­ing the buses and my bike around the area are ex­tremely low-cost, they re­quire massive amounts of travel time," gessert said. “as a nursing student, i an­ticipate commuting to off-campus healthcare locations on a regular basis. 
"Zipcar is the perfect solu­tion,” she said. 
For more information about Zipcars and to become a Zipcar member visit, www. zipcar.com/saintmarys. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli01@saintmarys.edu 

Panel highlights sexual violence resources 
they have multiple choices members of the grc, the although students some-say that they don’t want to 
By ALEXA DESANTIS 

news writer and avenues to pursue sup-university health center, times feel the process of re-move on, and we do try to re­port, whether that be physi-st. Joseph regional medical porting instances of sexual spect their wishes. The only 
in honor of the gender cal medical care, emotional center, the office of violence is daunting, lindley time when we would have to relations center’s (grc) care, counseling, or spiritual community standards and said, notre dame works very maybe go against their wish-sexual violence awareness support in terms of talk-ndsp. hard to make the process a es would be if there is a major month, a discussion pan-ing to someone from cam-melissa lindley, deputy streamlined one so that the threat to campus safety.” el titled “know your iX: pus ministry,” said regina Title iX coordinator, said complainant does not have to dave chapman, the as-resources for care and gesicki, assistant director she wants to ensure notre repeat the story many times. sociate director and deputy support,” presented infor-of grc. “They can do those dame is foremost a safe “[The complainants] have a chief of ndsp, addressed mation about the options things simultaneously or community. lot of control in the process," the e-mails that are sent out available for those who are separate[ly], and there’s a "my number one priority lindley said. "i think that at times of reports of sexual victims of sexual violence lot of resources on campus is to make sure that were in is one common mispercep-misconduct. on wednesday in the notre and in the community that compliance with the office tion. students often feel like “we try to make it as vague dame room of laFortune are ready and waiting and of civil rights and really, just the situation is out of their as possible because we don’t student center. available for students to help to make sure that our cam-hands … sometimes they do want the victim to be identi­
“The goal of the panel is to them heal from instances of pus is a healthy, safe place feel like it is too much [work fied; we just want the com-show students that after an violence.” free from discrimination and to complete the process] and munity to know that this instance of sexual violence, among the panelists were harassment," lindley said. after the investigation, they happened on our campus,” 
chapman said. 

paid adverTisemenT heather ryan, assistant director of the office of community standards, said issues of sexual violence are treated very seriously at notre dame. 

“if someone is found re­sponsible for sexual mis­conduct, specifically non-consensual penetration, they would likely be perma­nently dismissed," ryan said. "we do take it very seriously, as something that is very im­portant and that we have to protect our community.” 
sophomore and grc event facilitator katie benz said it is important for students to know that they are not alone. 
“The grc is very open to students for not only advice for themselves but for other students as well," benz said. "The grc is very adamant about promoting gender re­lations on campus so that ev­eryone feels welcome.” 
Contact Alexa DeSantis at adesanti@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

HLC 
conTinued From page 1 
plays into being an accred­ited institution.” 
The reaccreditation process consists of a self-study based on hlc criteria and a follow­up visit during which an evalu­ation team verifies and further explores the report, hubert said. 
“it was about a two year pro­cess for us to thoroughly look at the university," hubert said. 
"… we worked with about 120 faculty to gather the informa­tion to address these five cri­teria that the higher learning commission has for us. we then had to write that up into a report for submission: it was a 245-page report, with links to almost 1,000 other documents.” 
The five overarching criteria components that a university must meet are mission; ethi­cal and responsible conduct; teaching and learning: qual­ity, resources and support; evaluation and improvement; and planning and institutional effectiveness, according to the hlc website. hubert said each criteria component had a team assigned to it. 
“when we design the self-study team we chose faculty leaders to head up each of the five criteria areas," hubert said. "They shepherded the process and were well-respected facul­ty that had also held previous leadership roles on campus … it is one of the thankless things that the faculty and staff do on campus.” 
hubert said the higher learning commission is in the process of adopting a different reaccreditation schedule. 
“instead of going for a full 10 years and having to do a whole report every 10 years, we are on a new system called pathways, which in four years, we will pro­vide an update to [the hlc]," hubert said. "Then, three years after that, we will provide an­other update, and then at the 10-year mark, we will provide another update but it will only be for a three-year period. we will be continually updating our report along the way." 
hubert said the report was an overall success. 
“we hit everything because across the board, they gave us the highest marks that you could receive, so we really give kudos to the faculty and staff that worked on it to make sure we had everything covered,” hubert said. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
FT5K 
conTinued From page 1 
dance marathon is a student run organization hosted by hundreds of colleges through­out the nation that raises mon­ey for the children’s miracle network (cmn). president of saint mary's dance marathon and senior kristen millar said all the money from the group's fundraising events throughout the school year will go to riley hospital for children. 
“cmn is a non-profit organi­zation that is dedicated to pro­viding medical treatment for critically or chronically ill chil­dren, free of cost,” millar said. “cmn gives riley hospital for children the opportunity to provide medical treatment to all children, regardless of a family’s ability to pay.” 
after the 5k, the party on the island had food, water, music, glow sticks, a raffle and shirts priced at $2 for participants to buy. 
“each year we have done a 5k on campus to try to incorpo­rate community involvement with our events,” millar said. “The FT5k is also a great way to spread awareness on campus and embodies the marathon's mission of staying on one's feet for those who can't.” 
at the end of the 5k, dance marathon announced that the 2015 dance marathon theme will be superheroes. 
co-fundraising chair, maranda pennington, helped organize the 5k, and said she is excited for the superhero-themed marathon. she said, her goal is to make 2015 the best year for the club and en­courage more students to at­tend the fundraising events. 
“it is something that i have become extremely passionate about after hearing personal testimonies from riley fami­lies that our funds have helped and i can't imagine dedicating my free time to anything else," pennington said. 
dance marathon will be hosting numerous events for students to get involved and help a great cause. millar said she wants to encourage more students to participate as dancers during the mara­thon and to attend the other fundraising events. 
“Throughout the year, we will host give back nights at local restaurants, such as Five guys and let's spoon,” millar said. “we also normally host a salon rouge night and last year, we hosted a riley trivia night on campus. in February, we will have a week dedicated to riley with various events such as Zumba, crafts and dinner with some of the riley families. 
“students should participate and attend dance marathon in the spring because it is truly an amazing and inspiring event that benefits a wonderful hos­pital, and without marathons such as the one at saint mary's, riley hospital for children would not be able to provide care for all children regardless of their financial situation," she said. 
in honor of it being dance marathon’s 10th year as a recognized club on campus, millar said the goal for the year is to raise $90,000 for the chil­dren of riley hospital. 
“it is [also] our goal to col­laborate with different clubs and organizations on campus, but ultimately, our goal is to raise awareness and to tell the stories of families who have benefitted from the amazing care riley provides … it is truly amazing to hear the stories of riley patients lives [we have] been able to touch,” millar said. 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 
Closet 
conTinued From page 1 
here, that stigma is kind of correct and there's sort of a lack of understanding and an igno­rance, but there are people like that at a lot of different places. 
"notre dame is pretty accept­ing, a lot of people are really nice about it. There might be a few things that they're ignorant about, but they're usually very understanding," she said. 
prism nd began after a 2011 campus visit from senator brian sims, who gave a speech on "how four out of five college stu­dents are accepting of lgbTQ individuals, but they only think that one out of three of their peers are," crawford said. prior to sims' speech, there were lgbTQ student organizations that were denied club status [at notre dame]. but, the "echo" of the Four-to-Five movement, as sims referred to his statistics, was a call for a club. 
"in the fall of 2012 Father Jenkins called the division of student affairs to do a review of services for lgbTQ individu­als, and it was found in that re­view that there was not enough service and support for lgbTQ students," crawford said. "The report suggested to have an or­ganization, and that organiza­tion is prism." 
"coming out closets" was "inherited" from preexisting councils at notre dame on gay and lesbian student af­fairs, and it has occurred be­fore prism's inception two years ago, crawford said. on wednesday, crowds of stu­dents passed through the rain-bow-decorated doorframes in front of debartolo hall and the stonehenge Fountain, and many took the opportunity to come out of their "closet." 
"i've done this for the past few years," melanie sajbel, a senior in pasquerilla east, said. "you come out as something that you're proud of, and i'm proud that my brother is gay. i think it's something that he'd be ex­cited to see because we have a pretty conservative campus and he's not catholic." 
Josephine Jackson, a lewis sophomore, went through her closet for different reasons. 
"i went through the closet for my mom," Jackson said. "she's bisexual ... and my stepmom has been in my life for about five years, so i came out for her because i know that her com­ing out was very difficult, com­ing from a very conservative household, it took a lot for her to do that." 
ricketts and crawford em­phasized the role of "allies" in lgbTQ acceptance on campus throughout the event. 
"we have plenty of mem­bers who aren't lgbTQ who just come out to support their friends because that's some­thing they believe in," ricketts said. 
"allies are a big part and they help make this a safer spot," crawford added, "having a lot of allies there shows that you don't have to feel so alone." 
if safety and acceptance were the goals of "coming out closets," participating 

students seemed to feel this was a public notre dame event had said. achieved, crawford said. a deep significance. sorin first year Tyrel london "it means that i don't have Contact Andrea Vale at said for him, coming out during to be afraid anymore," london avale@nd.edu. 
paid adverTisemenT 




Stories 
conTinued From page 1 
life as a college student from a more serious condition. 
“obviously being in col­lege is stressful,” haskins said. “everybody is stressed out, which makes it harder because you don’t know where to draw the line between ‘am i being a baby about this?' and making too much of a big deal. 
“but i could give myself an entire saturday afternoon in the library and just look at my assignment and start to have a panic attack, feeling like i couldn’t breathe and i couldn’t think and my thoughts would start racing. it wasn’t like i pro­crastinated or needed to feel that way.” 
notre dame junior Tracey cheun, who was diagnosed with bipolar i at the end of her freshman year in april, 2013, said the college environment can be both therapeutic and detrimental to mental illness. 
“college seems to make the condition worse and better,” cheun said. “worse because it is notre dame, it’s a very es­teemed institution, so there’s pressure. but also better be­cause i’ve been lucky enough to have the people around me, and i can’t imagine being where i am today without them, or be­ing this mentally healthy with­out their encouragement.” 
amber kearse, a notre dame senior, said the pressure to ex­cel in school made coping with her depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) more difficult. 
“i’ve had depression before, but it wasn’t diagnosed depres­sion,” kearse said. “The de­pression [i had my] freshman year was kind of related to the adhd. i had sort of been the smart person at my school and i always thought daydreaming was a part of my personality. so when i came here and i was struggling, i couldn’t tell any­one at home because i was so used to being at the top of my class and getting straight a’s. 
“it was really stressful and really lonely because i didn’t want to tell anybody, but then i couldn’t really do anything be­cause i wasn’t telling anybody. i didn’t really want to go to coun­seling because i didn’t want to admit anything was wrong, but then i finally went and talked to someone.” 
“having problems outside of school just makes worry­ing about school a lot worse,” kearse said.
 'Family dynamic' 
cheun, who lives on campus in badin hall,  said the resourc­es on campus, ranging from the university counseling center (ucc) to resident hall staffs, made living with mental illness more manageable. 
“The counseling center is a really great resource,” she said. “i think people really under­estimate it or they’re kind of afraid that they’ll be perceived as [weak] or that they have huge issues and there’s something wrong with them. They’re really 
paid adverTisemenT 
nurturing there. 
“i [also] think the family dy­namic here is so strong and that helped me get through a lot of it. i know badin is pretty small, but the hall staff and [rector] sr. denise [lyon] would stop by my room a lot and make sure i was okay.” 
after initially fearing medica­tion, haskins said she came to recognize its potential to assist her after asking god for help. 
“my medication helps,” she said. “i didn’t want to take medicine because there’s such a stigma about it. i didn’t want to be dependent on it. 
“[but] medicine isn’t a crutch. doctors have been blessed with far more smarts than i to help people get through it. if any­body out there has an anxiety disorder and hasn’t done any­thing about it, you honestly deserve medicine, or help if medicine isn’t your thing.” 
as a Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) major and busi­ness economics minor, cheun said her professors have also been remarkably accommodat­ing, which has helped her prog­ress as a student and manage her illness. 
“all of [my professors] have been incredibly supportive and understanding, whether it’s pa­per extensions or me not being able to get out of bed because i’m too depressed and i just can’t do it,” she said. “They’re always willing to go out of their way for me and meet me after or outside their office hours. That’s helped a lot, and defi­nitely piqued my interest in my academic endeavors because i don’t feel so discouraged or judged by them. 
“in terms of my everyday life, i take it one step at a time,” cheun said. “i keep mood charts, i exercise, i take my medica­tion everyday, i follow up with my family on a weekly basis. sometimes i’ll ask my room­mates or my boyfriend to let me know if i’m behaving bizarrely and don’t realize it, because that does happen sometimes.”
 'Kind of a quiet thing' 
in light of notre dame gradu­ate mark gallogly and his wife lise strickler’s $10 million gift to the university to create the rev. James e. mcdonald, c.s.c., center for student well-being, kearse said the university should focus on peer support for students with mental illness. 
“There was no real obvi­ous peer support,” kearse said. “There’s counseling, but it’s bet­ter to also have something with other students. once you leave counseling, that’s who you have to deal with and who you com­pare yourself to. i think it’s bet­ter to have a support network that involves the people who you are living with and you go to school with everyday. 
“There are a lot of people who experience depression here, but it’s kind of a quiet thing," kearse said. "... if people were used to dealing with other peo­ple or noticing the signs, they would probably reach out to their friends more or check in on them and try to get outside help if they think the person needs it.” 
cheun said the university could do a better job directing students to off-campus men­tal health resources, as well as making on-campus support groups more accessible. 
“more openness and avail­ability of support groups would help a lot,” she said. 
saint mary’s junior Torie otteson spoke at Tuesday night’s student panel in rice commons about her own jour­ney and struggle as a way to break the silence surrounding mental illnesses. 
otteson said students don’t talk about the issue of mental illness because it’s thought to be a private thing. 
“people don’t talk about it, but it’s very empowering to share my story of mental illness,” otteson said. “people listen and they un­derstand. we have a wonderful community here and they real­ize maybe [mental illness] is not such a scary thing.” 
otteson said she lost a lot of time to mental illness but now she’s taking her story and turn­ing it into something positive for others and for herself.
 “i want to be able to help peo­ple realize that you’re not alone and there’s always a light at the end of the tunnel, even if you can’t see it right now," otteson said. 
"[mental illness] has made me a stronger person in general. if i can made it through that, i can make it through anything." 
haskins said she has never sought help on campus because she feels it carries a stigma, part­ly because there is not enough information about student men­tal health resources. 
“i’m a senior and i don’t know how much it costs to take ad­vantage of campus resources or how that gets billed to you,” she said. “i think if people were more aware of that, it would be better.” 
haskins also said students and faculty alike need to make people aware that "[mental ill­ness] is biological and not just something you make up or is a crutch,” something which she said events like irish state of mind and support a belle, love a belle weeks help to do. 
‘You’re not a diagnosis’ 
saint mary’s first year student kendall smith also spoke on Tuesday night’s student panel about her experience with men­tal illness. 
smith shared her personal journey of depression, which led to self-harm, an eating disorder and substance abuse. 
“when something stress­ful happened, i felt the need to change myself,” smith said. “i dyed my hair, got piercings and finally recognized, 'why did i feel the need to change myself?” 
smith realized through her struggles with depression that she needed to prepare herself to deal with different outcomes instead of altering herself. depression leads to eating dis­orders, self-harm and substance abuse, she said, but her story is no longer a sad one to tell. 
“depression is a temporary thing if you want it to be,” smith said. “i’ve spoken about [mental illness] before, but it was a sad story.” 
now her story is one of learn­ing and growth. smith said she has found passion in telling her story because it’s not another chapter of her life – she’s closing the book on depression. 
“it’s a form of closure, to my history of depression and self-harm,” she said. “i’m re­ally proud of myself for living through that and finding myself through it. it’s always been in the back of my mind; i’m hop­ing that this will be a way for me to say goodbye to that side of myself.” 
smith said people should know that mental illness is something that doesn’t need to be kept to in the dark; it’s some­thing to work through with support. 
“They were given it, and it’s something they can work through, not something they have to tolerate,” smith said. “mental illness doesn’t mean crazy. 
“mental illness isn’t a race is­sue, not a class issue, not a gen­der issue – it’s a human issue,” smith said. 
“you’re not a diagnosis, you’re a person.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu and Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Intergenerational justice 
millenials and love 
Daniel Barabasi 
scene writer 

The best part about being a millen­nial is listening to what our futures hold based on the expertise of the pre-iphon­ers. we’re lazy. we don’t have a work ethic. Time agrees. Fox news agrees. cnn agrees. i guess the bipartisan divide really isn’t as bad as they say it is. 
at least 25 percent of us will never get married. That’s a new one. i’ll add it to the list of things i can’t do, right under “play­ing with grandchildren in the snow.” 
our inability to say “i do” gets attribut­ed to a variety of notions. society expects us to get into the workforce and become productive contributors as soon as pos­sible. parents expect us to pay off student debts. we have to climb the social and professional ladders. although these statements do seem valid, they don’t get to the root of the issue. 
The older generations’ finger-wagging is partially right. smart phones and inter-net access have degraded our attention span. we require more instant gratifica­tion to keep us intrigued. Furthermore, we’re constantly rewarded for our spontaneity, at least according to every success narrative. being “out there” and ready to take on any task gets you noticed online, socially and professionally. steve Jobs dropped out of college for a startup. so did mark Zuckerberg. look where they are now. 
in this context, the idea of settling down sounds preposterous. a white gown leads to a family. Family leads to subur­bia. suburbia means a minivan and soc­cer tryouts and voice lessons and teacher conferences and this and that. you’ll be reliant on the schedules of those you love, but stuck nevertheless. 
marriage doesn’t have to be like this; there are married couples who don’t have kids. but still, there’s constant back­ground pressure. in your 20s and 30s, you should be traveling the world! explore a new city, meet new people, write a novel, learn a new language, do some­thing you’ll regret. it’s how you’ll make the memories and connections that best shape you. but why does it have to be the last chance in life? oh right, society wants us to be productive members and fall in love. and it’s a bit hard to jump on that discounted plane to Thailand when you’re thinking about how your signifi­cant other will react. 
yet, this might prove to be wrong. perhaps love and marriage are the con­sistencies we need in our lives as millen­nials. while everything around seems ceaseless in its variability and expecta­tions, we can grab onto love to keep us sane. i certainly hope my cynicism is unfounded. if not, i sincerely wish us the best of luck. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at      dbarabasi@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not 
Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 

have you seen “The west wing?” i believe the show is one of the greatest television series ever created. in the sec­ond season, creator aaron sorkin wrote a flashback to the beginning of the first presidential campaign of president Jed bartlet. played by martin sheen, bartlet declares a beautiful sentiment “if fidelity to freedom of democracy is the code of our civic religion, then surely the code of our humanity is faithful service to that unwritten command­ment that says we shall give our children better than we ourselves received.” 
intergenerational injustice is not a topic that is often discussed in american politics, primarily because coun­teracting such temporal wrongs requires sacrifice in the present, which doesn’t make for rosy campaign promises. as a result, our leaders are strongly incentivized to operate in the short-term, viewing relatively uncertain, long-term risks as a problem to be tackled at a later date. This self-indulgent mode of operation, however, is not worthy of a great nation, and it violates some of the very principles that make this nation great. 
The first threat to the future of american ideals is a lack of investment in our children. The united states experienc­es one of the highest rate of child poverty among developed nations. regrettably, spending on children as a percent­age of the federal budget is falling across the board, ac­cording to a report from the urban institute. of the many programs that benefit children, none are more important than education. education is the great equalizer, holding the potential to break poverty cycles and ensure the long­term viability of our nation. The least we can do is ensure that the education system is fully funded, wholeheartedly supported and staffed with the most qualified educators. we must invest in the best practices and make the develop­ment of our children’s passions and skills an objective of highest priority. 
The second threat to our future is a crushing national debt, which threatens our posterity in many ways. rising debt can cause rapid inflation if the government chooses to monetize debt or print currency at high rates. Tax bur­dens and higher interest rates can slow economic growth and even destabilize economies enough to spark financial crises. 
For decades, politicians have refused to recognize our fiscal limitations, pulling funding from the pockets of our grandchildren. while each sector of government spending has a clear and valid purpose, there will always be goals outside of our immediate fiscal reach. 
much government spending can be viewed as investment in our future, whether by stimulating economic growth, building infrastructure, developing health care capacity, improving education or protecting our national security interests, all of which benefit future generations. in these situations, a case can be made that short-term deficits lead to future growth and prosperity, but this certainly cannot be a sustainable long-term strategy. 
besides investments in the future, some government spending is simply wasteful or structured to benefit cur­rent voters at the expense of tomorrow’s citizens. reducing waste requires strong leadership from members of congress but also personal accountability on the part of the american people. 
mandatory federal spending — primarily social security, medicare and means-tested entitlement programs — has risen dramatically from five percent of the federal budget in 1947 to over 56 percent in Fiscal year 2012. not designed to support seniors for more than a few years, these pro­grams are approaching bankruptcy. as americans live longer, our social welfare programs must adjust according­ly. otherwise, we are looking at both exorbitant debt and bankrupt programs that cannot serve future generations. 
as a final example, to care for future generations, we must develop and commit to sustainable environmental practices. with rising global carbon levels, air pollution, water pollution, habitat degradation and changing cli­mates, we must bear the burden of knowing that our choic­es affect the safety and livability of the world in the future. rising sea levels, disappearing aquifers, droughts and re­duced air quality all pose great risk to our future citizens. we must engage the world on this issue because climate change is not bounded by borders. To the extent that hu­manity can reduce its negative impact on the environment, we are all partners in a global project for our children’s health and wellness. 
children cannot vote in our republic, yet their concerns are of paramount importance. The irony is that political pandering for short-term electoral gain is childishness in its worst form, abandoning the wisdom that our leaders are expected to display. our politicians cannot be simpleton ideologues who place the value of a strong, uncompro­mising dogma above fiscal and social responsibility. our elected representatives are not simply pawns in a game to secure a slice of a multi-trillion dollar pie. 
in grand federal buildings and statehouses across the country, elected men and women are not just leaders, but stewards of our future. we cannot leave this responsibility to them alone, however. as citizens of a nation built on the ideas of freedom, equality, liberty and fair representation, we cannot stand idly by while policy directly threatens each of those ideas for future generations. in order to se­cure better opportunities for our grandchildren, i hope my generation will have the political will power to make cuts in the interest of our posterity. martin luther king Jr.’s fa­mous maxim could be adjusted to fashion a new battle cry for conscientious policy, as we could say, “injustice today is a threat to justice forever.” 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and politi­cal science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | THURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Plane and Simple 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

The obama administration has overseen an eightfold increase in the number of attacks flown by unmanned aerial vehicles or “drones.” These small, pilotless aircraft have become popular with the 
u.s. air Force for their ability to take on dangerous missions deep inside hostile territory while keep­ing american servicemen out of harm’s way. yet the american drone program has also come under harsh scrutiny by human rights groups. 
i’m sympathetic to the majority of the issues brought up by drone opponents. at the very least, i can applaud their calls for greater transparency and oversight of the air Force’s drone program as i can for any branch of the armed forces. however, it’s undeniable that drones are subject to an unfair lev­el of scrutiny that does not affect manned aircrafts. 
For instance, opponents of the us drone war in the middle east often point to the civilian casual­ties caused by drone attacks. it’s a hard charge to argue against; bodies strewn amidst the rubble of a destroyed home or the shell of a burned-out car are chilling testaments of man’s inhumanity. but it would be a colossal mistake to associate these deaths with drones rather than with war as an institution. 
as uncomfortable as it is to admit, civilian casual­ties are a fact of war. virtually every armed conflict results in civilian casualties out of proportion to combatant deaths. consider the 2003 iraq war and subsequent insurgency, which even by the most conservative estimates killed ten times more civil­ians than enemy soldiers. before the widespread adoption of precision-guided bombs, these figures were even worse. so-called “collateral damage” was such a prominent feature of the vietnam war that it inspired a catchy-yet-horrifying military ditty: “napalm sticks to kids.” 
in fact, by some accounts drone warfare may be one of the few exceptions to this rule. assessments by both the new america Foundation and the bureau of investigative Journalism found that drone strikes in pakistan killed roughly three mili­tants for every civilian. (Feel free to take these fig­ures with the massive grain of salt they deserve.) drone warfare is also much less likely to create refugee crises than would an infantry engagement of the enemy. unmanned aerial vehicles are ill-suited to the saturation bombardment needed to level cities; most designs focus on assassination of single targets. drones carry small laser-guided mis­siles rather than the literal blockbusters used by their manned counterparts to “soften up” a city for invasion. 
national sovereignty is another sticking point for those who want drones grounded. increasingly, the united states is using unmanned planes to strike at targets inside other countries, such as pakistan and yemen, without the permission of said nations’ governments. This gets even more confusing when the countries we launch strikes against are offi­cially our allies in the war on Terror. after all, we wouldn’t want britain or israel bombing our own country. 
sadly, war is rarely so kind as to respect national boundaries. we’re seeing this happen right now in syria as the civil war between the rebels and the anti-assad forces spills over into iraq, lebanon and surrounding territories. The terrorist threat in countries like pakistan is real, and local forces are often either unwilling or unable to adequately re­spond.  we all remember the most infamous exam­ple, when the pakistani army couldn’t find osama bin laden when he had hidden less than a mile from their military academy. i recall very little “sturm und drang” about “sovereignty” as seal Team six returned in triumph from abbottabad. 
why then are drones singled out for such perse­cution? what encourages people to look at these particular engines of war with greater apprehension than their manned counterparts? perhaps the an­swer lies in human psychology. The casualties from conventional war come in a tidal wave, overwhelm­ing our perception and condensing into a single travesty. drone strikes, by contrast, are more akin to a chinese water torture. drone strikes are little clusters of death stretched over months to years, this feels more reprehensible than the single wave of death as a result of conventional war. i’m remind­ed of the line oft attributed to Josef stalin: “when one man dies it is a tragedy; when thousands die it’s statistics.” 
i’m all for productive discussion of the covert war against terrorism in the middle east. as we talk, however, remember to keep the focus on the real problem: an endless war against a nameless foe without concrete objectives. don’t jump to conclu­sions just because some of our planes don’t have pilots in them. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying Chemical Engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

a personal invitiation to embrace feminism 
i am not a feminist because i hate men. i am not a feminist because i’m emma watson (or Joseph gordon-levitt, or lena dunham, or even beyoncé), and i’m certainly not a feminist because i’m an un-ironically #blessed notre dame student. i’m a feminist because i’ve been granted the opportunity to learn about cultures where women face bigger problems than two sympathy points on the “attrac­tiveness” rating scale. 
still, notre dame should attack its misogynistic tendencies with all the ferocity we can muster. The commonly heard “forcible fondling” jokes prove that men and women alike have trouble accept­ing feminism as a serious issue. in a bubble where we all have the opportunity and encouragement to pursue our dreams, we forget that women still burn in honor of their dead husbands in india. we for­get that women are still stolen and sold into sexual slavery at ten years old in cambodia. we forget that some women are still not even allowed to drive in saudi arabia. 
at notre dame, yik yaks make “i have a boy­friend” jokes and i cringe, wondering why girls even have to say “i have a boyfriend” instead of simply “i’m not interested.” at notre dame, girls raise eye­brows at the length of other girl’s skirts at the career Fair and boys make comments about the number of dance floor make-outs “allowed” before a girl be­comes a “slut.” at notre dame, we are perpetrators of casual misogyny. 
because we tolerate these comments and be­haviors at our lady’s university, we have excused ourselves from the feminist stage. what would it take for us to decide to take care of each other? do we need a personal invitation from emma watson to “embrace the F-word?” or is it perhaps that our violations of equality are simply too small to war­rant our attention? 
i’m no emma, but here’s a personal invitation to join the cause. as privileged students, we get to nit­pick these “too-small” gender issues – yet the united states is still ranked 23rd on the world economic Forum’s global gender gap index, behind cuba, lesotho, and burundi. so there are 23 countries that treat the genders more “equally” than the united states, based on economic participation and oppor­tunity, health and survival, educational attainment and political empowerment. This also means nearly every other country in the world experiences tre­mendously less gender equality than we do. 
Therefore, i reiterate my point: with our privileged position in society, we are all called to be feminists. we’re not all called to hate men, or sign up for 75 ngos or read nicholas kristoff’s “half the sky” every night before bed (although it’s an excellent book). we’re not even called to look up to celebrities like beyoncé (although if you don’t, are you really human?) we are called to fight for opportunities for everyone to pursue their dreams, regardless of color, sexuality, gender and sex. here at notre dame, we can start by adopting the “feminist” label or at least the label of “brothers and sisters” – mean­ing we watch our Zahm jokes and think twice about our nd crushes and yik yaks. it also means taking a step out of our bubble to think globally. 
still waiting for your personal invitation? here it is.
 Annie Kuster
                               junior 
breen-phillips 
oct. 9 





The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Kelly McGarry 
scene writer 

“This is the beginning. hello. 1, 2, 3.” 
The album opens with this spoken line. you may won­der, the beginning of what exactly? if you haven’t heard him before, consider this the beginning of a musical in­fatuation with the one and only shakey graves. 
alejandro rose-garcia, who goes by his campfire indian-guide name, shakey graves, released his sec­ond full-length album this Tuesday. The album, “and the war came,” marks the first time shakey graves has an album on spotify, which could mean big things for this breakout hero of folk-rock. The previous ep and lp can be found on shakey’s website. according to his 2013 ama on reddit, his music wasn’t on spotify sim­ply because he didn’t know how to set it up. even as his youTube views reached the hundreds of thousands, many people were missing out on shakey graves be­cause he wasn’t on spotify. how grateful we are that he finally figured it out! 
rose-garcia had a modest acting career before his venture into music. he appeared in “spy kids 3” and had a recurring role on “Friday night lights.” shakey graves is strongly associated with his hometown of austin, Texas, while he also boasts experiences in the new york and l.a. music scenes. he incorporates the style of a one-man band, influenced by bob-log iii. he does 
this through nimble, plucking fingers and the help of a  someone who jokes about musical diversity, his new al­ 
second instrument – a kick-drum. he uses a kick-drum  bum deviates quite a bit. “Family and genus” explores a  
made from an old suitcase into his performance. The  vibey electronic sound, while “The perfect parts” rocks  
instrument is roughly home-made, displaying shakey’s  pretty hard. at the very least, tracks like these prove that  
authentic bluesy-hobo vibe.  shakey is at his best when he stays true to his rustic folk  
The new album shares a title with a civil war novel  style. he sounds most sincere and natural when he’s  
written in 1950, reflecting its old-fashioned feel. shakey  picking away at an acoustic guitar, making us stomp  
graves uses a lo-fi recording style that intentionally uses  along with his kick-drum. he has some success in “if  
older and lower-quality equipment to give the music a  not for you” on staying true to his classic sound, while  
classic sound.  still jamming out on an electric guitar.  
The single “dearly departed” was released on spotify  “and the war came” has the potential to be shakey  
in July; however, if you’d been following shakey graves  graves’ breakthrough album. now that it’s conveniently  
on youTube, you had the privilege of hearing this gem  on spotify, there’s no reason not to check it out.  
back in april.  
The music video for the single features shakey with  Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu  
album collaborator esme patterson, who has a huge  
impact on three of the songs on the album. in “dearly  
departed,” the two sing together playfully and intimate­ “And The War Came”  
ly in a country-simple outdoor setting, accompanied  
only by an acoustic guitar. The setting is perfect for the  Shakey Graves  
simple, light-hearted song. The banter was natural and  Label: Dualtone Records  
sweet, the harmonies induced goosebumps. it fully em­ 
bodied the jaunty ‘50s country sound that we are used  Tracks: “Dearly Departed,” “Only Son,” “If Not  
to hearing from shakey graves. The recorded version  For You”  
of the song attempts a fuller sound with some jamming  If you like: Dawes, First Aid Kit, Avett Brothers  
electric guitar, stronger vocals and added percussion.  
in the video for “dearly departed,” shakey jokes  
 
about his future trip-hop and jazz-metal careers. For  


Daniel Barabasi 
scene writer 

with a disappointing summer blockbuster season, it might be hard to renew one’s faith in the film culture. Fortunately, the fall movies are coming along to tran­sition our hyped-up expectations of summer into the winter season of loneliness and romance flicks. with autumn comes a darker, more thought provoking angle to the big screen, sans “dumb and dumber To” and “mockingjay, part i.” 
“whiplash” – oct. 10 

society is fascinated by happy success stories of the greats building an empire. in “whiplash,” director and writer damien chazelle gives us the opposite: the ter­rors and loneliness one goes through to obtain the skills necessary for the big break. miles Teller plays andrew, a drum student interested in becoming “a great.” his terror of a music professor harasses him physically and mentally, pushing him to cut all ties and focus solely on improving. The trailer comes as a great reminder dur­ing midterms week that having two back-to-back exams SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 
isn’t that bad in the scheme of things, but the movie also 
resonates with the ongoing nd state of mind. 
“dear white people” –  oct. 17 
based on the trailer, i’m not exactly sure if i’m allowed to review this movie. The film critiques the myth of a post-racial america, pointing out the stereotypes and derogatory opinions african americans still face to­day in the u.s. set at winchester university, samantha white, played by Tessa Thompson, is described as being like “spike lee and oprah had some pissed off baby” for her in-your-face efforts to point out racism. good for a few laughs, but will probably leave you depressed at the state of our country. 
“st. vincent” – oct. 24 
bill murray plays a retired war veteran with every vice in the book who begins to “grow up” when he starts bab­ysitting his new neighbor’s 12-year-old son. honestly, if you don’t want to watch the movie based on that, you probably don’t have a sense of humor. murray takes the kid everywhere from a racetrack, to a bar, even to a strip club. he makes the boy mow his dirt lawn to teach him about life and work ethic, much to the enjoyment of the child’s single mom and catholic school. Think “gran Torino” with less violence and more uncontrolled impudence. 
“nightcrawler” – oct. 31 
in his desperate search for a job, lou bloom, played by Jake gyllenhaal, discovers the world of freelance crime journalism. armed with a shoddy camera and an “em­ployee” — the gps on his phone — lou scours the night for segments that sell. as he becomes more efficient with decoding the police scanner jargon, lou starts to arrive at crime scenes before the cops, and in a few instances, before they’re over — putting him in moral limbo as both reporter and witness. 
The film, dan gilroy’s directorial debut, prom­ises to be a dark crime thriller. known previously as a screenwriter for “Two for the money” and the unmade “superman lives,” gilroy has also been signed to write for marvel comics. 
but the answer to your most burning question is: yes, journalism is this cool. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 

John Darr 
scene writer 

i can see them now. crayon-drawn spindly tigers casu­ally perched atop crayon cabooses and think nothing of it. Trains, tigers, ice cream, christmas, grandma — objects of overwhelming childhood joy all met in my mind and spilled sloppily onto paper — and my t-shirt. i would never wear a bib. what my small hands and circumstance created was sacred because they were unrestrained. everything was so effortlessly borne that even the sloppiest, ugliest creation glowed in the eyes of my parents and teachers. 
it’s the exact sort of sentiment that comes to mind when Tigers on Trains’ front man, mason maggio, repeats, “never get bored!” on the group’s newest record, “antarctica in color.” The wish to never be bored is something wholly youthful, both nostalgic and forward thinking. That’s es­sentially what “antarctica in color”is: a record entrenched in established indie-folk sounds and sentiments, yet in­credibly fresh and inventive in execution. exquisite ar­rangements, melodies and lyrics push the record above its many competitors. Quality alone, not some innovation or gimmick, makes “antarctica in color” an incredibly strong competitor in the race for the best album of 2014. 
Though it’s essentially a waste of your time to read the rest of the review — just go listen to this record instead — i guess i’ll go on to inadequately capture some of the greatness that Tigers on Trains has to offer. mr. maggio, the mastermind behind this particular Tiger on Trains record because his partner in crime, christian van deurs, is absent this time around, is a modern day romantic philosopher. 
“broken darts” peers into the soul of a fair-weather per­sonality, content to shine in any category that presents an easy opportunity. 
“plumes” illustrates a lover’s desire to commit to find the dream life he’s always imagined, even if it means having a closed mind that won’t change to see a situation for the bet­ter. at the last minute, he says, “i don’t want your love just yet,” and we’re left wondering whether he wants to earn that love or if he isn’t ready to follow through on his wishes. 
“but it’s hard To” seeks out the source of unease in a rela­tionship, asking, “did you hide or did i hide?” before repeat­edly taking and shaking the blame. 
“antarctica in color,” like its very name suggests, deftly investigates a slew of everyday contradictions that cause so much of the emotional hardship in our relationships with others. 
The complex lyrical ideas presented, work incredibly well in the context of Tigers on Trains’ simultaneously simple and engaging arrangements. There aren’t any surprises on the record as far as song structures or chord progressions go, and riffs are subtle when they are present. Fingerpicked guitar and soft driving beats form lush, warm backdrops for maggio’s effortless vocal melodies. however, the vocal hooks and lovely guitar patterns are more than enough to carry each song. exquisite mixing and production allows each instrument to perfectly inhabit its necessary space, meaning that every instrument shines in every song, no matter how simple its particular part. 
Tigers on Trains have created an extremely accessible, stripped-down indie folk record that makes the most of its few wonderful ingredients with “antarctica in color.” repeated listens reveal increasingly lovely and varied bass and guitar patterns that ensure the thoughtful lyrics and memorable vocal melodies fill an eternal space in your head. 
it’s quite amazing that “antarctica in color” was released the same week as Flying lotus’s brilliantly complex “you’re dead,” as the two are both masterpieces with opposing strengths. a truly masterful, emotionally gripping indie-folk record, “antarctica in color” is another must-hear re­cord from a ridiculously underexposed artist. if you’re still reading, you’ve wasted enough time — go listen to the al­bum now. if you give it the number of listens it deserves, you may never be bored again. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Antarctica in Color” 
Tigers on Trains 
Label: Unsigned 

Tracks: “Broken Dance,” “Plumes,” “But It’s Hard To” 
If you like: Real Estate, The Lonely Forest, Bonnie “Prince” Billy 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: ND Theatre NOW! 
When: 7:30 p.m. 
Where: DPAC 

How Much: $7 for students 
FTT’s nd Theatre now program showcases two one-act plays written by students each year. This year’s plays are “out of orbit” by lucas garcia (‘15) and “beneath my skin” by Zachary wendeln (‘15). The plays focus on the struggles, consequenc­es and rewards of coming out of the closet. 
FRIDAY 

What: Learn to Salsa When: 10 p.m. Where: LaFun Ballroom How Much: Free 
channel “silver linings playbook” and learn how to salsa dance. be sure to work up an appetite so you can indulge in local mexican cui­sine from monterrey mexican grill. dancing and tacos, what more could you want? 
SATURDAY 

What: Notre Dame vs  UNC When: 3:30 p.m. Where: U Know Where How Much: U Already Paid 
Tailgating. sports. Football. notre dame. The Fighting irish. That’s pretty much all you need to know, right? be sure to be there to support the irish as they attempt to maintain their undefeated re­cord. go irish, beat Tar heels. 
SUNDAY 

What: Julie Fowlis When: 2 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $10 for students 
Julie Fowlis is known as the sing­ing voice of princess merida, the red-headed heroine of disney pixar’s “brave.” Fowlis will be performing tra­ditional gaelic music from her three highly acclaimed studio albums. it will be a great opportunity to expand your appreciation for irish music be­yond “i’m shipping it up To boston.” 
SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Catch America’s best drama 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 
i often spend large amounts of time marveling at the way european and latin american soccer fans sup­port their teams. The pas­sion these fans have for their teams — from england to argentina and mexico to Turkey — is nothing short of remarkable. it’s a world where the team you support means more than anything else — and as John oliver pointed out during his now-semi­famous rant about FiFa, it’s a “religion.” 
Then, autumn saturdays come around, and i’m re­minded that we have this sort of passion in america — only that rather than ferment­ing itself in large cities like london or rio de Janeiro, it reaches its highest heights in well, not large cities. From Tuscaloosa to south bend and eugene to oxford, college football provides america’s most passionate drama. 
Take monday’s “call of the day” on the paul Finebaum show. if you have yet to see phyllis from mulga, alabama rant about the supposed “end” of her beloved crimson Tide’s dynasty, it’s quite worth the two minutes of your life. in fact, phyllis calls the show so often that when she calls, the simulcast of the show on the sec network has a picture of the woman, right there for when she calls in. her end to the call? 
“kiss my butt. roll Tide!” 
and when you think about it, there may be no bet­ter five words to describe america’s love affair with college football. suddenly phrases like “war eagle,” “boomer sooner,” “hotty Toddy,” “geaux Tigers” and, of course, “roll Tide” become acceptable ways to greet one another. 
but consider it for a sec­ond. This saturday, more than 80,000 people will take up a seat in notre dame stadium to watch a bunch of 18- through 22-year olds play a game. and that doesn’t even crack all of it — over 100,000 people will descend on college station, Texas on saturday when Texas a&m plays host to mississippi. 
it is — quite honestly — something that boggles the mind. we live and die on the results of these games (al­right, we might not die but we sure sometimes cry like someone did) because of what are often silly reasons. most people root for teams because of where they live. 
The aforementioned phyllis is from alabama so it makes sense that she’s a ‘bama fan. if someone from ohio says they aren’t an ohio state fan, i’m a little surprised (but also really, really happy. Those people instantly become my friends). others might root for a school because of their religion (some of you might even go to this school!) while some just go for a school be­cause they’re good or because they have really cool colors. 
but fundamentally, why do we watch college football? easy. it’s america’s best real­ity show. controversy has fol­lowed the past two heisman Trophy winners around. you’re never sure when the next kicker is going to miss what should be an easy, chip-shot field goal that would have won the game. and, of course, who could have pre­dicted that mississippi state and ole miss would be joint-third in this week’s ap poll? 
Then there are those games, those plays that live on in infamy. boise state’s “hook and lateral” and “statue of liberty” plays to beat oklahoma in the 2007 Fiesta bowl? amazing. chris davis returning a missed field goal 109 yards to win the iron bowl last year? one of the most remarkable things i’ve ever seen. and of course, it’s impossible to talk about great college football plays without mentioning “hail Flutie” or, of course, shouting the line, “The band is on the field!” 
last weekend, of course, was a perfect example of why we love college football. everett golson’s fourth-down touchdown pass to beat stanford was hardly the most notable thing of the weekend. arizona going into eugene and taking down no. 2 oregon? a bigger story. ole miss knocking off no. 3 alabama at home? bigger again. mississippi state hav­ing its way with no. 6 Texas a&m? still bigger. That doesn’t even get into Tcu’s win over no. 4 oklahoma or no. 8 ucla falling to utah. 
it’s why nothing beats col­lege football saturdays. The twists and turns are like no other. The passion is un­matched. and the best part? 
it’s unscripted. sit back, relax and enjoy it. (insert your school’s saying here.) 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles look to bounceback at Eagle Invitational 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 

after a weekend off, the belles will be back in action Friday when they travel to the benedictine eagle invitational in lisle, illinois. 
benedictine university will host the invitational, which gives saint mary’s an opportu­nity to bounce back from a tough fifth-placed result at the miaa Jamboree two weeks ago. in that race, the belles finished just four points behind rival alma. belles coach Jacqueline bauters said she is looking to build on a strong past few days of practice. 
“since [the jamboree] i think the team has been even more mo­tivated to perform, as they were disappointed with their overall finish,” bauters said. “They have put in some high-quality work­outs and we are looking for dra­matic improvements in times, due to training, change in course, etc.” 
at the jamboree, which counts for one-third of the final confer­ence standings, freshman natalie hawkes and sophomore brittany beeler led the belles, finishing 18th and 20th with times of 24:43 and 24:57, respectively. The other runners that made up the belles’ top five all finished amongst the top 30. despite this effort, howev­er, alma edged the belles by four points, even though its fifth run­ner did not finish among the top­40 racers. bauters said she wants her team to be even stronger this weekend. 
“i haven’t seen the full list of teams competing yet, or seen the course, we should have both [Thursday],” bauters said. “however, i would like our ladies to be competitive and mentally tough on Friday.” 
with crunch time approach­ing, bauters said her team is focusing on being in the best po­sition to succeed Friday. 
“as all students know, it is getting towards crunch time,” bauters said. “and there is also a lot of sickness going around, so we are trying to stay healthy and rested so we are as prepared as possible for a great race.” 
The starting gun at the benedictine eagle invitational will fire Friday at 4:00 p.m. in lisle, illinois. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 
NBA 

vogel signs multi-year extension with pacers 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — larry bird ended the speculation about Frank vogel’s job secu­rity before it could even begin. he’s safe. 
on wednesday, the pacers’ president of basketball opera­tions announced vogel had signed a multiyear contract extension. Terms were not dis­closed and players and coaches were unavailable because they had a scheduled day off. The 41-year-old vogel is expected to take questions Thursday. 
The move comes exactly three weeks before indiana’s regular-season opener against philadelphia and eliminates a potential distraction since vogel was entering the final year of his deal with the pacers. 
“we’re very happy to extend Frank’s contract,” bird said in a statement issued by the team. “i believe he has done a great job and i look forward to con­tinuing our relationship and working together to achieve all of our goals.” 
a year ago, winning the city’s first nba title seemed like an achievable feat. bird acknowl­edged before training camp that the pacers were going “all in” to make a championship run. vogel’s players responded with a 33-8 start that gave vogel his first chance to coach the eastern conference all-stars. 
little has gone right since then for the pacers and vogel, who has a 147-82 career record. 

The pacers stumbled in the second half of the season, fin­ishing 23-18 amid squabbling teammates and questions about whether indiana had the right mix of players -- or even the right coach. That didn’t stop during first- and second-round playoff series against atlanta and washington. indiana wound up advanc­ing to the conference finals and losing again to the miami heat. 
in early June, bird defended his coach and denied there was any consideration of get­ting rid of vogel. 
“The day it (the report) hap­pened, i went down to Frank and all of his assistants and said, ‘i want you back next year,’ and that was the end of it for us,” bird said at a season-ending news conference. 
but things got worse during the offseason. 
in July, lance stephenson left for charlotte in free agency, and in early august, two-time all-star paul george broke his right leg when he ran into a basketball stanchion during a national team scrimmage in las vegas. stephenson’s decision and george’s injury, which is likely season-ending, left vogel without his two best scorers. 
while many outsid­ers and some players have acknowledged indiana needs to scale back its goals this season, vogel has insisted the pacers can win. 
“The message to my team is that we have to bring a high level of competitiveness every night. we have to bring it ev­ery night,” vogel said last week during the pacers’ media day. “we have enough talent here to be competitive and compete with the best.” 
vogel got his big break in January 2011, succeeding the fired Jim o’brien as the pacers’ interim coach. he turned around a team that looked like it would miss the playoffs for a fifth consecutive year, finish­ing 20-18 and leading it into the postseason for the first time since 2006. vogel then got the coaching job full-time. 
in 2012, vogel led the pacers to their first playoff series win since reggie miller retired seven years earlier, and then to back-to-back conference finals appearances. 
so with the pacers facing perhaps their most daunting challenge in years, bird re­warded vogel by eliminating by one more potential distrac­tion -- his future. 
“i’m excited for the oppor­tunity to continue my tenure as pacers’ coach,” vogel said in the statement. “it’s an honor to represent this franchise and lead this team. i look forward to the challenge ahead.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC GOLF 

Belles chase top-four spot, chance at NCAA tourney 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
The belles look to secure a top-four slot in the final rounds of the miaa end of season Jamboree this weekend. 
Friday’s and saturday’s rounds will be played at the medalist golf club in marshall, michigan and mark the conclusion of the three-weekend, six-round event. 
if the belles finish within the top four of this tourna­ment, they will qualify for the miaa’s four-team event in the spring. The winner of that event earns a quali­fication into the ncaa championship. 
saint mary’s current­ly ranks third out of nine teams, trailing second-place olivet by just nine strokes and first-place hope by 57 strokes. 
saint mary’s coach kimberly moore said earn­ing a bid to the ncaa championship this upcom­ing spring would be great for the program, but she re­mains focused on securing a top-four slot in the confer­ence tournament first. 

“our ultimate goal is to win championships, but we have to take it one step at a time,” moore said. “hopefully we can get into that one or two spot of this tournament, and this would be a great way to get us pre­pared for the ncaa season in the spring.” 
The belles would earn the privilege to host the ncaa qualifying event this up­coming season if they finish in the top-two of the miaa tournament. 
moore said she empha­sized the importance of the short game to her players because this is the area that will reduce the most strokes from overall scores. 
“we’re always looking to improve upon our short game and make more putts,” moore said. “That’s key for us, if we can get up-and­down on a more consistent basis, then we can definitely lower some scores so that’s been our biggest focus.” 
Teams choose five players to participate in each round, and moore said she picks her top five based on how play­ers have performed during the week. 
“it all comes down to qualifying and who’s play­ing the best at the time,” moore said. “That’s how i determine who will par­ticipate in the weekend’s event.” 

despite a degree of un­certainty in the five-player rotation, moore said she suspects a similar group of players to qualify for this weekend’s event. 
belles sophomore courtney carlson and se­nior Janice heffernan, who has won the miaa confer­ence player of the week twice this year, have led the team during the conference tournament, averaging 85.3 and 81 strokes, respectively. 
“The last couple spots are usually up for grabs the majority of the time, but it seems like this weekend would be a consistent five that we’ve had play a lot this year,” moore said. 
saint mary’s will tee off on Friday afternoon at 1 p.m., and then saturday morning at 10 a.m. The event will be hosted by olivet at medalist golf club in marshall, michigan. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

irish open season with stark relays 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
notre dame will begin its 2014 campaign in traditional fashion, as it hosts the 50th annual dennis stark relays at its home rolfs aquatic center this weekend. 
The irish finished third behind first-place michigan and second-place auburn at the meet last year. This time around, the irish look to be­gin the season with a win. 
“The dennis stark relays has been the opening meet for the notre dame men’s swimming team since before any of the current team was born, so it is an honor to be a part of such a great notre dame tradition,” senior matt deblasio said. “The first meet is always a great oppor­tunity to see where we stand as a team. we like to keep the energy levels high and are looking for some quality times from the team.” 
The dennis stark relays will also mark the head-coaching debut of irish coach matt Tallman, who took over for longtime coach Tim welsh after 13 years as an assistant in the pro­gram. in addition to replac­ing welsh, this season’s unit must fill the gap of losing all-american Frank dyer to graduation last spring, who was the team’s top finisher in both the acc championships and the ncaa finals. 
Though they retain senior all-americans Zach stephens and John williamson, as well as nine other seniors includ­ing deblasio, this irish team is marked by its youth. 
“our biggest challenge is definitely [going to be] in our sprint events, where the ma­jority of our talent is in our younger classes,” deblasio said. “but our strength comes from a large 11-man senior class that brings a lot of lead­ership and experience to the pool deck.” 
with eight freshmen join­ing the notre dame squad, the underclassmen will be thrust into contributing roles from the first meet. collegeswimming.com ranked the irish freshman class as the 18th-best re­cruiting class in the country last spring. 
“This meet is always a great opportunity for our fresh­men to get up and race fast to show where they stand on the team,” deblasio said. 
inexperience, though, is not always a hindrance, as seen by the strong debut per­formance from now-sopho­more diver Joe cuomos. in his rookie season last year, cuomos was the first irish diver to qualify for the ncaa championships since 2008. 
The relays bear the name of notre dame’s first men’s and women’s swim coach, dennis stark, who coached from 1964 to 1985. The inau­gural meet, originally known as the notre dame relay, was renamed in stark’s honor in 2003. 
after this weekend, the team will enjoy two weeks off before hosting purdue on nov. 1. The irish dive team, however, will be back in action next weekend, as it heads south to face south carolina and georgia in athens, georgia, on oct. 17 and then auburn in auburn, alabama, on oct. 18. 
notre dame will start its season at the dennis stark relays at rolfs aquatic center on Friday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

FENCING 

notre dame travels to oregon to open season 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after a sixth-place finish in the ncaa championships this spring, notre dame looks forward to another shot at a national title this year. 
members of the team will travel to portland, oregon this weekend to participate in the first leg of the north american cup. The irish fin­ished a distant sixth during last year’s ncaa tournament but will again field one of the top teams in the country, irish associate head coach gia kvaratskhelia said. 
“like always, we expect to be fighting for the na­tional championships,” kvaratskhelia said. “being part of notre dame fenc­ing, that’s our goal every year. but realistically, we’ll probably, with spring factor included, be top-three pro­jecting from the beginning of the year. but it’s up to us how to use those resources and talents to hopefully go all the way.” 
The men’s portion of the team graduated eight fenc­ers last year, including two-time ncaa individual champion and two-time united states olympian foilist gerek meinhardt. however, kvaratskhelia said the coaching staff is excited about the freshman class coming in this year. 
“it’s hard to replace some­one like gerek meinhardt who’s been probably — argu­ably — the best male fencer to ever attend this univer­sity,” kvaratskhelia said. “but down the line, we have strong juniors and sopho­mores but incredibly strong freshmen class came in who should be giving us the lift for that drive in march.” 
The women’s team only lost two seniors to gradua­tion in the spring — epeeist melissa medina and foilist adriana camacho. camacho was a four time all-midwest Fencing conference team selection, named to the first team after a third-place fin­ish in foil at the mFc cham­pionships in 2011 and to the second team after finish­ing fifth, eighth and sixth respectively, in the event over the next three years. 
with so many returning women’s team members this year, kvaratskhelia said the coaches can really focus on shoring up the weak spots in the team’s lineup. 
“our probably weaker element was women’s sa­bre, which we revamped,” kvaratskehelia said. “we have one of the best athletes for the sabre side in the na­tion came and became part of us, [freshman] Francesca russo and we are going to utilize that resource. as long as our freshman class was big and strong, but we already had a pretty sub­stantial women’s [roster] re­maining here. so hopefully, women will be our strongest suit going to the national championship, like they al­ways are.” 
kvaratskhelia also pointed out that this year may be one of the most-balanced teams notre dame has fielded in the past few years. 
“years back, we would have a superstar to load up in one weapon, but this year i am 
paid adverTisemenT 
really having a hard time to distinguish,” kvaratskhelia said. “we have [junior foilist] lee kiefer, who is the two-time defending national champion leading the charge with [senior foilist] madison Zeiss, who was the [national] runner-up [in 2014], but i would be mistaken if i really distinguished any in terms of balance wise of the wom­en’s team. 
“The men’s team equally, we have [graduate student] ariel desmet, who won [at] the national championships in 2011, but we have really tenacious and experienced freshman, so as long as the upperclassmen have to keep fighting for their qualifying spots. so i feel really confi­dent about our team.” 
This weekend’s tourna­ment is individual-based, as no teams will travel there or compete together. kvaratskhelia said for the most part, the team’s travel­ing roster would be making the trip. The tournament fea­tures preliminary pool-play matches that serve as seed­ing for a single-elimination tournament. 
kvaratskhelia said the tournament this weekend will be a great warm-up for the team as it starts the season. 
“we are kind of kicking off the season and seeing where we are at in the preparation right now,” kvaratskhelia said. “most of our kids are in the top-15, top-20 rank­ings [in their weapon], some even higher, who will be par­ticipating over there, and it will be their experience — in terms of their results, will be — will matter to try and improve their ranking in the national light. 
“For us, it’s really good to get extra bouting in as a kind of warm-up for the season, because the more you com­pete, the better you com­pare. so we are going to use that as a stepping stone.” 
The north american cup will take place at the portland convention center in portland, oregon, from Friday through monday. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 





By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
after taking an extended peri­od of time off, the irish will look to get back on track as they prepare for this weekend’s rod myers invitational. 
The irish will travel to the duke university golf club in durham, north carolina on saturday to compete in their first event since sept. 30, when they competed in the Fighting irish golf classic at warren golf course. The irish finished seventh in their home event. 
according to irish head coach 
James kubinski, the nearly two-


week break was helpful for the 
paid adverTisemenT 
team’s psyche. 
“our first focus was to take a couple days and be college stu­dents,” kubinski said. “we had competed every weekend for a month, whether in tournaments or at home in qualifying, so we used this past weekend to get a fresh start, looking at these next two tournaments as the next por­tion of our schedule.” 
irish senior patrick grahek hits a shot during the notre dame kickoff challenge on aug. 31.kevin song 
irish senior patrick grahek hits 
a shot during the notre dame 
kickoff challenge on aug. 31. 
The irish have played consis­tently throughout the season, and kubinski said he believes his team is still capable of getting better. 
“we’ve posted five scores [of our 11 team rounds] in the 280s so far, very much high level play,” kubinski said. “i believe we’ve averaged 284 in those five rounds, which is six shots per round better than defending 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish aim to stay consistent 
national champion alabama right now. The issue has been the five rounds when we posted a score over 300. our good is very good. our goal now though is to see each of our guys find a way back to comfortable on those days when things, whatever they are, seem uncomfortable. saving shots on those days when we’re a little off is huge for us.” 
in addition to a steady level of play, kubinski stressed the im­portance of receiving good play from everyone in the lineup, not just one player. 
“i’m not looking at any one player [to step up] in particular,” kubinski said. “it’s imperative for us to have four or all five players in the mix to help our team score.” 
kubinski said he also looks forward to traveling to the duke university golf club, as he has prior experience on the course. he served an assistant coach at duke from 2003 to 2005, and prior to his tenure as assistant, kubinski served as co-head golf professional at the duke university golf club for three years. 
“having spent 5 years at duke, the golf course is very familiar to me,” kubinski said. “The key will be to learn the greens, as they’ve installed champion bermuda [greens]. i’m guessing the greens will be quick, so keeping your ap­proach shot in good position will be the difference between good birdie chances and chasing pars.” 
The irish resume play Friday at the duke university golf club in durham, north carolina. The tournament starts Friday and continues through saturday. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
acc is a good opponent,” romagnolo said. “pitt is a strong, physical team. They do a good job defending, and they’re a difficult team to score on. They have a cou­ple players who can score a lot of goals, so we’ll need to watch that and stay strong on defense.” 
The quick turnaround be­tween games should not af­fect the team’s performance too much, romagnolo said. notre dame boasts a 4-0-1 road record so far this season. 
“with our acc schedule, we get used to having to travel on wednesday to play on Thursday after a sunday game weekend,” romagnolo said. “at this point, we’re not working on too much in train­ing during the week, just try­ing to stay fresh. we’ve been getting creative in utilizing our time.” 
The irish stayed close with the powerhouse cavaliers on sunday right up to the final 21 seconds, when virginia scored the deciding goal that gave it the 2-1 lead. romagnolo said the game against pittsburgh provides an opportunity for the irish to get back on track. 
“we need to get back to playing our possession style and bringing that tenacity back on defense,” romagnolo said. 
in order to avoid dramatic losses like those the team has suffered recently against virginia and north carolina, the team will emphasize sev­eral aspects of its attack in upcoming games, romagnolo said. 
“we’re focusing on being a good possession team, go­ing up the field and taking chances in the last third of the field,” romagnolo said. 
The irish have a host of players who are consistent threats to score. sophomore midfielder morgan andrews has four goals, while senior forward lauren bohaboy and junior defender katie naughton each have three. after them, two players have two goals and four different players have one goal apiece. 
notre dame and pittsburgh square off Thursday at 7 p.m. at ambrose urbanic Field in pittsburgh. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 




The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MacAfee 
conTinued From page 16 
the white freshmen jer­seys — joined the fray on the fourth day. 
“you stick out like a sore thumb,” macafee laughed. 
macafee soon stuck out for another reason. The coach­es lined up the linemen and tight ends for a drill called “The nutcracker.” The sim­ple setup had one offensive lineman trying to block a de­fensive lineman and allow a running back to gain ground. 
ok, macafee, you get in there. 
macafee went up against behemoth mike Fanning, an all-american in 1974 who went on to be a first-round draft pick in the nFl. 
“i go, ‘you gotta be kidding me,’” macafee said when re­alizing who his opponent would be. 
but Fanning stood up a little bit out of his stance, and macafee drove his face straight into Fanning’s chest and “buried” him. he landed on top of him for good mea­sure, macafee said. 
The next day, macafee moved up to third on the depth chart at tight end. by the sixth game of his freshman season, macafee grabbed hold of the starting job. 
he never looked back. 
after a 10-2 season in 1974 in which the irish topped alabama in the orange bowl, macafee earned three consecutive all-american citations over his next three seasons. as a senior, macafee finished third in the heisman Trophy voting. in four seasons, the brockton, massachusetts native hauled in 128 receptions for 1,759 yards and 15 touchdowns. 
during the 1977 season, notre dame scored at least 30 points in seven of its 12 games. The irish piled up 49 points against usc, 69 against georgia Tech and 48 against miami in the regu­lar-season finale, setting the stage for the cotton bowl tilt with Texas. 
with unbeaten teams drop­ping around the nation, notre dame knew a blowout win could vault it to no. 1 in the polls and seal the 10th national championship in program history. macafee said the irish were confident heading into the matchup with the longhorns, espe­cially with irish quarterback Joe montana playing so well. 
“we just didn’t think we could lose,” macafee said. “a lot of the guys on the team were overconfident, i think, and some of the coaches re­minded us that we still had to play the game.” 
notre dame forced six Texas turnovers, and the irish rolled to a 38-10 demolition. 
“we just obliterated them,” macafee said. after going 16 seasons 
without a national champion­ship before winning in 1966, macafee and the irish had just added their third in 12 years. Tradition was building elsewhere, too, as macafee followed former irish tight end dave casper — a 1973 all-american — in laying the foundation of the so-called “Tight end u.” 
“it’s kind of cool as far as i’m concerned,” macafee said. “i enjoy being mentioned in the group with all the great tight ends. … To be able to be one of the initiators of ‘Tight end u,’ so to speak, is flattering.” 
The tradition of Tight end u, macafee said, is just anoth­er hallmark of a school filled with relics. macafee quickly developed an appreciation for his campus, making fre­quent visits to the grotto. and after three years living in grace hall, macafee moved into a single in sorin college for his senior year, saying he wanted “some real tradition back.” From macafee’s room, he could look out his win­dow every morning and see the basilica and the golden dome. 
“it was always inspirational to me,” macafee said, before adding with a chuckle, “ex­cept for the fact that the bells rang every hour. Tough to get sleep.” 
Following his days at notre dame, macafee didn’t find much time for sleep, either, playing in the nFl from July through January before studying dentistry at the university of pennsylvania from January through June. macafee juggled both for three years before his nFl career ended. 
“Thankfully the dean at penn was very progressive because he allowed me to play football and go to school at the same time,” macafee said. “i thank him every day just because he allowed me to do both.” 
macafee had been interest­ed in oral and maxillofacial surgery since he was a 16­year old working a summer job with former holy cross (mass.) football captain bill moncevicz, who, at the time, was in dental school. after eight years on the academia side of dentistry and oral surgery, macafee now has a private practice in waltham, massachusetts, and works 11­hour days. 
macafee’s daughter, keeley, has committed to play la­crosse at harvard. his son, dalton, was a one-time notre dame lacrosse commit who eventually pledged to play hockey at boston university. 
“so he came to me and goes, ‘dad i think i’d rather play hockey at bu,’” macafee said. “‘That’s ok, you have to make your decision.’” 
Just as macafee did — de­spite the “horrible” first im­pression — 40 years ago. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
more athletic this year with the addition of our three freshmen, brianna, mychal and kathryn,” sophomore guard lindsay allen said. “i feel like we’ll be more athletic. i feel like we’ll be able to press a lit­tle bit more than we did last year. and i feel like our length is really gonna show this year.” 
Turner, who never ac­tually attended a game at purcell pavilion during her recruiting process, said she is eager to lace up for the irish. 
“i remember i watched them last year and in their previous Final Fours be­fore i was really recruited by them, but now actually being here, it’s kind of sur­real,” Turner said. “it’s like, ‘wow, i have an opportu­nity to go to a Final Four, to win a national cham­pionship,’ so it’s really exciting.” 
with that youth, mcgraw said, might come some early troubles for the irish. 
“we’re young. we’re just so young,” she said. “we’re inexperienced — that is something that you just can’t teach. so that’s where we’re going to struggle. … last year, we were just so smooth, and everyone knew what to do.” 
off the court, the irish lost a key vocal leader in achonwa, but mcgraw said allen and junior guard michaela mabrey have taken on her previous role. 
“This year, we’re expecting that lindsay allen is really going to step up her leader­ship,” mcgraw said. “last year, she didn’t have to tell anybody what to do because everybody knew, and now, she’s playing with a lot of younger players.” 
in the last few seasons, notre dame’s strength has come in its guard play, pro­ducing all-americans like loyd and former standout skylar diggins. This year, however, mcgraw said the team’s post players have be­come a strong point for the irish. 
“we have the best post, the most definite post that we’ve had in a long time,” mcgraw said. “we can go big and play three, four and five really big, which is something that we’ve already looked at in practice and having [irish associate head coach carol owens] working down there with them — it just takes a load off my mind because i know that they’re getting exactly what they need from her.” 
sophomore forward Taya reimer said the group has worked to replicate achonwa’s steady presence down low. 
“we knew that we were los­ing a lot in natalie,” reimer said. “we all knew that all of us, as a post group, we had to step up this year, so we just put in a lot of hours over the summer working with [owens] and just getting stronger in the weight room.” 
The irish have a little less than a month before they tip off their season in an exhibi­tion against Ferris state on nov. 5 at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS  | aleXandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Jump into action and don’t stop until you reach your destination. This is a year of accomplishment, both personal and professional. put your energy into your dreams and take advantage of any opportunity to call in favors or reconnect with people you feel can contribute or influence your future positively. love is highlighted and a promise can be made. your numbers are 5, 19, 26, 30, 35, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): difficulties will sprout up if you let your emotions run wild. unexpected circumstances will lead to meeting an eccentric individual with something interesting to offer. don’t judge too quickly; there is an extraordinary lesson and benefit from this encounter. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): keep your private matters a secret. sharing something with someone you work with will eventually hurt your chance to advance. Focus on listening and gathering information that will enable you to secure a good position. don’t spend, save. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): network with people in powerful positions and you will get the chance to show off what you have to offer. romance is your ticket to a better personal relationship and standard of living. keep an open mind and enjoy the youthful energy. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): protect your home, your possessions and your physical and emotional well-being. get together with friends who enjoy the same activities that you do. stabilizing your future can be as easy as taking an unusual course. let your creative imagination lead the way. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel and interacting with people who interest you will bring positive opportunities for future prospects. don’t let negative influences put a damper on your day. keep your eyes, ears and heart open, and an unexpected situation will lead to a new beginning. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make adjustments at home that will ease financial stress. research coupled with shopping for a bargain will help you cut your costs and maintain a sustainable environment. discuss your plans and you will get the support you need to move forward. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t give in to demands. protect what you have worked so hard to achieve. express your intentions with color and passion. a change of location will lead to good fortune. call in favors and follow through. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make unusual alterations to your home or to the way or where you live. a creative idea you have should be developed. you are best to keep your overhead down and stick to basics until you are in a position to spend without concern. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put more effort into getting ahead personally and professionally. what you do for others now will pay off later. changes to your love life or a partnership are apparent. an upbeat approach to whatever you do in unison will bring good results. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): maintain a low profile. keep your ideas and plans a secret until you are fully prepared to present what you have to offer with confidence. expect opposition and interference from friends, family or your peers. proceed with caution. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on legal, financial and medical issues and you will make headway. look for positive professional opportunities and you will find a new way to raise your standard of living. romance will improve your personal life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): accept the inevitable and keep moving forward. revamp your plans and secure your assets. don’t let an incident lead to a no-win situation. arguing will not resolve matters. Focus on your gains, not others. 

Birthday Baby: you are energetic, opportunistic and appealing. you are sincere and altruistic. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES | ken macaFee 
MacAfee becomes part of ‘Tight End U’ 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
among the 205 schools that recruited him, amid the 28 visits he planned and the 12 visits he actually made, one weekend in particular stands out for ken macafee. 
it wasn’t the somewhat ex­ploitative joy ride he took to visit colorado, which was re­ally more of a means to visit his sister and spend a day on the ski slopes. no, the one that macafee recalls in­volved similar weather, but no skiing. 
“i probably had the worst recruiting trip ever at notre dame,” the former irish tight end recalled recently by phone. 
in mid-January in 1974, notre dame was set to wel­come roughly 30 football re­cruits to campus. The first leg of the flight took the players to chicago, but foggy condi­tions prevented the next leg of the flight to south bend. so macafee and his fellow pros­pects hopped onto a bus to 
make the trek to campus. The bus arrived around 
1:30 a.m. to a mix of snow and rain falling near main circle and the waiting irish coach­es, who quickly put the play­ers up in the morris inn. 
“Just miserable,” macafee recalled. 
Things didn’t improve too quickly, either, as “terrible” weather didn’t allow for much fun. 
but on Friday night, macafee watched the irish hockey team knock off no. 1 michigan Tech, which would advance to the next three Frozen Fours, 7-1. notre dame would surge up the rankings. 
on saturday night, macafee witnessed arguably the most famous irish men’s basketball game ever — notre dame’s 71-70 win over ucla, an up­set that snapped the bruins’ remarkable 88-game winning streak. 
on sunday night — still in town after weather pre­vented macafee from flying out on his scheduled flight — macafee went to the football banquet honoring the 1973 national championship team. 
at one point during the bas­ketball game, macafee’s host, former irish tight end mike creaney, turned to macafee. 
“multiply this by 10 and you have a football game,” creaney said. 
“where do i sign up?” macafee asked. 
“From a perspective of a high-school student, visual­izing all this and certainly athletically as well as aca­demically, there’s no other school in the country that can compare to it,” macafee said. “no other school could touch it.” 
macafee found himself comparing every school he visited to notre dame. a few months later, he was on cam­pus preparing for the 1974 season. 
after three days of fresh­men-only, no-pad practices, the upperclassmen — wear­ing their blue-and-gold prac­tice uniforms, in contrast to 
see macaFee PAGE 14 


Observer File Photo 

Former Notre Dame tight end Ken MacAfee shakes hands with Irish coach Dan Devine during the 1977 national championship season. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

notre dame looks to continue road success 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 

sports writer  
no. 14 notre dame will get  
a chance to bounce back from  
sunday’s last-minute loss to  
no. 4 virginia when it trav­ 
els to pittsburgh to face the  
panthers on Thursday.  
pittsburgh (6-6-0, 2-2-0  
acc) is unranked, unlike  
other teams the irish (7-4-1,  
2-2-0) have recently faced,  
including virginia, no. 9  
virginia Tech and no. 7 north  
carolina.  
however, the panthers en­ 
ter the matchup after consec­ 
utive conference wins against  
syracuse and north carolina  
state. pittsburgh faces a  
swing of games against three  
top-15 teams in coming  
weeks, as it will play the Tar  
heels and no. 2 Florida state  
after facing the irish.  
irish coach Theresa  
romagnolo said the team can  
never overlook an acc op­ 
ponent, and pittsburgh has  
many qualities that make it a  
formidable road foe.  
“every opponent in the  EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer  
Irish sophomore midfielder Morgan Andrews prepares to attempt a  
see w soccer PAGE 13  tackle during Notre Dame’s 2-1 home loss to Texas Tech on Aug. 29.  

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish set eyes on national title 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
The irish have yet to offi­cially lay out their goals for the upcoming season, but af­ter four straight trips to the Final Four, head coach muffet mcgraw said she knows there is one that will definitely be on that list. 
“we’re competing for a national championship,” mcgraw said at the team’s media day wednesday. “That’s our main goal.” 
notre dame has a new look for this season after losing three of its starters to gradu­ation — all-american guard kayla mcbride, all-american forward natalie achonwa and forward ariel braker. 
mcgraw said she will look to junior guard Jewell loyd 
— who led the irish in scor­ing last year with 18.6 points per game — to step up as the go-to player on the court this year. 
“it’s hard to imagine [loyd] getting better,” mcgraw said with a laugh. “she’s been so good. … she is so ready, just so ready to go. she has been working extremely hard. she’s in the gym all the time, and she just is anxious for the season to get going so that she can really see what she’s go­ing to do.” 
loyd said she is ready to face the attention that will come her way on the court. 
“i think it makes it fun for the game,” loyd said. “That what you look for — you look for one-on-one competitions. you look at how you can beat the other team, and that’s something that i look forward to and i’m excited for.” 
The irish have also brought in three freshmen to help re­build a program that has seen consistent success over the last several seasons. 
making up that group are guard mychal Johnson and forwards brianna Turner and kathryn westbeld. Turner won the 2014 gatorade national high school Female athlete of the year award, and westbeld joined her as a mcdonald’s high school all-american. 
“i feel like we’ll be a lot 
see w bball PAGE 14 





