the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre dame and and report saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 8 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students use SAO app at Activities Night 
More than 300 clubs distribute information, recruit members at annual event 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
at tuesday night’s annual student activities night hosted by the student activities office (sao) and the club coordination council (ccc), upperclassmen represented more than 300 groups in the Joyce athletic and convocation center, where thousands of students pushed their way through aisles of tables to sign up for extracurricular activities. 
“we printed 4,000 handouts and we normally go through nearly all of them,” sao program director paul manrique said. 
first-year students in particu­lar had a chance to learn more about opportunities on campus and speak to students who share similar interests. 
“it’s a little overwhelming, but it’s great that there’s something for ev­eryone,” freshman sarah christie said. 
in conjunction with the activi­ties fair, sao also launched its new iphone app tuesday. the app, available for free on itunes, “basi­cally allows students to find and contact clubs from their phones,” ccc special interest division chair and junior betel ali said. 
the app offers an “opportunity to browse clubs and organiza­tions on the go at activities night or around campus,” according to the its official itunes description. it invites users to “create your profile, add your favorite clubs and 
see activities PAGE 4 




University to build $36 million research facility 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
in June, the university an­nounced a project to build the nation’s premier turbine engine component research and testing facility, which will give research­ers and students the opportunity to study and improve upon the technology used in aircraft and power production, according to a notre dame press release. 

the $36 million project, in which other partners include general electric (ge), the city of sound bend, the state of indiana, great lakes capital and indiana michigan power, will be com­pleted by march 2015 and fully operational by July 2016, the press release said. notre dame will contribute $7.5 million to the project, which will occupy 25,000 square feet of south bend’s ignition park and directly gener­ate 60 new jobs. 
notre dame vice president for research robert bernhard said the project will also allow unpar­alleled academic opportunities for students. 
“the facility is able to support experiments at the extreme 
see facility PAGE 4 


nd welcomes grammy­winning singer 
gunn, who grew up in south well, smith said. 

By MADISON JAROS 

news writer bend, felt drawn to notre dame “the idea of … this artist-in-res­idence position was an outgrowth 

saint mary’s panel discusses ferguson 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
studies helen ho said. 
“the ferguson story has be­come such an enormous and 
the notre dame department 
of music will welcome grammy 
award-winning baritone nathan 
gunn as artist-in-residence next 
week as the beginning of a four-
year stint during which the ac-


of those two components — that 
a panel discussion ongoing contentious narrative 

[gunn] had gotten to know some  tuesday at saint mary’s titled  in the last few months, and it’s  
of our faculty members, he had  “understanding ferguson  and  something that sets the back- 
worked with some of our students,  its aftermath” explored the aug.  drop for our return to campus,  
he had performed here and his  9 shooting of michael brown by  a place for critical discussion  
family was here too,” he said.  police officer darren wilson in  and thoughtful deliberation,” ho  
smith said gunn would partici­ ferguson, mo., and used the in- said. “panels like this help can  

news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 football PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 
claimed musician will perform 
for the notre dame community, 

pate in the standard responsibili­
cident as a starting point for in-help to provide a space for con-

instruct students and collaborate not only because of his ties to the ties of an artist-in-residence 
terdisciplinary dialogue among versation, as well as a 

with faculty, department chair city, but because of his past in-
faculty and students, panelist 

peter smith said. teractions with the university as see gunn PAGE 3 
and professor of communication see ferguson PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
Which celebrity would you never want to sit next to on a bus? 

Moira Hubbell 

Nikki Charter 
sophomore 
senior 
lyons hall 
opus hall 
“taylor swift.” 
“Kim Kardashian.” 


Samantha Wirth 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“miley cyrus.” 

Colleen Tigani 
senior welsh family hall 
“Jimmy fallon - i would cry of happiness the whole time.” 
Mike Silvernagle 
senior 
carroll hall 

“Justin bieber - i don’t trust canadians, they’re too friendly.” 

Kelley Wright 
senior 
opus hall 
“charlie sheen.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville mary green alex winegar renee griffin 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Wellness Wednesday Second Annual Fro-ND Band: Trumpets Notre Dame Football La Misa en Espaol 
Karla moreno bianca almada 
Rockne Memorial Yo Social under the Dome Notre Dame Stadium Dillon Hall Chapel 3 p.m. LaFortune Student Main Building 7:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Relax with free yoga. Center 4:10 p.m. - 4:20 p.m. Final matchup Mass is celebrated in 
Corrections 

1 p.m. Kick off for home between storied rivals. Spanish. Mass will be 
in the september 2nd edition of the Open to the public. football weekend. followed by a lunch. observer, the article “smc professors embrace theater” referred to bill 
LGBTQ 101 Mindful Mediation Football Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass Film: The Great 
svelmoe with an incorrect title. 

LaFortune Student Coleman-Morse To Be Announced Basilica of the Sacred Gatsby 
svelmoe is a professor of history. the 
Center Center 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart DeBartolo Performing 
observer regrets this error. 

7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Cheer on the Irish as 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Arts Center Learn about LGBTQ All faith traditions they prepare to face Mass preceding 3 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. issues on campus. welcome. Michigan. football game. $4 entry for students. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | the observer 


SMC welcomes int’l students 
By KIERA JOHNSON 
news writer 
the international buddy program at saint mary’s college, designed to connect incom­ing international students with saint mary’s students from the united states, kicked off the year tuesday with its first ma­jor event, the international ice cream social in dalloway’s clubhouse. 
the event, sponsored by international student services, the global studies department and the saint mary’s student government association (sga), is the first of many to be done by the newly-launched program, which aims to help international students integrate themselves into the saint mary’s commu­nity, according to catherine sullivan, a senior and interna­tional co-chair of sga. 
“the program connects re­turning saint mary’s students with first-year international stu­dents, new english language school students and new ex­change students on a personal level,” sullivan said. “the stu­dents spend time together, study together, help each other get involved on campus and more. the ultimate goal is much more than just having a returning belle help a new belle manage campus life; it is to connect two people from two different cul­tures on a personal level.” 
the program, which had an application process for re­turning students, received an overwhelming response. sullivan said the wide support was both heartwarming and unsurprising. 
“one of the most unique and beautiful facts about saint mary’s is the powerful sense of community that envelopes our entire campus, faculty, staff and students included,” she said. “… all of the young women chosen as international buddies spoke of the outstanding qualities of saint mary’s that they are still learning to appreciate.” 
sullivan said the international buddy program can offer life-changing experiences to both the international and domestic students. 
“not only does it give our do­mestic students the opportunity to learn about a new culture, to nurture a new friendship and to introduce ladies to the home they love so much, but it gives them the opportunity to appre­ciate and take advantage of the community around them,” she said. “all of the students in this program will be looking for in­teresting, fun and new opportu­nities to share with one another.” 
grace Kumor, a sophomore in the program, said she wanted the opportunity to learn about fellow students from around the world. 
“i am really interested in cul­tures from all around the world, and being able to be firsthand with someone who is from a dif­ferent country is really interest­ing to me,” Kumor said. 
ruby truong, a sophomore from vietnam and international co-chair of sga, said she hopes international students find a second home at saint mary’s. 
“when we international stu­dents decided to come to a dif­ferent country, we wanted to know more about this country,” truong said. “i feel like i would be very happy if i would have an american mentor like that so that i could know about their cultures that we don’t have in our countries. it’s very good for both international and domestic students because the american students can know about differ­ent countries as well.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsion at  kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 
paid advertisement 
Gunn 
continued from page 1 
— giving performances as well as conducting master classes, which allow one student to receive voice instruction while others look on. however, gunn will approach the position far more personally than past artists-in-residence, begin­ning next week when he will pro­vide one-on-one voice lessons to five students, smith said. gunn will also visit classes and work on scholarly pursuits with faculty. 
fifth-year senior elizabeth curtin, one of the students who will work one-on-one with gunn, said she is looking forward to the opportunities a grammy award-winning artist can provide to stu­dents, many of whom have heard gunn perform before. 
“i couldn’t be more excited about nathan spending some time with us at notre dame,” curtin said. “i have had the privi­lege of watching him perform sev­eral times, and actually having the opportunity to interact with and learn from him will just be fantas­tic for the music students here, es­pecially those studying voice.” 
curtin said gunn will be effec­tive in helping music majors de­velop their talents. 
“nathan gunn, besides being an expert in his field, is also ex­tremely approachable and down-to-earth,” curtin said. “ianticipate that the students will find it easy to work with him and that he will be able to offer insight in his coaching sessions that is accessible and rel­evant to the aspiring musicians of today.” 
gunn’s activities will impact not only music students, but also the campus community as well, smith said. gunn will perform felix mendelssohn’s ‘elijah’ for the university and south bend com­munities march 1 of next year. 
“for the campus community, having someone like [gunn] do­ing public events and performing is of course an enrichment,” he said. “if [students] went to hear nathan sing at the lyric opera in chicago and they wanted a rea­sonably good ticket, it would cost several hundred dollars. whereas here, the student price is probably $20.” 
overall, adding gunn to the department of music’s programs and plans is an incredible oppor­tunity, smith said. 
“any school of music — Julliard or indiana university bloomington, the curtis institute of [music], or the new england conservatory of music — any top conservatory or school of music in the country, even the world, would consider themselves fortunate to have this kind of opportunity,” smith said. “and we’re getting it here atnotre dame.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 



the observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Activities 
continued from page 1 
instantly send out emails to or­ganizations to request more info.” 
designed by a student, the sao app gives students the ability to enter information for their own profiles, including full name, class year and intended major. users can then search the sao club database by name or by category to look up specific clubs, which can be added to the student’s “favorites.” 
additionally, the app has a fea­ture that uses mail, apple’s email program, to send a pre-written message to clubs. using the infor­mation from the student’s profile, the app drafts an email requesting more information about the club; the student can choose to edit the email or to send it as is. 
“hopefully it’s going to make activities night easier,” senior ccc member Joe mcnally said. “if you can’t get to a table you’re looking for because it’s too crowded, you can just double tap on the club’s name in the app and find their information.” 
students who used the app said it helped them navigate the hustle and bustle of the fair. 
“i wish i’d had the app last year,” sophomore elle scott said. “… it would definitely have made activities night less overwhelming.” 
david mattingly, assistant director of sao, said the app has been a work in progress for the last two years. 
“it wasn’t quite ready yet for last 
Facility 
continued from page 1 
conditions [such as tempera­ture, pressure and velocity] of real gas turbine engines,” bernhard said. “students will have better ac­cess to observe these conditions than any other facility in the world with the opportunity to learn about the physics of gas flow in gas turbine engines. 
“in addition, the experimental measurements made in this fa­cility are unique. undergraduate and graduate students will learn about very unique measurement methods that are state-of-the-art.” 
the research students and notre dame faculty perform could also directly translate into new techniques or products for turbine producers, bernhard said. 
“the research our faculty and students will conduct at the fa­cility could be implemented by gas turbine engine manufactur­ers within several years,” he said. “the various studies might result in higher engine efficiency, better performance, lower emissions or lower costs or some combination of these factors.” 
university president fr. John Jenkins said the project will stim­ulate the local economy as well as produce unique educational opportunities. 
“this venture will be a cutting-edge research and testing facility for the turbine engine industry as well as a tremendous economic driver for our region,” Jenkins said in a statement. “notre dame is year’s activities night, and i want­ed to make it usable for more than one night — two hours, really — per year,” he said. 
the finished product is a tool mattingly wants students to use year-round. 
“the hope is that if Joe or sally student decided in november that they wanted to get involved, they could reach out to the clubs without having to leave their dorm room,” he said. “it empowers stu­dent to send notes directly to the club without having to reach out personally.” 
sophomore mallory dreyer said the app eliminated the need to fight her way through the peren­nial crowds in the Jacc. 
“it was nice to have the app be­cause i didn’t feel that well and didn’t want to walk all the way across campus,” dreyer said. “… i emailed all the clubs i was inter­ested in before activities fair even started.” 
some students, however, pre­ferred the experience of activities night to the app. 
“it’s better to get to know the members and see them than to just read about, it’s a more real ex­perience,” freshman tianyi tan said. 
other students were disappoint­ed that the app is currently only available for iphone users. 
“i really appreciate the idea of the app,” freshman anna levesque said. “i just can’t use it.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
grateful to our partners for their support of this project and ex­cited about all that it will mean to our university, the city and state, the industry as a whole and our nation.” 
the facility is expected to create more than $15 million in expendi­tures annually, and indiana gov­ernor mike pence said it highlights indiana’s growing presence in the aerospace industry. 
“the aerospace industry is reaching new heights in indiana,” pence said, according to the press release. “universities like notre dame and others across the state are providing avenues for discov­ery, proving that the sky is the limit in indiana when it comes to bringing a big vision to life. the next great technological innova­tion could come from the mind of a hoosier, highlighting for the world the full range of possibili­ties when investing in a state that works.” 
south bend deputy mayor mark neal said the project illus­trates the city’s commitment to business innovation and econom­ic development. 
“attracting such major invest­ment speaks to south bend’s economic future and its capacity to attract high-tech businesses,” neal said in the press release. “this project continues our city’s history of innovation and is more evidence of the benefits that south bend’s economic and geographic advantages offer.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Ferguson 
continued from page 1 

contextualization and syn­thesis of ideas for those who have been following, or trying to follow, the events.” 
the panel also included Jamie wagman, assistant professor of history and gender and women’s studies, and stacy davis, associ­ate professor of religious studies and chair of the department of gender and women’s studies. senior humanistic studies ma­jor clare maher also partici­pated, panel coordinator and assistant professor of english ann marie alfonso-forero said. 
“during the weeks that fol­lowed [the shooting of michael brown], there was a lot of news coverage of the event and the community grieved … while the police in ferguson respond­ed to it with tanks and tear gas,” alfonso-forero said. “we were talking about how we might address this issue with our stu­dents, and we’d feel remiss if we didn’t address this in some way.” 
the purpose of the panel was to discuss the historical and social contexts of the shoot­ing, the militarization of police in ferguson and the ongoing protests demanding justice, wagman said. 
“we know there was a con­frontation between an armed police officer and an unarmed teenager,” she said. “… the com­munity responded with pro­tests. the protest pride became ‘hands up, don’t shoot.’ other towns, cities and college cam­puses held rallies for peace and justice. at times, the media has questioned brown’s character.” 
maher said the increased role of social media in telling and spreading stories like those from ferguson highlight her generation’s reluctance to use social media as a truly reliable informing medium. she en­couraged the audience to use social media for more substan­tive discussions using credible sources. 
“in the age of social media, we don’t research why, and context is not something we value,” she said. “headlines are often the only way we read a newspaper. social media is not meant to be comprehensive, it’s meant to be social. 
“our society is increasingly underinformed. the picture we get from the news media is unin­formed. declaring our personal stance in social media seems significant, [but] you should be moved to look at more than just a buzzfeed article. change the narrative, find context. publish articles in your status.” 
davis addressed the subject of militarization, particularly armed police mili­tarization and the perceptions of police in african-american communities. 
“one of the things that folks have been protesting about in ferguson is what they have called the militarization of the police force, the use of armored cars,” davis said. “the police have acted like the military.” 
“my hope is that what is hap­pening in ferguson will once again start a conversation about 
paid advertisement 
the relationship between law enforcement and civilians,” she said. “at least in black commu­nities, this is just one more un­armed black kid. the hope for us and for anybody is, can we reach a point where these things do not happen? most of the folks in ferguson just want to know what happened to one of their own.” 
beyond media treatment of the story, ho said americans should realize the role of gov­ernment officials in the incident and inform themselves about the deep-seeded issues behind the incident. 
“we should, as citizens in a democracy, have a right to hold our elected officials account­able and have a say in how we are protected, and by whom,” ho said. “… it’s easy for out­siders, professional reporters, politicians and others to say things should be fine in a place like ferguson. but, those who have talked to the residents of ferguson find a different story, a story about a community whose lived experience is very different. 
“the fact that this story has resonated for so many around the country illustrates that these feelings and experiences resonate beyond ferguson. this shared sense of, ‘here we go again,’ is something people should be using to come togeth­er to discuss larger contexts of race, representation, media nar­ratives and social justice.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 


paid advertisement the observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




INSIDE COLUMN 

open your door 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 

when the time comes to go to school in the fall, it seems everyone has a piece of advice, some wisdom to impart about how to make my time in college the best it can be. 
they say, “do everything you possibly can,” but also, “make sure you get enough sleep!” 
after a while, i always end up just smiling and shrugging it off, while trying to pretend that their singular piece of generic advice will be what forever alters my college experience. 
however, there is one tidbit that ihave found extremely important in my short time here on campus. i think it was my dad who told me this. at the time, it sounded just like the rest of the voices, but it has come to be a very impor­tant part of my experience in our wonderful dorms here at notre dame. 
he simply told me: open your door. 

although it seems trivial, this one habit will make your entire dorm experience better. 
Keeping your door open does the same for all the chances that the spontaneity of hall life brings you. Joining the guys walking by to go play pickup basketball, visit the grotto, the dining halls and events around campus or just hang out and talk for a bit are seemingly ran­dom occurrences that will define your college experience more than the specific classes you take. 
maybe even get a little speaker or two and play music when you are in your room. make your room as inviting an atmosphere as pos­sible. not only will this signal to everyone else that they are free to come in and chat, it will greatly help you see your room as some place to be desired, especially when you come to realize you voluntarily decided to live through a south bend winter. having an inviting room will also help reduce your stress levels as the year gets into full swing. 
now, i am not saying this should be a 24/7 policy. this is college after all — there are going to be days where you are so jammed with work you might barely be able to get to sleep before 2 
a.m. you are going to have an extremely im­portant paper to write or exam to study for. go ahead and shut your door for those moments when you really need to focus, but if you are working on some homework that is not due in the next 15 minutes, why not open your door? saying “hi” to the people who walk by, taking a few minutes to chat with a new friend or get­ting to know someone a little better is not going to kill you or send your grades down the drain. there are so many incredible people here at notre dame, and it would be a shame to miss out on an opportunity to meet any of them. 
everyone here claims that their residence hall is the best dorm on campus and, honestly, they are all correct (unless we include Knott, of course. then they are all the second-best dorms on campus). the community found in the residence halls here is hard to find any­where else, so take advantage of it. 
open your door, and open yourself to the experiences that are what college is all about. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Recipes to come 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 

Ingredients: One copy of the Observer Preheat mind for the beginning of a new school year. Read thoroughly for 2-3 minutes. 
as this is my first column in a series i will be writing for the observer, and it will be popping up every two weeks, i thought i would take this first submission to introduce myself, what i will be writing about and why. 
i call this “recipes for getting by.” pretty catchy, right?  i found out yesterday that there’s a movie called “the art of getting by.” i didn’t do much research fur­ther than studying its release poster, which features an edgy emma roberts and a gangly adolescent artist on the streets of new york city. both characters appear to be floundering in their own teen angst. while this col­umn may include the occasional minimal amount of teen angst, the similarities between my column and the movie end there. instead, i will aim to provide “recipes” of precise, easy methods that any college student can try while muddling through the stressful maze of the undergraduate world. to be completely honest, however, a large part of the reasoning behind the naming of my column stems from my desire to keep a food theme, as i really enjoy eating. 
my past two years at notre dame have fully exposed me to the serious and driven nature of our student body. the nd culture is infused with competition, hard work and a perpetual desire to achieve. as students of a top-tier university, many of us are programed to over-sched­ule, overload and overthink. it’s not necessarily a bad thing; these traits go along with being at a university composed of some of the greatest minds of today and tomorrow. on the other hand, however, working hard and playing hard all time can be tedious, stressful and just exhausting. this column is my attempt at sharing some tips and tricks on how not to sweat the small stuff. this is my “gourmet” advice, with a sense of humor, if you will. 
i won’t be writing about the most serious of issues, but i will be addressing the things in a notre dame stu­dent’s life that cause unnecessary worry. we all need a relief sometimes, and i hope to help provide it. here’s a preview: ways to confront your roommate about any awkward tension or problems, how creating a neopets account can help boost self-confidence before a big exam, a fast and efficient way to pay for $3 cab rides without the whole “who-still-hasn’t-paid” confusion and diy office hours. 
i hope to convey a light-hearted message and humor­ous tone throughout this column. these “recipes for getting by” may or may not always work, as many of these things are little tricks i’ve personally found help­ful when it comes to shedding unnecessary stress and dealing with the overall chaos of college life. people deal with their issues in all kinds of different ways. nevertheless, it is my sincerest intention that the sheer comic relief of this column will help ease your unwar­ranted stress and worry. 
never underestimate the power of a good laugh and a smile. more advice to come. 
Paige Affinito is a junior residing in Breen-Phillips Hall. She can be reached at Paige.N.Affinito.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. only through experience of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, ambition inspired, and success achieved.” 
Helen Keller 

inspirational speaker, activist 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


thinking about the argument 
Charlie Ducey 
english channeled 

i just finished reading some blog posts by a self-described catholic apologist named matt fradd. the posts dealt with the conflict concerning athe­ism and science and god. in the comments sec­tion were a number of posts from both the theist and atheist sides of the fence. reading the com­ments, i felt sad. 
“why can’t we all just stop fighting about god and just live our lives peacefully?” i wanted to ask. “instead of arguing about cerebral theological concepts, why don’t you go take out the garbage or call your mother or address any other number of immediate concerns?” was another question that i wished to enter into the fray of mud-slinging and high sophistry. promoting human well-being 
— isn’t that what we should focus on? or, i don’t know, seeking good in the world? isn’t that more important than arguing about beliefs that are just way out there? 
now that i think about it more, i guess the defi­nitions of “good” and “human well-being” and how you go about promoting those gravely im­portant notions rest upon the existence of god. if there is no god, can we still trust the bible’s ren­dition of how to live a good life? if god does exist, should we even worry about enjoying earthly life if salvation or perdition waits around the bend, and the distance to these is infinitely small if those fates last for all eternity? this is some heavy stuff, and like many people, i often just don’t want to deal with it. 
but at some point, we do have to deal with it. death, the prevalence of suffering, the absence of apparent purpose and a myriad of other dilemmas force us to dip into the theological well-spring or toward science or secular philosophy as our guide to addressing these tough issues. when it comes down to it, we all have to live our lives. we all probably die. i don’t know for sure, since i have never felt the terrifying clutch of death. for that matter, how do i even know that my foot won’t fall through the floor when i take my next step? now here i go jumping onto the loony train of episte­mological thought. 
i suppose if i want to live life practically, i have to assume some things. for example, i assume gravity will continue to operate as it has for the last 19 years of my experience, or that the people with whom i interact aren’t just robots, and maybe too that there is a loving being who is directing everything in line with some kind of aim. is it re­ally that outrageous to make that jump? am i an imbecile for assuming, just as i assume that my parents really love me, that god is out there, that god made everything and that god grants us a little peace of mind by ensuring the continuity of our souls? does that make me a lunatic? and con­versely, are people off their rockers if they think otherwise? if someone thinks that god didn’t make the universe and that spirituality exists as a figment of our imaginations, is that person bonkers? 
not necessarily. but to return to the comments section of matt fradd’s posts, there were a score of people who had gone bananas. Just completely ba­nanas. there was all of this bantering and scoff­ing at others’ beliefs. were these people posting without hardly thinking? yeah, i think that some of them were. and this is really the point for me. if you’re going to believe something, think it out. i don’t mean lengthen your arguments in favor of it in a way to justify it. i mean take it to task. take it back to the drawing board and scribble all over it with the pen of the opposition. 
consider the fullness of what you are saying, the critiques and rebuttals. and then, no matter what you believe, i can respect that. i would hope that it would benefit some greater, transcendent, objec­tive good, but if it doesn’t, at least i know that you have thought it through. i will still disagree with you and argue my side, but i will be open to your input and criticism, and you ought to be open to mine if you really are receptive to the critical process that hopefully formed your beliefs. if you aren’t, i’ll call your views lazy. who knows? you might just change my mind. but you have to think, really think, before you even try. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Shakespeare (English) and Wittgenstein (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, U.K. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Behind the Irish Non-Athlete t-shirt 
you may have seen them around campus: the irish non-athlete t-shirts. while the wording on the shirt is simple, the message is unclear for some. as the president of the wabruda, the club behind the production of the irish non-athlete t-shirts, i want to address the notre dame community on their his­tory and meaning. 
the irish non-athlete t-shirts provide the wabruda and the greater student body a means to address a historical social issue on our campus. first created to address the misconception that every minority student on campus plays a varsity sport, the shirt has evolved in meaning as time has progressed. this shirt has become a means by which all students on campus can display that, while they do not play a varsity sport on campus, they still play a major role in representing and bringing honor to our lady’s university. 
the shirt is in no way meant to ostracize our uni­versity’s athletes. we appreciate and acknowledge the hard work and dedication that our athletes put into not only their studies, but also their athletic crafts. we encourage athletes to wear the shirt and invite them to partake in the intellectual elevation that the wabruda aims to achieve. this problem is not one that is only faced by our “non-athletes,” but also by our athletes, as they are stereotyped as hav­ing less work ethic in the classroom because of their athletic pursuits. the shirt, coupled with athletes’ various assortment of team-issued shirts, could be used to show the multiple facets of the notre dame student-athlete. 
the wabruda does not aim to offend, but looks to address this social problem and create a stimu­lating campus-wide dialogue. once obtained, it is strongly encouraged that the message on the shirt is shared in a way that helps to spread awareness and cause for a more unified and inviting campus for all. 
some believe that the harsh wording “non-ath­lete” can be taken as a hostile attack against a spe­cific group on notre dame’s campus. however, the wording is as it is in order to create no ambiguity in the primary social misconception that it aims to combat. with the progressive resolution and eradi­cation of social problems such as these, we will all truly be able to proclaim that we are nd. 
Dre Smith 
president the wabruda sept. 1 


the observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

the showtime period drama “masters of sex” is based on the real life dr. william masters (michael sheen) and virginia Johnson (lizzy caplan), who conducted ground­breaking research on human sexuality at washington university in st. louis beginning in the late 1950s. the scope of their relationship soon moves far beyond sim­ply being research partners, and the couple’s chemistry becomes the show’s emotional centerpiece. equally in­teresting is how the show, which is two-thirds through its fantastic second season, is exploring issues of gender, sexuality and race in a manner unlike anything else cur­rently on television. show developer michelle ashford and the show’s writers use the context of repressed, post-war america — before “the feminine mystique,” before the march on washington, before the stonewall riots — as the backdrop for its progressive ideology. 
“masters of sex” does not approach the era from a broad historical sweep; rather, its history is rooted in the everyday. the show’s writing depicts the discrimi­nation of the era through characters who experience it firsthand. what makes the show especially resonant and often disquieting is how it highlights forms of oppression that persist even today. 
while masters is a fairly standard prestige drama anti­hero — flawed, moody and sexually frustrated — caplan’s 
By KEVIN SALAT 
scene writer 

because of interpol’s creativity and talent, it is fitting that the title of their new album, “el pintor,” which means “the painter” in spanish, is an anagram of the band’s name. from the very beginning, coming into the new york mu­sic scene with their 2002 debut “turn on the bright lights,” interpol’s sleek, post-punk sound is polished and refined. in their most recent and fifth album, we get more of that stylish consistency we have come to expect of them, with a handful of solid tracks showing that interpol is still the same band — which is not necessarily a bad thing. 
looking back on their career thus far, the fact that interpol didn’t quickly fade out of the limelight after “turn on the bright lights” is nothing short of a miracle. that in­tense and risk-taking album is one of the greatest rock de­buts in recent memory (and probably one of my personal top ten favorite records of all time). the perfect soundtrack for getting lost in the city late at night, it is an assured and thrill-seeking record filled with sharp musicianship that the band just hasn’t lived up to since. 
however, interpol’s continued success has always come from them knowing exactly who they want to be, despite their growing maturity. lead singer paul banks was an anxious, overwhelmed 24-year-old when “bright lights” portrayal of Johnson is revelatory. Johnson begins as masters’s secretary but soon becomes essential to the study’s operation and success. despite this, her scientific contributions are repeatedly taken for granted. further, she is constantly accused of being a “bad mother” due to her focus on work and open attitude toward sexuality. television critic alyssa rosenberg argues that “the choic­es [Johnson] makes are a reminder that as easy as it is for men to waltz past laws and standards of decent behavior and still keep an audience’s respect, real and fictional women alike face much higher standards.” 
while gay people were often invisible in the 1950s, “masters of sex” makes these characters’ lives present on screen. barton scully (beau bridges), the provost of washington university in st. louis, is a closeted gay man who avoids intimacy with his wife of nearly 30 years, margaret (allison Janney). margaret eventually real­izes her husband’s sexual orientation and confronts him. barton is deeply conflicted — he loves his wife deeply, but he is attracted to men in an era where homosexuality was still considered a mental illness. in this season’s premiere, he undergoes electroshock therapy and attempts suicide 
— some of the most heartbreaking moments i have ever watched on tv. 
likewise, betty dimello (annaleigh ashford), a former prostitute who married a pretzel magnate, is caught off-guard when her former lover helen (sarah silverman) re­turns to st. louis and wants to resume their relationship. 
came out. as time has gone on, the passion from that de­but has waned but somehow has developed into a more adult post-punk sound. the “bright lights” urgency was present on a solid number of tracks on their 2004 follow­up album “antics,” but the tone has now aged gracefully into an established sophistication with the same unmis­takable interpol aesthetic. 
“el pintor” is no exception to this trend. the band mem­bers are now in their mid-to-late 30s; they clearly recog­nize their age while still knowing how to enjoy themselves. with its up-tempo building of intensity, album opener “all the rage back home” kicks things off in the most fun way possible, making it the easiest-to-love interpol track in a decade. additionally, “my desire” and “anywhere” display some strong guitar riffs that evolve into lively rock songs. 
banks’ lyrical themes revolve around a heavy weight on his shoulders. “feels like the whole world’s coming down on me,” he sings in “same town, new story.” on the hard-hitting “ancient ways,” he reiterates worrying about “[be­ing] beaten by the weight of it.” this all comes to a climax with the aptly titled “tidal wave,” an immediate track that shows interpol at full force. looking at the songs individu­ally, there really isn’t a dud in the batch. 
taking the album as a whole though, “el pintor” is con­fident, but not nearly as inspiring as interpol was back in its prime. i mean, “breaker 1” is certainly no “obstacle 1” dimello insists she needs to stay in her marriage because it offers her a stable and conventional life. “it’s pathetic, helen, we both like dresses, so we’re just going to have to buck up and do the right thing,” dimello tells helen. both of these storylines are beautifully written and deftly explore the intricacies of being gay in a society where it is not accepted. 
the show has also proved masterful in its depiction of race relations. after masters and Johnson are kicked out of two different hospitals, they take their study to buell green, a “negro” hospital. when an african-american newspa­per reporter writes an unflattering profile of masters, he threatens to publish fake findings that confirm stereotypes about black sexuality. to masters, his reputation is worth falsifying and disseminating racist stereotypes. his boss, dr. hendricks, fires masters from buell, saying, “there’s nothing more dangerous than a desperate man.” in this and many other storylines, the show probes the abuse of power enabled by white privilege. 
“masters of sex” is a brilliant show, with a stellar cast and superb writing. but what sets it apart from the on­slaught of prestige dramas is how it uniquely grounds its modern approach to gender, sexuality and race in the set­ting of a past era. the show suggests a different approach to the period piece and one that elevates and elucidates the experiences of people of all backgrounds. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at Matthew.E.Munhall.2@nd.edu 
(one of the most engaging triumphs of their debut), and overall the music just bleeds into the rest of their good-not-great discography from the past decade. this is just another interpol album, and we should all simply accept that fact. the band seems to be comfortable with it and is instead just focusing on having fun. 
that makes it difficult to recommend the album to any­one besides die-hard interpol fans desperately waiting for new material. but if you like this type of post-punk sound, you can’t go wrong grabbing a few of these tracks for your music library. on the other hand, if you’re looking for a gateway into interpol, start at the top with “bright lights” and work your way down to “el pintor.” 
Contact Kevin Salat at ksalat@nd.edu 
“El Pintor” 
Interpol 
Label: Matador Tracks: “All the Rage Back Home,” “Always” If you like: The Strokes, Pixies, Joy Division 






the observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT MCMAHON 
scene writer 

a little over a week ago, netflix became the latest tele­vision distributor to try its hand at the late night, adult-themed animation market, releasing the twelve-episode first season of “bojack horseman” on aug. 22. after fox failed so heartily with its ingeniously named “animation domination” spin-off programming block, “animation domination hi-def” (the initials shorten to adhd, get it?), and comedy central seemingly lost interest in the medium (has anyone heard from “triptank,” maybe it drowned in its contributors’ own self-worth?), the streaming and, more recently, original content provider is aiming to work its way into contention against cartoon network’s day-part channel adult swim with a strong­hold on clever and crude. 
the show’s premise certainly seems up to the absurdist standards of now-competitor adult swim. in a world in which humans and anthropomorphic animal-human hybrids coexist and intermingle, titular character bojack horseman is a part-horse, part-human, washed-out 90s sitcom star living off his former fame. the show promises a look into the vapidity of celebrity, as bojack’s dormant lifestyle has transformed him into a soured curmudgeon fixated on his past successes. 
the 40-something anti-hero is voiced by will arnett (“arrested development,” “hot rod”), just the voice ac­tor to turn in the gravelly, self-loathing yet aloof perfor­mance necessary for a half-horse, half-human of bojack horseman’s size and stature — both physically and cul­turally. alternative comedians amy sedaris (“strangers with candy”) and paul f. tompkins (“mr. show,” “best week ever”), and actors alison brie (“community,” “mad men”) and aaron paul (“breaking bad”) round out an all-star main cast. arnett and paul are also two of the show’s executive producers. 
in a shocking and very rare move in the industry, “bojack horseman” was renewed for a second season just four days after netflix released the first episodes for stream­ing. therefore, no matter the outcome of the first season, the show is expected to produce at least another twelve episodes. this quick turnaround may indicate a new area for netflix to grow: original animated programming. 
animated television shows do not require as much of a joint commitment in scheduling and also leave more flex­ibility to their stars — which, in the case of “bojack,” is sig­nificant, due to its large cast of busy regular and recurring players. one of the main obstacles the netflix-produced fourth season of “arrested development” faced was un­doubtedly the actors’ conflicting schedules and inability to shoot at the same time. in animated series, the voice actors can, if necessary, record their lines separately with little trouble. 
however, despite the positive response and promise, we still must ask, is the show worth watching?  to find out, check back in to our follow-up piece monday that will look at the series’ first episode and discuss the entire season. or, participate along with us here in the “weekly watch” and catch “bojack horseman” on netflix between now and then. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: Humor Artists 
When: 10 p.m. 
Where: Legends 
How Much: Free 

come to legends to relax after a long week of class with some laughter and fun.  start by watching the funni­est students on campus perform their own stand-up routines.  afterwards, stay to see this year’s humor artists, a student improvisation group notori­ous for being hilarious and welcom­ing to on-stage guests. 
FRIDAY 

What: IRISHenanigans When: 10 p.m. Where: Campuswide How Much: Free 
the students activies office pres­ents its annual welcome-back event, irishenanigans.  this year, the eve­ning festivities feature food truck festivities.  in addition, there will be a silent dance party, fire dancers and promised non-stop fun. this event is co-sponsored with air force rotc detachment 225. 
SATURDAY 

What: FOOTBALL When: 7:30 p.m. Where: Notre Dame Stadium How Much: Free (with a ticket) 
the football season continues with the season’s first night game versus michigan.  this is the last time in a while the irish will be playing the wolverines, so don’t miss this opportunity to cheer on our so-far undefeated football team in an epic, long-lasting rivalry game. go irish, beat wolverines! 
SUNDAY 

What: “The Great Gatsby” When: 3 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $4 for students 
the debartolo performing arts center presents the 2013 baz luhrman version of a classic. come out to see some sparkling flapper dresses, lots of champagne and leonardo dicaprio playing Jay gatsby.  the film coincides with the snite museum of art’s exhib­it, roaring twenties exuberance and depression era extravagence. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Rookie QB trend is dangerous 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 
Just when i thought coaches across the nfl had finally gotten something collectively correct, the raiders went and ruined it, as always. 
finally, there was not going to be a rookie starting quar­terback on opening day, but the raiders elected to go with derek carr as their starter. 
not because they should have, but they really had no other option. 
i am a firm believer that a quarterback should spend some time as a backup in the nfl, get used to a system and then take over, but teams do not seem to think that way anymore. rather than in­vesting in a player’s growth, teams look for instant impact and payoff, and if it doesn’t work out in the first few years, move onto the next one. 
often, players are put into losing situations with no of­fensive support and no line to block in front of them and are still expected to be the re­incarnation of famous rookie starters like peyton manning or dan marino. but more of­ten than not, a player who gets time to develop will be just as good. look at tom brady, steve young and aaron rodgers. the players who are thrown into the fire without a proper team around them ei­ther burn out quickly or shat­ter under the intense heat. 
the recent trend is to start rookie quarterbacks right away, usually because a team has no better option than tak­ing a chance on someone who needs to fulfill his full poten­tial now. however, the browns got it right by choosing brian hoyer over Johnny manziel, the Jaguars were correct in starting chad henne over blake bortles and the vikings were wise to start matt cassel over teddy bridgewater. but the raiders, well, they didn’t really have anyone else. 
granted, carr, the second-round draft pick out of fresno state, earned his spot over former texans’ starter matt schaub during the preseason, finishing 30-for-45 passing for 326 yards, four touchdowns and one interception. in only 16 minutes of the fourth and final preseason matchup against the defending super bowl champion seahawks, carr went 11-for-13 passing, throwing for 143 yards and three touchdowns, including two one-play scores. 
schaub played decently in his start for the raiders’ third preseason game, a 31-21 loss to the packers, finishing 13­for-27 passing for 110 yards. overall, he completed 24 of 47 passes for 218 yards, zero touchdowns and one inter­ception. schaub is an nfl veteran with seven years of starting and playoff experi­ence, yet we all saw how bad he can be in his final days in houston. and on top of that, he had elbow issues on his throwing arm and missed practice. regardless of how much weight one puts on the preseason, carr is a better choice than an aging quarter­back with a nagging and wor­risome elbow injury. 
although not ideal, the raiders’ best choice is carr as their opening-day starter and hoping to whatever cult god raiders fans worship that he won’t be a flop or get injured, as is tradition with recent raider quarterbacks. despite carr not being a running quarterback like cam newton or russell wilson, the raiders still should be concerned about him being able to han­dle the intensity of the nfl. carr has already suffered a concussion and rib injury, and he hasn’t even played in a regular season game yet. 
to put these concerns into perspective, oakland has had seven different starting quar­terbacks since 2011, including two courtships with carson palmer. whether due to in­eptitude, injury or both, the raiders cannot keep a start­ing quarterback. 
finally, when i thought all of my hopes and dreams had come true and all was right with the football hierarchy, of course it was the oakland raiders who ruined it for me. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

NFL suspends Colts owner 
Associated Press 

the nfl suspended Jim irsay for the first six games of the sea­son and fined him $500,000 for violating its personal conduct policy, coming down hard on the indianapolis colts owner tuesday just hours after he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor stemming from an embarrassing march traffic stop. 
commissioner roger goodell said irsay is barred from team fa­cilities, practices and games and cannot represent the colts at nfl meetings or events. the fine is the maximum allowed under league rules. 
“i have stated on numerous occasions that owners, manage­ment personnel and coaches must be held to a higher standard than players,” goodell told irsay in a letter released by the nfl. “we discussed this during our meet­ing and you expressed your sup­port for that view, volunteering that owners should be held to the highest standard.” 
the 55-year-old irsay pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor count of driving while intoxicated and acknowledged during his appear­ance before a hamilton county judge that he was under the influ­ence of the painkillers oxycodone and hydrocodone when he was arrested march 16 near his home in the indianapolis suburb of carmel. 
irsay did not comment outside the courtroom, but he apolo­gized to colts fans in a prepared statement. 
“i am committed to do every­thing in my power to turn this whole experience into a posi­tive event for myself, my family and the community,” he said. “in retrospect, i now know that the incident opened my eyes to issues in my life that needed addressing and helped put me on the path to regain my health. i truly hope and pray that my episode will help in some small measure to diminish the stigma surrounding our coun­try’s terrible and deadly problem of addiction. it is a disease.” 
irsay’s case was closely watched around the nfl — not least among players — because there are few examples of the league punish­ing an owner like irsay. detroit lions president tom lewand was suspended for 30 days and fined $100,000 in 2010 for violat­ing the nfl’s personal conduct policy following his guilty plea to driving while impaired. a player with a first-offense misdemeanor dui would not be suspended and would be fined no more than $50,000 under terms of the collec­tive bargaining agreement with the nfl players association. 
police said an officer spotted irsay driving slowly, stopping in the roadway and failing to use a turn signal. officers said he had trouble reciting the alphabet and failed field sobriety tests. various prescription drugs were found in his vehicle, along with more than $29,000 in cash. 
irsay acknowledged in 2002 that he had become dependent on painkillers after several years of orthopedic operations but said he had overcome the problem. 
irsay will be on probation for a year and is prohibited from drink­ing or possessing alcohol dur­ing that time. he must submit to drug testing during his proba­tion and successfully complete a substance abuse rehabilitation program. less than 48 hours after his arrest, the colts said irsay had 
entered a treatment facility. irsay’s driver’s license also was suspended for one year by Judge 
J. richard campbell, who asked irsay about his history of prescrip­tion drug troubles. 
“yes, i’ve had it in the past ... when i was dealing with the ef­fects after having surgery,” irsay answered. 
andre miksha, the hamilton county chief deputy prosecutor, said irsay’s case wasn’t handled differently than the roughly 1,100 other intoxicated driving cases the office handles each year. he said the “vast majority” of such cases end in plea agreements. 
he also said the terms of irsay’s plea agreement are typical for a person who faced first-time driving while intoxicated charg­es in the county just north of indianapolis. 
irsay had resumed his duties with the colts at the nfl draft in may and even made an unsuc­cessful personal pitch to his fellow owners on behalf of indianapolis’ bid to host the 2018 super bowl. 
irsay became the colts owner in 1997 after the death of his fa­ther, robert irsay, and a lengthy legal battle with his father’s sec­ond wife. forbes magazine has estimated irsay’s net worth at $1.6 billion. 
he has helped build the colts into a top nfl team over the past decade behind quarter­back peyton manning, now with denver, and was a key player in the drive to bring the super bowl to indianapolis two years ago. he is working with some success to rebuild the team behind young quarterback andrew luck while coping with a divorce that follows a decade-long separation from his wife of 33 years. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | usa 98, new Zealand 71 
u.s. defeats new Zealand 
Associated Press 

american players paused from their warmups to stand and face their new Zealand opponents as they performed the haka, their traditional war dance challenge. 
the u.s. response wasn’t nearly as interesting. Just pound the ball inside and outmuscle an overmatched opponent. 
anthony davis had 21 points and nine rebounds, Kenneth faried added 15 and 11 boards and the u.s. remained un­beaten at the basketball world cup by beating winless new Zealand 98-71 on tuesday. 
James harden scored 13 points for the americans, who will play two more games in bilbao before moving on to barcelona for the round of 
16. they face the dominican republic on wednesday before wrapping up group c play on thursday against ukraine. 
“we actually were going to shake hands with them after­wards because we knew that that was a really neat thing to do and it’s part of their tra­dition, and we admire that,” Krzyzewski said. 
fans enjoyed it, then were largely quiet throughout the first half as the bigger u.s. team imposed its will, not needing the kind of highlight plays fans expect of the nba stars. 
but there was no shortage of energy from faried, the denver nuggets forward who seems intent on raising his profile as a largely overlooked player in the league. 


WANTED 

Paid High School Boys Lacrosse Coaches Needed: St Joseph HS (1 mile from campus) is looking for lacrosse coaches for the 2015 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
season. All coaches are paid as well on whatever’s worst/Perfection is as reimbursed for travel expenses. the disease of a nation, pretty hurts, Season runs from March - May. Please pretty hurts/Pretty hurts, we shine the contact Head Coach Mike Williams at light on whatever’s worst/We try to fix mwilliams@saintjoelacrosse.com something but you can’t fix what you 
can’t see/It’s the soul that needs the 
“Pretty hurts, we shine the light surgery.” 




ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | the observer 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

Sparks joins Turner as assistant coach 
all-american accolades in jumped at the offer to come to 
By GREG HADLEY 

associate sports editor the long jump until 1992 and notre dame. 
sparks serving as cross coun-“i was content and happy at “it’s been a busy two weeks.” try team captain from 1995-southern illinois, but there are that just about sums up matt 1996 before graduating in 1997. a few places in the country that 
sparks’s experience as the new while the two rarely crossed when they come ask, ‘do you associate head coach of cross paths at indiana, sparks said, want to work for us,’ you don’t country and track and field at they became good friends say no,” sparks said. “notre notre dame so far. and that’s when turner came to southern dame is one of those places.” before the irish have even illinois in 2006. sparks had al-although sparks has coached stepped on the race course. ready spent two seasons with eight teams that placed in the 
sparks was hired by new the salukis as the coach of top 25 at the ncaa champion-head coach alan turner in the women’s cross country ship, he said the expectations mid-august to coach the men’s team and distance runners are even higher at notre dame. and women’s cross country but had recently been pro-“we can be nationally com-programs in the fall and work moted to head coach of both petitive on both sides,” sparks with the distance runners the men’s and women’s team. said. “we have to train to be on year-round. since then, sparks turner, meanwhile, served as par with the nationally com-has had to adjust to his new po-the sprint, hurdles and relays petitive teams. so the intensity sition on the fly, as preseason coach. of some of the workouts is go-workouts began soon after he together, the two combined ing to go up from what i’m ac-joined the team. to coach 68 missouri valley customed to, and the volume 
“learning the team and conference champions, as that the athletes are running what helps the team be suc-well as 205 all-conference per-is going to be more. but the cessful are really what these formers. while there, sparks nice thing is that the kids on two weeks have been about,” said the two assistant coaches the team prepared that way all sparks said. “and it will con-also made plans for the future. summer, so it’s not a shock to tinue that way for a while. … “it was one of those things them to be asked to do more we’re getting more comfort-[where] we had always talked than they’ve ever done.” able with each other as the about if we could get together sparks takes over a team days go by, but there’s still a and work together again, we that has advanced to the lot of learning to be done. we both [would like that],” sparks ncaa championship on know each other’s names.” said. “there was a mutual re-both the men’s and women’s 
his quick move to notre spect there, and that’s where side for three straight sea-dame was aided by his long things got started.” sons. the women return five friendship with turner, who sparks leaves southern of seven varsity runners last took over in July after the re-illinois after 12 seasons there, season, while the men bring berths into the meet. the irish the heat of competition in tirement of longtime coach Joe coaching four all-american back three. both teams placed have no intention of backing october, we can set specifics piane. sparks and turner both athletes. he was named mvc in the bottom third of the 31 off from last year’s standard, on what spot we want to be.” competed in track and field for coach of the year in cross teams at the ncaa champi-sparks said. sparks and the irish be­indiana, with turner earning country four times but said he onship after earning at-large “the goal is always going to gin their season friday at 
be to make it to the national the crusader invitational in paid advertisement 
[championship],” he said. valparaiso, ind. “that’s the first and foremost thing. after we get to know Contact Greg Hadley at each other better and get into ghadley@nd.edu 
the heels of one of the most suc-W Swim cessful seasons in program his-continued from page 16 tory. senior emma reaney led the 
irish to a sixth-place finish at the make the commitment i would acc championships and a 16th­need to make with the swimming place showing at the ncaa cham­and diving program.” pionships, tied for the program’s 
barnes’s wife, alyssa, passed best finish in 15 years. along the away in april 2012 after a multi-way, she won an ncaa title in the year battle with cancer. their 200-yard breaststroke and set a children, Jack and caroline, are new american record in the event. both younger than 10. director barnes also led the irish to of athletics Jack swarbrick issued three acc individual titles, 42 a statement supporting barnes’s combined big east individual and decision. relay titles and two big east team 
“i completely support brian’s titles. he was also recognized as decision at this time to step away the big east swimming coach from his coaching duties at notre of the year three times, and 18 dame to focus on his family,” school records were broken in his swarbrick said in the press re-time as coach. lease. “i would like to thank him in 2011, after his wife was di­for his dedication to the women’s agnosed, barnes also established swimming and diving program the coaches vs. cancer fighting over the last six years. he did a re-irish swim clinic, which has markable job taking the program raised more than 45,000 dollars to new heights the last few sea-for local families battling cancer. sons, including the program’s first the fourth edition of the clinic is ever individual national champi-scheduled to take place sept. 20. on. i think we all know the last few swarbrick did not name an in-years have been very challenging terim coach in the press release. for brian on a personal basis, fol-former assistant coach Kate lowing his wife alyssa’s death Kovenock resigned from her posi­after her long fight with cancer. tion to become the head coach at ultimately, this move is in the brown on aug. 27. best interests of brian, Jack and the irish begin their season caroline.” oct. 3 with a dual meet against 
barnes leaves notre dame on michigan state at home. 





ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Sophomores step up for Irish 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
when notre dame opens the season in the final week of september, it will field a relatively young but battle-tested, team. although the irish will be looking to re­place three seniors from a year ago, plenty of ex­perience returns with the remaining youth — includ­ing sophomores monica robinson and mary closs. 
both saw plenty of time in the lineup in their first collegiate year and be­came regulars in the sin­gles lineups. robinson, who played fourth position most of the year, finished 24­10 (9-4 acc), while closs, who played right behind her at fifth position, accu­mulated a similar mark of 20-13 (9-5 acc). closs was also a fixture in the doubles rotation for the irish, pair­ing with then-senior Julie sabacinski for the first half of the year and current se­nior molly o’Koniewski for the second half. the closs­o’Koniewski tandem was successful in that time, go­ing 4-1 in the final five reg­ular-season matches. 
“i think the beginning of [last] season was a transi­tion period,” closs said. “but by the end of the sea­son, it all came togeth­er, and i think we ended strong.” 
“we all believed in each other,” robinson added. “it paid off when we played [ncaa regional host] northwestern. … upsetting them was really cool.” 
with the irish graduat­ing three top players, both closs and robinson know there are large shoes to fill going into this season. 
“our seniors last year were big leaders, and they helped come through with the team in big matches,” closs said. “all of us young­er players learned from them. … we have a some­what young team, but there is a lot of positive energy and hard work.” 
“i’ve never seen such en­thusiastic work,” robinson said. “wanting to stay on the court all the time, which is really neat because hard work, it just rubs off — it’s contagious. it’s awesome.” 
the two sophomores even knew each other be­fore they arrived at notre dame. closs hails from menlo park, calif., in the san francisco area, while robinson calls valley center, calif., home, situ­ated between san diego and los angeles. the two never directly faced off as singles players and only met each other once in a double match but were fa­miliar with each other and talked more as the recruit­ing process picked up, they said. 
“we saw each other a lot in tournaments,” robinson said. “the tennis world is a small world, so you go onto [the tennis recruiting network], and i remember seeing her name a lot.” 
“we knew both of us were looking here,” closs said. “i was glad when she commit­ted, when we both knew we were coming.” 
“she did!” robinson said when asked who commit­ted first as the pair shared a laugh. “she was the brave one.” 
the two found themselves together again over the summer, when they were 
roommates  for  summer  
classes.  
“we’ve  become  close,”  

robinson said. “learned a lot about each other.” 
“we’re even better friends now because we know each other better,” closs added. “it’s fun being on a team, getting all that time together.” 

“we trained a lot, did a lot of conditioning which was nice,” robinson contin­ued. “i’d say we got fit and stronger in the summer, so coming back now isn’t too different.” 
as notre dame works to­wards its season-opening tournament at the end of september, both play­ers said they are eager to start the season. 
“i’m excited for this season, for the whole team, for the freshmen,” closs said. “i just think it will be a fun year overall. second year in the acc, under armour. … hopefully, it all just works out.” 
the irish begin their fall season by hosting the notre dame invitational at the courtney tennis center on sept. 26-28. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



paid advertisement ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | the observer 



Football 
continued from page 16 
quarterback devin gardner, who the head coach said “has played great against us,” and junior receiver devin funchess. 
“[that’s] a one-two com­bination that is very dynam­ic,” Kelly said. “funchess now being on the perimeter is a matchup problem, and he’ll be a matchup problem for everybody that he plays this year.” 
as for the rivalry talk surrounding a series that doesn’t have another meet­ing currently scheduled, Kelly steered clear of any­thing controversial, even asking, “how did i do?” after one rivalry-themed question. 
notre dame (.7332) ranks first in all-time winning percentage, while michigan (.7326) checks in fraction­ally behind. the winner of saturday’s tilt will claim first place. 
“it’s something, certain­ly, that we talk about in re­cruiting, in terms of the elite programs and the tradition of our program,” Kelly said of the elite winning per­centage. “it doesn’t help us right now, but certainly it’s something that when you’re talking about the great pro­grams of all time it’s some­thing that we’re very proud of.” 
of the last 29 games be­tween the two programs, the contest has been decid­ed by seven points or fewer 18 times. the wolverines have outscored the irish, 110-98, combined in Kelly’s four seasons in south bend. 
why so many close games? 

“i think two programs that have such great pride that they’re going to battle and fight to the very end,” Kelly said. “there is an im­mense amount of pride, both teams want to win this football game and that’s why regardless of what the teams’ records are and what the personnel looks like, there is just great pride in both programs.” 
sophomore receiver torii hunter Jr. (groin) has made good progress, according to Kelly, and was scheduled to partake in individual drills tuesday as he remains ahead of schedule. 
“if things go well, we will continue to progress him through the week, and if he has a great week he could be in a situation where po­tentially he could play next week,” Kelly said. 
senior linebacker Jarrett grace (leg) continues to make significant progress in his movement and oth­er body mechanics, Kelly said, but he’s still “a few weeks away” from being 100 percent. 
“he’s not at 100 percent, but he’s getting better each and every day,” Kelly said. 
sophomore receiver corey robinson (thumb) is a lit­tle bit sore after playing saturday against rice, ac­cording to Kelly, but “every­thing looked great after the game.” 
“he’s one of those kids that thought that was a great challenge in his life that he wanted to undertake,” Kelly said. “he was going to play and find a way to succeed.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF 

Underclassmen take on bigger role 
sophomores and one really 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 

sports writer good freshman, so if we get 
three of us playing well, we 

as notre dame tees off should be good to go.” the 2014 season, it will rely the irish got off to the on a strong group of un-right start for that to hap­derclassmen to build upon pen. notre dame opened up its successes last season its fall season sunday with and establish a tradition a victory at the notre dame of tradition of consistent Kickoff challenge. the irish performance. beat iupui by 19 strokes and 
sophomore blake barens ball state by 25 strokes. said he’s ready for the “it feels like kind of the challenge. first step is done,” barens 
“i think the underclassmen said. “we wanted to win and should do a [fair amount] expected to do well, and we of the work this year for the are moving forward in the team,” barens said. “it looks right direction. it was really like there will be at least about starting off the sea-three starting in every event. son in the right direction. we’ve got three really good we were more concerned 
paid advertisement 

where we shot than about the other teams, and we played really well which was really good for us to start out on because it gave us a lot of confidence.” 
barens said that confi­dence boost not only applied to himself but more impor­tantly to the core of under­classmen developing in the wings. 
“we are young, but it’s nice to see we are contributing a lot to the team,” barens said. “to be successful as a team, we, as sophomores and freshmen, need to step up a lot, even though there is a lot riding on us, and we are up for the challenge.” 
luckily for the irish un­derclassmen, they still have older mentors to learn from. barens said the team will rely on the play and leadership of senior patrick grahek, who was named to the all-acc academic team last season. 
“pat is definitely a good role model,” barens said. “he’s shown us that he does well in the classroom and on course. last year as fresh­men, he made us feel wel­come and really added to the team aspect. he’s also play­ing really well on the course right now, which motivates us too.” 
however, while it is im­portant to develop a good team camaraderie, barens said he recognizes that, at the end of the day, only one person is responsible for the success of a golfer: himself. the irish resume play at 

“for this fall, i think the the gopher invitational on focus is more on the individ-sunday at windsong farm ual,” barens said. “we need golf club in independence, to not get too caught up on minn. team because the individu­al golf game is important [as Contact Mike Ginocchio at well.]” mginocch@nd.edu 


M Soccer 
continued from page 16 
classroom. they are very ac­countable and take care of busi­ness quietly but confidently. they’re really a terrific group.” 
like their coach, the boys themselves acknowledge their hard-work mentality as a uni­fying factor, especially on the field. 
“i think us six take pride in being the hardest workers, so it’s something we strive to do, to be the hardest working out of the whole group because we all re­ally want to get better,” Klekota said. “i’d definitely say on the field, our base is all six of us are really, really competitive.” 
competitively, the juniors’ ca­reers began to develop last sea­son as sophomores. hodan, who earned all-acc and academic all-american honors, posted 11 goals, second only to former irish forward harrison shipp’s 12, while acc all-academic team member panken and Klekota tallied five and one scores, respectively. these three players and lojek have stepped up this season to compose the deep and experienced sector of the irish midfield. 
“i think the midfield really has grown, and i think our class has definitely been a big part of that,” hodan said. “we’ve really grown to learn the system, and we’ve all adapted well to play­ing everyone’s strengths and tendencies.” 
the group has played to those strengths already this season. Klekota scored his sec­ond career goal in the team’s season-opening 2-1 victory against marquette on friday. he and hodan accounted for the two goals in notre dame’s 2-2 exhibition draw with bradley on aug. 19, and hodan and panken contributed one goal each for the irish in their 5-1 exhibition victory against wisconsin on aug. 25. 
with their increased presence on the field, the juniors have taken on a greater responsibil­ity as upperclassmen. no longer the freshmen members of the squad, these six now provide the support and motivation they hope their peers emulate, Klekota said. 
“i think being team leaders [as juniors] is just the role of taking the younger guys and showing them the things that we were shown when we were in their spots,” Klekota said. “it doesn’t have to come through yell­ing or screaming, just through short, little conversations and always keeping them involved to make sure they keep growing as players.” 
the juniors’ own growth as individual players over the past two seasons contributed to notre dame’s success on the field, helping earn the program its first national title last year. the juniors agreed they are de­termined to repeat again this season, but they said it’s not all about their performance on the field — they must take their su­perstitions into account. 
“we go to boss’s [coach clark’s] house before the game for dinner, and as the year goes on, we get more and more super­stitious about where each of us sits in the car,” hodan said. 
“we all drive together as a class and on the way, we listen to the same exact songs,” lojek said. “on the way there, connor sits shotgun, patrick sits in the back and on the way back, connor sits in the back.” 
lojek clarified that the back is actually the trunk of the car, and despite the ridiculousness, hodan simply said it’s necessary for good luck. 
between the multiple crammed car rides, hours of practice, team dinners and even rooming together, one might think these six would grow sick of each other. 
however, it is these bond­ing opportunities that have brought about many of the group’s favorite traditions and memories, they said. 
“every year, we take a picture of all six of us lined up prom-style, including one with the na­tional championship trophy,” Klekota said. “we also dressed up as the backstreet boys — [from] the “millennium” album 
— for halloween.” 
and, when it comes down to it, whether it’s sending a cross downfield or dressing up as a 90s boy band, Klekota spoke for the six: “it’s all about being family.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

Carson 
continued from page 16 
— it’s all in the nature of the sport. due to the rela­tively low number of scor­ing plays in soccer when compared to sports like football and basketball, a result that’s a little on the barclays premier league for example. the two teams played to a 0-0 draw, re­flective often of a game in which both teams were equal. but that was far from the case. chelsea outshot its opponent 39-1. it controlled 72 percent of the posses­sion time — yet still failed to win. 
it’s why this early in the year that shots — and espe­cially those put on target — mean more than goals. the irish outshot then-no. 12 marquette and georgetown by a combined 40-20 over the weekend’s 200 minutes of action and held a 14-6 edge in shots on goal. and against two teams that entered the weekend in the top 12 of the rankings, those statistics mark some­thing to be upbeat about as the irish head down the path of their season. 
and while you don’t want to read too much into goals scored in such a small sample space, it can only be a good thing for the irish that graduate student forward leon brown got on the scoresheet in the season opener. brown — who scored five times in 24 appearances last year — only made three starts and took the starting posi­tion vacated by harrison shipp. shipp, of course, led the irish last year in both goals (12) and assists (10) and now plies his trade with the chicago fire, with which he’s already scored six goals and recorded five assists. 
and for notre dame to defend its national championship this year, it is probably going to need someone to step up and perform in the posi­tion left by shipp. brown fits that role as a veteran with eight collegiate goals to his name. granted, he won’t be shipp — as clark said last week, “leon just needs to be leon” — but getting off on the right foot is certainly promising for forwards, as so much of their performance is de­pendent on the confidence they have to put the ball in the back of the net. 
so rather than taking a look at the scoreline and the latest nscaa coaches poll that dropped notre dame from no. 1 to no. 5, take a look at how the game went. there’s noth­ing so far to indicate that the irish aren’t candidates for a second consecutive national title. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
fluky side might be a little more likely to happen. in a basketball game, it should be expected that more of­ten than not, a guard will convert a 12-foot, wide-open jump shot or that if a football team gets inside the red zone, it should at least come away with three points. 
but soccer isn’t neces­sarily as straightforward. when you have the ball at the edge of the penalty area, you might still have to beat a defender and the goalkeeper in order to score. take last year’s match between chelsea and west ham united in the united Kingdom’s 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | the observer 

CROSSWORD | will shortZ 

ACROSS 32 Petting zoo 60 What 17-, 26-1 Stealth 
sound or 45-Across might say upon6 Bird or human 33 Long Island meeting 17-, 26-town
11 Kind of nut or 45-Across? 
36 It may follow

14 Falcon-headed 62 Prefix with
directions

Egyptian god politics
37 Spot for a 63 Frontier abode15 Central Florida 
summer nap

city 64 Japanese menu
40 Baton Rouge

16 Bargain bin item
campus, for

abbr. 65 Designer inits.
short 17 Persian 66 In reserve
41 Chocolatemathematician source 67 “Co ___?”

known for his poetry 43 Lupino of “HighSierra” DOWN
19 Hoops org. 44 Boilermaker 1 Food,
20 Big name in 

component colloquially
lexicography 45 Noted conductor 2 “Quo Vadis” 
21 They’re made to 

whose son settingbe destroyed played TV’s 3 Fine steed 23 Exit-the-program Colonel Klink 4 Flipperedkey 
49 Film villain with fish-eater with a 24 Certain decree prosthetic hands double coat 
25 Java servers 51 Blossom visitor 5 “Shame on you!” 
26 Ukrainian-born 52 Wriggler in the 6 Male swine actress who 
water 7 Less than was a Bond girl cordial
53 Base for some
in “Quantum of muffins 8 E-commerceSolace” site owned by55 Pearl sets

31 Giamatti of eBay“Sideways” 59 TiVo, e.g. 
9 “Idylls of theKing” maiden
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Butler’s expletive 
11 Accessory forthe fastidious dresser 
12 Music genre 13 Green stuff 18 Priam’s wife 22 Arctic seabirds 24 With much room 
to spare 26 Crude acronym 27 “Doctor Zhivago”
role 28 Million Mom March issue 29 St. Louis pro 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by Doug Peterson  
30 Suffix with beat or neat  44 Its capital isMinsk  55 New Year’s Eve word  
34 “Interesting …” 35 Run smoothly 37 Sweltering 38 Rhyming tribute 39 Began stirring 42 Get from ___ (advanceslightly)  46 White House family 47 Obi-Wan ___ 48 Examine carefully 49 Evasive 50 Carries on 54 Costa ___  56 One out on a limb? 57 Qatar’s capital 58 Sportsequipment thatdoesn’t fit in carry-on luggage 61 Jest with  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SUDOKU | the mepham group 

8/29/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: focus on learning, improving your friendships and association with others and exploring new interests that will take your mind off trivial setbacks. make home improvements and stabilize your position by reorganizing your personal documents. choose caution over impulse and consider self-deception a possibility regarding personal situations you face. understanding and patience will be required and maintaining your health will be important. your numbers are 9, 12, 23, 30, 32, 39, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): enjoy life and all it has to offer. indulge in events, activities and doing things that interest you, and you will gain knowledge and improve your prospects. travel will lead to a new adventure. romance is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): financial ventures and opportunities will come from an unusual source. plan carefully or whatever you gain will slip through your fingers. stringent policy when it comes to expenditures should be put in place before someone convinces you to spend inappropriately. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): focus on personal gains and improvements, not on those putting demands on you. you aren’t likely to get valid information and should make a point of doing your own research. make changes at home or to your current living arrangement. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be alarmed by the changes taking place. a strong, stable, responsible approach to work and personal duties will put you in a good position that will bring promising results. your personal secrets will be revealed if you are too trusting. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): strut your stuff and put on a show. not everyone will be entertained by your bravado, but it will grab the attention of someone who likes your style and knows how to put your talents to good use. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): invest in education, travel and your community. don’t let emotional issues stop you from following through with your plans. make a couple of changes to your living quarters to accommodate something you want to pursue. emotional deception is apparent. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): speak up and ask questions if you are uncertain. attend an event or activity designed to improve your community. personal connections made at functions will turn out to be opportune. romance is in the stars. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): observe how others react to what you say. what you learn will help you avoid making a mistake. protect against physical illness or injury. do something to make your domestic surroundings more conducive to the things you enjoy doing. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): check out what everyone is doing or saying. stick to the truth and focus on getting ahead professionally, financially and personally. positive changes at home will raise your standard of living and lead to a better relationship with someone special. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ulterior motives are apparent and taking precautions to keep your intentions a secret will be in your best interest. be ready to counter an unexpected change someone makes at the last minute. don’t let it disrupt your plans. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): say what’s on your mind and get what you want in writing. a professional change looks inviting. your negotiating skills will help you win a position that can lead to greater income. romance will help bring you closer to someone you love. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): avoid emotional confrontations. concentrate on contracts, settlements and other legal or financial matters that can influence your standard of living, your reputation or your position. honesty will be a factor regarding an old friend. lay your cards on the table. 

Birthday Baby: you are engaging, creative and fun-loving. you are adventuresome and emotional. 
JUMBLE | david hoyt and Jeff KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly gives no update 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
irish head coach brian Kelly said he did not have any up­dates on the five players be­ing held out of practice and competition following notre dame’s investigation into “suspected academic dishon­esty” at his weekly press con­ference tuesday. 
Kelly said the players have not been made a part of meet­ings and said everything is status quo. 
“we haven’t made that change [with their involve­ment in meetings] because i haven’t got any updates rela­tive to where we are in the process and the timing of that,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said thursday he has been informed that notre dame’s investiga­tion has been closed. the university announced aug. 15 that junior cornerback Keivarae russell, senior re­ceiver davaris daniels, senior defensive end ishaq williams and graduate student line­backer Kendall moore were being kept out of practice and competition. notre dame announced thursday a fifth player is also being held out, and a university official later confirmed the player is senior safety eilar hardy. 
when notre dame and michigan kick off under the lights at notre dame stadium on saturday night, the two historic programs will be meeting for the 42nd time. since the teams squared off in 1978, the irish and the wolverines have played every year except 1983, 1984, 1995, 1996, 2000 and 2001. 
“i think we all know the kind of game we’re gonna play here with this opponent,” Kelly said. “each team knows each other very well. certainly they’ve been great games.” 
Kelly highlighted wolverines graduate student 
see football PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Barnes resigns as coach, effective immediately 
Observer Staff Report 
brian barnes, head coach of the women’s swimming and diving team, resigned suddenly tuesday afternoon after six years at the helm of the program. 
barnes, who coached eight all-americans and one ncaa champion for notre dame, said in a press release he was leaving in order to spend more time with his family and would spend at least one year away from col­legiate swimming. 
“i’ve loved every min­ute that i’ve been involved with women’s swimming and diving at notre dame,” barnes said in the press re­lease. “i’ve simply come to a point where my family needs to become the top priority for me. i need to focus more of my time and attention on my two children and realis­tically i cannot do that and 
see w swim PAGE 11 

MEN’S SOCCER 

Juniors prepare for round three 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 


Alex Carson 
sports writer sports writer 
two years ago, six freshman walked into alumni stadium 

when the now-no. 5 to begin their collegiate soccer 
irish played out a score-careers at notre dame. now 
less draw with no. 9 juniors, those same six return 
georgetown on sunday, confident, spirited and more 
a natural reaction might than ready for round three. 
have been to look at notre midfielders patrick hodan, 
dame’s shot advantage in connor Klekota, danny lojek 
the game and determine and evan panken, defender 
that the result was a bit michael shipp and goalkeep­
unfair to the defending na­er brian talcott represent 
tional champions. the irish notre dame’s junior class. 
outshot the hoyas 23-9 (8-3 from the field to the class-
shots on goal) and for the room to the dorm room, these 
most part, controlled play six players are more than just 
on the pitch but failed to teammates. 
come away as the winners “we’re all very close — we’re 
after 110 minutes. like brothers and definitely 
some might instinctively family,” lojek said. 
think it’s a cause for con-this sense of family carries 
cern — how can you domi­into their identity as a class. 
nate the shots department irish coach bobby clark recog­
by such a wide margin and nized the close group as one 
fail to win? and what does a distinguished by its work ethic 
draw in the opening week-and commitment. 
end say about notre dame’s “the junior class is a group 
chances for a repeat? of very good young men,” clark 
the answer to the sec-said. “they are tremendous 
ond question is easy — just students with very high gpas, 
breathe. the answer to the [and] they are very competitive 
first explains why the sec-on the field and in the COLBY HOYER | The Observer ond need not be asked 
Irish junior midfielder Evan Panken charges past a Wisconsin defender for a look at the goal, while fellow see m soccer PAGE 14 junior midfielder Connor Klekota backs him up in Notre Dame’s 5-1 victory over Wisconsin on Aug. 25. see carson PAGE 14 



