The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 58 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SMC hosts symposium on domestic violence 
Students and faculty reflect on experiences in abusive relationships, advocate for support systems 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 


By REBECCA O’NEIL 
associate saint mary’s editor news writer 

The symposium on domes-

saint mary’s Justice education tic violence and intersectional­
department hosted a symposium ity concluded Thursday with a 
on intersectionality and domes-panel discussion featuring saint 
tic violence in rice commons on mary’s students, faculty and 
Thursday night. staff examining ways to speak 
domestic violence cannot be up against domestic violence. 
reduced to studying just violence professor of communications 
or relationships, Justice education marne austin, who spoke about 
interim coordinator adrienne advocacy and relationships, said 
lyles-chockley said. The sympo­in her experience, the most dif­
sium explored “the interrelated ficult thing is naming the abuse. 
factors at play in regard to the “it’s so important to be able to 
question, ‘why don’t women in name it for what it is,” she said. 
abusive relationships just leave?’” “i’m a gender and women’s 
lyles-chockley said this query studies professor, and i couldn’t 
cannot be addressed in its entire-name it. we live in these CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer ty without taking race, culture, 
Speaker Johanna Ganz participated in the symposium on domestic violence and intersectionality on see panel PAGE 5 Thursday in Rice Commons. The symposium was sponsored by Saint Mary’s Justice Education program. see symposium PAGE 5 


grotto vigil honors missing students 

By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
more than 100 notre dame students, faculty and south bend community members gathered at the grotto on Thursday night for a remembrance prayer vigil to show support for the 43 missing stu­dents from ayotzinapa, mexico. 
in september, students from the rural Teachers college of ayotzinapa were abducted during a peaceful protest. since then, the protest movement in mexico has spread around the world and continues to gain momentum as people turn the spotlight on the country to demand justice for the more than 20,000 people who have disappeared since 2006. 
ph.d. student césar leon soto, president of the latino graduate association at notre dame 
see vigil PAGE 3 



Founder speaks about success 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
dave Finocchio, founder and general manager of the sports website bleacher report and notre dame graduate of the class of 2005, returned to cam­pus Thursday to deliver a lec­ture in which he traced the brief history of the company and ex­plained how his arts and letters education contributed to his success as an entrepreneur. 
Finocchio majored in history and economics — the same de­partments that sponsored the event — and spoke in the mcKenna hall auditorium in a lecture titled “From alumni hall to the world’s biggest sports website.” 
while he was still a student at notre dame, Finocchio said he did not know what he wanted to do for a living, but his educa­tion inspired him to chase his passions. 
“as i went through my col­lege, like i’m sure a lot of you are going through right now, i actu­ally had no idea what the hell i wanted to do with the rest of my life, including my profession,” he said. “a lot of my friends, es­pecially here, seemed to have a much more grounded sense of what they wanted to do. 
“in the context of studying history, i think [my educa­tion] just gave me a broader context on what my place on earth was, how fleeting it was 
see Finocchio PAGE 5 


FOOTBALL FRIDAY FEATURE 


roTc helps clear stadium 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
before notre dame fans packed the football stadium last saturday to cheer for the irish, the notre dame roTc units 
– army, navy, air Force and marine corps – spent 12 hours shoveling snow out of the stadi­um to prepare for game day. 
master sergeant marshall yuen said the shoveling, which lasted from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Friday, was part of an agreement made between notre dame roTc and stadium staff in 2008. 
“back in 2008, before a stanford game, the campus got hit by a really big snowstorm,” he said. “it was on a Thursday and Friday, and [Facilities manager] dan brazo had a hard time get­ting all the snow cleared for the game. so after that, he called over here to coordinate a com­munity response with us for the next time something like that happened.” 
yuen said last Friday was the first time since 2008 that the roTc was called to help clear the stadium, and in all, about 75 percent of students involved in the notre dame roTc program helped shovel snow. 
“Quite a few of our cadets were [shoveling] in between class pe­riods,” he said. “[some of them] went to class at eight o’clock in the morning. They had an hour break, so they walked over to the stadium and did some shoveling 
see roTc PAGE 5 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Where is the worst place to meet a professor? 

Connor Parker 

Emmy Schoenbauer 
sophomore 
freshman 
alumni hall 
walsh hall 
“hip hop night.” 
“The rock, working out.” 

Ryan Grzyb 

Andrew Guinan 
junior 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
Fisher hall 
“in a bathroom.” 
“The library.” 

Patrick Brennan 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“hesburgh library on the night of the hesburgh challenge.” 


Colleen Finley 
sophomore welsh Family hall 
“Feve.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
caroline hutyra greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers renee griffin madison Jaros hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

Women’s Basketball Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica Women’s Basketball Women’s Basketball 
wei lin mary Kate luft 
Purcell Pavilion Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center Joyce Center 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Irish take on Louisville 11:45 a.m. - 12:45 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Notre Dame vs. 


Corrections 

Chattanooga. in final home game. Music by Notre Dame Harvard. Quinnipiac. The observer regards itself as Folk Choir. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass Men’s Soccer Creches from around Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium the World Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Heart 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Campus-wide Cavanaugh Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Pep rally for Notre 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. ND vs. Akron/Ohio All day 8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Dame vs. Louisville Music by the Women’s State winner (NCAA See thirty creches Worship music and 
we can correct our error. 

football game. Liturgical Choir. Second Round). from around the world. group discussion. 




Choirs, orchestra prepare for Beethoven festival 
By WEI LIN 
news writer 
The notre dame symphony orchestra and numerous notre dame choral groups will perform at thebeethoven Festival tonight at 8 p.m. in thedebartoloperforming arts center as part of the celebra­tion of the 200th anniversary of Fr. edward sorin’s birthday. 
The notre dame glee club along with the notre dame liturgical choir, notre dame women’s liturgical choir and notre dame celebration choir, a total of more than 200 singers, are scheduled to perform several pieces by ludwig van beethoven. pianist and artist-in-residence daniel schlosberg will substitute John blacklow as the soloist. 
according to the debartolo performing arts center’s website, the program consistsofmovements from symphony no. 8, choral Fantasy and mass in c major. 
basilica director of music andrew mcshane and profes­sor daniel stowe, the conductor of the notre dame symphony orchestra and glee club director, began preparation for the concert in august. mcshane said the big­gest challenge was assembling and coordinating the sheer number of musicians involved in the festival, approximately 250 vocalists and instrumentalists combined. 
stowe said he will direct symphony no. 8 and choral Fantasy, while mcshane will di­rect the mass in c major. 
Karen schneider-Kirner, direc­tor of the notre dame celebration choir, said beethoven’s pieces are well suited for large forces, and the festival was feasible since there are many student musicians within the notre dame community. 
“it’s a way for our students to hear the same texts we proclaim now at mass, set musically by one of the greatest composers who ever lived, and we’ll be singing it in the origi­nal german,” schneider-Kirner said. “it will also feature soloists, members of the notre dame com­munity from campus ministry, our music department and the masters in sacred music program.” 
The choirs rehearsed the pieces separately at the beginning of the semester and began rehearsing together in october. mcshane and schneider-Kirner said both of their choirs dedicated numerous hours each week to concert rehearsal. 
schneider-Kirner said it was a challengetoaddtheextrarehearsal time on top of her choir’s liturgical responsibilities around campus. The women’s liturgical choir per­forms at the weekly saturday vigil mass, including mass after home football games. 
paul Kearney, president of the notre dame glee club, said it was a challenge to prepare for the con­cert while simultaneously prepar­ing for the glee club’s fall tour and concert and their christmas con­certs in december. 
Those interested in attending the event can purchase regular admission tickets for $10 and stu­dent tickets for $5. 
schneider-Kirner said the mon­ey will cover expenses incurred by the concert, including rental fees for instrumental parts, music scores for the choir and operating expenses for the concert hall. 
“people should come out to see a great night of music that show­cases the collaboration of several university choirs and the genius of beethoven,” Kearney said. 
mcshane said he hopes to see the show sell out with about a thousand attendees. 
“members of thendcommunity who attend will also be amazed, i think, at the high level of talent on our campus,” schneider-Kirner said. “we have a lot to be proud of, and music is a powerful way to ex­press the wonderful texts the choir will be proclaiming at the concert. 
“it’s music that speaks to the heart and soul, even though it was written over 200 years ago.” 


Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 

latino student alliance hosts dance event 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The latino student alliance (lsa) is hosting a quinceañera­themed formal tonight from 10 
p.m.
 to 1 a.m. in the Jordan hall of science galleria. 

lsa president enrique lorenzo said the dance is open to all notre dame students, and tickets are available for purchase both at the door of the event and at the la Fortune student center until 7 

p.m.
 tonight. 


the past, but for non-latinos it’ll be something new that they can take part of,” lorenzo said. 
nuñez said the club decided to go all out with the quinceañera theme, including an announce­ment of the secret quinceañera identity at the formal and a fa­ther-daughter dance. 
“There’s also the ‘baile sor­presa’ (surprise dance for the birthday girl) which is a choreo­graphed dance with a certain number of couples,” nuñez said. 
This formal marks the first lsa dance, lorenzo said, as the club is technically in its first year. 
“[lsa] used to be la alianza and mecha (movimiento estudiantil chicano de aztlan),” nuñez said. “Then last semes­ter both executive boards kind of saw that we were overlapping in terms of goals. really you couldn’t distinguish between the two of them, and so that’s why we decided to converge and just have lsa.” 
planning is already under­way for lsa events next semes­ter, nuñez said. upcoming 2015 events include an all-class re­treat, a latin expressions tal­ent showcase and a dance at the morris inn. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
“we’re really trying to pull the latino community on campus together while at the same time introducing non-latinos to the culture, which i think is part of the drive for the theme being quinceañera,” lorenzo said. 
club treasurer Kaylee calles and vice-president daniela nuñez said the quinceañera theme, which was decided upon in april, is essentially the equiva­lent of a sweet-16 party. 
“it’s a very traditional thing within our culture to have a 15th 
paid adverTisemenT 
birthday party, and that’s what a quinceañera is,” calles said. “a girl is now considered a woman in society.” 
since the lsa hosted salsa night at legends last Friday, nuñez said this formal provides another opportunity to expose students to spanish music as well as different styles of danc­ing and latin american foods from mexico, el salvador and venezuela. 
“For latinos it’ll remind them of what they’ve experienced in 


Vigil 
conTinued From page 1 
(lgand), planned the vigil as a vehicle to bring the global move­ment directly to the notre dame community, reminding students that young adults similar to them­selves were severely punished for standing up for their beliefs. 
Forty-three empty chairs stood around the grotto as a reminder of the missing students. in the tra­dition of latin american protest movements, each student’s name was called as a candle was lit on their chair. 
“This serves as a symbolic ges­ture indicating that the 43 are not forgotten and that their struggle is now ours,” soto said. 
marisel moreno, associate pro­fessor of spanish, said she en­courages students to not remain unmoved by such “unimagina­ble” violence. 
“as members of a higher learn­ing institution, it’s unimaginable to think of 43 of our own students victimized for standing up against corruption and oppression,” she said. “These students are the latest victims of a highly corrupt system that is working in tandem with drug cartels and benefits from im­punity. … we are all implicated, and it ultimately affects us all.” 
according to soto, there are various ways for students to get involved in the movement. by clicking on hashtags such as #FightingForayotzinapa, #weareayotzinapa and #ayotzinapa, students can stay up-to-date on the movement. 
soto said he calls all notre dame students to become aware of the problems in mexico and to work toward restoring the image of notre dame as “a champion of human rights” and more than just a “football school.” 
“ultimately, we can show our support by putting pressure on the mexican government, by writ­ing letters to the mexican consul­ate expressing our dismay,” he said. 
according to Kellogg visiting fellow sandra ley gutiérrez, stu­dent movements are important in creating change and provid­ing energy and strength to the demands for truth and justice. gutiérrez ended the prayer service by challenging students to be­come informed, spread the word, show support and reject all forms of violence. 
“lastly, never forget, and never let others forget about this mas­sacre,” she said. “we are counting on you.” 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 



SMC club sponsors bone marrow registry drive 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s stand up To cancer student club will host a bone marrow registry drive for students and the michiana community Friday from 11:30 
a.m. to 3 p.m. in reignbeaux lounge of le mans hall. 
Junior allison lukomski said the event is a special way for students to help make a life-changing difference in the lives of cancer patients everywhere. lukomski said she matched with a cancer patient this past summer and recently donated blood stem cells to her match. 
“i registered to become a possible match because it was an event that the saint mary’s college stand up To cancer club was running,” lukomski said. “never once did i question doing this. i just felt that there was no reason not to join. in my head, i just thought to my­self ‘this could save a life, why shouldn’t i join?’” 
when lukomski donated at last year’s drive, she said she never thought she would be matched with anyone. 
“never did i think i would be matched in a million years,” she said. “little to my disgrace, it was the perfect timing. being a junior in college, i tend to get caught up in the hype of having good grades, getting ready to apply to grad schools, etc., but by being matched, i had to real­ize how important things in my life really are.” 
less than six months af­ter joining the list, lukomski said she learned she had been matched with a 60-year-old fe­male recipient with myelodys­plastic syndrome. 
“since the majority of match­es are from the patient’s fam­ily members, i realized when i was matched that i was her only chance because no one in her family was her match,” she said. “it is a lot to emotionally take on at once, but i had my family sup­porting me, and they reminded me that this was something that god had planned for my recipient and me.” 
lukomski currently does not know how her recipient is re­covering, but she said she will be notified around nov. 23 as to how her recipient’s body re­sponded to her stem cells. 
a note, written by lukomski, was delivered to her match along with the donated stem cells, but lukomski said she was not allowed to include any personal information in the note. 
“i will have the chance to write her only through [the na­tional marrow donor program] be The match if my recipient is willing,” she said. “The same goes for meeting her. Through the rules of the organization, we cannot meet until a full year has passed from her receiv­ing the donation. i would love to meet her at that point, and i hope she feels the same.” 
lukomski said she is encour­aging fellow students to join the list of possible donors this Friday at the drive. 
“why wouldn’t you want to potentially have the ability to save a life?” she said. “at any time throughout the process, you have the choice to say that you no longer wish to continue. it is your choice to even agree to start the process. so i would encourage everyone to just join the list. The swab of your check does not hurt. if you get selected for the donation process, you as the donor can stop the process and decline it at anytime. you are in full control of what hap­pens to you.” 
The donation itself did not hurt at all, as lukomski said she was given injections of fil­grastim five days prior to her donation day. 
“my body was achey, but that is expected,” she said. “Filgrastim is a drug that in­creases the number of blood-forming cells, bone marrow cells in my bloodstream. That was the only thing that caused me pain, the constant ache i had from the drug doings its job. it was nothing horrible, just a constant ache. other than that, i did not experience any pain.” 
by joining the registration list, lukomski said students provide hope to people fight­ing for their lives and may even change their futures. 
“That is why i love this organi­zation,” she said. “They are sav­ing lives through the strength and help of strangers. it never hurts to try something, and this is a chance to do something that is bigger than yourself and to feel like you made a difference. Join because you want to make a difference and save a life.” 
lukomski is extremely grate­ful for the support she has received from her family, boy­friend and his family through­out the entire process, she said. 
“without them being there for me, the process of donating would not have been as won­derful,” she said. “i wanted my family with me throughout ev­erything i did, and i was lucky that they were there. but the most important thing that i am grateful for throughout this ex­perience is that i was selected to save a life.” 
even without meeting her recipient or having any knowl­edge of her identity, lukomski said she considers her match a part of her family. 
“i cannot imagine what my recipient and her family have gone through,” she said. “without meeting her or know­ing anything about her, she is now a part of my family, and that is what made this whole experience so rewarding. 
“it is the ability to save a life. sure there will be fears and some pain, but in the long run the outcome makes every fear and pain worth it. as college students, i think we some­times get caught up in our lives of planning for grad schools and getting a job after gradua­tion. i believe that by me being matched was my way of realiz­ing that i need to start looking at the really important things in life, like life itself.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
contradictions, but we need to be able to talk about these issues in an honest forum.” 
austin said she faced an addi­tional obstacle, which stemmed from the stigma surrounding her same-sex relationship. austin said she stayed in her relation­ship because she didn’t want to become another reason for peo­ple to say homosexuality is not okay. 
“’i told you so’ is not helpful,” she said. 
listening and not judging are the most important ways friends can support victims, austin said. as a professor, she said she tries to create a safe space for students, but she herself feels broken. 
“i try to create this safe space for students, but so much of my identity is gone,” she said. “i don’t know who i am anymore.” 
senior meredith mersits said while she was in an abusive re­lationship, she always put the blame on herself. 
it’s a job every day when you’re in a violent relationship, mersits said. it consumes your thoughts and affects you mentally. 
“i was in a relationship where i wasn’t myself,” she said. “i had lost my voice.” 
as a social work major, mersits said she knows firsthand the signs of domestic violence, but she was still unable to define her relationships as such. 
“i’m an advocate for sexual assault and domestic violence victims, but i was in one myself,” she said. “i was embarrassed and didn’t want to see my relation­ship as abusive.” 
There are no stereotypes for domestic violence situations, mersits said, and it’s something that is often undetectable on the surface. 
“you can’t look at someone and know they are in a domestic violence situation,” she said. 
support is crucial, but mersits said the pain that accompanies domestic violence is not fixable. 
“so often we want to fix things, but this is not something that is easily fixable,” she said. “it takes one day at time, and my friends helped me get my voice back.” 
laura brandenburg, director of advancement services, said she left an abusive marriage af­ter many years, but it wasn’t until later that she realized her rela­tionship was abusive. 
brandenburg said her hus­band would get angry and expect her to get over his rage quickly. mentally, it was exhausting, she said. 
brandenburg referenced a weekend during her marriage when she planned to attend a scrapbooking weekend with a church group. she said she had boxes of supplies lined up at the door, and her husband hid the boxes as a way of telling her she couldn’t go. 
“[domestic violence] makes you feel so little and taken advantage of and controlled, and you don’t know what to do from there,” she said. 
brandenburg reiterated the message of constant support from friends. 
“it’s helpful to have friends that are there to listen,” she said. “my friends help me feel validat­ed and like i’m not crazy.” 
austin said support is a life­long need for victims of domestic violence. 
“i feel like a shell of what i used to be, but i ask that you understand support needs to be continuing even long after the relationships is terminated,” she said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Symposium 
conTinued From page 1 
class, gender, sexuality, socio­economic background, disability and immigration status into ac­count. The question’s “language is loaded and problematic,” she said. 
The symposium provided a day-long forum on mental health, law, social work, healthcare and education professionals, lyles­chockley said. 
in a section of the symposium entitled “domestic violence, ethnicity and culture,” elena Zarandona, an elkhart psycho­logical and family consultant, and mary smith, a bilingual domes­tic violence survivor advocate at the ywca, said the group’s mis­sion to help survivors of domestic violence was inspired by personal experience. 
“many of the panelists and the individuals who have helped me organize the event are survivors of [domestic violence],” lyles­chockley said. 
Zarandona said hispanic wom­en, like herself, are less likely to seek government-offered shelter from domestic violence because they want to protect their children from further danger. 
Zarandona said citizenship sta­tus and the possibility of having one’s child removed by social ser­vices directly influences whether or not women report abuse. 
Zarandona said she prefers the term “survivor” to “victim” because women who endure do­mestic violence do defend them­selves, even if they are trapped or isolated. 
“my job is to make this woman more empowered, to make this women feel as if it is okay to be by herself again,” she said. 
developing this sense of in­dependence is particularly hard because of the sincere sense of intimacy the perpetrator of do­mestic violence shares with the survivor, Zarandona said. 
“it’s a confusing way of loving, but it is a way of loving,” she said. “it’s not your fault, but it is your responsibility to get better. Take yourself seriously.” 
smith said many women who leave the ywca after the 45-day maximum stay will return to a violent situation at home because they do not have a support system elsewhere. 
This support is especially hard to find if the survivor faces a lan­guage barrier, smith said. on top of all other obstacles that survivors of domestic violence face, a language barrier is hard to overcome. 
lyles-chockley said she hopes event attendees leave with a more holistic understanding of what domestic violence is, why women stay and how to become “loving and effective allies and friends to the women who are in, and/or leaving, abusive relationships.” 
“we hope that the symposium helps our community better re­spond to domestic violence and assist us all in being better advo­cates, friends and allies to women who are in, and trying to get out of, abusive relationships,” lyles­chockley said. 
smith said being aware of re­sources makes a significant dif­ference to survivors of domestic violence. 
“it’s amazing how much you grow when a hand is extended to you,” she said. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
ROTC 
conTinued From page 1 
and then went to their next class. some did it over their lunch breaks. 
“every one of the roTc com­manders was out there shoveling snow, and some of them were out there for six or seven hours.” 
sophomore naval midshipman ian Tembe said involvement in roTc service like this is person­ally important to him. 
“i like to participate in every­thing the battalion does,” he said. “For me, navy roTc (nroTc) is the main part of my life as far as my future and my career. … another thing that i really like is the re­lationship between nroTc and notre dame, and i wanted to help further that [by participating].” 
shoveling snow in the stadium also helped strengthen the bond between the four different roTc units, Tembe said. 
“it’s important for the cadets to do [service for the university] so that [roTc] can instill that ‘god, country, notre dame’ kind of ideal and that service to com­munity,” he said. “it’s important to strengthen the relationship between the navy, the army, the marine corps, the air Force and notre dame.” 
senior elizabeth Terino said the relationship between the four roTc branches extends be­yond shoveling snow together on Friday. The units have multiple events with each other through­out the year, she said. Tembe said this relationship between the branches is an important one. 
“The camaraderie between the units, we have kind of a sibling ri­valry,” Tembe said. “but we’re real­ly more tightly involved than you might think. and that’s important because once we graduate and become officers, joint relation­ships between the branches are very important to the military ob­jectives of the united states. each service would like to say they’re the one that does all the work, but really the work can’t be done with­out all the armed services.” 
shoveling snow on Friday was a way to show roTc’s appreciation for notre dame, Terino said. 
“notre dame is so support­ive of the roTc program,” she said. “shoveling the stadium is just a small act of service that we can perform to give back to a university that gives us so much.” 
ultimately, though, yuen said the service notre dame roTc provides to the university also benefits the cadets. 
“what it really teaches our ca­dets is that if somebody asks for help, you go out there and help them without expecting neces­sarily a monetary reward or a pat on the back,” he said. “when your community calls you to help, if you have time to do it, you go out there and do it.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 

Finocchio 
conTinued From page 1 
and how most people who made an impact throughout history took chances and took risks. i just started to feel strongly that i didn’t want to go down the same path as everyone else. i wanted to go off on my own and kind of create my own path. … it all just helped to shape my perspective and push me toward trying to do something that i was actually re­ally passionate about.” 
after graduating from notre dame, Finocchio said he took a job with a private equity firm in chicago and worked between 60 and 80 hours a week, but used his spare time to launch bleacher report. he said he was motivated by a belief that sports fans “de­serve to read something insight­ful, something that makes them really think about their team, something that’s entertaining.” 
“The idea was that we would go and source writers all over the country who were actually hon-est-to-god experts about maybe the top three to four hundred teams across all professional sports in the u.s. and then some collegiate sports,” he said. 
“we had absolutely no idea what the hell we were doing. none whatsoever. This was just an idea, and we really had to do things step by step.” 
Finocchio said he noticed most sports media outlets catered to an older audience, so he wanted bleacher report to tailor its con­tent to fans in their mid-20s. 
“i thought a lot of the sports websites that were out there were really speaking to my dad’s demographic [more] than they were to mine,” he said. “even if you turn on some of the broad­casts today, at times i feel like it’s my grandfather talking about sports. it’s not how i would be talking about them with my bud­dies in a bar.” 
Through its data-driven approach to user analysis, Finocchio said he and his team were able to generate a large enough audience to attract in­vestors and advertisers. Turner sports then acquired bleacher report in aug. 2012 for a reported $175 million. 
“Today we are the second-largest sports site in the united states. we are both a publisher of content, but we also aggregate other content,” he said. “That’s kind of part of our secret sauce — we create our own original con­tent but we’re also really, really good at curating other peoples’ content. we’ll link to espn; we’ll link to nd nation; we’ll link to anyone who has good content.” 
Finocchio also highlighted bleacher report’s mobile app, Team stream, which is the most widely used sports app with more than 10 million global downloads, and the website’s expansion to include offices in new york and london in addi­tion to its headquarters in san Francisco. 
he concluded with advice for the mostly-student audience to pursue their interests rather than settle for a steady job after graduation. 
“you spend so much time try­ing to get through high school and trying to get into notre dame, it’s worth the time to try to figure out what job would probably make you happy or what job would help you actually feel good that you’re chasing some of the passions in your life,” Finocchio said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 


my fantasy sports nightmare 

Miko Malabute 
scene writer 

consider this my official public an­nouncement: i am finished with any and all forms of fantasy sports come next year. yes, that’s right, by the time 2015 rolls around, i will no longer partake in fantasy football, fantasy basketball, or fantasy choose-your-favorite-sport-and-trivialize-it. 
you don’t care about whether or not i play fantasy sports next year? well surprise, sur­prise, that’s kind of the point here. 
i realize that as long as there exists a divide of supremely blessed, hardworking and talented athletes and non-athletic wan­nabes like myself, there will quite probably always exist a cornucopia of fantasy players in countless fantasy leagues. The apparent fun and thrill is there: a non-athlete can feel like a mastermind at sports, replacing the thrill of actually playing and succeeding in a given sport. but the more and more i play, the less and less i pay attention to my fantasy teams. i realize i feel forced into watching players rather than teams, and i hate watch­ing the real-life sport all for the sake of suf­fering over my fantasy team. 
i love talking with my friends about sports. however, once they start to regur­gitate fantasy points to me, i instantly tune out.  and, i have come to despise fantasy sports for three reasons. 
First, for the majority of the sports that the most popular fantasy sports are based on (i.e. football, basketball, baseball, hockey and soccer), one of the things that is most celebrated is the virtue of a unit of players coming together to turn in a product much greater than the sum of its parts. however, the essence of fantasy sports throws that very idea away — it takes away from the beauty of transcending individualistic per­formances for the sake of team success. 
second, in my opinion it’s becoming increasingly easy for people to pretend to be the expert. it doesn’t take any extensive knowledge of any sport to be a fantasy guru 
— simply look up who will produce the most numbers, and you might as well have your own fantasy sports segment on your favorite sports news media. 
lastly, i have been simply awful at fan­tasy sports for the past few years. my sports luck has been putrid as my favorite teams have been perpetually underachieving and marred by misfortune.  as a consequence of this, i never know who the most productive players are — the most productive players just aren’t going to be on the miserable los angeles lakers or cursed oakland raiders. or, in a weird roundabout way, they might be. after all, oftentimes the most winningest teams have the greatest players who could care less about individual stats. 
so goodbye fantasy sports. i am looking forward to waking up from this nightmare and getting back to reality. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
everyone in the notre dame is well aware of the university’s French heritage and irish identity. however, although notre dame has a rich history with native americans, few members of the campus community know or can recount these stories. 
Three prominent murals on the second floor of main building depict christopher columbus and his interactions with native american peoples. one, called “Taking possession of the new world,” shows him just after landing, in front of a cross, preach­ing christianity to awestruck indigenous people cowering at the display of power. another, called “return of columbus and his reception at court,” shows him back in spain presenting his find­ings from the new world, including a number of native american men. The final mural, called “bobadilla betrays columbus,” shows columbus in shackles with a concerned native woman resting her head on his shoulder while a native man holds columbus’s chains. columbus was arrested by fellow spaniard, Francisco de bobadilla, by orders of the King and Queen for abus­ing his powers as a governor, promoting slavery of the indigenous people, ordering wrongful hangings and mishandling money. 
it is unfortunate that these are the only stories still told about native americans on notre dame’s campus. The story that should be told and celebrated instead is the story of the potawatomi tribe, chief leopold pokagon, Fr. stephen badin, Fr. edward sorin and the origins of the university as we know it. 
most people do not know that notre dame was built on potawatomi lands. The story of notre dame and the potawatomi people began in 1830 when leopold pokagon, a leader in the potawatomi tribe, traveled to detroit to ask assistance from French priests. Fr. gabriel richard sent badin, the first priest ordained in the united states, as a missionary to minister to the potawatomi people. badin purchased the land at sainte-marie­des-lacs in parcels from the united states government with the intention of starting an orphanage — now notre dame. The potawatomi and badin worked together to establish a mission in northwest indiana. 
when the chicago Treaty was passed in 1833, the potawatomi tribe was ordered to leave or be forcibly removed from this region to eastern Kentucky. pokagon, with the help of badin, was able to negotiate the right to stay in the area, and he purchased land near dowagiac, michigan, for his people shortly thereafter. with the help of catholic missionaries, the pokagon band of potawatomi got its start. 
in 1835, badin sold the land to the diocese of vincennes on the condition that it be used for an orphanage and school. sorin left vincennes, indiana, with the dream of founding a university, and when he arrived at the log-cabin mission on the edge of two lakes in november 1841, the pokagon people and catholic priests had already formed a strong friendship. The pokagon band maintained a close presence during the formative years of notre dame. 
This friendship continued throughout notre dame’s develop­ment, but over time this relationship has slowly faded away. There have been points of contention between the potawatomi tribe and notre dame in recent years concerning land and the admis­sion of potawatomi students to the university, but those concerns have passed. There is no reason that notre dame should avoid celebrating its long tradition with the native american people in this region. There is no reason why the notre dame community should be unaware of important interactions between its found­ers and local native americans. 
it is unfortunate that during november, native american heritage month, notre dame does nothing to honor its past. For an institution so steeped in stories and practices of tradition, it is disappointing that this integral story has been forgotten. in celebrating Father sorin’s 200th birthday, notre dame ought to include the great native american influence involved in the founding of this university. 
This story needs to be told and heard so that in the future, we can honor our past to the fullest extent. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
nd: divest and say no to fossil fuels 
we, the members of the center for social concerns seminar on energy, climate and social change, ask notre dame to assess its role in the increasingly critical issue of climate change. 
Following weeks of studying this multifaceted and far-reach­ing subject from a variety of angles, our seminar culminated in a trip to our nation’s capital, where we discussed climate change with experts in policy, politics, activism and industry. after sin­cere analysis of the issue, we would like to suggest a tangible step for our university: divestment from fossil fuels. 
divestment constitutes a removal of an organization’s funds from specific corporations or groups as a political statement. Today, environmental advocates across the nation are calling for divestment from fossil fuel industries. notre dame’s endowment is currently invested in a diverse portfolio of industry sectors that have brought successive years of large growth. opponents of divestment cite its potential financial cost to the university, but our proposal comprises relocating funds invested in fossil fuels to other relatively high-yielding resources to ensure continued endowment growth. 
in recent months, stanford and the university of dayton — an­other midwestern catholic institution — announced they would join a growing number of universities, cities and foundations across the world in the divestment movement. we call for notre dame to join this movement and declare a firm moral opposition to energy practices not in keeping with catholic social tradition. 
Furthermore, divestment may help change social perception of an industry that holds a near monopoly on energy, neglecting social and environmental responsibility. with established infra­structure and cheaper prices due to unaccounted external costs, like the health impact of pollution, fossil fuels will continue to dominate the market without a movement demonstrating strong resistance to their harmful effects. 
climate change is a deeply moral issue, one closely aligned with our university’s mission to seek justice and dignity for all. The oft-unconsidered societal costs of carbon emissions and pollution threaten public health and the future of our economy. The global carbon concentration has reached approximately 400 parts per million, substantially surpassing 350 parts per million, the maximum level recommended by the intergovernmental panel on climate change to avoid severe changes in weather patterns. moreover, extraction and processing of fossil fuels in­duce adverse health effects such as asthma, to which children are particularly susceptible. These effects disproportionately impact poor and minority communities who lack the financial means to flee pollution or to adapt to climate change. 
as a university with a tradition of standing for social justice, notre dame must exercise strong leadership for other institu­tions around the world to establish just policy on climate issues. by articulating a clarion call for action against practices that threaten basic human dignity, we as a university can continue to uphold the values upon which we were founded. 
Tessa Clarizio  Teresa Muldoon  
sophomore  junior  
cavanaugh hall  welsh Family hall  
Rose Doerfler  Casey O’Donnell  
senior  junior  
cavanaugh hall  lewis hall  
Melissa Drury  Caroline Skulski  
junior  sophomore  
off campus  lewis hall  
Brittany Ebeling  Garrett Blad  
sophomore  senior  
Farley hall  Zahm house  
Caitlin Hodges  Dan Sehlhorst  
sophomore  junior  
walsh hall  Zahm house  
Jonathan Leslie  
junior  
alumni hall  nov. 17  


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Make Christ present 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i had the opportunity to travel back to south bend this past Thursday. although my work in indianapolis does not allow frequent jaunts back to the familiar sites of campus, its beauty was still fresh in my mind from this past summer. images of warm sunshine, green grass and wind rippling gently over the lakes sent a smile over my face as i began my drive. 
These pleasant visions were, unfortunately, short-lived. clear autumnal skies faded to reveal a much starker reality. a november snow had de­scended over south bend. cue the quick exit of my pleasant summer memories. 
red taillights danced like disco lights in be­tween the snow flurries that were blanketing the south bend roads. but things were anything but a party. it took me around an hour to progress a mile through downtown south bend. 
Through it all, i could not help but think to my­self, “wasn’t it just yesterday that we were greet­ing the sunshine? my, the time has gone quickly.” 
it seems like just last week that i was beginning my undergraduate career at notre dame, and just yesterday that i was beginning my graduate studies with echo. This work has taken me to the campus of notre dame during the summers and to the city of indianapolis during the year. 
and now that my two years are winding down, it’s time to think more toward the future, to life after echo. 
while it’s exciting to face the future, this has never been a particularly easy task for me. Quite simply, i have been called a “perpetual discern­er.” i have been known to think, weigh, re-weigh and examine every nook and cranny of a possible decision before committing. 
in fact, my journey to a decision probably looks like my journey through the streets of south bend that last Thursday: slow. The “traffic” and clutter of my life frequently blanket the road of my life. it can be hard not only to get my footing but to see clearly in front of me. 
all this reminds me of a job request i re­ceived not too long ago. it was a job posting for a ministry position with the diocese of raleigh. The position was titled “director of the new evangelization.” 
now, if you follow the church, the topic of the “new evangelization” is like a drive in the heavy snow in south bend. it’s a hard topic on which to get any sort of good footing. 
but i describe it to people in this way. To evan­gelize means to share the gospel, to spread its “good news.” 
The word “new,” i’ve always thought, is some­what misleading though. The message of the gospel and christ is certainly not new. 
what is new, however, what is always changing, are the particular ways in which we get to “pres­ent” christ’s truths. but i’ve always wondered: “how do we present the unchanging truths of faith in such a way that they can be understood by people thousands of years removed from its original context?” 
i still do chuckle to think that “one person” could ever “direct” the “new evangelization.” i often think to myself, “isn’t that the work of the holy spirit?” 
The saints, however, i think provide us with a more nuanced understanding. 
it reminds me of a very charming story about one of those saints, recently canonized st. John XXiii. as pope, he once found himself visiting a hospital named holy spirit in rome. not expect­ing him, the religious sister in charge introduced herself: “most holy Father, i am the superior of the holy spirit!” To which John replied, “well, i must say you’re lucky. i’m only the vicar of christ!” 
st. John XXiii was known for his humor. other saints, like st. Francis of assisi, were known for their acceptance of poverty. others, like st. Joan of arc, were known for their courage. The list could continue on and on. but, while each of them worked using different gifts and talents, they all reimagined christ’s mission in their own particular contexts. 
in “The chronicles of narnia,” c.s. lewis had the same goal. The great lion aslan, he said, was what he imagined Jesus would look like if he be­came incarnate in a magical world like narnia. 
and it brings up an interesting question for me. what does christ look like in our own “worlds?” how can we make him present? The saints pro­vide us with good roadmaps. but, in the midst of all our searching and discernment, perhaps it is a question we have to ask ourselves. 
what would happen if our minds were focused on making Jesus present? perhaps his light could illumine the shadows of our questions, and we might be able to attain that clarity we most long for. 
Scott Boyle graduated in May of 2012 with a degree in Theology and a minor in Medieval Studies.  He cur­rently lives and works as a Campus and Youth Minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program. Contact him at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The case against net neutrality 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to Farce 

Editor’s Note: This is the second column of a two part column series that examines the current debate sur­rounding “net neutrality.” 
on the surface, the case for net neutrality seems simple. as discussed in monday’s column, “The case for net neutrality,” net neutrality appears to diminish the monopolistic power of internet service providers (isps) and ensure equal access to all content for all us­ers, safeguarding a “free and open internet.” however, in moving beyond the rhetoric associated with this debate, it is clear that there is a persuasive case against net neutrality. 
The understanding that the internet is an open and free highway is simply not true. major web content providers already benefit from “peering connections” and “content delivery servers,” which serve the same purpose as the feared internet fast lanes. however, this technology has been used by large tech companies for years, and the internet is not the apocalyptic waste­land we are promised by net neutrality supporters. in addition, it is important to reference that 75 percent of broadband internet usage is hogged by 10 content sources, eliminating any conception of the internet as millions of diverse pieces of data moving through a single road. returning to the above analogy, consider an isp’s infrastructure as not a public highway but rather as an extensive, rented out private driveway, with a majority of traffic coming from a few sources. any constructive conversation regarding net neutral­ity must move away from an antiquated and simplified understanding of the internet. 
opponents of net neutrality draw two conclusions from this information. First, it is clear that all internet data is not created equally. Therefore, there is ample justification for not treating all internet data equally. streaming a netflix movie is an inherently different process than accessing your friend’s blog from abroad. permitting isps to manage and prioritize their massive infrastructure will allow these companies to provide better service. second, establishing net neutrality rules will provide isps and content providers with significantly less power to develop innovative service models. For example, espn, in an effort to grow its online offerings, agreed to cover any verizon user’s data charges above his data plan that was used for espn content. verizon receives additional fees from espn, users get an extended data plan for no charge and espn grows its online presence. even though such a deal was mutually beneficial for all parties, net neutrality supporters immediately objected. while one can argue that such deals stifle potential competi­tors to companies like espn and netflix, even though their $40 billion and $23 billion respective market caps might play a role too, limiting the flexibility of isps to control their own infrastructures prevents potentially innovative opportunities for isps to better their service offerings 
in making the case against net neutrality, one must address potential counter arguments relating to an isp’s potential to “control the internet” and limit legal content. while such a situation is possible, one must consider how such an action would affect an isp’s business. isps generate revenue by providing internet access to consumers. if a company were to intention­ally dilute a customer’s internet access, it would sharp­ly decrease revenues. imagine the impact selective search results based on political interests would have on google. despite the ability to “control the internet,” any effort by isps to do so would be a fatal business decision and therefore highly unlikely. 
now, this assumes a competitive market, and there are legitimate concerns regarding the monopolistic traits of some isps and a need for increased competi­tion. however, saddling the internet service indus­try with regulation will serve as a barrier to entry to competitors. efforts to classify the internet as a public utility will not increase competition among isps but will likely increase an incumbent isp’s monopolistic power. 
one of the most familiar yet powerful arguments against net neutrality holds that government control and regulation of the internet has dangerous implica­tions for the future of internet access, service and qual­ity. by classifying the internet as a public utility, the Federal communications commission (Fcc) would open the internet up to price control and content and service regulation that is designed to handle tradition­al telecommunications services. historical evidence indicates that clunky, bureaucratic management and regulation of a space as dynamic as the internet will stifle innovation and technological progress. in the past, the government has adopted a light touched ap­proach to regulation of the internet, contributing to rapid technological transformation and innovation, disrupting and positively changing the way by which the world communicates, learns and connects. 
in president obama’s recent statement urging the Fcc to adopt net neutrality principles, he argued, “net neutrality [is] essential for preserving an environment … that makes up the internet as we know it.” in consid­ering the internet 10 years ago, the internet today and the potential of the internet in 10 years, is preserving the internet as we know it a cause worth fighting for? 
JC Sullivan is a junior living in Keenan Hall. He can be reached at jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

For all the characters usa network wel­comes with open arms, a fair amount re­side in the context of the law. whether representing it, working in tandem with it, consulting for it or actively escaping it, almost every popular original usa network hour-long drama pertains in some aspect to law, crime and justice. as such, it is natural that usa’s new show expanding its foray into half-hour sit­com programming, “benched” — fol­lowing the network taking a chance with the great comedy writing duo of lennon parham and Jessica st. clair in their sec­ond show in as many years, the summer sitcom “playing house” — centers on a lawyer in a public defense office bullpen. The premise is well-worn territory, both for the network and for sitcoms as a genre, and while it might not be groundbreak­ing, it provides a familiar foundation on which to grow an audience. 
“benched” tracks a hardworking, dedi­cated corporate attorney’s fall from grace 
John Darr 
scene writer 

“Kids are all standing with their arms folded tight.” 
cool kids are the worst. i mean, look at ‘em, chillin’ with their Zunes or whatev­er next to the thrift store that remained underground post-macklemore. They’re better than you, they’re deeper than you and they have way more sophisticated taste in music than you. surely, these cool kids are in their element at con­certs, where the only other kids around have a good taste in music and their favorite band is rocking their socks off on stage. 
wrong. 

They’re all standing there with their arms folded tight, too cool to express emotion or any sort of interest in the world around them. so often at in­die concerts, the crowd acts like a following an outburst caused by losing out on a promotion. nina whitley (eliza coupe) is forced to work up goodwill rep­resenting the less fortunate in a public law position. after she burns her bridges with the high standing firms she was once a member of, she hopes her time away will someday return her to the private sector. 
created by damon Jones and michaela watkins, the basis for the main story sounds extremely similar to another show watkins acted on, hbo’s now-cancelled “enlightened.” however, coupe’s confi­dent, broader whitley makes “benched” a straight comedy whereas the wonderful “enlightened” often played cripplingly serious. as a result, “benched” is much more analogous to the show in which coupe got her television start, “scrubs.” although it does not share the breakneck zaniness of the latter, “benched” simi­larly explores a setting normally relegat­ed to dramas in a surprisingly accurate representation. 
coupe has been on the cusp of Tv star­dom since her prominent part in the final two seasons of “scrubs,” nearly adopting 
tranquilized Kanye west — awkwardly immobile and ridiculously preten­tious. it’s as if none of them have heard (because you know, every cool kid has heard the entire arcade Fire discogra­phy) “month of may,” which i quoted at the beginning of this article, which an­grily shouts at the hordes of too-cool-for­school kids who don’t dance, bob their head or appear to derive any joy from concerts. 
as huge fan of indie music, i’m pretty sick of going to concerts where the energy on stage isn’t reflected by the crowd. no one should have to experi­ence a reptar concert where nobody dances. no one should have to endure a chvrches concert standing in a field of barely-breathing statues. and nobody, nobody should be the only one raving during “reunion” at an m83 concert. yet according to my experiences, high energy indie bands have to play to life­less crowds that are too cool to show any the show’s leading role. since, she has starred in the excellent “happy endings,” in a similar Type-a role she inhabits in “benched.” as superb as “happy endings” was, “benched” could very well prove to be her breakout, offering a strong, central character as the show’s main focal point, with room for her to establish multi-di­mensionality in whitley. in its first few ep­isodes, the show has already introduced a large playground to explore: from her new public office — equipped with such dynamic colleagues as Jay harrington (“better off Ted”), oscar nunez (“The office”) and maria bamford (“arrested development”) — to the courtroom, in­terrogation rooms, prison and the possi­bility of returning to a private firm. as of now, it does not seem as though the show will take a path towards really exploring the latter, but, knowing usa shows, it could provide a nice on-going conflict. 
still, the most promising element to “benched” is the confidence it shares with its main character. already nina has spent a night in jail alongside a woman she was representing, got into a physical 
appreciation for their music all the time. my best concert experiences have been watching more mainstream groups like Foster the people and grouplove, gigs where crowd members unabashedly yell along to the lyrics, dance their hearts out and never seem to act better than the fellow fans around them. 
unenthusiastic crowds aren’t simply a pet peeve of mine — they’re a systemic issue. First of all, they affect, in general, the experience of everyone at the event. The negative emotions of individuals of the crowd naturally bring down the peo­ple around them, even (and especially) those who are most “into” the concert. 
secondly, they affect the experience of the band playing. as a man who has been on stage numerous times with a high-school rock band, i can attest to the effect of a crowd on a band. when peo­ple are clapping along, dancing, nodding their heads, it inspires the band to play better and with more energy. There’s fight and then bonded with the woman over mutual complaints about their sex lives. in the context of the show, that last bit it is an important development in the show’s infancy, and one for television on the whole. The show’s main female character embraces an empowered, con­fident sexual role, in an unexpected way 
— which is no small feat, even if it may have been a slight moment played for laughs. patriarchal culture, especially of­ten displayed on television — overtly or not — can pick up from an honest and hi­larious open exchange like the one writ­ten on “benched.” 
This small moment, among others, pro­vides a lot of hope for “benched” as a se­ries. The show could become the first in an eventual sitcom block for usa, which could spark the network to explore more premises its dramas’ inhabit or take more experimental chances by branching out into new territory, treating it with similar quality. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                             mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
nothing better than seeing people enjoy your music as you create it. being a good crowd member makes the band happier, which makes the concert better for ev­eryone. but a bad crowd can deflate any energy a band has, consequently mak­ing the experience worse for everyone. 
Finally, being a part of an unenthu­siastic crowd makes your experience worse. everyone has some control over their emotions — cheer yourself up and attempt to get into the music! if you just flatline through the concert and don’t put any effort in, you’re not going to walk away with new great memories in your noggin. do yourself a favor and take advantage of the moment. do it for the people around you, do it for the band and do it for yourself. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Manor look to complete drastic turnaround 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports Writer 
When no. 1 morrissey takes on no. 2 Keenan at notre dame stadium on sunday, it does not plan on focusing on the stage. 
“To be honest, we could play this game in the middle of south Quad and our goal would stay the same; that’s to win the championship,” junior running back and captain erik rayno said. 
Junior running back hunter White said there will be no extra pressure heading into sunday’s game. 
“There’s never any extra pres­sure,” White said. “We always go 100 percent. It doesn’t matter what our record is, we’re making it hap­pen every play, I don’t care where [the game] is at.” 
The manor (6-0) defeated stanford, 8-0, last sunday to reach the title tilt in their first playoff ap­pearance in four years. 
senior receiver Tim cole and senior coach Kevin berens attri­bute this dramatic turnaround to morrissey’s increased emphasis on preparation this year. 
“It’s pretty unbelievable, coming from three years in a row of not be­ing good at all,” cole said. “We kind of relied on talent over preparation the first three years and now we practice twice a week and it makes a huge difference. It’s a tribute to our captain erik [rayno].” 
“I think it’s really just dedication, getting your work done during the week in practice,” berens said. “A lot of these guys have been together for four years now, and the talent’s always been there. As soon as you can get those two practices a week in, you can really iron out the mis­takes on game day and eliminate the penalties.” 
rayno said the key was simply installing a sense of discipline in morrissey’s mindset. 
“I’m a junior,” rayno said. “since I got here, it’s been very obvious to me that I was surrounded by pretty awesome talent both on offense and defense, and I knew that it would just take a little bit of discipline to basically put it all together. ... We started to get into a good practice schedule, we worked on offense and defense tirelessly and now we’re playing for the championship.” 
rayno also gave much of the credit for the team’s performance to the coaching of berens. 
“ever since I met Kevin, I’ve known that he is a sports mas­termind,” rayno said. “he un­derstands offense and defense. Losing him next year is actually going to be our biggest hit. Kevin keeps us moving the ball efficiently down the field. he’s an asset that I couldn’t put a price on for this team. ... I couldn’t say enough good things about him.” 
Whether or not morrissey’s hard work will result in a championship is still up in the air, but rayno said he feels confident about the team’s chances as long as everyone ex­ecutes. rayno said the key to the game is ball security. 
“no matter what defense you’re facing you want to protect the foot­ball,” rayno said. “You take care of the football and the football will take care of you. ... If we don’t turn the ball over and put up a couple points, I think we’ll be in a decent place this weekend.” 
offensively, junior quarterback ryan Lindquist said morrissey’s focus will be on the running game. 
“When you have the best run­ning back in the league [White], it should always be focused on [the run],” junior quarterback ryan Lindquist said. “When our line protects well — and it always does 
— the game just kind of comes. We have some big play threats and we just let it come to us.” 
“We love running the ball,” rayno said. “We run the ball effec­tively to open up the pass. We make the hole for [White] and he’s going to make it happen for us.” 
defensively, senior linebacker Tom rogers said the key will be to stay disciplined. 
“Keenan runs a spread,” rogers said. “our defense has been stout all year. ... We can’t miss our assign­ments in the passing game and we’ll be just fine.” 
With the championship game looming large, berens said he feels confident in his team’s chances. 
“I trust my guys,” berens said. “I think it’s going to be a good game. I’ve got a lot of respect for Keenan. They have some good athletes, some good talent. There going to try and spread us out [and] hope­fully we can answer them. ... I think we’re going to come out on top.” 
morrissey plays Keenan at 
3:30 p.m. sunday at notre dame stadium. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

Keenan aims for second title in three seasons 
athletes making plays back there defense’s performance, Koller said. 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 

on defense, especially linebackers “I think Tony rogari has really and our defensive backs are get-showed up to play this year,” Koller Keenan will return to notre 
sports Writer 

ting picks, getting fumbles,” Koller said. “he’s always hitting the hole dame stadium on sunday to 
said. “I feel like there’s a lot of guys hard, and he’s really been doing play for a championship against 
contributing all across the defense, everything we’ve asked him to morrissey after falling in the semi-
so it’s not so much that we have to do and more, so I think he’s really finals a year ago. 
scheme, but people being athletes.” working his ass off.” Junior linebacker Jc sullivan 
senior running back chris Though Keenan believes its base said the upperclassmen’s memo­
dearolf added that a new group defense allows the team to skip ries of playing in the stadium have 
of underclassmen has been im-scheming for specific opponents, been crucial to the team’s efforts all 
portant to Keenan’s success this Wiese said it recognized no. 1-seed season. (editor’s note: sullivan is 
season. morrissey (6-0) as a formidable a regular viewpoint columnist for 
“In general, all the freshmen opponent. The observer). 
have really stepped up,” dearolf “morrissey is obviously a solid “All the juniors and up got the 
said. “It’s been a huge addition team,” Wiese said. “They’ve won chance to play in the stadium [in 
to our team to have young talent every single game they’ve played. 2012], and it was a really unforget-come in who are energetic and re-They have — I mean, from what table experience that we will take ally excited to play football and just we’ve seen of them — a varied at-with us for the rest of our lives,” go out there and make plays.” tack, solid defense, not really any sullivan said. “I think what’s really Keough. “really, our defensive phi-sullivan said defensive end Will glaring weaknesses, which in in-motivated us to lead this team and “offensively, we run the spread losophy is that we’re just going to boeschenstein was a freshman terhall is huge. They seem to be a to find success has been so that we a lot,” junior quarterback Aaron straight up outplay you,” Wiese who made his mark on the Keenan very disciplined team with good can provide the underclassmen diGenova said. ”I’ve never played said. “We don’t feel like we need to defense this season. fundamentals. It’s gonna be a good with that same experience that we quarterback before this year, but especially scheme for other teams. “boeschenstein has been an game, but we feel like if we play to had.” we try to go four wide receivers and We’ve scored 20 points on defense energy guy,” sullivan said. “he’s our potential, there’s not a team we 
The undefeated Knights (5-0-1) spread people out. A lot of plays and only let up six, so I feel like been crucial to our success, and can’t beat.” have run through their opponents break down, we scramble a lot, so we’re doing something right.” he’s been a freshman that’s really The Knights take on the manor this year in ways similar to those that’s kind of been our offensive The staunch defensive play of stepped up in a big way and con-for the men’s interhall title at seen during their championship scheme this year out of the spread.” the Knights can be heavily attrib-tributed on a number of fronts to 3:30 p.m. sunday in notre dame season two years ago, dominat-The other side of the ball has uted to the overall athleticism of this team.” stadium. ing on both sides of the ball. The been equally strong, junior captain the players, sophomore safety and Freshman linebacker Tony only game this season that Keenan and middle linebacker Jon Wiese receiver michael Koller said. rogari is another first-year player Contact Hunter McDaniel at did not win was a 6-6 tie against said. “I feel like we just have a lot of who has positively impacted the hmcdani1@nd.edu 


Alex Carson 


Renee Griffin 
Interhall editor Interhall editor 

It’s that classic game where the two teams seem to be Two formidable teams will be on display when radically different. morrissey and Keenan square off. 
morrissey got here thanks to its innovative (or is it morrissey’s offense is by far the most productive in the throwback?) Wing-T offense that leads the league in scor-league, and in the playoffs, the manor have shut down ing, averaging 18.3 points per game. Keenan got here two opponents after allowing an average of nine points thanks to its stout defense — the Knights have allowed per game in the regular season. Keenan, on the other just six points all season long. hand, has boasted a steadfast defense all year, allowing a 
morrissey missed the playoffs each of the last three total of six points through six games. years. Keenan is going for its second title in three years The weather sunday will likely allow the defenses to (and lost in the semifinals last year). dominate; however, in the end, morrissey’s offense will 
but Keenan needed siegfried to turn the ball over in the show up as usual to find a hole in the Knights’ front at red zone twice late just to hang on and make the stadium. least once to hand Keenan a close defeat. Keenan’s of­
morrissey is a team poised to etch its name in the re-fense will struggle to put up points against a manor de­cord books. And it will do so sunday. fense that has a lot of momentum right now. 
FINAL SCORE: Morrissey 16, Keenan 6 FINAL SCORE: Morrissey 8, Keenan 0 



Welsh Family aspires to finish perfect season 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports Writer 
Welsh Family stands as the last remaining undefeated team in the women’s interhall league, enter­ing sunday’s championship game against Pangborn as the no. 1 seed in the playoffs. 
The Whirlwinds bounced back from a 2-4 season last year to end the regular season 6-0 and dis­missed mcGlinn and ryan in the playoffs to move to 8-0 and earn their shot at the championship and a perfect season. 
senior linebacker caileigh Gallahue said the team’s success this year has stemmed mostly from the teamwork and commit­ment the squad has shown. 
“We just have good communi­cation, and we have a really dedi­cated team too,” Gallahue said. “everyone’s been working hard in every game and at the practices.” 
however, despite their unde­feated status and position as the top seed, the Whirlwinds focus on one game at a time to deal with the pressure of being favorites, senior safety Taylor reck said. 


“We don’t take anyone for grant­ed. We come in approaching every game like it’s possibly our last,” reck said.  “every game, we start like we’re 0-0.” 
Welsh Family respects Pangborn (7-1) as an opponent and under­stands that beating the Phoxes may not be easy, sophomore quar­terback rachel Wimsatt said. 
“They are a really good team. We’re going to have to come with our A-game,” Wimsatt said. “We know they have a really fast of­fense and some good wide receiv­ers [and] a good running back. ... Their quarterback’s really good, but we’ll just try to put some pres­sure on them all.” 
Welsh Family has made it to the finals largely because of a strong defense and clutch play at the quar­terback position. The Whirlwinds defense allowed only four points per game during the regular sea­son and shut out mcGlinn in the playoffs, while Wimsatt has been able to lead the offense on key scor­ing drives in big games. 
Gallahue said another good performance from Wimsatt against Pangborn’s impressive de­fense could be the deciding factor in winning the championship for Welsh Family. 
“she just has a really strong football IQ,” Gallahue said. “she’s really dedicated and has a great understanding of the sport.” 
Although they have yet to be de­feated, the Whirlwinds have won some close games on their road to the stadium. In week two of the regular season against last year’s champions, Pasquerilla West, Welsh Family scored as time ex­pired to win, 13-12. 
“It really showed our charac­ter, because we were down with basically no chance, and we just made our way down and made it on a last-second play,” Wimsatt said. “I think that showed some­thing about our team. our coaches didn’t give up on us, and we didn’t give up. We believed until the clock hit zero and that’s why we came out with a win.” 
The opportunity to play for the championship at notre dame stadium is something that has been a major incentive for Welsh Family all season, Gallahue said. many of the players on the team played in the stadium last year as members of the dorm’s b-team, which won the division title. 
“Playing at the stadium will be so exciting because our team came in with a lot of intensity, and we have awesome coaches who came up with a great playbook,” Gallahue said. “It’s just so exciting to see all the dedication from the entire team paying off by making it this far.” 
The Welsh Family team remain confident in continuing their win­ning streak and taking home the championship, with senior center Kelsey bersic sending a message to her team’s opponents. 
“Pangborn should be scared,” bersic said. 
The Whirlwinds will take on Pangborn at notre dame stadium on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at        doboyle1@nd.edu 

Phoxes seek title after two letdown seasons 
said. 
The passing game is not the only area of concern for the Phoxes defense — containing the run­ning game is also something the squad’s captains emphasized as key in order to upset the unde­feated Whirlwinds. senior defen­sive end Ann Kebede said stopping the rushing game is something the Phoxes struggled with this past weekend, and in order to stop Welsh Family’s running attack, they must show a variety of forma­tions and looks. 
“stopping the run is a major concern for us going into the game, and we just have to make sure we’re switching it up on the defen­sive side and keep them guessing,” Kebede said. 
Pangborn’s defense has been among the statistical leaders in points allowed all season long and entered the playoffs allowing just 27 total points in six regular season games. 
The Phoxes are among the lead­ers in scoring offense as well — they have scored less than 25 points just twice all season long — and look 

Renee Griffin 
Interhall editor 
The matchup between Pangborn and Welsh Family is sure to be a nail-biter, as the two have nearly identical stats in points per game and points allowed. 
The Phoxes can pull off their second consecutive upset with a win over the Whirlwinds, as they showed marked improvement in their revenge match last week against previously undefeated Pasquerilla east with a decisive 34-20 win. 
Though Welsh Family goes into the championship without a loss, it has not been challenged all season by a team as strong in both offense and defense as Pangborn. Ultimately, I think Pangborn’s defense will be able to lim­it the Whirlwind attack enough to triumph, just as it did against the Pyros in the semifinals. 
FINAL SCORE: Pangborn 21, Welsh Family 20 

to spread the field and get the ball to their playmakers on the edge, junior receiver Grace Gallagher and sophomore receiver heather Lystad. Phoxes senior quarterback caitlin Gargan, whose five-touch­down performance in the semi­final round propelled her team to victory, said the spread attack is something the team incorporates into their offensive strategy. 
“We’ve got a lot of receivers on the edge who have the ability to make some plays,” Gargan said. “We try and make that a part of our 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports Writer 
When no. 3 Pangborn steps on to the field to challenge no. 1 Welsh Family for the interhall title at notre dame stadium on sunday, it will enter the game as a team that has already accomplished some­thing big. 
After two straight years of losing in the semifinals, the Phoxes (7-1) finally broke through to get over the hump and into the stadium af­ter a 34-20 win over second-seed­ed Pasquerilla east last sunday. senior receiver Liz Quinn said this run to the title game is a great way to finish out her career, especially after coming so close the past two years. 
“It’s been devastating the past couple years to reach the semifi­nals and not be able to get to the championship,” Quinn said. “I think getting so close in the past seasons makes it even better to be able to get there in our senior year, and it would just be amazing if we win.” 
The Phoxes began their run to the championship game with a first-round 27-0 rout over cavanaugh, which set them up with an opportunity to avenge their lone loss of the season against the Pyros. 
And after a 27-14 defeat on oct. 12, Pangborn purged its demons, winning by two touchdowns to advance to the title game. 
The Phoxes have yet to play Welsh Family this season. The Whirlwinds’ unblemished 8-0 record earned them the tourna­ment’s top seed. In preparation for the championship showdown, the Phoxes watched the Whirlwinds in their semifinal victory over ryan. senior cornerback Anna mcnamara said she noticed the Whirlwinds prolific passing at­tack, and said this is something her team must contain in order to come away with a victory this sunday. 
“We haven’t played them since [my] sophomore year, so we don’t know a whole lot about them, but from watching them we saw they have a really good steam with a strong quarterback,” mcnamara offense as much as possible.” 
Quinn said a championship win would be a great way to finish up her, as well as her fellow seniors’, interhall careers. 
“Flag football has been one of my favorite things here at notre dame, so it would be great to win and go out on top,” Quinn said. 
Pangborn will clash with Welsh Family for the title sunday in notre dame stadium at 2 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 

Alex Carson 
Interhall editor 

The title game on the women’s side pits the league’s two best scoring defenses against each other. Welsh Family allowed 24 points during six regular season games, Pangborn just 27. 
but for as equally matched as these two strong defen­sive units are, the offenses look the same way. both teams put up points and average at least three scores a game. both have been impressive during the playoffs. 
And when both the offensive and defensive units are so well matched, it often can come down to which team has that clutch factor; that ability to pull out big plays. 
The Whirlwinds showed they have that trait when they beat Pasquerilla West on the last play of the game way back in september. 
FINAL SCORE:  Welsh Family 22, Pangborn 18 




The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

british television has made quite the appearance in the states for the last cou­ple years. with shows like “sherlock” and “downtown abbey” dominating head­lines, it’s certainly driven people to look outside of the u.s. for their Tv-watching habits. with services like netflix and hulu, it is also easier to access these shows than it ever has been before. 
still, there are quite a number of quality foreign Tv shows that don’t get quite the amount of attention that “sherlock” and “downtown abbey” have gotten in recent years. here are a list of some of the best that are easily available online (admit­tedly, they are all british or irish, as netflix isn’t great on its offerings of Tv shows in other languages). 
“Call the Midwife” 

coming from the same people who created “downtown abbey,” “call the midwife” follows the lives of midwives in 
By  MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

clickbait is a necessary evil of internet culture, a way for online publications to drive viewership in an increasingly crowded market. as journalism has adapted to the viral web, posts with in­cendiary headlines and crowd-pleasing giF sets have become the norm for at­tracting the attention of readers. 
one of the most tiresome recent ex­amples has been mark Kozelek’s one-sided feud against The war on drugs, which has been reported on endlessly by pitchfork and a myriad of other on-line music publications. it began at the ottawa Folk Festival in mid-september, when the noise from The war on drugs’ main stage set bled over to Kozelek’s con­current sun Kil moon show. For the rest of the set, Kozelek disparaged the band with comments like, “i hate that beer commer­cial lead-guitar [expletive].” 
what began as a few offhand com­ments at a festival snowballed due to in­cessant reporting on the story by music 1950s london. The main character, Jenny lee, is new to the scene and not quite pre­pared for the harsh realities of working in one of the poorest neighborhoods of the city. This show is for people who love “downtown abbey” and hospital dramas like “grey’s anatomy” or “house.” it’s a bit of a mix of all three. 
“Love/Hate” 

i like to think of this show as similar to “breaking bad,” but i have to admit, i’ve never watched an episode of “breaking bad.” The show follows the lives of gang­sters in modern day dublin and is hugely popular among young people in ireland. it’s a little bit violent at times and defi­nitely not for those who are squeamish. it’s just finished its fourth season and while no longer available on netflix, it is on hulu. 
“Skins” (UK Version) 

mTv tried to make a remake of this show in the united states but for some reason, it didn’t really work all that well. 
journalists. pitchfork in particular, from its position as the most influential mu­sic outlet on the internet, has driven this coverage. while The war on drugs have mostly seemed confused about the whole ordeal — the band tweeted, “Just upset­ting to me as a fan that’s all. we’re just doin’ what we do” — Kozelek has contin­ued to unjustly lash out at the band and make headlines because of his behavior. 
The “feud” peaked with Kozelek releas­ing a track titled “war on drugs: suck my c**k,” which pitchfork hosted as a free mp3 download. pitchfork also published a response from perfect pussy’s meredith graves criticizing Kozelek’s language of male violence (which is well worth a read). Finally, on nov. 13 pitchfork’s staff blog, The pitch, published “mark Kozelek has Taken it Too Far This Time,” a post con­taining only a photo of Kim Kardashian’s nude paper magazine shoot. The post was a knowing parody of the site’s own breathless coverage of Kozelek’s behav­ior, but also indicative of its own desire to attract attention. 
pitchfork has bestowed similar The show’s first six seasons follow the lives of three consecutive classes of teen­agers doing their a-levels in bristol, all of which are available on netflix. The first two seasons stars nicholas hoult (a.k.a. hank mccoy in “X-men: First class,” the zombie love interest in “warm bodies” and Jennifer lawrence’s ex-boyfriend). The show during this time is undoubt­edly the best, but seasons three and four are still worth watching — after all, Kaya scodelario (a.k.a. Teresa in “The maze runner”) is brilliant and plays a key role linking the two generations. 
BBC “Pride and Prejudice” 
like “sherlock,” the episodes are rather long but definitely worth watching. The Keira Knightley movie version is fun but kind of strange and unrealistic in a lot of ways (will we ever understand why she chooses to wander out into that field in the early morning hours?). The bbc Tv series follows Jane austen’s original story­line more closely and will easily please the most avid austen-ite. it’s on netflix and a 
coverage to a rift between ariel pink and grimes. in a recent interview, pink said he had been enlisted to work on madonna’s next record, claiming her producers could not “come up with a new techno jam for her to gyrate to and pretend that she’s 20 years old.” soon after, grimes called out pink’s “delusional misogyny” on Twitter, and the comments that fol­lowed from both artists resulted in nu­merous articles. most recently, pitchfork ran a headline that read “ariel pink calls grimes ‘stupid and retarded.’” Just four days later, the site awarded pink’s new album “pom pom” its best new music designation. 
For pitchfork, both of these stories were clickbait gold, involving well-known art­ists beloved by the site — this year’s al­bums from the sun Kil moon, The war on drugs and pink have all received its coveted best new music status. They also allowed numerous opportunities to post new content: the initial incident itself, the other artist’s response, criticism from other musicians, a self-satire, an mp3 premiere. 
fun show to watch when you’re looking for something but aren’t really willing to trust the unknown storylines of about half the netflix offerings. plus the Tv show stars colin Firth as mr. darcy — spawning the equally amusing “bridget Jones” series. 
“An Bronntanas” 
Technically, this is a movie but Tg4 (the irish language television network) has broken it down into five parts and premiered it as a television show over the last couple weeks. it is one of the only full-length movies ever made in irish but that’s not what makes it fun to watch. once again, i’ve heard it’s somewhat simi­lar to “breaking bad” but i can’t confirm that fact. it follows the lives of two broth­ers who are forced to reunite after their fa­ther’s death. The younger brother returns from canada and takes over the family’s failing factory. it’s on Tg4’s website and plays with english subtitles. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at                               cmoriari@nd.edu 
clickbait is not necessarily bad in and of itself. music publications frequently run all kinds of clickbait: videos of a band performing a cover on tour, year-end lists, even pitchfork’s act of giving an album a controversial to-the-decimal-point rat­ing. These types of posts are reliably pop­ular for music outlets but still ostensibly about the music. The glorified gossip of Kozelek and pink’s behavior is an unnec­essary distraction from the music itself. 
reporting endlessly on these “feuds” between artists is irresponsible journal­ism. it encourages musicians to trash talk other artists, knowing the inevitable free publicity that will result. personally insulting another artist is not music criti­cism; neither is feeding the flames and enabling trolls like Kozelek and pink. clickbait does not necessarily have to mark the end of smart music writing, but pitchfork becoming the “indie TmZ” is a troubling development for artists, critics and music fans alike. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at          mmunhall@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Marlins take massive gamble 
Patrick McCullough 
guest contributor 
on monday, the miami marlins and giancarlo stanton agreed to a 13-year contract worth a total of $325 million, the biggest contract in north american professional sports history. The news of the contract extension and its sheer monstrosity surprised many of baseball’s observers for many reasons. 
For one, the marlins are con­sidered one of the cheapest teams in major league baseball. since the team was founded in 1993, they have undergone major fire sales in 1997, 2005 and 2012, and have had one of the five lowest opening day payrolls in baseball for seven of the past 10 years. stanton’s contract has an aver­age annual value of $25 million, which is more than half of the marlins’ $46.4 million payroll in 2014. 
The marlins have also not had a winning season since 2009, the year before stanton made his debut. They also often have the worst attendance for any team in baseball. as a result, it was widely accepted that stanton would not want to stay in miami. due to the fact that the marlins are notori­ously cheap and that stanton has not been happy with his ex­perience in miami, it was all but guaranteed that stanton would be the latest young superstar to be traded by the marlins. but here we are. 
many analysts have said the marlins should not have signed stanton to such a contract due to their traditionally low payroll. as the Texas rangers experienced with alex rodriguez nearly a decade ago, a huge contract, even for a great player, can be crippling to a small-market team. however, this contract is an enormous gamble that the marlins should be lauded for taking. 
For one, the marlins are com­mitting to keep a homegrown star for a fan base that has ex­perienced star player after star player leave. additionally, for the marlins, the best-case scenario is that the contract will provide tre­mendous value in the near-term and will not be crippling in the long-term, because the contract is heavily back-loaded with a player opt-out clause following the sixth season. 
stanton will be paid $6.5 mil­lion, $9 million and $14.5 million in the first three years of the deal. last season, stanton compiled 6.1 wins above replacement (war) in 145 games. war is calculated using all aspects of a player’s game — batting, base running and fielding — in order to deter­mine his value in terms of runs added over a replacement level player. according to Fangraphs, the current value of one war is $6-7 million in free agency. 
Thus, if stanton were to aver­age a conservative 5.5 war over the next three seasons, at a rate of $6.5 million per war, he would provide $107.25 million at a cost of $30 million, a surplus of $77.25 million. over the next three years, 2018-2020, of the contract, stanton will be paid a total of $77 million. without taking into ac­count the inevitable inflation of the value of a win above replace­ment in free agency, stanton would figure to provide surplus value over those seasons as well, considering he will turn 30 before the 2020 season. assuming an average war of 5.5 over the next 6 seasons, at a value of $7 million per war to account for inflation, stanton would be worth $231 mil­lion, while “only” being paid $107 million, a surplus of $124 million. 
Following the sixth season of the contract, in 2020, stanton would be able to opt out of the contract. a large component of stanton’s value comes from his power, with 132 home runs in the past four seasons, third best in baseball over that time span. power tends to decline less with age and, with a general decline in the number of home runs in baseball, stanton will likely still be considered valuable in 2020. 
as stanton is owed $218 mil­lion over the last seven years of the contract, the marlins likely hope that he will opt out, as it will cost them an average of $31 million per year. it would also only be reasonable for stanton to opt out if he thought he would be paid more than the $218 million he was already owed. if that were the case, then he would have very likely performed excellently in the first six seasons of his contract. it would also not be a surprise for him to get a better contract, as robinson cano received a 10­year, $240 million contract last season at 31 years old, the same age that stanton would be. 
Thus, if stanton were to opt out, the marlins would have received a huge amount of excess value in the first six years of the contract. however, if stanton were not to opt out, the marlins would likely not have received much excess value in their first six years, and in turn, they will be saddled with a massive contract for an already declining stanton. 
in that sense, the marlins will either have stolen a great deal, or they will have a potentially crip­pling contract for a vastly over­paid player. Thus, for the marlins, giancarlo stanton is either boom or bust. 
Contact Patrick McCullough at Patrick.McCullough.26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Colts face injuries to talented running back trio 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — Trent richardson viewed the colts running game as a three-man threat, right up until fellow run­ning back ahmad bradshaw was placed on injured reserve this week with a broken left leg. 
“i always say, ‘a three-headed monster,’” richardson said. “a lot of people say it’s two-headed, but i say three-headed monster.” 
The third is daniel herron 
— the only remaining healthy running back on the active ros­ter. richardson is fighting an illness, but practiced Thursday one day after missing workouts. 
The colts (6-4) are looking for herron to step up against Jacksonville (1-9) on sunday with bradshaw is expected to miss the rest of the season. Their best blocking tight end, dwayne allen, also missed practice for the second straight day with an injured ankle. 
offensive coordinator pep hamilton sees it as an opportu­nity for herron to show he has what it takes, but wants to see a better mix on offense after the colts finished with 19 yards on 17 carries sunday night in a loss to the patriots. 
“i have to do a better job of making sure we maintain some balance,” he said. “and find ways to attack what the oppo­nent’s doing. if they have seven or eight guys in the box, that’s no excuse for us not to run the ball.” 
richardson expects big things from herron right away, but acknowledged the third-year running back is a bit in­experienced — he’s carried the ball only 22 times this sea­son. still, richardson said he and bradshaw already know they can rely on him and ex­pects herron to get “that big score” against the Jaguars this weekend. 
“a lot of people don’t know how much work we put in with him,” richardson said. “To be that other guy and to be that guy we can trust when we’re out and when we’re tired or if something ever happened like this we know we can count on him.” 
indy’s injury woes for its backfield started long before sunday’s loss. 
vick ballard was placed on injured reserved back in august with a torn achilles and richardson didn’t play last month against pittsburgh be­cause of an injured hamstring. 
The colts got 35 yards and a touchdown out of bradshaw against the steelers. 
“The next man up filled that role,” coach chuck pagano said this week. “so it’s next man up. so it’s Trent and (herron) and whoever.” 
bradshaw set a career-record with two receiving touchdowns against the eagles back in september and has six touch­down receptions on the year. and just five weeks into the sea­son, bradshaw surpassed 1,000 career rushes. 
he and richardson total more than 500 scrimmage yards and the colts are one of four teams (cincinnati, philadelphia, and washington) in the nFl with two players to reach that total. 
if the colts need a third run­ning back, though, pagano said they will make moves to add one. 
“we’ve got guys in the build­ing, and roster mechanics are what they are,” pagano said. “we’ll always check and see if anybody’s available on the street. if there’s somebody available, we look at guys on the street, we look at guys on our roster, and then we make a decision.” 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | connecTicuT 65, college oF charlesTon 57 
connecticut survives charleston in san Juan 
Associated Press 

san Juan, puerto rico — ryan boatright had 19 points, daniel hamilton added 15, and no. 17 connecticut held off college of charleston 65-57 in the first round of the puerto rico Tip-off on Thursday. 
amida brimah added 14 points for the huskies (2-0), despite struggling down the stretch with foul trouble. 
charleston (1-2) got within four in the final minute, but couldn’t get any closer after losing big man adjehi baru to right leg injury. 
connecticut led by as many as 12, though charleston’s three-guard starting line­up was able to run with the huskies for most of the game. 

FOR RENT 

Attn: graduate students! Tri-level home for rent almost immediately! Everything nice and new. 3 bed­room or could be 4, 2 full bathrooms, open concept main floor! 2 1/2 car 
anthony stitt led the cougars with 17 points. baru and Joe chealey each added 12. 
The cougars used the 6-foot­9 baru to keep brimah hon­est, putting more pressure on connecticut’s backcourt. 
but when baru limped off the court with less than min­ute to play after taking a hard spill, the huskies immediately took advantage with a layup by brimah that stretch its lead to seven. 
it was shots in the paint early on that were hard to come by as connecticut forced charleston into some off-balanced jumpers. but the cougars’ shooters, particu­larly anthony stitt, were able to start making some outside shots in the second half. 
a 36-26 edge on the glass helped the huskies wear down the cougars late and string to­gether enough points to pre­serve the win. 
boatright and hamilton car­ried the scoring load for the huskies in the first half, com­bining for 18 of their 30 points. 
it helped mask a paltry 9 for 29 (32 percent) shooting per­formance in the half. 
The cougars weren’t much better at 33 percent (7 for 21) with starters — pat branin, cameron Johnson and Terrance o’donohue — held scoreless. 
connecticut advances to play dayton in the winners’ bracket. charleston takes on Texas a&m in consolation play. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
garage. Call Laura for more details I love the players, and you love the 574-532-9167 game. ‘Cause we’re young and we’re reckless. We’ll take this way too far. 1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to It’ll leave you breathless or with a campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 nasty scar. Got a long list of ex-lovers. They’ll tell you I’m insane. But I’ve got Got a long list of ex-lovers, They’ll a blank space, baby. And I’ll write your 
tell you I’m insane. ‘Cause you know name. 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seek to end season on high note 


paid adverTisemenT 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
hoping to build on their takeaways from tough losses at wake Forest and duke last weekend, the irish play two of their final three games this weekend, as they host no. 7 north carolina on Friday and north carolina state on sunday at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (6-20, 3-12 acc) took a 2-1 lead and held match point in the fourth set against wake Forest last Friday but ultimately let the final two frames slip away. The irish fell 3-2 (25-27, 25­19, 21-25, 28-26, 11-15) in their sixth five-set match in the past eight contests. 
irish coach debbie brown said she points to the 15 ser­vice errors compared to just four service aces as especial­ly harmful down the stretch. 
“in the wake Forest game, our serving game definitely hurt us ... when you look at how close we were [to win­ning],” brown said. “you have to serve aggressively, but you just can’t have such a bad ratio.” 
on sunday against duke at cameron indoor stadium, the irish were able to pick up the second set against the third-ranked team in the acc but ultimately lost in four sets (25-15, 23-25, 25-19, 25-20). 
“against duke, we were ac­tually statistically even with them in almost every cat­egory; it was a hard-fought match for us,” brown said. “we just need to generate a few more kills to put our­selves in a better situation.” 
brown said the takeaways from the wake Forest and duke games have been some­thing the team has focused on in preparation for north carolina and nc state. 
“part of our practice this week has been working on specific shots to get kills,” she said. “we’ve also been focusing on how aggressively we’re serving and what zones we are serving.” 
The Tar heels (22-2, 13-1 acc), the top-ranked team in the acc, will be a formidable opponent for the irish. They are riding a 13-game winning streak; 10 of those victories have been 3-0 sweeps of their opponents, and one was a 3-1 win over no. 8 Florida state last weekend. 
brown, however, said her team takes a similar mindset into this game as any other, focusing on different ways to beat the opponent. 
“north carolina is a strong team ... and a really big blocking team, so what we’re doing in our attacking dur­ing practice has been a little bit different,” she said. 
The Tar heels do boast the best net defense statistics in the acc. Junior middle blockers victoria mcpherson 
and  paige  neuenfeldt lead  
the  conference  with  1.52  
and  1.51  blocks  per  set,  

respectively. 
like the irish, the wolfpack (14-12, 3-11) have had some difficulties in conference play this season. after post­ing a 12-1 record through their first 13 games, they have been just 2-11 in the most recent 13 games of pri­marily conference play. 
“we really are just taking it one match at a time,” brown said. “This group is still so hungry to learn ... and they’re always getting better.” 
The irish will take on the Tar heels on Friday at 8 p.m. and the wolfpack on sunday at 1 p.m. both games will be held at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish senior libero Kathleen Severyn dives for a shot during Notre Dame’s 3-2 win over Louisville on Nov. 9 at Purcell Pavilion. 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
these things in their open­ing three games, as the team has averaged more than 92 points per game and allowed just 53 points per game. notre dame’s victories, however, have come against three teams that have com­bined to win one game en­tering Thursday night. 
The team’s matchups this weekend will come against two teams that are current­ly undefeated and are both coming off ncaa tourna­ment appearances. 
“both games — obviously, one [team] is a big east team, the other one is big east-like 
— they are not shooting a lot, but they are driving at your lane and chasing down missed shots,” brey said. “… i think it’s a great test for our toughness in the paint.” 
The irish will have their toughness tested saturday, when they square off against umass (3-0). The minutemen earned a no. 6 seed in last season’s ncaa tournament, in which they lost to no. 11 seed Tennessee in the sec­ond round. massachusetts lost three starters in the off­season, but the minutemen have benefitted from the return of starters senior cen­ter cady lalanne and red-shirt junior guard derrick gordon, who have averaged 
16.3 and 14.7 points per game, respectively. 
notre dame will then turn around the following day to face providence (2-0). The Friars won the big east tour­nament and earned a no. 11 seed in the most recent ncaa tournament, where they fell to no. 6 seed north carolina, 79-77, in the sec­ond round. 
providence likewise re­turns two starters in senior forward ladontae henton and junior forward Tyler harris, who have averaged 17 and 16.5 points per game, respectively. 
brey said the matchup with providence will harken back to the two programs’ days in the big east. notre dame played in the big east from 1995 to 2013. 
“This is the old-fashioned big east game where there are battles in the paint for loose balls,” brey said. “… how are we going to be there? i’m really intrigued to see it.” 
brey said rebounding will be one key area to watch during the weekend’s games. The irish have averaged 38.7 rebounds per game and hold a rebounding margin of greater than 10. umass and providence both average more rebounds per game, though only providence has a larger rebounding margin than notre dame. 


“i still think we have to come back to rebounding the basketball and being able to defensive rebound as a unit,” brey said. “we just can’t rely on [senior guard/forward] pat [connaughton]. … we’re 
paid adverTisemenT 
going to need some help.” 
Junior forward Zach auguste, who is second on the team with an average of six rebounds per game, said the irish need to continue doing the fundamentals that have made them successful over the first three games. 
“we just gotta emphasize sticking together,” he said wednesday. “i think we got­ta come out the gate with the pedal to the floor. i think we just gotta stay together, com­municate and just play hard. i think if we just keep doing what we’re doing, i think we should be fine.” 
notre dame faces umass at 12 p.m. saturday and providence at 2:30 p.m. sunday. both games will be at mohegan sun arena in uncasville, connecticut. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
last.” 
Texas boasts a 32-19 goal margin total over its oppo­nents over 22 matches this season, and the irish defense is coming off a shutout of valparaiso in which they al­lowed only one shot. To com­bat the longhorns’ strengths, the irish will need to stay on the attack for much of the game, romagnolo said. 
“Texas has found a way to get results, but if we get a hold of the ball and move the ball, we’ll have the opportunity to do well,” romagnolo said. “They have a couple players with some good height, so we need to limit their opportu­nities and watch those long throw-ins and overall just keep possession of the ball.” 
notre dame took 25 shots against valparaiso but was only able to put one in the back of the net when soph­omore forward Kaleigh olmsted found herself open at the top of the box at the 89:10 mark for a perfect cross from junior forward anna maria gilbertson for the latest goal in notre dame postseason history. romagnolo said the ability to finish will be a major factor in beating Texas. 

“The number one thing to focus on is competing and making sure we get chances in the box and take advantage of all the good scoring opportu­nities we can get,” romagnolo said. 
The winner of the match will face either no. 1 seed Texas a&m or arizona. romagnolo said the team’s mentality stays the same regardless of which round it is or what op­ponent it is facing. 
“we’re taking this one game at a time, and we approach ev­ery game like it’s a champion­ship,” romagnolo said. “we’ve just got to keep that cutthroat mentality.” 
The irish take on the longhorns in college station, Texas, on Friday at 3 p.m. if they advance, they will play in the round of 16 on sunday, also in college station. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
round matchup after its loss to clemson in penalty kicks in the semifinals of the acc tournament nov. 14. The irish and Tigers drew, 1-1, but clemson won, 5-4, in penalty kicks and went on to claim the tournament title. 
“[Friday’s] game was a great learning experience,” senior forward vince cicciarelli said. “we know that we have the potential and ability to bring home another national championship, but this game was a good reminder that we still have plenty work to do.” 
while the top-seeded irish earned a first-round bye, ohio state (10-7-4, 5-3-0 big Ten) faced akron in the first round of the tournament last night in columbus, ohio. The buckeyes and Zips finished in a 1-1 draw, and ohio state pulled out the victory, 13-12, in the penalty-kick shootout. 
“They would have both been two good teams to play,” clark said. “They have very different styles of play. … akron would have more shock passing, and i would say ohio state has more direct. ohio state is a good team, and it will be a dif­ficult game against them for sure. They have a lot of speed up front and have forwards that can play. They have a big 6-foot-4, left-footed center back and he’s a target. 
“There are a lot of things that i can see [that will chal­lenge us]. They’ve had a good season, and they will be dangerous.” 
The last time the irish faced the buckeyes was 10 years ago, when the ohio state beat 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
Jackson said. “we had to kill off seven penalties, and you’ve got to score a power play goal.” 
while the irish could not find the net, the river hawks kept the pressure on the irish in the last two periods. Katunar made a big save on a penalty kill and extended his blocker just in time to keep out a breakaway chance midway through the second period, but louria broke through with 
3:44 left in the period when he took a centering pass and then slotted in his own rebound. 
The third period saw the irish regain some momen­tum that culminated in a late chance for senior defense-man robbie russo. he got off a one-timer from deep in the attacking zone, but was denied. no sooner had the puck been cleared when river hawks senior defenseman Zack Kamrass lit the lamp to give the visitors the 3-1 lead and send many fans to the ex­its with 4:38 remaining in the contest. 
bazin said he was pleased with the way his team fought notre dame, 2-1, in the 2004 ncaa tournament. 
The buckeyes led their op­ponents in goals scored per game, 1.30 to 0.95, with a shot percentage of 0.107. six­foot-4 junior defender liam doyle dominates ohio state’s defense and shares the team lead in goals with five. 
sophomore forward danny Jensen and senior midfielder yianni sarris lead the buckeye attack, each with five goals on the season as well. 
despite the loss in pen­alty kicks to clemson, clark said the irish saw success in the latter half of their sea­son. notre dame outscored its opponents, 12-4, during its last five games. now, the irish look to carry that offen­sive presence into their ncaa tournament ride, as they look to defend their national title 
throughout the night. 
“i thought our guys were able to show a better compe­tition level tonight,” bazin said. “we came off a subpar effort, and i was pleased with the effort tonight. i thought we generated some chances; we executed offensively when we could. it was a tough effort against a very good team.” 
For notre dame, Jackson said he saw a lot of positives on the night and is focused on continuing to get better. 
“it’s a work in progress like i’ve said all along, and i saw actually some good things tonight, but offensively we’re just not generating enough, and you have to score goals,” Jackson said. “you’ve got to get some scoring chances, and you’re not going to beat a team of this quality without scoring a few goals.” 
The irish were focused all night on altering their men­tality so they could get to the net more and fight harder for rebounds, herr said. herr also said battling should be the team’s main focus going into tomorrow night’s rematch. 
“if we come in tomorrow with the mentality of getting shots through and getting and claim the second title in program history. 
“There’s always pressure [to win], but it’s a good pres­sure, a pressure that comes in the playoff because you had a successful season — there’s that satisfaction,” clark said. “we can’t be satisfied up until now. That will be our mentality. 
“we are always capable of doing more. There are hard games ahead, and we will take each one one-at-a-time. That’s the fun. you’re in the playoffs, [and] that’s what you play for. it’s exciting.” 
The irish carry that excite­ment into the second round of the ncaa tournament against ohio state on sunday at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
guys to the net and battling hard to get rebounds, it can change a lot,” herr said. “once you see it happen once, you realize that’s the way to break down an opponent like this that plays good defense. we’re obviously getting those chances, getting them close, but that’s not the problem. The problem is getting people there for the rebounds and having people battle in front of the net. it doesn’t matter what size you are, you’ve got to get to the net if you want to score a goal.” 
Jackson said he was happy with the way Katunar per­formed in notre dame’s net, especially after the early miscue. 
“i thought chad played re­ally well,” Jackson said. “i thought he kept us in the game and gave us a chance to win. especially, i mean, he’s the most important guy on the penalty kill.” 
The irish will get another crack at the river hawks to­morrow in compton Family ice arena. The puck will drop at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
decisively defeated butler on wednesday, 76-47. The game against the mocs will be a chance to improve, which is crucial for a young team at this early stage of the sea­son, irish associate coach beth cunningham said. 
cunningham pointed to depth and athleticism as a facet of chattanooga’s lineup that could push the irish on Friday, as evidenced by the mocs’ solid performances against the teams they have faced thus far. 
“Friday, we’ve got an­other opportunity to con­tinue to get better against chattanooga,” cunningham said. “They’re very athletic; they’ve got a lot of versatility at a number of different po­sitions. They had a good win over villanova in their first game, and they had a loss that went down to the wire at south Florida, and those are two teams we’ve been famil­iar with over the past couple years, and they also got a win [wednesday] over butler. it’s still early in the season for us, so it’s just about continu­ing to get better, game in and game out.” 
The irish rank second in the nation in scoring offense. against michigan state, junior guard Jewell loyd led the team with 28 points, while freshman for­ward brianna Turner added 17 and sophomore guard lindsay allen recorded 14. cunningham said that at­tack could be on display against the mocs due to the size difference between the teams. notre dame has six players who stand at 6-foot-2 and taller on the roster, while chattanooga has three. 
“we have an advantage with our inside game, and that’s something we want to exploit,” cunningham said. “They don’t nearly have the size that we do inside. i think that could be a real strength for us. so we’ll just try to ex­ploit them in the paint, and then also, we’ve got to do a better job than we did re­bounding-wise, but i think that could be an advantage for us against chattanooga.” 
against umass lowell, notre dame scored 105 points, and Turner broke an irish record by scoring 29 in her first game in notre dame uniform. Though a repeat triple-digit performance is a tall order, cunningham said the irish always have the po­tential to post high point to­tals when they execute. 
“offensively, we want to be efficient,” cunningham said. “we want to take care of the ball, take good shots and make good decisions. i don’t think we go into it say­ing our goal is to score triple digits, but if we execute our game plan and are efficient on offense, we’ll put up a lot 



paid adverTisemenT 
of points.” 
while notre dame has never played chattanooga before, there is some his­tory between the two coach­es: irish head coach muffet mcgraw worked as an as­sistant coach in 1980 under chattanooga head coach Jim Foster, then at st. Joseph’s. 
The irish face the mocs on Friday at 5 p.m. at purcell pavilion 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: enthusiasm is a good thing, but try to shield against mental, emotional or physical obsessions or attractions. stick to what’s important to you and make changes that are practical. leave wiggle room just in case you change your mind or your direction. it’s best to follow the path that gives you the option to be unique and to follow your heart. your numbers are 5, 12, 18, 26, 32, 38, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take on more work and add your own unique touches to whatever you do, and you will impress others and be encouraged to continue. investing in something you want to pursue will lead to greater involvement with institutions. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a stance and do your thing. you can turn an idea you have into a prosperous venture. a partnership will offer more than you anticipate. do the work yourself and save cash. how you handle others will determine your success. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): love can lead to confusion. consider the consequences if you mix business with pleasure. don’t make personal or physical changes based on secondhand information. add extra detail to any job you do to ensure security and success. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be afraid of making a move, joining a group or expressing yourself. you will entice others to see things your way. work situations will lean in your favor if you are passionate about what you do. a partnership will undergo positive change. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): expect to face opposition. Keep your conversations to the point. don’t leave room for error or make impossible promises. Take a closer look inward and consider how to look and be your best. protect your possessions and your health.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can make changes at home or to your location if you look into job prospects that offer a better income. expect someone to complain about whatever decision you make. do what works for you. a change will improve your social life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): problems at home must not interfere with your job. a change with regard to an important relationship may be upsetting, but in the end it will be good for you. don’t trust anyone with your personal secrets. Keep the peace. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): offering assistance is fine, but don’t let anyone take you for granted or cost you financially. what you do at home will make a difference to your stress level. comfort, entertainment and being creative will aid you in your pursuit of happiness. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): others might not understand what you are going through, so try to be patient. be wary of confusion and temptation. don’t initiate something that you will have trouble finishing. make the right choices in the appropriate order. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): a unique approach to professional changes should be put into play. Taking part in events related to your chosen field will lead to an opportunity. get an offer in writing or you will have to fight for the deal initially offered. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): be careful if you plan to represent or speak on behalf of someone else. misunderstandings are apparent and will put you in a precarious position. moving forward will be easy if you follow proper procedures. don’t rock the boat. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): pursue your goals wholeheartedly. you will get your way if you act quickly and follow through. don’t let a personal issue cloud your vision. protect against mishaps that can lead to injury or illness. Financial gain is in the stars. 

Birthday Baby: you are unpredictable, clever and outgoing. you are generous and unique. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Mocs come to Purcell 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame will return to a friendly envi­ronment Friday to take on chattanooga at home, com­ing off a 71-63 victory at no. 15 michigan state on wednesday. 
The irish (2-0) dominated the season opener against umass-lowell and pulled out the win over a spartan team that kept it close all night for their 27th straight road win. michigan state led by a point at the half, but notre dame buckled down in the second half to secure an eight-point cushion by the end of the game. 
meanwhile, the mocs (2-1) 
see w basKeTball PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | umass-lowell 3, nd 1 
River Hawks blow by Notre Dame 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 

notre dame dropped a hard fought hockey east contest to no. 5 umass-lowell, 3-1, on Thursday night at compton Family ice arena. 
sophomore goaltender chad Katunar made 32 saves for the irish (6-6-1, 2-2-1 hockey east), but the river hawks (8-2-2, 5-0-1) stayed unbeaten in hockey east play behind freshman forward michael louria’s game-win­ning goal late in the second period. 
The teams traded goals in the opening frame. The river hawks found the net from 190 feet out when the puck took a fluke bounce past Katunar’s stick to give umass-lowell the lead midway through the period. irish junior left wing sam herr knotted the game with 3:16 left in the first period to send the irish and coach Jeff Jackson to the locker room, where Jackson said he felt confident. 
“i thought we were playing pretty well in the first peri­od,” Jackson said. “i thought we executed some things pretty well tonight. we cre­ated some turnovers; we just needed to make a good play and try to create a scoring chance.” 
For the rest of the night, notre dame struggled to find any kind of rhythm as they committed seven penalties in total. There were a total of eleven penalties commit­ted between the two teams, a number that left umass­lowell’s coach norm bazin saying he could not even keep up with all the people headed to the penalty box. 
“i lost track of the power plays,” bazin said. “i thought there were so many for both teams. we’ve got to try and correct some of those penal­ties and do a better job. we’ve got to be conscious of that tomorrow.” 
Jackson was similarly frus­trated by the penalties. he said it was irritating both to spend so much time down “you can’t take that many a man and to be unable to penalties and win the game,” capitalize when the irish had power play opportunities. see hocKey PAGE 13 

MEN’S SOCCER 

irish open tourney as top seed again 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
notre dame begins its ncaa championship run against ohio state on sunday at alumni stadium. 
The defending national champions secured the tour­nament’s no. 1 ranking for the second time in program his­tory, following the team’s top ranking in 2012. irish coach bobby clark has led notre dame (11-4-4, 6-1-1 acc) to the tournament in 13 of his 14 seasons with the program, with a 15-10-1 record in those postseason games. 
“if you look at the schedule we’ve played — and we’ve played it successfully — then you realize you don’t get the no. 1 ranking if you don’t have a tough schedule and play it well,” clark said. “we have the confidence that we can play any team in the tour­ney. The boys got the no. 1 seed for how they did during the regular season, and now the trick is to be the no. 1 seed in the middle of december at the end of the playoffs.” 
making the 17th ncaa tournament appearance in program history, notre dame heads into sunday’s second 
see m soccer PAGE 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Squad hits road for first time 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 

after winning its first three games of the season by comfortable margins in the friendly confines of purcell pavilion, notre dame will take its first gamble of the season this weekend, fit­tingly, in a casino. 
The irish (3-0) will con­clude the hall of Fame Tipoff Tournament by trav­eling to mohegan sun arena in uncasville, connecticut, to face massachusetts on saturday and providence on sunday. 
irish head coach mike brey said this weekend’s games would address sever­al questions currently fac­ing notre dame. 
“This is so great for us, this weekend, because it’s going to be a really hard challenge for us,” brey said wednesday after notre dame’s 104-67 victory over coppin state. “can we de­fend away from [purcell pavilion]? can we do it if our offense isn’t going well, even on the road? we’re go­ing to be really playing road games — two new england teams are going to have, i expect, good crowds. 
“… can we stay in charac­ter offensively? can we han­dle pressure? both teams press us — can we defensive rebound?” 
The irish have displayed their ability to do many of 
see m basKeTball PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

ND heads to Texas for NCAAs 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 12 notre dame plays Texas on Friday in the second round of the ncaa champi­onship tournament at Texas a&m’s ellis Field in college station, Texas. 
a last-minute goal gave the fourth-seeded irish (13-5­2, 7-2-1 acc) a 1-0 win over valparaiso at home last week­end in the tournament’s first round. notre dame coach Theresa romagnolo said de­spite the dramatic ending, a repeat of the team’s perfor­mance in that game would bode well for the irish. 
“any time you can score early and often, you’re al­ways going to feel better, but at the end of the day if we play as well as we did against valparaiso, i’d feel good about it,” romagnolo said. “we really did a good job of keeping them out of the box. hopefully when we stay fo­cused on our game the goals will follow.” 
romagnolo said Texas (11­7-4, 4-4-0 big Xii), which defeated rice 3-0 in its first-round matchup, poses as much of a challenge as any other team they could face in the postseason. 
“They’re a good team and they’ve got a lot of qual­ity players,” romagnolo said. “They’ve had a lot of success over the course of season. like every team we’re go­ing to play from here on out, they’re going to be very com­petitive because each team knows any game could be its 
see w soccer PAGE 13 





