The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 94 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Nanovic honors professor for research 
Jerrold Seigel will accept $10,000 prize and give lecture in the fall 
studies that transcends a studies. nanovic website said the 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer focus on any one country, “its reputation has grown jury also included notre 
state or people to stimulate very quickly indeed,” dame professor emeritus 
The nanovic institute new ways of thinking about holland said. “one of the alasdair macintyre as well for european studies and contemporary europe as a ways that one can measure as professors from yale, a panel of jurors featuring whole.” that, if you like, is that we stanford and the university two notre dame professors peter holland, an associ-ended up with a very distin-of amsterdam. 


professor studies arab spring 

awarded the annual $10,000 
laura shannon prize in 
contemporary european 
studies to Jerrold seigel for 
his book “modernity and 
bourgeois life: society, 
politics and culture in 
england, France and 
germany since 1750.” 
guished international com-The jury praised seigel’s 



protests 

mittee of jurors. The fact that book as an influential and 
people are willing to do it is significant work in the field 
a sign that they want to find of european studies. 
a good and deserving winner a statement from the jury 
By KATIE McCARTY 

for a major prize.” said, “a work of erudite de­
news writer 
a. James mcadams, direc­tail and stunning originality, 

tor of the nanovic institute, Jerrold seigel’s “modernity notre dame psychology 
said the prize is now the and bourgeois life” offers a professor laura miller de­
last monday, the nanovic institute announced the winner of this fifth annual prize. nanovic manager of operations monica caro said the award goes to “the author of the best book in european ate dean in the college of arts and letters and one of the jury members for the prize, said the young award has quickly gained pres­tige in the field of european most prestigious of its kind. 
“There is no doubt about it, we have created the lead­ing book prize in european studies in the country,” mcadams said. 
a press release on the magisterial account of the development of networks in terms of economy, politics and aesthetic culture. here is a work of scholarly synthesis 

see priZe PAGE 5 

scribed her new line of re­search on the effects of extreme trauma on children and adults involved in the arab spring as “a marriage 
see TreaTmenT PAGE 5 


Belles around the world showcase class rings 
By VERONICA DARLING 
news writer 
The website for saint mary’s college now features the page “belles ring around the world,” a site of alumnae and current belles wearing their class rings in locations around the globe. 
alumna caitlin decoursey (class of 2012) said she wears her saint mary’s class ring for important occasions as she sees it is as a symbol of strength and accomplish­ment. on the saint mary’s webpage, decoursey wears her ring during her first round of chemotherapy. 
“i was diagnosed with hodgkin’s lymphoma one month ago and just start­ed treatment,” she said.  “i shared my picture to show other belles who may be go­ing through a difficult situ­ation that we are strong. we are fighters. we can get through anything.” 
since her diagnosis, decoursey said the saint mary’s family has acted as an incredible source of love 
see rings PAGE 5 


Courtesy of saintmarys.edu 
(From left to right): Carol Knych Stephens ‘83, Kathy Knych Dapper ‘87, Chris Knych Ugo ‘97, Katie Dapper ‘11 and Sarah Dapper ‘15 are wearing their Saint Mary’s class rings for a family photo. 


‘beautiful’ event promotes self-esteem in teenagers 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
shades of ebony, an orga­nization of female african­american students at notre dame, sought to empower lo­cal south bend high-school students with their beautiful event in the coleman-morse student longue on Thursday. 
shades of ebony vice-president deandra cadet said the beautiful event brought together shades of ebony members, guest speakers and around 50 fe­male african-american students from washington high school for an evening of group discussion and pre­sentations centering on in­dividuality and self-esteem. 
“This year the theme is “believe in your beautiful.” we will focus on believing in the beauty of yourself, of oth­ers and your future,” cadet said. “our goal is to mentor and support the girls and provide them with tips and advice for self-esteem, im­age and the future through the words of exceptional speakers and discussion.” 
cadet said planning for the annual high school out­reach event involved com­munity engagement on and off campus. 
“we reached out to the guidance counselors from various south bend schools and visited to send permis­sion slips, flyers and waiv­ers,” cadet said. “as far as funding, many dorms have generously donated to support the success of this event.” sophomore lena madison, the club’s treasurer, said this year’s event focuses on promoting individuality. 
“it’s important because it’s empowering women to be who they are,” madison said. “The goal is to make sure that these young wom­en know that they can de­cide who they want to be, as opposed to having society decide who who they ought to be.” Freshman arielle Flowers, a committee mem­ber of shades of ebony, said the event’s focus on individ­uality is much needed. 

see evenT PAGE 3 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the hairdo of your soul? 

Ryan Grzyb 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“afro.” 


Lisa Slomka 
junior 
ryan hall 

“pocahontas hair, super natural-looking, long straight and dark.” 

Kaitlin Jacobson 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“French braid.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Dan Chrzanowski 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“reverse mohawk.” 

Dani Grover 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“curly side ponytail.” 

Jennifer Doan 
senior 
off-campus 
“really short layers with red highlight.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

caroline hutyra greg hadley Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers vicky Jacobsen charlie ducey manny deJesus 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Keri o’mara Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Women’s Tennis Men’s Lacrosse Women on Weights Revolution in Ukraine International Tax 
Karla moreno dan sehlhorst 

Eck Tennis Pavilion Loftus Sports Center Workshop LaFortune Student Assistance 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. Rolfs Recreation Center Center LaFortune Student Match against Georgia The Irish take on the 10:15 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Center 
Corrections 

Tech. Free admission. Penn State Nittany Reserve spots online. Current political  turmoil All day 
The observer regards itself as Lions. discussed. By appointment only. a professional publication and 
Memorial for Akash 
strives for the highest standards 

Sharma Indian Film Night: Women’s Basketball Swing Dance Men’s Boxing: Bengal 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

LaFortune Ballroom “English Vinglish” Joyce Center Performance Bouts 
however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. LaFortune Student 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Washington Hall Joyce Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Memorial service for Center The Irish take on the 7:30 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
graduate student. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Duke Blue Devils. On the evolution of Semifinal round. 
we can correct our error. 

Refreshments provided. swing dance. 


smc dance marathon supports children’s hospital 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
in preparation for the dance marathon at saint mary’s, scheduled to take place april 5, the team of belles orga­nizing the event is working on spreading awareness and raising money throughout the south bend community. The dance marathon is a student-led fundraiser, benefitting riley hospital for children in indianapolis. 
president and senior ellen smith said a group of young women who wanted to bring the pure magic of dance marathon to campus started the event nine years ago. 
“so far we have almost 130 girls registered for the marathon,” smith said. “we are hoping to at least double that number by the date of our marathon.” 
smith said one of her ma­jor goals for this year’s dance marathon is to continue to increase the knowledge and awareness of the event’s cause to her classmates. 
“i believe that raising all the money that we can is incred­ibly important to saving the lives of children who cannot help the cards that they were dealt,” smith said. “in addi­tion to raising that money, i believe that it is equally im­portant that we convey to the 
paid adverTisemenT 

best of our ability why we do dance marathon. in addition to money, we can send the children and families at riley our love, positive energy and support.” 
co-fundraising executives and seniors erin nanovic and christa mccoll are in charge of raising awareness for dance marathon through various events and fundrais­ers, such as the For the Kids 5K in the fall semester and riley week in the spring se­mester, nanovic said. 
she said one of the fund­raisers took place last week, an event called stop the bop. “hoedown Throwdown” played on repeat in the noble Family dining hall during lunch on monday, wednesday and Friday of riley week, nanovic said. nanovic said the main goal of riley week is to make as many people aware of dance marathon and riley hospital for children as possible. 
“most of the students re­act well, and they will even sing along. i saw a few people dance, i may have been one of them,” nanovic said. “when we play, what we call ‘annoy­ing’ songs in the dining hall on repeat, we receive a lot of attention. if we raised $350, we would turn the song off. 
“of course, we always have a handful of people who complain, but we just do our best to remind people that we do all of this for the kids. my hope is that most people un­derstand that and are willing to support our efforts.” 

nanovic said along with stop the bop, dance marathon also teamed up with chipotle for a giveback night. 
“we love to do giveback nights because these types of events get the community more involved,” she said. “For this giveback night, we were so blessed to find out chipotle was not only willing to partic­ipate, but they were willing to give us 50 percent of any pro­ceeds on Thursday night of riley week. 
“i went around 6:30 p.m., and i waited in line for over 30 minutes. i was so excited to see so many people waiting to get their chipotle. There were even points where the line was wrapped around three times and still out the door. it was insane but so great to see everyone coming out to support dance marathon and riley.” 
another upcoming fund­raiser is “canning” at sam’s club, nanovic said. 
“we are so grateful that sam’s club allows us to do this. we take our red riley buckets and stand outside the doors of sam’s club to take donations,” she said. “we 
paid adverTisemenT 
meet so many people from the community who either have a personal connection with riley or are simply incredibly supportive of the cause.” 
canning at sam’s club will occur this Friday from 
10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Feb. 28 from 8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. and march 2 from 10:00 a.m. 
“It is an indescribable feeling to see the smiling faces of children who you have helped by dedicating much of your time into raising money and awareness for Riley.” 
Erin Nanovic 
Co-fundraising executive 
- 6:00 p.m. 
nanovic said each person on the executive board aims to raise at least $750, but the team harbors more than mon­etary goals. 
“personally, i want to exert all of my efforts into planning the best dance marathon yet,” she said. “it is an indescrib­able feeling to see the smiling faces of children who you have helped by dedicating much of your time into raising money and awareness for riley. 
“There are so many times when i can get caught up in my own issues and problems, but as soon as i focus on dance marathon, i remember that my homework that is due the next day is such a minor issue compared to a child fighting an illness in a hospital.” 
nanovic said she also looks forward to the good food and company associated with the event. 
“everyone who participates in dance marathon is full of life and so happy to be there. The feeling is contagious,” she said. 
vice president and senior hannah Karches said the team will advertise all upcom­ing events on the saint mary’s dance marathon club website and Twitter accounts as well as through flyers on campus. 
Karches said her personal goals for dance marathon are to increase attendance at the event and to raise awareness for riley hospital. 
“although we hope to raise money to support the hospi­tal, i want other students to experience the marathon and to understand why the com­mittee members work so hard to make dance marathon a success,” she said. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 
Event 
conTinued From page 1 
“The problem is that soci­ety propagates stereotypes about being an african­american, and a woman on top of that,” Flowers said. “but this event is about be­ing what you are, saying what you feel and fitting in the skin that you’re in.” 

according to madison, the role of beauty and image formed another focus of the event. 
“right now in society, it’s easy to think that you need to be perfect in every way. so when we look at body im­age, we’re trying to say that you’re in the skin that you’re in and the things that mat­ter are what people don’t see at first glance,” madison said. “appearance is noth­ing compared to what some­one can be inside and as a person.” 
guest speakers and notre dame graduates arienne Thompson (class of 2004) and Jocelyn allen (class of 1991) helped impart the group’s central message of individuality and self-esteem. Thompson, who helped found shades of ebony in 2004, and allen spoke on the themes of be­lieving in self, others and destiny. 
in addition to the beautiful event, cadet said shades of ebony hosts other events targeting community engagement, inclusion and sisterhood. 
“our biggest event, started last year, is women’s week and is co-hosted by the gender relations center,” cadet said. “it is a week-long event in celebration of notre dame women focused around spirituality, service, discussion and community,”. 
The  club  also  meets  
routinely  every  other  
wednesday  in  the  walsh  

hall basement to discuss is­sues such as those focused on  high school students. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Rings 
conTinued From page 1 
and support, and she said she feels especially connected to them when she wears her ring. 
“i haven’t seen many of them since graduation be­cause i live in southern 
california,  but  they  have  
still  found  ways  to  show  
they  still  care  through  

cards, messages, gifts, or phone calls,” decoursey said. “i wouldn’t trade my fellow belles for anything.” Junior sarah dapper said all the women in her family at­tended saint mary’s and their class rings symbolize their time at the college. in her photo, dapper is seen with four fellow belles, showing off their golden rings. 
dapper said she has waited to receive her class ring since freshman year and was excit­ed to order and receive it in the mail her junior year. “The ring is beautiful, and because it is such a significant tradi­tion, i enjoy wearing it all the time,” she said. 
even while traveling through airports, dapper said people have approached her mother after noticing her saint mary’s class ring. 
“it is great to see how such a small symbol means so much to all the women who attend or have attended saint mary’s,” she said. 
alumna stephanie cherpak (class of 2013) said her web­site photo was taken at the grotto during her engage­ment photo session with notre dame fiancé matthew clary (class of 2013). 
“The grotto is a special place for us and not only be­cause it is the location where we became engaged,” she said. “matt says that it was a place at which he always found himself spending time after walking me back to blinkie.” 
The grotto often served as a meeting place for the two throughout their college years, cherpak said. The cou­ple’s class rings are as sym­bolic to their relationship as is the grotto. 
“a relationship with god has always been a part of matt’s and my relationship with each other, so lighting a candle together at the grotto during the early months of our engagement serves as an outward symbol of the com­mitment to god we hope will always be central to our rela­tionship,” she said. 

The collection of lit candles at the grotto and our smc and nd rings remind us of the wonderful communities to which we belong, cherpak said. 
“some people may think the smc ring is a materialis­tic, money-making gimmick, but for those of us who have experienced what it means to be a belle, we know that the saint mary’s ring is much more than a nice piece of jewelry,” cherpak said. “it symbolizes a common expe­rience among us, lived out in different ways; a commu­nity that will support, chal­lenge, applaud, and console us when appropriate; and a place that will always make us feel at home.” 
cherpak said she wears her saint mary’s ring as it is a re­minder of the institution and people who played a signifi­cant role in forming her into the woman she is today. 
“it is comforting to always have a tangible piece of saint mary’s with me, an outward symbol of the many “pieces” of saint mary’s that are al­ways in my heart and mind,” she said. 

“in much the same way that religious brothers and sisters wear a specific pendant or pin to symbolize the com­munity to which they belong, i wear my saint mary’s ring so that people will know i am a saint mary’s woman and proud of it.” 
cherpak now attends the catholic Theological union in chicago, a graduate school of theology and ministry, where a high percentage of students belong to religious communities. many of them where rings, pendants, or pins that symbolize the re­ligious community they belong to. since the saint mary’s ring looks unique, es­pecially with its French cross on top, cherpak said she is often asked about the ring and its background. 
Contact Veronica Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 
Treatment 
conTinued From page 1 
between [her] interests.” 
The arab spring, a wave of demonstrations and pro­tests across the middle east, began in 2010 and has since 
“Universities in the area also reported the need for resources to help their students manage grief, as there have been a large number of student deaths that have greatly affected university communities.” 
Laura Miller 
psychology professor 
left its mark on the people of that area, miller said. 
“The nature of what the arab spring has looked like and the enduring ef­fects of initial protests have been quite different in each country,” miller said. “in the case of egypt, the arab spring began with an amazing surge of hopeful­ness and the removal of long-time dictator hosni mubarak from office, but has tragically devolved over time into military rule and pervasive instability.” 
miller said her interest in the middle east began in her undergraduate years at notre dame, when she studied abroad in cairo. she wrote her senior thesis on political involvement and perceptions of mental health care among univer­sity students in egypt. she said she then focused her graduate studies in clinical psychology on the effect of violence on children. From there, her research on the 

events in the  middle  east  
took flight.  
miller,  who  teaches  the  

class psychology of peace at notre dame, said her research is still in its early stages. 
“my collaborators and i have identified some uni­versity partnerships that will be critical for facilitat­ing our research,” miller said. “we are starting by engaging in some academic forums that will identify the key issues, needs and research priorities. 
“i think that it is likely we will start with some pre­liminary online surveys to identify some of the cultur­al adaptations. we will need to make commonly used treatment methodologies and to identify ways that we can make treatment more accessible.” 
The effect of the arab spring on the mental health of those in the middle east will be forthcoming, but miller said the results will almost certainly indicate a need for trauma services in the region. 
“From the discussions i have had with colleagues so far, there is a very high need for trauma services, paired with a shortage of people available to provide these services, and much difficulty with intergroup relations,” she said. 
of specifically high need for trauma resources are university students in the middle east, she said. 
“universities in the area have also reported the need for resources to help their students manage grief, as there have been a large number of student deaths that have greatly affected university communities,” miller said. 
once the need for trauma resources is validated em­pirically by research, miller said the ultimate goal of the study is to help psycho­logically-affected middle easterners on the road to recovery. 
“after we do some survey research to identify basic needs, we are hoping to test a few intervention meth­odologies,” miller said. “but what that will look like will depend on feed­back we receive from the communities.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Prize 
conTinued From page 1 
and narrative power capable of informing many disci­plines for decades to come.” 
caro said seigel will travel to notre dame in the fall to accept the prize and give a lecture, which is a contrac­tual requirement of the prize designed to benefit notre dame students. 
“it is an integral, contrac­tual part of the prize that [the winner] must come to cam­pus,” caro said. “anything that the nanovic institute does, we always want to con­tact the students. so just hav­ing a book prize wouldn’t be the kind of [award] that the nanovic institute would do. we’re not just giving the book prize, they have to come to campus to lecture, and we also ensure that during that visit, they’re visiting class­es or meeting with student groups.” 
caro said the prize further benefits students by provid­ing them with free copies of the submissions. 
“all of the books at the end of the process, we give to graduate students at an annual graduate student so­cial … which is a nice perk for graduate students.” caro said. 
caro said the prize accepts nominations from publishers and individual authors. The award alternates between books in the humanities and the social sciences, with seigel’s work winning for the humanities. 
holland said seigel’s book not only stands as an impor­tant scholarly work, but re­mains easy and enjoyable to read. 
“it was a delight to read. i’m delighted that one of the qualities we were recogniz­ing in this work that great scholars can write in an ac­cessible and engaging way,” holland said. “i think it’s one of those books that the curi­ous phenomenon called the ‘general reader’ will actually enjoy. it’s on my list of books to give out at christmas.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ukrainian protesters clash with government 
Associated Press 
Kiev — protesters advanced on police lines in the heart of the ukrainian capital on Thursday, prompting government snipers to shoot back and kill scores of people in the country’s deadli­est day since the breakup of the soviet union a quarter-century ago. 
The european union imposed sanctions on those deemed re­sponsible for the violence, and three eu foreign ministers held a long day of talks in Kiev with both embattled president viktor yanukovych and leaders of the protests seeking his ouster. but it’s increasingly unclear whether either side has the will or ability to compromise. 
yanukovych and the op­position protesters are locked in a battle over the identity of ukraine, a nation of 46 million that has divided loyalties be­tween russia and the west. parts of the country — mostly in its western cities — are in open re­volt against yanukovych’s cen­tral government, while many in eastern ukraine back the presi­dent and favor strong ties with russia, their former soviet ruler. 
protesters across the country are also upset over corruption in ukraine, the lack of democratic rights and the country’s ail­ing economy, which just barely avoided bankruptcy with a $15 billion aid infusion from russia. 
despite the violence, defi­ant protesters seemed deter­mined to continue their push for yanukovych’s resignation and early presidential and par­liamentary elections. people streamed toward the square Thursday afternoon as other protesters hurled wood, refuse and tires on barricades. 
“The price of freedom is too high. but ukrainians are pay­ing it,” said viktor danilyuk, a 30-year-old protester. “we have no choice. The government isn’t hearing us.” 
in an effort to defuse the situ­ation, the national parliament late Thursday passed a measure that would prohibit an “anti-ter­rorist operation” threatened by yanukovych to restore order, and called for all interior ministry troops to return to their bases. but it was unclear how binding the move would be. presidential adviser marina stavnichuk was quoted by the interfax news agency as saying the measure goes into effect immediately, but that a mechanism for carrying it out would have to be developed by the president’s office and the interior ministry. 
at least 101 people have died this week in the clashes in Kiev, according to protesters and ukrainian authorities, a sharp reversal in three months of mostly peaceful protests. now neither side appears willing to compromise. 
Thursday was the deadliest day yet at the sprawling protest camp on Kiev’s independence square, also called the maidan. snipers were seen shooting at protesters there — and video footage showed at least one snip­er wearing a ukraine riot police uniform. 
one of the wounded, volun­teer medic olesya Zhukovskaya, sent out a brief Twitter message 
— “i’m dying” — after she was shot in the neck. dr. oleh musiy, 
“The price of freedom is too high. But Ukrainians are paying it. ... We have no choice. The government isn’t hearing us.” 
Viktor Danilyuk 
Ukrainian protester 
the medical coordinator for the protesters, said she was in seri­ous condition after undergoing surgery. 
musiy told The associated press that at least 70 protesters were killed Thursday and over 500 were wounded in the clashes 
— and that the death toll could rise further. 
in addition, three policemen were killed Thursday and 28 suf­fered gunshot wounds, interior ministry spokesman serhiy burlakov told the ap. 
The national health ministry said a total of 75 people died in the clashes Tuesday and Thursday, but did not give a breakdown. earlier Thursday, however, it said 28 people had died. 
There was no way to immedi­ately verify any of the death tolls. 
French Foreign minister laurent Fabius, along with his german and polish counter­parts, said after a five-hour meeting with yanukovych and another with opposition lead­ers that they discussed new elections and a new govern­ment, but gave no details. The three resumed meeting with yanukovych late Thursday. 
“For now, there are no results,” said an opposition leader, vitali Klitschko. 
video footage on ukrainian television showed shocking scenes Thursday of protesters being cut down by gunfire, lying on the pavement as comrades rushed to their aid. Trying to protect themselves with shields, teams of protesters carried bod­ies away on sheets of plastic or planks of wood. 

democrats look for success in upcoming elections 
Associated Press 

washingTon — democrats, facing fewer opportunities to pick up seats in the senate and house, see a more fertile play­ing field in the three dozen gov­ernors’ races across the country this year. as a bonus, there’s even the potential of scoring an early knockout against a poten­tial 2016 republican presidential contender or two. 
in campaigns with broad presidential implications, democrats see encourag­ing signs in their fight against republicans’ hold of 29 of the nation’s 50 governor’s man­sions. republicans will have a large map to defend — the gop controls 22 of the 36 seats up for election, including six in states that president barack obama carried twice: ohio, michigan, pennsylvania, Florida, wisconsin and maine. 
“we know how to win na­tional elections,” obama said Thursday at a fundraiser for the democratic governors association. but he said all too often, democrats get into trou­ble by ignoring state races “be­cause i guess we don’t think it’s sexy enough. but the fact of the matter is that’s where a lot of the action is.” 
part of the strategy aims to undercut a group of prominent republican governors first elect­ed in 2010 who have presided over improving economies and billed themselves as reformers in contrast to the dysfunction in congress. democrats have sought to tarnish new Jersey gov. chris christie, who was re­elected last year, as he deals with home state scandals and hope to extend the scrutiny to wisconsin gov. scott walker and ohio gov. John Kasich. all three are po­tential contenders for the gop presidential nomination in 2016. 
“The myth of republican gov­ernors as reformers is dead,” said vermont gov. peter shumlin, who leads the democratic governors association. 
obama’s allies jumped on the release of thousands of emails this week involving former aides to walker. The emails appeared to mix official and campaign business while walker was serv­ing as a county executive and running for governor in 2010. The approach drew compari­sons to their focus on inves­tigations involving christie, including emails indicating that former aides and allies par­ticipated in a decision to shut­ter access lanes to the george washington bridge as political payback. 
despite the ongoing home-state scandal, christie plans to maintain an aggressive national travel schedule as the top fund­raiser for republican governors. but he was expected to keep a low profile this weekend as governors gather in washington, d.c., for the annual national governors association meeting. 
walker is facing voters for the third time in four years. he es­caped a recall election in 2012, when democrats and unions sought revenge after a bitter fight over collective bargaining rights for state workers. 
in the investigation involv­ing his former aides, walker was never charged with any wrong­doing. The probe closed last year with convictions against six of his former aides and associates. a second investigation is ongo­ing and reportedly looking into fundraising and other activities by walker’s campaign and con­servative groups. 
in ohio, Kasich is up for re­
“2014 will have a lot to do with how 2016 turns out. ... If we re­elect most of our governors, and they run on their records, then the governors will become even stronger leaders of our party.” 
Haley Barbour 
former Mississippi governor 
election in the perennial presi­dential swing state. recent polls suggest he holds a narrow ad­vantage over ed Fitzgerald, a little-known democratic coun­ty executive. a former house budget committee chairman, Kasich was humbled by an ex­pensive battle with labor unions in 2011 that overturned restric­tions he championed on unions representing police, firefight­ers, teachers and other public workers. Kasich briefly sought the presidency in 1999 and republicans say he could pursue it again if he wins re-election. 
The gop is waging a broad campaign to highlight improv­ing economies and optimism under republican governors from south carolina to new mexico. republican strategists view obama as a liability for democrats, particularly in a number of rust belt states that elected gop governors four years ago. but they acknowl­edge that the fall elections could influence the 2016 presidential race, when the gop field could include christie, walker, Kasich and outgoing govs. bobby Jindal of louisiana and rick perry of Texas. 
“2014 will have a lot to do with how 2016 turns out,” said former mississippi gov. haley barbour. “if we re-elect most of our gov­ernors, and they run on their records, then the governors will become even stronger leaders of our party.” 
The state campaigns repre­sent an anomaly for democrats, who face daunting challenges this year in trying to retain their senate majority and recapture the house. in gubernatorial races, democrats hope to go on offense. 
in pennsylvania, republican gov. Tom corbett has struggled to recover after supporting deep cuts to public education, mak­ing a number of verbal gaffes and lingering questions about the Jerry sandusky child abuse investigation at penn state, which happened while he was attorney general. republicans hope a competitive democratic primary might produce an overly liberal nominee who will struggle in conservative parts of the state. 
a tea party favorite, maine gov. paul lepage has drawn a rash of negative press over his first term for making contro­versial statements. polls sug­gest he is unpopular, but the republican could benefit from a divided democratic electorate in a three-way race. 
Florida gov. rick scott faces a comeback attempt by former gop gov. charlie crist, who is now running as a democrat with the blessing of top democrats. scott, a wealthy health care executive before he entered politics, could spend up to $100 million defending his seat. 
elsewhere, democrats are bullish on races in arkansas, michigan and south carolina. 
republicans want to bind democratic candidates to obama on the economy and the health care rollout. They plan to challenge illinois gov. pat Quinn, who avoided a primary challenge against former white house chief of staff bill daley, but could run into problems against the winner of a gop pri­mary field that includes wealthy businessman bruce rauner and state Treasurer dan rutherford. 
other potential trouble spots for democrats include connecticut, where first-term gov. dan molloy may face a re­match against Tom Foley, a for­mer republican ambassador who nearly defeated him four years ago. 
“They want to talk about our governors because they don’t want to talk about their own,” said phil cox, the execu­tive director of the republican governors association. “They’ve got some very vulnerable incumbents.” 
democrats say their candi­dates need to explain the bene­fits of the health care law, noting that obama would benefit from more allies in the states. The president’s health care overhaul was largely implemented in states with democratic gover­nors while their gop counter­parts tried to block it in court. 



venezuela opposition movement stages protests 
Associated Press 
caracas — venezuelan op­position leaders condemned the government Thursday for its heavy-handed attempt to subdue a protest movement with night­time sweeps that have turned many parts of the country into dangerous free-fire zones. 
police, national guard troops and members of private militias have swarmed through streets in the capital and elsewhere firing volleys, at times indiscriminate­ly, in repeated spasms of night­time violence in recent days. 
henrique capriles, the two-time presidential candidate of an opposition coalition, said the government has engaged in “brutal repression” as it goes af­ter students and other protest­ers, in some cases breaking into apartment buildings to arrest those it accuses of taking part in a an attempted coup. 
“what does the government want, a civil war?” capriles asked at a news conference. 
david smolansky, an op­position mayor of a district in caracas, said the country is passing through the harshest wave of political persecution in decades with the response to the protests and the jailing of op­position leader leopoldo lopez. 
“if this isn’t a totalitarian system then i don’t know what can ex­plain what is happening in this country,” smolansky said. 
a week of protests, beginning with a mass opposition rally on Feb. 12, has resulted in at least six deaths and more than 100 injuries. 
while several large demon­strations by thousands of peo­ple have been peaceful, smaller groups of protesters have lobbed gas bombs and rocks and blocked streets with flaming barricades of trash. Troops and police have responded with tear gas, rubber bullets and blasts from water cannons — as well as raids by gun-firing men on motorcycle. 
Jose leon, a 20-year-old busi­ness student who took part in a demonstration in the altamira neighborhood of caracas on wednesday night, said au­thorities who roughly detained students and fired tear gas over­reacted to a peaceful protest. 
“we’ve spent years trying for peaceful dialogue. how can you talk with a government that hunts down its own citizens like criminals?” leon said as he took part in a small protest on Thursday in the same spot. 
The clashes with authorities as well as the pursuit of anti-government activists by troops and militias take place in dark­ness. during the day, the capital has largely operated as normal, with businesses and schools open and people going about their business, while stocking up on groceries in case of further unrest. 

president nicolas maduro and his supporters say the escalat­ing protests against his socialist government in the oil-rich but economically struggling coun­try are part of an attempted coup sponsored by right-wing and “fascist” opponents in venezuela and abroad, particularly the united states. 
maduro has vowed to crack down on the protests, particu­larly in Tachira, on the western border with colombia, where the unrest has been particularly strong. The interior ministry said Thursday it would send a battalion of paratroopers there to the area restore order. 
interior minister migues rodriguez Torres said that send­ing troops to the border city of san cristobal, an opposition stronghold where maduro has said he would consider impos­ing martial law, is necessary because unrest has prevented people from going about their daily business. “it’s not about militarization, it’s simply meant to restore order,” he said. 
san cristobal vice mayor sergio vergara, a member of the opposition, said parts of the city have been without public transportation and the internet has apparently been shut down in recent days. The presence of some 3,000 troops in a city of 600,000, he said, is “effectively part of an effort at repression being played out by the govern­ment across the country.” 
earlier Thursday, a judge ruled there was enough evi­dence to detain lopez, the op­position leader who surrendered to authorities a day earlier, on charges that include arson and criminal incitement stemming from a massive Feb. 12 rally. 
prosecutors decided not to pursue more serious charges, including homicide and terror­ism at a court appearance on a military base outside caracas. The 42-year-old politician could face at least 10 years in prison. 
in a message from his Twitter account, the opposition leader’s wife, lilian Tintori, urged his followers on as she announced the court decision. “change is within us all,” she wrote on his behalf. “don’t give up. i will not.” 
Throughout wednesday night, anti-government protesters in caracas and other cities set trash fires in streets and threw rocks at national guard troops, who fired tear gas, water cannons and rub­ber bullets. 
gunfire was heard in down­town caracas while maduro was on television and videos and photos on social media showed several people with serious in­juries and unconscious, but the circumstances and conditions could not be verified. 
The crackle of gunfire mixed with the roar of swarms of mo­torcycles, a combination of po­lice and national guard troops as well as the pro-government paramilitaries known as “colectivos.” 
in videos circulating on social media, police and guard troops can be seen pursuing protesters in the streets and firing weap­ons, the shots competing in the night with the sound of citizens banging pots outside their win­dows in protest and shouting insults. 
The opposition is planning marches across the country saturday to protest the jailing of lopez as well as well as the ram­pant crime, shortages of con­sumer goods and inflation rate of more than 50 percent that has made life difficult for many in the country of nearly 30 million people. 

native american tribal items return to arizona 
set to return to arizona in a way 
Associated Press 
that pays reverence to the be-

FlagsTaFF — Two dozen liefs of american indian tribes. ceremonial items bought last The masks and hoods in-year at auction in France are voke the ancestral spirits of 
paid adverTisemenT 

the hopi and apache Tribes — who consider them living be­ings in keeping with tradition 
— and the expectation is they will be treated as such. That means shipping the sacred items free of plastics, bubble wrap or other synthetic mate­rial that would be suffocating. The items also should face the direction of the rising sun, have space to breathe, and be spo­ken to during their journey. 
The shipping reflects the deeply sensitive nature of the items that the los angeles­based annenberg Foundation quietly bought for $530,000 at a contested paris auction two months ago with the goal of sending them back to their trib­al homes in eastern arizona. 
The hopi and two apache tribes believe the return of the objects, kept largely out of pub­lic view, will put tribal mem­bers on a healing path and help restore harmony not only in their communities but among humanity. 
“The elders have told us the reason we have the ills of soci­ety, suicides, murders, domes­tic violence, all these things, is we’re suffering because these things are gone and the har­mony is gone,” said vincent randall, cultural director for the yavapai-apache nation. 
The tribes say the items — 21 pieces are headed to the hopi, two to the san carlos apache and one to the white mountain apache — were taken from their reservations in the late 19th and 20th centuries at a time when collectors and mu­seums competed for sensitive items from western tribes. Tribal archaeologists say the objects also could have been traded for food and water, or unrightfully sold. 
in hopi belief, the Kachina friends emerge from the earth and sky to connect people to the spiritual world and to their an­cestors. caretakers, who most­ly are men, nurture the masks as if they are the living dead. visitors to the hopi reservation won’t see the masks displayed on shelves or in museums, and the ritual associated with them is a lifelong learning process. 
The san carlos apache re­count a story of ceremonial items being wrenched from the hands of tribal members who were imprisoned by the u.s. military at Fort apache. Journal entries from the time showed that hoods, as well as medi­cine bundles and other prayer items akin to crosses and holy water were taken, said vernelda grant, director of the historic preservation and archaeology department for the san carlos apache Tribe. 
“of course you’re going to be emotional, and of course it’s going to have an effect on your health, the welfare of your people,” she said. “it kills them, it killed us emotionally. Those items were taken care of un­til those times came. we were forced to hand them over so we could get what? a box of ra­tions, a blanket?” 
For the san carlos apache, the hoods represent the moun­tain spirits reincarnated in men who make and wear them in ceremonial dances for heal­ing or when girls reach puberty. each is fashioned by a tribal member endowed with a gift of being a spiritual leader. once the hoods have been used, they are put away in an undisclosed location in the mountains, known only to the spiritual leader through a revelation from the “ruler of life,” or god. 
if they are disturbed or re­moved, a curse of sorts can be placed upon humanity, randall said. 
although the apaches are among the most successful tribes in getting items within the united states returned to the tribes, they could do little to stop the sale in France. 
The auction house argued that the items rightfully were in private collectors’ hands. a judge hearing the hopi’s plea to block the sale said that unlike the u.s., France has no laws to protect indigenous peoples. 
in a similar dispute in april, a paris court ruled that such sales are legal. around 70 masks were sold for some $1.2 million, despite protests and criticism from the u.s. government. 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Why do men have nipples? 
Erin Rice 
graphic designer 

spring break is rolling right around the corner. i’m sure you’ve been lifting hardcore to perfect your physique, preparing yourself for beach time and lying in the sun, but are you prepared for the potentially awkward conversations you could have with complete strangers? 
don’t be scared, there is a solu­tion to your problem! my friend, who was unimpressed with my inability to have interesting conversations, bought me the book “why do men have nipples?” by mark leyner and billy goldberg. 
even the title makes you want to ask more. (seriously, why do guys have nipples though). The book is full of answers to a collection of big questions about the oddities of our bodies and minds. 
Questions range from ones you never thought to ask such as “can i lose my contact lens inside my head forever?” to ones you never ques­tioned such as “does warm milk help you fall asleep?” 
don’t worry about the legitimacy of the book, it was co-written by billy goldberg, an emergency physi­cian who compiled answers to ques­tions his patients asked him over the years (he’s a doctor = what he says is right). 
This book is extremely useful in improving your social skills. i can confirm this on a personal account. if you ever come to an awkward pause in a conversation, instead of chatting about the weather, pull one of these: “anyway, did you know that morning breath is caused by the combination of anaerobic bacteria, the xerostomia and volatile sulfur compounds that build up in your sleep?” That will surely get the con­versation rolling. 
study the questions before spring break and you will be prepared for any situation on the spot. you will never have to talk about that one calculus test you killed freshman year or how you lost your bike in the snow ever again. 
get online (don’t drive anywhere, you will never escape the snow filled parking lot labyrinth) and order “why do men have nipples” by mark leyner and billy goldberg right now. This could possibly be the best choice you have ever made. 
you’ll be more confident than ever when you see that cute girl on the beach, i’m sure she’s extremely curi­ous as to why you can ignite a fart. 
Contact Erin Rice at erice4@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
love your body this week 

workout facilities at our disposal, so it’s not hard to find activities EDITORIAL we love that also show respect for our bodies and what our bodies 
have the potential of doing. what does it mean to love your body? Think about it this way — professional athletes are healthy we asked this question of each other wednesday because this because they do what they love. professional athletes also have 
week is love your body week at notre dame, and because saint teams of doctors and experts on their sides to help them find the mary’s will celebrate it next week. we wondered whether loving right balance, but most of all, professionals know that you have to your body means actively pursuing fitness and a balanced diet or listen to your body, especially when it needs a change of pace, a whether it’s about accepting yourself, flaws and all. new challenge or rest for an injury. Fitness is most easily attained 
we realized it means both. when it’s the result of being passionate about something and com-
love your body week matters to us because, as often-stressed mitting to it daily. and exhausted college students, loving our bodies is far from easy. we sometimes lose perspective, though, on the other half of it’s difficult to schedule time to exercise and sleep when we have what it means to love your body: embracing every part of yourself, dozens of upcoming deadlines at any given time. it’s tempting to even the parts you wish looked different. distract ourselves from anxiety with greasy food and sugar. and Truly loving your body means appreciating your sky-colored it’s easy to fall into the trap of criticizing ourselves, over and over, eyes equally as much as the fold on your stomach you wish you for not being perfect. could get rid of. 
loving our bodies, though, doesn’t mean trying to be perfect. it’s it means being as content with your endearing smile as you are about seeking to be healthy, whatever that might look like. and the with the spatter of acne on your forehead. truth is, ‘healthy’ looks different for everyone because no two bod-and it means coming to peace with not being perfect. ies are the same. Taking care of our bodies is a learning process we all have our own struggles and insecurities. but we could that necessitates experimentation and an open mind. we need to lessen our own loads significantly if we took to heart the idea that try new ways of eating and exercising to figure out what makes us we are far more than the sum of our parts, that we are uniquely feel healthy, instead of adhering to cookie-cutter regimens. simply beautiful individuals and that our worth is not tied to our appear-put, we should seek out good habits that make us happy. ances. loving our bodies means seeing ourselves as somehow 
luckily for us, notre dame purports to educate the mind, body perfect in our imperfection, and it means perceiving others that and spirit. The “body” part of that triad can get lost, in all of our way, too. university’s emphasis on academics, research, extracurricular maybe this week and every week, we could go easy on ourselves, engagement, service, travel and other opportunities. but, we also take a few deep breaths and choose to embrace our appearances have club and interhall athletic teams, recsports classes and two — perfect imperfection and all. 
Ann Coulter and tolerance? 
space’s sake, i present only a few of her and administrators, and i encourage Fr. Sarah Morris most heinous quotes on a variety of issues. Jenkins to read and reflect upon the re-viewpoint columnist on widows of september 11th victims: marks issued by Fordham president rev. 
“These broads are reveling in their status Joseph m. mcshane, in which he stated: 
“attacking those who have different as celebrities ... i’ve never seen people en-“There are many people who can speak opinions from you is not only intoler-joying their husband’s death so much.” on to the conservative point of view with ant, but it is the disease plaguing liberal terrorism and islam: “if only we could get integrity and conviction, but ms. coulter america.” This sweeping declaration muslims to boycott all airlines, we could is not among them. her rhetoric is often is an excerpt from a viewpoint column dispense with airport security altogether.” hateful and needlessly provocative.” published in wednesday’s observer that on black republicans: “our blacks are although the university did not formally was written by the president of college so much better than their [democrat’s] ban ms. coulter from their campus, for republicans, mark gianfalla. although i blacks. To become a black republican, Fr. mcshane appropriately added, “To was tempted to engage further with the you don’t just roll into it. you’re not going prohibit ms. coulter from speaking at predictably ignorant and incendiary piece with the flow...” on national coming out Fordham would be to do greater vio­on its own, a related matter has arisen day: “last Thursday was national ‘coming lence to the academy. ... preventing ms. which deserves far more attention than out’ day. This monday is national ‘disown coulter from speaking would counter one gianfalla’s latest rant. it was announced, your son’ day.” on liberals: “even islamic wrong with another,” Fordham’s college via the notre dame college republicans terrorists don’t hate america like liber-republicans chose to rescind coulter’s Facebook and Twitter accounts, that als do. They don’t have the energy. if they invitation after reconsidering their initial ann coulter will be speaking at this had that much energy, they’d have indoor decision to host her. year’s lincoln day dinner on april 10. plumbing by now.” The notre dame college republicans at first, i took the news to be a hilarious and finally, on notre dame’s decision are better than ann coulter. and as a joke. within 24 hours of condemning all (yes, our notre dame) to have president catholic university, we are all better than american liberals for “attacking people’s obama deliver the 2008 commencement honoring a woman who so clearly con-views,” gianfalla and friends proudly an-address: “i don’t think he was speaking to tradicts notre dame and all that it stands nounce the upcoming visit of ann coulter. people who have any objections to abor-for. mr. gianfalla, your generalized state-The irony was literally too much to bear tion ... they should have had the admin-ments about liberals’ intolerance were with a straight face. istrators of notre dame onstage taking a both offensive and incorrect, but i agree 
however, my pained laughter soon suc-polygraph test on whether they believe that greater levels of tolerance should be cumbed to queasy feelings of deep distur-in god ... no, i don’t believe these people encouraged not only in politics, but in all bance. put simply, coulter has no place are serious, genuine, practicing catholics of our daily proceedings. however, there at notre dame and the decision on the ... how about for next year’s graduation are some things for which i have no toler­behalf of college republicans to feature ceremony notre dame have an abortion-ance. i have no tolerance for someone who her at their annual dinner is a disgrace ist perform an abortion live on stage? They wishes we could revoke women’s suffrage. not only to abraham lincoln in whose could have a partial birth abortion for the i have no tolerance for someone who honor it is held, but to our university itself. advanced degrees.” makes her living inciting hate for the sake regardless of your political affiliation or i hope these snippets produced the of being controversial. Finally, i have no level of involvement, every notre dame same intense, visceral anger that they tolerance for bigotry. and neither should student, alumnus, faculty member and did in me. as previously mentioned, it you. administrator should be disgusted at the truly does not matter whether you are notion of ms. coulter stepping foot on our Tea party or green party; this type of hate Sarah Morris is sophomore political campus, and i invite you to join me in urg-speech, racism, ignorance and complete science and american studies major in ing the college republicans to reconsider disrespect for humanity should be found Ryan Hall. She can be contacted at     their invitation. unacceptable by all. Fordham university smorris8@nd.edu 
if you are unfamiliar with the style and found itself in an identical situation The views expressed in this column tenets of ann coulter, i strongly encour-with coulter just last year. we should are those of the author and not neces­age a trip to youTube immediately. For emulate the response from its students sarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
With classes, less is more 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

i love this university. but lately i think i’ve discovered a serious flaw. 
in writing this i asked as many people as i could the question “what is the biggest prob­lem with notre dame?” The answers were many, and i list the most frequently-cited ones here in no particular order. 
it turns out that notre dame is both too conservative and too liberal. notre dame is too catholic and simultaneously failing to live out its catholic founding. our rigid sexu­al mores stifle everyday interaction with the opposite sex, as evidenced by our rampant hook-up culture. notre dame students are too shy and too arrogant. notre dame stu­dents don’t care enough about politics, and notre dame shouldn’t be suing the federal government. notre dame students are busy, but not truly involved. notre dame students are so involved they can’t really concentrate on learning. and sao is a suffocating bu­reaucracy that overcomplicates extracur­ricular involvement. admittedly, nobody argued for the other side on that particular point. 
These are all legitimate criticisms in the sense that the students who expressed them believe as they do for reasons that are logi­cally valid and based in personal experience and perceptions. but i will counter that the real problem with notre dame is that the space necessary to sort these issues out — to debate them, discuss them and act on them to make the university better — is currently occupied, not by Facebook and Twitter or drunken hook-ups or even athletics, but by the time and mental energy necessary to bal­ance five different classes at once. 
i wanted to get a sense of whether students at our peer institutions have the same pre­dicament. i did what i could on the research end within the limits placed on me by mid­terms week and olympic hockey. what i can tell you is that for those pursuing a degree at harvard, yale, brown, cornell, michigan or emory, taking five classes per semester is the exception, not the rule. most of the students there take four and they seem un­harmed. other institutions such as stanford, northwestern, dartmouth and university of chicago have quarter or trimester systems that have their own costs and benefits. The point is that the common practice of taking five or even six classes in a semester is really not all that common outside of notre dame. 
That so many of our peer institutions do something does not make it the right path for our lady’s university. a vast majority of our peer institutions are not catholic, but i don’t believe we will (or should, for that mat­ter) oust the virgin mary from the golden dome any time soon. but i think in this case it might be best to take a page out of our secu­lar peers’ playbook. To me this is a clear-cut instance of “less is more”. 

i have had this thought since i took a class in american intellectual history last semester. The layout of the class was simple 
— midterm, 10-page paper on an important american intellectual, final exam. That picture was complicated, however, by the actual content of the course. in addition to intense lectures that consistently yielded a sore right wrist and about six sides of notes, we had to read four books outside of class. each was separate in content from the lec­ture notes but provided relevant contextual background (and were tested on accord­ingly), and a bare minimum of four books or 16 long articles (or some combination of the two) written by the person you chose for your topic (not to mention secondary sources), in order to meet the threshold of “well-researched”. 
This was also one of the three most in­teresting courses i have taken here, and i recommended it to friends of mine with the following caveat: don’t take the class unless you’re only taking three other classes this semester. 
i’m not suggesting that we’d all be better off with four classes like the one i just de­scribed. rather, i’d like to communicate that in my six semesters here i always felt i had four core courses and one that i cut corners on out of necessity. This diminishes the value of the class that a student skates by in as well as the four core subjects that he or she tries to really engage in. it’s no good for the instruc­tors either. no one wants to grade a half-baked essay from a half-committed student. 
in short, the students and professors will benefit if notre dame streamlines our cur­rent workload into four classes per semester rather than five. i think everything from class participation to outside research to sleep pat­terns to the robustness of our student news­paper would improve. and we don’t even have to say we got the idea from michigan. 
Alex Caton is a junior living in St. Edward’s Hall. He can be contacted at     acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
reframing gop’s american dream 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to a Farce 
The republican party has a rhetoric problem. The general rhetoric of the party reflects a deviation from fundamental party principles and, i believe, is part of the reason the gop has had difficulty pushing inde­pendents to the right in recent elections. i think this problem starts with the present republican approach to one of its oldest allies: individual achievement and the american dream. 
now, i must qualify this problem. The republican party encompasses a vast range of the political spectrum and therefore this problem reflects a general trend, not an all encompassing, concrete shift. also, a democratic president makes it difficult for republicans to frame their own narrative. 
president obama has spent his tenure as president arguing that the american dream is out of reach for too many americans and immense government action is required to extend its reach. in response, the general tone of the republican party has been de­fensive and combative. while this tone has caused problems for republicans, the con­tent of this response, not the tone, is where the true problem lies. 
republican rhetoric has reframed the american dream as a radically individual concept. The second sentence of the gop’s “restoring the american dream” platform reads, “prosperity is the product of self-discipline, work, savings and investment by individual americans.” such rhetoric represents an approach to the american dream that is too individually centered. Further, it does not recognize a number of americans do not have the opportunity to reach this definition of prosperity. it paints the american dream as no more than a dog-eat-dog, social darwinist ideal. in an at­tempt to negate the president’s claim that an individual needs the government to achieve success, republicans have held that all you need to make it in america is more blood, sweat and tears than the next guy. 
i believe the president’s progressive ap­proach to the american dream is funda­mentally incorrect. The republican vision correctly recognizes that government in­volvement and dependence is a poor strat­egy in expanding an american’s access to prosperity. however, i think the republican answer to this progressive conception also misses the mark. a reaffirmation of the power of the individual is unappealing to voters who fear their share of the american dream is shrinking and does not recognize the reality that achievement is directly cor­related to a set of preconditions out of one’s control. 
republicans should stop arguing for a strict schism between the government and individual on the grounds of individual self-sustenance, but rather should advocate for the merits of the institutions that exist in the space between the individual and the government. 
as described by yuval levin, the space between the individual and the government is made up of the free market, civil society and the family. such institutions provide in­dividuals with the assistance and resources that prerequisite individual achievement. These institutions establish a shared, po­litical character that prioritizes individual achievement but recognizes that the com­mon good is served by such individual efforts. This space is characterized by co­operation and a shared objective of success, not individual competition. senator mike lee reminds that, “The vision of america conservatives seek is not an ayn rand novel. it’s a norman rockwell painting.” it estab­lishes an environment of interdependence, not government dependence or indepen­dence, that grows economic opportunity and secures a civil society in which suc­cess depends on one’s contribution to this interdependent structure. in such a space, a society establishes communal values that direct individual behavior, not government incentives or competition. in such a space, the american dream is fully actualized. 

government action that restricts this space and replaces it with government in­volvement debilitates the institutions that secure the american dream. entitlement policies that disrupt family structures, gov­ernment activity in the private sector and the replacement of civic organizations with state programs are a few examples of gov­ernment actions that deteriorate the space between the individual and government. 
republican rhetoric should seek to champion these intermediary institutions. it should recognize that an individual stripped of all resources will have difficulty achieving the promise of the american dream, but argue the institutions that exist beyond the public square is where one can find such resources and catalyze economic mobility. Therefore, the best republican response to government overreach is a defense of these intermediate institutions. republican rhetoric should describe what the government could do to allow such institutions to grow and prosper as opposed to repeating the tired cry against progressive inadequacy or an unrealistic appeal to the individual. 
republican rhetoric should mimic levin’s call to “restore an idea of the government as a preserver and protector of the space in which our society thrives.” a change in republican rhetoric is crucial in appealing to future republican voters and realigning the republican party platform with its ideo­logical basis. 
JC Sullivan is a sophomore living in Keenan Hall. He can be contacted at     jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
 “Brojo” 
The greatest rector of all time turns 75 to­day, and we think all of notre dame should know about it. 
ever since our forefathers were exiled from the illustrious Flanner hall in 1997, brother Jerome meyer has fearlessly led the Knott hall Juggerknotts to glory. brojo, as he is affectionately known throughout the hall, is a jack-of-all-trades, a renaissance man if you will. year after year, when we battle siegfried hall for the coveted Flanner cup, brother Jerome strolls into the dining hall sporting the latest in blaze orange, Knott hall fashion and thoroughly dominates the rector of siegfried in a match of arm wres­tling. not to be limited to purely physical prowess, brother Jerome maintains an im­pressive repertoire of musical knowledge. at a recent hall government meeting, he informed us that he listens to 2 chainz each night before bed. 
when stress rises and temperatures fall during finals week each december, brojo puts everyone at ease with a batch of world-famous brojo chili, announced by the requisite, “cold today, chili tonight” email. indeed, he is man of wit. 
brother Jerome’s greatest skill by a long shot is his genuine care for all the residents of our fine dormitory. For many Juggerknotts, brother Jerome’s warm, jolly “hullo!” encapsulates their time in Knott hall. he is committed to creat­ing a christian community where all Juggerknotts can thrive. From the fresh­man struggling to find his place to the senior superstar, brother Jerome truly loves every one of us. on behalf of the many Juggerknotts blessed to have lived under his guidance, happy 75th birthday to brother Jerome! 
Andrew Weiler 
president Knott hall Feb. 21 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 
leave your hate at the door, because i love hbo’s “True detective.” The eight-episode murder mystery mini-series stars matthew mcconaughey and woody harrelson as two present-day former detectives reflecting on their investiga­tion of a serial killer nearly 20 years earlier, as a new and ee­rily similar killing looms. 
Five episodes into the series that has dipped its toes into serial killers, hallucinatory drug flashbacks, murderous bik­ers, satanism and louisiana accents, and it’s safe to say i’m sleeping with the lights on. 
with a million theories but no real answers as to where the show might go in its final three episodes, there’s really only one thing we know about “True detective” . the show is com­ing back, but mcconaughey and harrelson aren’t. hbo de­veloped the series as an anthology, a show that would run for multiple seasons but with a new story and cast of characters in each installment. 
with Twitter running wild with theories on Thursday about who might be cast as next season’s detective, i figured scene could take its own shots in the dark. 
Jay-Z and Beyonce 
is there anything they can’t completely conquer? i feel safe in guessing no. beyonce hasn’t had much opportunity to re­deem herself for taking part in the third austin powers mov­ie, and i assume she must be bored dominating the charts every time she opens her mouth. i like to imagine Jay-Z as the straight-laced detective just wants to keep his head down and the cases simple, but his apprentice (bey) is a firecracker who just won’t let a seemingly open-and-shut go without a fight. 
Jason Segel and a Muppet 
who says the partner has to be real? i see segel as a bril­liant caseworker forced to check himself into a mental in­stitution after constant visions of a muppet affect his ability to work with other people. but when the biggest catch of his career escapes from maximum-security prison, the police have no choice but to turn to the one man who knows how to catch him again . one man and his muppet, that is. 
also, James Franco will voice the muppet, and will spend 15 months getting into character by erecting a life-sized pup­peteering structure and allowing a fourth grader on a sugar high to control all his movements and actions. 
John Madden and Joe Buck 
a newly-minted lieutenant trying to fill in the massive shoes left by his father (buck), the former police chief and city hero, is forced to work with the office kook (madden) while internal affairs looks into bogus corruption charges dreamed up by colleagues jealous of his seemingly unearned promo­tion. it seems like a sentence to purgatory, but turns out the old grouch still has a trick or two up his sleeve and the young buck has a few lessons to learn. 
Kevin Hart and anyone over 6-feet tall. 
This will happen in real life. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
angel olsen opens “burn your Fire for no witness” briefly croon­ing about a newfound love. she re­acts with a truly human response 
— she wishes everything could immediately end now so she could find herself happy within the vac­uum of this new relationship. 
however, the (observer­censored) title of the song reads “unf***theworld,” and the senti­ment here is fleeting, so maybe this narrative is mere wishful thinking from the artist, rather than reality. over the course of her second studio lp, olsen ex­plores the many facets of personal relationships, especially relation­ships with oneself as much as with others. 
in 2012, angel olsen released her debut studio album, “half way home,” featuring a hand­ful of quiet, enigmatic folk tunes. The singer’s guitar work was not immediate, but the largely acous­tic album presented a skilled art­ist. her dynamic vocal work and songwriting on that debut, how­ever, hinted at olsen’s brooding need to break out. 
a combination of folk-singing you might come across in a public­ly accessible library archive with the wild shrieking from contem­porary experimentalists, on “burn your Fire,” the singer-songwriter expands upon her slightly more reserved, but foreshadowing, past works. 
This development of sound comes in part due to olsen enlist­ing indie veteran John congleton for production duties. congleton has previously worked with two of olsen’s most esteemed contem­poraries — st. vincent and Joanna newsom — and his influence can be heard all over the album. The artist and the producer’s shared fascination with fuzzy record­ing quality brings about garage rock tinges and helps accentuate olsen’s own gritty persona. when olsen subjects “are you lonely, too?” on album highlight “hi-Five,” she shines in front of her newly formed band and fleshed out sound. 
and the singer performs throughout from a place of em­powerment. congleton allows the band’s instrumentation to reso­nate behind olsen’s lyricism and strong voice. singles “Forgiven/ Forgotten” and “hi-Five” drive as hard as any punk track, while maintaining olsen’s command. even the slighter, more under­stated tracks on the album — like “enemy” — showcase olsen’s tal­ents on the guitar and behind the microphone. closer “windows” equally gives olsen a chance to show off her vocal range and di­versity, including beautifully laid, heartbreaking harmonies. meanwhile, every song’s sub­ject matter puts another facet of olsen’s perspectives on display. 
especially so in the simmering, album centerpiece “white Fire.” with phrasing that reminds of folk rock epics “The ghost of Tom Joad” and “master of war” and nu­anced guitar line undercurrents, olsen uses the medium to reflect on a relationship falling apart. she has such an acute way of por­traying these sentiments — the earnest beauty to her songwriting and her expertise at conveying her emotions pits her in the ranks of a leading actress. she allows her au­dience not only to understand, but also empathize with her outlooks. with honest, stark writing olsen masterfully evokes connection through her music, in a way simi­lar to that which only Fiona apple can. 
angel olsen knows what it feels like to find new, exciting love. she is also fully aware of how lone­liness feels. above everything, though, she knows how to cel­ebrate both, joke about both, and see the mindsets that come as a result of either. her songwriting puts this immediately and con­sistently on display, never losing sight of the implication of human dynamics, but nevertheless allow­ing herself to get caught up in indi­vidual cases just the same. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“Burn Your Fire for No Witness” 
Angel Olsen 
Label: Jagjaguwar Tracks: “Hi-Five,” “Enemy,” If you like: Feist, Cat Power 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

abbi Jacobson and ilana glazer are tak­ing off, even if the fictionalized versions of them aren’t quite. Jacobson and glazer star in comedy central’s breakout hit “broad city,” a show they also created and write for as well as serving as executive producers. 
The half-hour comedy, born out of the duo’s popular youTube series of the same name, features dramatized versions of the actors themselves as they struggle through their post-college lives and deal­ing with the day-to-day problems that come with living in new york like scram­bling for enough money to buy tickets to a secret lil’ wayne show, figuring out where to spend the night when your apartment is bug-bombed and even doing your own taxes. 
Jacobson and glazer, who met in 2007 while training at new york’s upright citizens brigade Theatre, sat down Thursday for a conference call with a number of college newspapers to discuss their show, its web series origins and the upcoming tour. 
The show, which is five episodes in and halfway through its first season, formed out of Jacobson and glazer’s own experi­ences, the pair said. 
“we try and base the scenes in every episode on stuff that’s happened to us or friends of ours or the writers that write the show with us or their friends,” Jacobson said. “somewhere within the episode is some inkling that’s happened in real life. For example, on [this week’s] episode, we’re at this crazy rooftop party that abbi and ilana felt very uncomfortable at and that was based on a party that ilana and i went to and felt that way. we have a spreadsheet that we share where we keep track of all this stuff that’s happened to us and then we’re writing the story we try to add a lot of that stuff in.” 
The show’s loosely structured format and realistic portrayals of everyday life draw comparisons to everything from larry david’s “curb your enthusiasm” to hbo’s classic “sex and the city,” but with two young women trying to make it in new york in the lead, television critics have drawn links to lena dunham’s girls, an association that doesn’t speak to the complexities and differences of the two shows, but which Jacobson and glazer aren’t turned off by. 

“we are just straight-up honored to be compared to these successful, established shows with their own clear voices,” glazer said. “i think women get compared a lot but it also makes it easier to understand something when it’s compared to some­thing that you already know. but first of all, to be compared to a Tv show, mean­ing that we get to have a Tv show is dope no matter what, you can say whatever you want. also to be compared to a show like ‘girls,’ which is a brilliant vision and a clear voice and a beautiful product is an honor. it’s just awesome to be in the same sentence as somebody like lena.” 
The pair said, unlike much of the com­edy on television today, their senses of humor draw from sincerity and good na­ture instead of snark and sarcasm. That sensibility is apparent early on in their web series, which ran on youTube in 2010 and 2011, and deals with the same kind of everyday problems and struggles as their new show. That sincerity allowed Jacobson and glazer to make web epi­sodes that featured them asking a home­less man to break a $10 bill or using a guy for his washer and drier (a rarity in new york apartments, apparently) without coming off as awful people. That web se­ries, and ultimately the show, came out of some of the friendship the two developed as they struggled to make it in the new york comedy scene. 
“abbi and i were on an improv team for two years before starting the web series, and we kept auditioning for house teams, like theatre companies,” glazer said. “and we could not get on a team. we wanted to create material for ourselves, and it re­ally does afford more opportunities, you know, getting yourself in front of the cam­era. we already had that friendship going, and then we introduced the idea of using our friendship it worked and we went with it.” 
“broad city” airs every wednesday at 
10:30 p.m. and co-stars stand-up come­dian hannibal burress as glazer’s drily hilarious sort-of-boyfriend. 
catch Jacobson and glazer live when they perform at lincoln hall in chicago on march 13. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 


Cecelia Heffron 
scene writer 

most holiday traditions involve food. last week, we cel­ebrated valentine’s day, a day that in some shape or form revolves around food and not just any kind of food, but delicious, sugary treats. 
whether you are indulging in chocolates gifted to you by your significant other or indulging in chocolates, heart-shaped sugar cookies or pints of ice cream purchased by your happily single self, valentine’s day basically begs for unrestrained sweet consumption. 
after wholehearted participation in this sugar spree, one’s heart and entire body may beg him or her to steer clear of desserts, at least for a few days. 
luckily, the only holiday on the calendar this week is presidents’ day, and nobody celebrates presidents’ day with sweets (unless, of course, your family is unique like mine and makes president washington’s cherry cobbler and chocolate “lincoln logs“). 
so, if you feel like your body is asking for a break from candy, try out the following desserts inspired by the european tradition of fruit and yogurt after dinner. 
Microwave Baked Apples: 

This recipe can be attempted with either apples or pears. 
First, slice a pear, apple or use the pre-sliced apples at south dining hall. place them in a bowl that will survive the microwave. 
in a separate bowl, mix a spoonful (or two) of white or brown sugar and a pinch of cinnamon. sprinkle this mix­ture over the apples. place a small spoonful of butter on top of the apples. 
This will melt and combine with the sugar and cinna­mon into a gooey coating on the apples. 
cover the bowl with a microwavable plate, and mi­crowave for three to five minutes or until the apples are tender. 
after removing the apples, stir and drizzle with maple syrup (to taste). 
Tips:  To make a homemade apple crisp, sprinkle a hand­ful of granola (the kind without raisins) over the apples. and, if you find that you really cannot have apple crisp without vanilla ice cream melting over the delicious warm apple mixture, grab a scoop or two of frozen yogurt. 
Fruit Sundae: 

invite a friend to help you pick out a few pieces of fruit. (i suggest an orange, kiwi and banana.) 
peel and slice the fruit and divide the pieces evenly be­tween you and your friend. 
Fill a bowl with vanilla yogurt and put the fruit slices on top. drizzle a spoonful of honey over the fruit and sprinkle a bit of coconut (from the ice cream topping bar) on top. enjoy! 
as always, if you want to see your own creative recipes featured next week, send me an email! 
Contact Cecelia Heffron at cheffro1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Oscars season arrives for NBA 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
with the all star break just behind us, the nba season has reached its midpoint, and that’s more than enough time to as­sess the league’s performances thus far. since the 2014 academy awards are right around the corner, it seems appropriate to conduct this midseason review using the oscar’s traditional methods. each category will examine the merits of five nomi­nees, before awarding the win­ner an oscar, which maintains its name in honor of nba hall of Famer oscar robertson. so now, the first annual nba midseason oscars. 
best coach: nominees: Tom Thibodeau, gregg popovich, rick carlisle, Frank vogel, Terry stotts it seems inevitable that popovich will be in consid­eration for this award every season, since his spurs keep playing ruthlessly efficient bas­ketball despite their advancing age. This year is no different, as the spurs once again have a top-two record in the western conference. meanwhile, carlisle and Thibodeau earn their nominations for installing sys­tems that allow the dallas and chicago, respectively, to contend for playoff spots without over­whelming talent. The bulls have Thibodeau’s defensive strategy to thank for their post-derrick rose success, and carlisle’s abil­ity to pull quality performances out of aging veterans like vince carter and shawn marion is nothing short of impressive. indiana’s Frank vogel gets nomi­nated for masterfully running a pacers defense allowing just 
90.7 points per game. Finally, Terry stotts has taken portland from a 33-49 record last season to a 36-18 mark at this season’s halfway point. despite some defensive concerns, stotts has the Trail blazers offense scores a league-leading 107.9 points per game behind forward lamarcus aldridge and damian lillard. 
and the oscar goes to… stotts. no one expected the Trail blazers to be a playoff team this season, much less a top-four team in the west at midseason. 
best player: nominees: Kevin durant, lebron James, paul george, aldridge, stephen curry as the mvp winner three of the last four years, James’s nomi­nation needs no explanation, but he somehow continues to improve. his 57.4 field goal per­centage is a career high. durant, meanwhile, has played well enough this season to challenge James’ crown as the preeminent player in the nba. he once again leads the league in points with 
31.5 points per game, and has oklahoma city in first place in the west despite russell westbrook’s injuries. back in the east, george, the league’s new­est superstar, has led indiana to the nba’s best record with stellar play on both sides of the ball. george routinely hounds the opposing team’s best player on defense, and is averaging a career-high 22.5 point per game. The final two nominees, golden state’s curry and portland’s aldridge, act as the lynchpins of two of the nba’s most in­timidating offenses. curry can comfortably claim the title of the league’s best shooter, while aldridge has been nearly un­stoppable in his career season, averaging 23.9 points and 11.4 rebounds per game. 
and the oscar goes to… durant. his 12-game streak of 30-plus points was one of the greatest stretches for a player in nba history, and that gives durant the slight edge over James at midseason. 
best supporting player: nominees: lance stephenson, Klay Thompson, chris bosh, roy hibbert, lillard The nominees in the support­ing category also play essential roles, but without the same fan­fare or recognition as their peers in the leading category. The big­gest name in this group is bosh, who, while once a top-tier player with the raptors, has settled into a complementary role with the heat. his ability to stretch the floor all the way to the three-point line draws opposing centers out of the paint and cre­ates huge driving lanes for wade and James to exploit. The heat’s main rivas, indiana, hae two nominees in guard stephenson and center hibbert, both of whom perfectly demonstrate the pacer’s grind-it-out identity. stephenson leads the league in triple doubles with four, while also playing relentless defense on the perimeter. hibbert an­chors indiana’s league-best de­fense with 2.5 blocks per game, and his 7-foot’” frame provides matchup problems again under­sized teams like miami. golden state’s Thompson and portland’s lilliard are two of the league’s top sharpshooters with three-point percentages over 40 per­cent%, and punish any teams foolish enough to sag off them on defense. 
and the oscar goes to… hibbert. a leading candidate for defensive player of the year, hibbert’s steady play in the middle has allowed the pacers to jump from good to great. 
Contact  Casey Karnes at @ wkarnes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bouts cont. 
conTinued From page 18 

James “The Iceman” Hodgens def. Justin “Shady” McGrady 
The sophomore mcgrady stum­bled in the opening moments of the fight, but recovered quickly to land several successful punches. The first round consisted mostly of blocking and parrying with only a few punches making an impact. The second round was much more physical, with hodgens briefly knocking mcgrady into the ropes and the referee having to sepa­rate the two a few moments later. hodgens landed a few solid shots to the head, though mcgrady was able to get away from many jabs to the body. spirited chants from the crowd seemed to energize hodgens in the third round, as he connect­ed on several hooks to the face of mcgrady. The sophomore’s frus­tration was evident as the referee had to separate the fighters again, though mcgrady landed a jab or two. in the end, it was not enough, as hodgens won by a split decision. 
Melchior “Il Lupo” Perella-Savarese def. Justin “Penta” Tabit 
The grad student Tabit held nothing back at the start against Zahm freshman perella-savarese. Tabit landed several hooks to the head of perella-savarese in the first exchanges of the bout. perella­savarese recovered and was able to parry some of Tabit’s powerful right hooks at the beginning of the second round, but Tabit had a few straight rights that hit home, and startled the freshman with a sud­den left hook to the head just before the bell. perella-savarese came out in the third round with a ven­geance, landing successful hooks and jabs to the grad student’s head. The comeback effort proved to be enough, as perella-savarese won by a split decision. 
190-pounds: Michael “The Uncle” Smoljan def. Lucas Sullivan 
in a cautious, tentative fight, the senior smoljan came away with the split decision win over the junior sullivan. The fight got off to a slow start, as sullivan spent most of the first round ducking and weaving the hard jabs of smoljan with only the occasional counter-punch. smoljan did not press the attack until the sec­ond round, when both fighters came out more aggressively. smoljan suc­ceeded in fighting past sullivan’s defense for a few right hooks to the head, while sullivan failed to sus­tain any offensive attack. in the third round, sullivan came out swing­ing hard and landed multiple jabs to smoljan’s head, while smoljan stayed on the defensive and pre­served his advantage for the win. 

FOR RENT 

Fully furnished rental. Please call 574-360-6910 or email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo def. Jack Corrigan 
in a hard-hitting affair from start to finish, escobedo’s technical prow­ess proved to be too much for the freshman corrigan, and the referee stopped the contest and awarded the win to escobedo. both boxers came out swinging early, trading punch for punch. escobedo used his technical advantage in the first round to stay in control as corrigan began to flail wildly, allowing escobedo to land several hard hooks to the face. corrigan came out on the defensive in the second round as escobedo continued to use multiple combinations to back corrigan into a corner and pound his head and body. escobedo came out burn­ing on all cylinders in the third, us­ing several vicious combinations to knock corrigan to the ground early and force the referee to stop the contest. 
Ricky “Scooter” Neville def. Phil “Bald Eagle” Mannelly 
both fighters landed their share of punches in the first, with the senior neville using his right hook to gain a slight advantage in a round full of brief flurries of punches. mannelly was more aggressive in the sec­ond round, but the law student was unable to connect on most of his punches. neville countered with enough left jabs to maintain his ad­vantage. in the final round , both boxers opened up, but mannelly could not overcome neville’s early advantage, as the judges gave the senior the victory by unanimous decision. 
Hank “Team Pup ‘n Suds” Duden def. Cassidy “I’m No Lady” Laux 
both fighters swung early and often, with laux taking control of the match by putting his senior foe on the ropes twice in the first round. duden managed to respond by catching the law student with a couple of good left jabs in the second round to work his way back into the match, as the law student failed to keep his hands up on defense. in the final round, duden put laux into the ropes early, but laux came back with three straight left hooks. when the dust settled from the back and forth battle, duden walked away with a hard fought, split-decision victory. 
202-pounds: Brian “Long Arms of the Law” Ellixson def. Matthew “Don’t Tell My Mom I’m Boxing” Freda 
ellixson made use of his long reach early to land a number of combinations to the head of the sophomore Freda, drawing blood midway through the first round. That would end the match, as ellixson was awarded the victory after the referee stopped the contest in the first round. Freda left the ring immediately before the referee de­clared the fight. 
Keith “Chief Keef” Marrero def. RobbieHammer 
hammer put together a string of jabs as he pursued marrero across the ring early in the first, but the graduate student responded well, putting hammer on the ropes and connecting with the senior’s head with hooks with both hands. hammer used his long reach early in the second, but marrero cor­nered hammer multiple times to take away the advantage as the round wore on. both fighters showed signs of exhaustion in the third round, leaning on each other for the final minute of the fight in order to stand. The judges awarded marrero the victory by unanimous decision. 
Ryan “Drama” Lindquist def. Joseph “Mowgli” Comer 
utilizing his heavy right hook, the junior lindquist took the unani­mous decision victory over the sophomore comer. both fighters were content to slug it out early and often, as lindquist used several hard head-body combinations in the first round to slow comer. The fight con­tinued at a fast pace in the second period, as lindquist continued to land big hits, but comer continued to go inside and counter with strong hooks of his own. lindquist did not let up in the third round, working comer’s body as the sophomore tried to mount a rally. but in the end it was not enough and lindquist emerged with the victory. 
Tyler “Gerald from Hey Arnold!” Sonsalla def. Ernie “Spider” Soto 
in a bruising battle that went down to the wire, sonsalla over­whelmed soto with combinations to take the win by split decision. sonsalla came out aggressive early, but soto responded a sharp coun­terpunch to sonsalla’s head that caused him to back off and work his length advantage. soto managed to work inside several times and land­ed a hard right hook to sonsalla’s head. The second round began more tentatively, as both boxers danced outside of each other’s reach. soto picked up the pace midway through the round, working in short rapid bursts that included a vicious right jab to the head that knocked sonsalla down. sonsalla came out aggressively in the third round and attacked soto, getting inside and hammering his head with mul­tiple hooks. as the round wore on, sonsalla began to tire but continued to land jab after jab, which proved to be enough for the win. 
Contact the writers at observersports@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 Prime location next to campus. Walk to blg57@sbcglobal.net everything. email nd-house@sbcglob­al.net for additional info and photos 4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 
Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | acc championship MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | acc championships 
Irish fall to sixth place in conference championship 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish find themselves in sixth place after the second day of the acc Tournament, at the greensborough aquatic center. notre dame has earned 264.5 points over the past two days of competition, trailing virginia (516), north carolina state (362), Florida state (357), north carolina (346) and virginia Tech (273). heading into the third day, the irish are still ahead of duke (202), miami (194.5), pittsburgh (192.5), georgia Tech (174.5), boston college (98) and clemson (17). 
as the irish prepare for the next day of events, the team is working on remaining mentally focused, junior emma reaney said. 
“we have to carry the momen­tum from good swims onto the next one,” reaney said. “as long as we all stay engaged and in­vested in each other and every­one’s swims, i know we will stay focused and have fun.” 
recently, the irish have seen 
improved  results  across  the  
board.  
“[sophomore]  genevieve  

bradford did amazing today in her 200 im,” reaney said. “she dropped almost two seconds 

nd struggles in acc diving 


and has improved her technique tremendously.” 
reaney said her 200-meter medley relay, which consists of freshman catherine mulquin, junior courtney whyte and senior Kelly ryan, is still the race she is most proud of at this tournament. The relay team fin­ished with record-breaking time of1:37.61. 
“The 200 medley relay has been the best race of the meet in my opinion,” reaney said. “it was the first event, and all four of us were on our game right out of the gate. “it was so cool to see us all click with each other and get an ncaa a cut and a school record.” 
reaney and the rest of the 
paid adverTisemenT 
irish might use this race as mo­tivation to continue to push the team through its first-ever acc­tournament appearance. 
“our coach made a point to say [to us] that our most important swim is our next one, meaning here at the conference level, ev­eryone and every race matters,” reaney said. “i am so happy with our relays last night and can’t wait to share the ncaa experi­ence with those girls.” 
The irish head into the third dae of the acc Tournameny to­morrow at greensboro aquatic center in greensboro, n.c. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


Observer Staff Report 
after the first day of com­petition, notre dame stands in seventh place in the acc diving championships held in greensboro, n.c. The irish failed to qualify any divers for the final round of the three-meter competition, which was held Thursday night. 
Five divers are slated to represent notre dame in its inaugural performance at the 
acc diving champion­ships. The meet is spread out across three days, with each day featuring the pre­lims and championship round for each diving event. competing this weekend for the irish are freshmen James lichtenstein and Joe coumos and juniors nick nemetz, michael Kreft, and Ted wagner. coumos, nemetz, Kreft and wagner are slated to represent the irish in all three dives. The three-me­ter was held Thursday, with the one-meter, and platform will be held on Friday, and saturday, respectively. 
in Thursday’s three-meter contest, uoumos set the high mark for the irish, earning 
345.5 points in the prelimi­nary round. That total left him in 11th place, just short of the top eight requirednto qualify for the final. coomos is not unfamiliar with lead­ing the iris.. he placed first 12 times this season in the one- meter and three- meter competition, including sweeps of both events four times. 
Finishing three slots be­hind coumos was Kreft, who earned most valuable diver honors for the irish in the 2013 big east diving championships. he had no such luck in Thursday’s evens, claiming 331.0 points, 
36.45 points shy of qualify­ing for the finals rouns. 
nemetz and wagner rounded out theeirish per­formance. nemetz earned 
296.60 for 22nd place and wagner finished just more than six points behind, claiming 290.05 points and finishing in 25th place. 
notre dame will get back to wors in greensboro, n.c., tomorrow for the one-meter competition. They are cur­rently tied with pittsburgh for seventh place out of ten teams in the acc swimming and diving championships. with 71 points, virginia Tech remains firmly in the lead after the first day of compe­tition, while miami is in sec­ond placy with 54 points. 
The irish swim team will seek to build on their point total over the next five days of competition, two of div­ing and three of swimming. The results of the diving portion of the meet will combine with the swimming and on march 1, after the conclusion of the swimming portiot, the acc will crown its 2013-2014 swim and dive champion. 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

notre dame to face penn state for home opener  


By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no. 4 notre dame will take the field saturday when it hosts no. 12 penn state in its home opener. notre dame (1-0) will try to keep its momentum after a 19-7 rout of Jacksonville sunday in which 13 different play­ers notched goals for the irish.  
“The biggest thing that impressed me [against Jacksonville] was our ener­gy level,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “The variety of different plays that we made — we scored goals out of at least seven different scenarios over the course of the day. i felt like it was a to­tal team contribution more than us riding one or two guys.” 
after a decisive victory in their opener, the irish will turn their attention to the nittany lions, a team that has taken notre dame to overtime the last two times they met. notre dame won last year’s meeting 10-9, and has won 10 of the last 11 meetings. This will be the 18th straight year the teams have met. 
penn state (1-1) comes into the game having won 12 straight road games. 
“They’re scoring goals in a lot of different ways,” corrigan said. “you’ve got to defend them the entire game and defend them the full field, because they do a great job of getting out and creating breaks.” 

The nittany lion offense will feature four players that scored at least two goals in their most recent game, a 12-11 overtime loss to loyola. senior attackman shane sturgis and sopho­more attackman TJ sanders have led the way so far, with nine and seven goals on the season, respectively. The penn state defense, how­ever, is the team’s strength, led by senior goalie austin Kaut, a 2013 first team all­american and winner of the ensign c. markland Kelly, Jr. award, honoring the nation’s best goalie. he boasted a .610 save percent­age and a 7.37 goals-against average during last season’s campaign. 
“you have to be smart and selective about the shots you take [on Kaut],” corrigan said. “you can help their transition by tak­ing poor shots. i don’t think we’re going to get away with as many turnovers as we did last week.” 
notre dame will look to get after Kaut early and often, trying to duplicate its performance against Jacksonville when they took 56 total shots. The irish of­fense, although balanced, will look to sophomore at­tackman matt Kavanagh and junior attackman conor doyle to lead the charge. Kavanagh tallied a game-high seven points on three goals and four assists against Jacksonville, while doyle netted three goals of his own. not to be for­gotten is senior midfielder and face-off specialist liam o’connor, who won 19 of his 25 draws while adding a goal. 
“i thought [o’connor] was terrific,” corrigan said. “draws are always impor­tant. if you’re ahead and you win them it puts a lot of pressure on the other team. if you’re behind, it’s the key to catching up.” 
with games against no. 3 north carolina and no. 6 denver on the horizon, corrigan said it was impor­tant to focus on one game at a time. 
“we watched penn state’s games against michigan and loyola,” corrigan said. “They’re a dangerous team.” 
with a game under their belt, the irish will take on penn state in their home opener at 3 p.m. saturday at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL | nd 1, paciFic 0; nd 6, byu 0 
Irish extend winning streak 
Observer Staff Report 
with two thirds of the mary nutter collegiate classic left to play, the irish have made a strong showing dur­ing the first day of action in cathedral city, california. Thrown into a doubleheader to start the tournament, the irish (8-1) defeated pacific by a score of 1-0 and followed that win with a convincing 6-0 victory over byu. The pair of victories extends the irish winning streak to sev­en games. 
during the first game against the Tigers (2-5), the irish were only able to come up with one run on an rbi hit from freshman left fielder Karley wester, who is the current acc player of the week. That would be all they needed, as the irish re­ceived a dominand pitching performance from sopho­more starter allie rhodes and freshman relief pitcher rachel nasland. Though the southpaw rhodes received a no-decision for her 91-pitch outing, she struck out four batters while scattering five hits over 5.1 innings. nasland then came in to pick up the win in relief with 1.2 innings of shutout ball. 
The victory ks the first of nasland’s (1-0) irish career. 
in the second gamh the irish were able to open up with six runs against the cougars (5-7), but once again lights-out pitching would dictate the outcome of the contesy. This time, the game belonged to irish senior laura winter, who over seven shutout innings struck out eight batters and only allowed two hits and one wals, while retiring the final thirteen batters she facew. winter (4-1) picked up her fourth victory in a ron, and in the process lowered her season era from 2.40 to 
1.85. the shutout was the six­teenth of her career, which moves her into eighth place in notre dame program history. 
Though strong pitching carried the irish through the day, there were sev­eral key offensive perfor­mances as well. wester led all batters with three hits over two games, drove in a run and scored a run of her own. junior second baseman Jenna simon and Junior cen­ter fielden emilee Koerner scored a pair of runs each, while sophomore first base­man micaela arizmendi and junior third baseman Katey haus knocked in a pair of rbi each, pacing the team. 
The irish will resume play on Friday against uc davis (4-9, at 3:30 p.m 



WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

ND to face Stony Brook after loss 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to host top ranked Ohio State over weekend 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after dropping their first acc game to boston college 15-10 on Feb. 18, the no. 15 irish face non-conference opponent no. 12 stony brook on saturday at the loftus center. 
irish coach christine halfpenny said it didn’t take notre dame (1-1, 0-1 acc) long to put the loss to boston college (1-0, 1-0) behind them. 
“on monday in a team meeting we were able to re­group and come right back to the drawing board,” halfpenny said. “it was re­ally exciting to see what this team is made of. That’s typi­cally when you find out what you’re made of, when things don’t go your way, and our team was focused, ener­gized, and ready to get right back at it.” 
The irish face a difficult opponent in stony brook (2­
0) this weekend. halfpenny said the team out of long island tends to play rough­er than many of the teams notre dame is used to. 
“They are really aggres­sive,” halfpenny said. “They run some schemes and strat­egies that we’ve seen on films and that we’ve known about in the past years, so we’re preparing for what they’re going to throw at us.” 
The sea wolves’ arsenal includes a returning stand­out in senior goalkeeper Frankie caridi, who earned the first shutout in stony brook history last weekend against monmouth. notre dame will also have to face a unique defensive style from a team that doesn’t play typ­ical zone defense. 
“we’re continuing to do what we do,” halfpenny said. “however, we need to prepare adequately for what they throw at you. They run a different style of defense. … They have some outstand­ing players, [caridi] in goal … we obviously have to pay attention to that and we’ll do that as a team.” 
The irish, meanwhile, will be relying on a wide array of players to lead the charge against sea wolves. 
irish junior goalie allie murphy started against boston college and had five savesh. Junior mid­fielder caitlin gargan tied her career-high with four goals, and sophomore attack rachel sexton scored three goals against the eagles. 
halfpenny said the irish aren’t so much changing their game for stony brook as they are finding their identity on the field. 
“i don’t think there are any changes, it’s just continuing to develop,” halfpenny said. “it’s still early in the season. we’re a spring sport and it’s only February, so we’re con­tinuing to add to what we’ve done, which was our plan for the whole season.” 
The irish are back in ac­tion on saturday when they take on stony brook at 8 p.m. in the loftus center. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

The no. 10 irish will face no. 1 ohio state and ball state this saturday on their home court. 
notre dame (9-2, 0-1 acc) has great respect for the buckeyes (13-0), irish coach ryan sachire said, but will not be intimidated by their spotless record. 
“obviously ohio state is undefeated on the year,” sachire said. “They just won the national indoor championships [on monday]. They’ve been a great team for a little over a decade, but we’re a pretty good team, too, so it should be fun to watch two great teams going at it.” 
Though ball state (4-1) will be one of notre dame’s few recent opponents who is not in the iTa top 25, sachire said the irish will be ready to face a good team in the cardinals. 
“ball state is a very com­petitive team, as well,” sachire said. “phil richards has been their coach for a very long time and does a very good job. They’ve got their best player from last year back so it should be a good match.” 
after losing to then-no.1 virginia at the iTa national indoor championships on Feb. 14 by a score of 4-2, this will be the second con­secutive week where notre dame faces the top team in the country. ohio state won its top ranking by defeating the cavaliers on sunday, so sachire said his team will have to make some adjust­ments to pull off the upset. 
“what we’re going to have to do is just execute at crunch time,” sachire said. “we were in a posi­tion to beat virginia. The thing about great teams like virginia and ohio state is they don’t give you many opportunities, so you have to be able to take advantage of them when they come. That’s what we didn’t do against virginia, but hope­fully we’ll be able to do it this week.” 
The irish certainly have extensive experience against high-quality com­petition, playing seven teams that were ranked in the top 30 at the time of the match. notre dame has on its resume wins at the national indoor championships last week­end over no. 9 mississippi state and no. 12 Florida. 
“i think the biggest thing that we gained last weekend in houston was confidence, the idea that we can con­sistently beat great teams,” sachire said. “when you have four wins over top­15 teams, which we do this year, you really start to believe that you can beat anyone.” 
ohio state is neither the first nor the last challenge the irish will face this sea­son, but sachire said the tough schedule is more of a positive than a negative. 
“it doesn’t get any easi­er,” sachire said. “we play virginia and usc in the coming weeks. we all came to notre dame to play against the absolute best competition, because it’s our belief that that’s how you get to be the best. we look at everything we do as an opportunity for success. 
These are very, very chal­lenging opponents we’re playing against, but that’s what makes it fun.” 
notre dame is undefeat­ed at home this season but has only hosted four home matches while traveling for most of its contestd. sachire says the team is excited to be back. 
“we’re hoping to get a great crowd,” sachire said. “our guys feel very com­fortable playing at home. This is, i think, our first home match since very ear­ly February so it should be nice for us to be on our own courts.” 
senior captain greg andrews earned distinc­tion as thc co-accpplayer of the week after his per­formance at the national indoor championships. his play has been a contribu­tor to the strong irish start, but sachire said it will be a team effort this weekend as always. 
“There are nine matches being played, six singles and three doubles,” he said.  all nine count the sam“. we talk to our guys everyday about being able to play in all nine spots. nobody plays a lesser role than anyone else. when they get their chances to win, to take advantage of their opportunities, they’ll do it. we keep a purely team perspective, and everyone’s role is just as important as the next guy’s.” 
notre dame will take on the buckeyes at 12 p.m. saturday, followed by a match against ball state at 7 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 


HOCKEY 

irish close out regular season by hosting Terriers 


By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no. 15 notre dame will honor its 11-man senior class this weekend when it hosts boston university in the final games of the regular season at compton Family ice arena be­ginning tonight. 
The irish (17-12-2, 6-9-2 hockey east) currently sit in a tie for seventh in hockey east with vermont, while the Terriers [8-18-4, 3-10-3] occu­py 10th place. last weekend, notre dame made progress in climbing the conference tables with a 2-2 tie and 3-0 win on the road against no. 12 providence. as the sun sets on the regular season, irish coach Jeff Jackson said the irish have to replicate the success they found against the Friars. 
“hopefully this last weekend wasn’t an anomaly,” Jackson said. “we need to build up some consistency here, espe­cially with two home games coming up. regardless of who we’re playing against, this league is too good to take time off. we can’t afford that any­more. if we want any chance of doing anything in the hockey east playoffs, or making the ncaa tournament, we’ve got to win games. it’s plain and simple.” 
Key to notre dame’s suc­cess against providence was the play of its senior class. seniors scored four of the five irish goals on the week­end, as center T.J. Tynan, cen­ter david gerths, right wing bryan rust and left wing Jeff costello all found the back of the net. The most impressive performance, however, was from senior goaltender steven summerhays, who stopped 83 out of the 85 shots he faced on the weekend and added his ncaa-leading sixth shutout on saturday. Jackson said he believes summerhays could carry the irish far if he contin­ues to perform at such a high level. 
“i thought he was the differ­ence [last weekend],” Jackson said. “[providence] elevated their game, and he had to make some really good saves. when he’s focused, there’s a difference. if we’re going to have any chance in the play­offs, he’s going to have to play like that.” 
with senior night ap­proaching this saturday, Jackson said the gutsy efforts of summerhays and the other seniors have shown as the sea­son wanes is the perfect rep­resentation of their careers at notre dame. 
“They’ve certainly put their imprint in the program,” Jackson said. “i haven’t had any issues with any of them off the ice. i think this past weekend was a pretty good example, i mean i don’t think anyone played harder than that group of seniors. some guys, you think of a few years back, might’ve checked out a little bit, since we weren’t hav­ing the kind of season they expected to have. This group hasn’t done that.” 
while the seniors had suc­cess last weekend, sopho­more left wing mario lucia and freshman center vince hinostroza struggled and were held scoreless. Jackson said lucia, who leads the irish with 15 goals, and hinostroza, second on the irish with 21 as­sists, must be able to maintain their performance even as pressure mounts. 

“The big thing right now is that we need to get hinostroza going again with lucia,” Jackson said. “it’s playoff hockey right now, and the young guys who haven’t been through it have to find a way to grit their way through it. it’s not easy. There’s been times where those guys have had their way offensively, and right now they’re not having that same level of success.” 
on the other side of the ice, boston university is shoot­ing for its first road win of the season. sophomore forward danny o’regan and junior forward casey hohmann are tied for the team lead with nine goals each, and sopho­more goalie matt o’connor has taken the lion’s share of minutes in net. while the Terriers have a losing record, they have a number of qual­ity wins this season, includ­ing over providence, then-no. 2 wisconsin and then-no.17 vermont. as such, Jackson said that notre dame can’t afford to take the Terriers lightly. 
“[boston is] rebuilding,” Jackson said. “They have a new coach, david Quinn, who i know pretty well. i think he’s got to build that team in his own style of play. They’re young, they’ve got some skill. From what i’ve seen they’re a good transition team offen­sively. and as we’ve found out, there’s not a weak link in this conference.” 
notre dame’s seniors will take the ice for their final regular season home series at compton Family ice arena at 7 p.m. Friday night against boston university. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 20 

accompany his home run, and junior designated hitter robert youngdahl also col­lected two hits in his four at-bats, both singles. 
notre dame added some drama to the matchup and put itself in position for a ral­ly in the bottom of the ninth when youngdahl knocked a one-out single into right field to place the tying run on base. however, the irish could not bring him in as junior first baseman blaise lezynski popped out and junior pinch hitter mac hudgins grounded out to keep the score as it was and close out the contest. 
The irish will need to quickly turn around from the loss for their game Friday af­ternoon against gonzaga. 
The bulldogs (2-3) enter the tilt fresh off a 6-1 win over incarnate word on Thursday. Freshman outfielder sam brown picked up three of his team’s eight hits in the vic­tory, which was the 300th in head coach mark machtolf’s career. 
seeking its first win in the irish baseball classic, notre dame heads back to the dia­mond to face gonzaga on Friday at 1:30 p.m. at nelson wolff stadium. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


M BBall 
conTinued From page 20 
continually double-teamed irish graduate student center garrick sherman in the post, forcing both the ball out of his hands and turnovers. 
atkins said the cavaliers’ defen­sive success is partially mental. 
“i think it’s mental just in the fact that people overthink their de­fense a little bit,” atkins said. “They doubled sherman in that game a lot. i think we thought about that too much. we thought about at­tacking that too many different ways when we could just kick it out and move the ball really quickly.” 
even in a league with two top-10 teams, brey, atkins and connaughton all said virginia may be the best team in the acc. 
“They very well could be,” connaughton said. “They’re in the argument. They run their stuff very well, they’re a very good team and have a lot of good pieces. it’s going to be a challenge for us.” 
brey, however, was more blunt. 

“i don’t think anybody’s bet­ter,” he said. “matter of fact, i think they’re the best, quite frankly, and we’ve played them all.” 
during their 71-64 loss at miami on wednesday night, the irish may have gained something more valuable: solid play from fresh­man guard demetrius Jackson. 
Jackson scored a career-high 17 points in 27 minutes after missing two games for academic reasons. he added five assists and was 3-for-5 from the three-point line. 
“it was very encouraging for him for the rest of the year,” atkins said. “i’m excited for him because we definitely needed it. hopefully he can keep that going forward.” 
notre dame and virginia tip off at 2 p.m. saturday in charlottesville, va. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



scoring this season, and is also 

W BBall averaging 6.2 rebounds per game. 
conTinued From page 20 
“at the beginning of the sea­

she’s just doing everything well son, we were talking about 
in all phases of her game.” how she might be able to be loyd leads notre dame in the leading rebounder on the team,” mcgraw said. “she’s an excellent rebounder because she has some great instincts. offensively, she recognizes where the ball is going to go and seems to be in the right spot at the right time. defensively, she’s been boxing out and re­ally working to keep her man off the glass. she’s just going after it.” 
nonetheless, notre dame is still seeking perfection in all phases of the game to match its perfect record, mcgraw said. 
“we are just frustrated [that wake Forest junior forward dearica] hamby scored 26 points,” mcgraw said. “she came into the game as the leading scorer in the confer­ence and we had a plan to dou­ble-team her. we didn’t execute it quite like we planned and she had a big game. That was frustrating.” 
The irish will look to improve on defense when they host no. 7 duke on sunday. while the irish were claiming their 26th straight win, duke (24-3, 11-2 acc) was simultaneously pick­ing up its 11th acc win over no. 14 north carolina state, 83-70. 
“it’s going to be a battle against duke, a great game,” mcgraw said. “we beat them down there and we’re expect­ing it to be a great game here. They have some very good players, but we’ll play them well. There is a lot on the line, so it’s going to be a great game to see.” 
earlier this season, notre dame traveled to durham, n.c., to play the blue devils on Feb. 2. when all was said and done, the irish claimed a deci­sive 88-67 victory. 
“it helps when you win like that and can beat them at their place,” mcgraw said. “now, we get to play in front of our crowd, which is always a plus for us.” 
on sunday at 1 p.m., notre 
dame hosts duke in purcell 
pavilion. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Bengal Bouts 
conTinued From page 20 
second round with a strong 1-2 com­bination before both boxers began to trade punches. hoffner seized the advantage early in the third period, landing jabs while alvarez was able to connect on only a few hooks. both boxers kept the fight close, but the decision went to hoffner. 
Patrick “Little Mae” Brennan Def. Conor “The Invisible Hand”Durkin 
This bout began evenly, as durkin’s quick straights were met by a brutal straight from brennan. The second round was much more reserved as neither fighter went on the offensive, although durkin fa­tigued his opponent and gained the upper hand. The bout was still even going into the third, but a devastating straight left jab from brennan grounded durkin, which was enough to give him the win by unanimous decision. 
Alex Bogucki-Baran def. Luke “Mickey” McCormack 
mccormack began the fight en­ergetically, moving bogucki-baran around the ring, but bogucki-baran’s powerful jabs kept his opponent at bay. bogucki-baran struggled to pin down an elusive mccormack in the second, but when he did he began to dominate. going into the final round bogucki-baran had the up­per hand, and although mccormick connected on a few right hooks late, bogucki-baran took the fight by unanimous decision. 
146-pounds: Chris “Hitman” Hinman def. Jack “Attack Jaiclet” Taiclet 
in a tight, competitive fight from both boxers, hinman outlasted Taiclet for a split-decision win. hinman, a law student, countered Taiclet’s height advantage early, blocking most of the sophomore’s punches before landing a hook to Taiclet’s head. hinman continued to dodge most of Taiclet’s punches in the second round before Taiclet was able to land multiple jabs to hinman’s body. hinman responded by backing Taiclet into a corner and landing another hook to the head. by the third round, hinman pressed his advantage by getting inside on Taiclet. Taiclet continued to fight back, relying on his jab. hinman was able to land punches to Taiclet’s core and ended the bout with a few shots to the face on his way to victory. 
Garrett “Fedex” Schmelling def. Connor “Khalippur” Chelsky 
schmelling exploded in the first round of the bout firing devastat­ing hooks to chelsky’s body, yet chelsky’s deadly straight left jab kept him in contention. schmelling kept control of the fight the entire way, forcing chelsky into corners where he was able to let loose with a flurry of body shots. chelsky con­tinued to connect on some well-timed jabs through out the fight, but schmelling was able to hang on for the win by split decision. 
Danny “El Hombre” Espinoza Def. Edward “Armagetti” Smith 
espinoza started the bout in the driver’s seat, deploying some lethal hook combos. smith began to gain some momentum towards the end of the first, connecting on jabs to espinoza’s head and body. in the second, smith kept the momentum, getting inside espinoza and con­necting on jabs to the body. however, espinoza quickly rebounded, using a jab to keep smith away. he fol­lowed up with left hook combos in the final round, giving him the win by unanimous decision. 
151-pounds: Ryan Dunn def. Sean Himel 
This fight began closely with both fighters trading jabs, though himel mixed in the occasional hook. but at the beginning of the second round dunn pinned himel into the corner and unleashed a devastating combo that stunned his opponent. dunn then connected on a right hook that put himel on the floor. The bout was stopped and dunn was giving the win by TKo. 
Jackie “The Forgetful House Cat” Garvin def. Austin “Don’t Believe Me Just Watch” Cartier 
cartier began this bout in domi­nant fashion, unleashing lethal jabs and hooks onto garvin. although garvin struggled to land anything in the first round, he mounted counterattack in the second with a flurry of straight jabs that left garvin stunned. as cariter began to tire in the third, garvin took full advantage and went to work on his opponent with successive jabs. The late come­back was enough to give garvin the win by unanimous decision. 
Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler def.  Liam “Trooper” Chan 
using quick feet and a strong right hook, the senior eichler dominated the bout to win by unanimous deci­sion. both fighters were cautious in the early going, but eichler grabbed control of the bout with powerful hooks to chan’s head. in the second round, eichler continued to evade chan’s jabs and used his own left jab to set up several forceful right hooks to the sophomore’s head. chan was aggressive in the final round but was driven back into the ropes as eichler closed out the win with bru­tal uppercuts. 
“Sloppy” Joe Guilfoile def. ChipBlood 
guilfoile’s tactical fighting and powerful punches earned him a unanimous decision win in this battle of two freshmen. both fighters came out hard in the first round, but guilfoile dictated the early action with a strong left jab that kept blood off balance. blood was more aggres­sive in the second stanza, going after his fellow classmate with sweeping hooks, but guilfoile was able to land several counter-punches of his own. in the final round, guilfoile’s strong jabs hounded blood throughout the ring and ultimately sealed the victory. 
162-pounds: Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker def.  Conor “The Wild Rover” Douglass 
mcosker, the defending cham­pion, showed his top form tonight, moving on to the next round with a dominating unanimous-decision victory. The junior used his pre­cise form and explosive hooks to control the first round, and in the second drove douglass into the ropes. douglass,attempted to elude contact as the bout wore on, but mcosker caught him with several jabs, making the grad student bleed from the nose. douglas hung in the fight valiantly, but mcosker’s quick style and strong body blows were too much to overcome. 

Gage “The Heart-Break Kid” O’Connell def. Joe “Trix are for Kids” Brogan 
o’connell withstood brogan’s energetic fighting style, expending enough of his own energy to earn the victory by unanimous decision. o’connell’s hooks gave him a slight edge early on, and in the second round he landed a few powerful jabs that managed to drive brogan into the ropes. The junior maintained his energy into the final round, but a fi­nal sequence of jabs and hooks was overpowering and gave o’connell the win. 
Paul “Pride of the 415” Toboni def. Joseph Sulentic 
Toboni grabbed the bout by the scruff of the neck in the first round, delivering straight jab combos against sulentic, who struggled to get any momentum going. sulentic improved in the second round, working his way inside of Toboni. Toboni didn’t back down, though, delivering well-timed combos when sulentic would get too close. sulentic dominated most of the third with successive straight jabs, but it was too late as Toboni held on for a win by unanimous decision. 
Joel “The Supple Leopard” Hlavaty def. Matthew “The Bond Hall Brawler” Schaefer 
both fighters entered the bout with energy, but they were conser­vative when it came to going on the attack. when they did begin to at­tack, it was hlavaty who had the up­per hand, landing some well-timed straight jabs. as the fight went on, schaefer began to creep back in with some lethal jabs of his own. hlavaty began to come into his own late on in the third round with jab-hook combos, which was enough to give to him the win by unanimous decision. 
166-pounds: Michael “Greasy” Grasso def. CalvinHemington 
both fighters unleashed a flurry of punches in the first round, as the senior hemington was knocked down when greasy connected with hemington’s head on a number of consecutive hooks from both hands. The sophomore continued the barage in the second round, using heavy 1-2 combinations and a solid upper cut with his right to batter the senior. hemington tried to mount a comeback in the third, ducking a number of greasy’s punches and countering to push the sophomore into the corner. greasy’s lead, how­ever, was too much to overcome as he cruised his way to a unanimous decision victory. 
Collin “Me Maybe” Corcoran def. Josh “Pride of the South” Whelan 
The evenly-matched fight be­tween two seniors hung in the bal­ance until late in the final round, when corcoran did just enough to earn the split-decision victory. The two fighters exchanged lengthy jabs in the fight’s opening stanza as each tried to set up combinations. The bout stayed in the middle of the ring in the second round as both fight­ers landed combinations of jabs, but neither took control of the fight. both seniors were more aggressive in the closing action. whelan attacked his opponent’s body with vicious hooks, but corcoran held him of with well-timed jabs and ultimately landed enough blows to whelan’s head to get the win. 
Jason “Downtown” Ellinwood def.  Scott “Bootstrap” Rousseau 
The junior rousseau began the fight with a series of punches to the midsection of the sophomore ellinwood. That attack fizzled quickly and ellinwood used the con­siderable height difference to lock up rousseau in a bear hug. ellinwood’s length advantage continued to be a factor in the second round, as the sophomore landed some shots to the head of rousseau. rousseau consistently targeted ellinwood’s torso, forcing him against the ropes on multiple occasions before the sophomore clenched the ju­nior to escape in the third round, rousseau controlled the direction and tempo of the exchanges, but again ellinwood’s height gave him the chance to land several hits to rousseau’s head, giving ellinwood the win by a split decision. 
Sebastian “El Papa” de las Casas def. David “No Way, No” Howe 
The two seniors held nothing back from the start, as de las casas began the fight showing off his power and quickness. howe had a significant height advanatage, but the techni­cal prowess of de las casas kept him in the fight. several hooks of de las casas hit home on howe in the sec­ond round, though howe bounced back with a series of vicious hits a few moments later. Though de las casas was able to block or evade many of howe’s blows, howe made him pay heavily during an exchange in the third round. de las casas man­aged to hold on for the win by a split decision. 
173-pounds: Patrick “Patty Cakes” Shea def. Charles “Chuck” Romano
 The action began as soon as the bell to open the match sounded. The sophomore shea was the more aggressive of the two boxers, get­ting inside on the lankier grad stu­dent and using right jabs to corner romano. shea continued to push romano in the second, attacking his body and head with combinations. he found success late in the round with straight left jabs and contin­ued the pressure in the third, never giving romano any momentum on his way to a unanimous decision victory. 
Mike “The Stache” Flanigan def. Alex “Turtle” Jirschele 
This matchup of juniors started with lots of movement but few punches, until Jirschele got inside the longer Flanigan just past the midway point of the first round and used a dangerous uppercut to knock his opponent to the floor. Jirschele used effective dodges and counters for the first half of the second round, but appeared to tire towards the end of the period as Flanigan’s punches began connecting. Flanigan contin­ued to pound away in the third, put­ting his opponent on the ropes and completing the comeback to earn a victory by a unanimous decision. 
Zack “Bedrock” Flint def. Trevor “Sting”Stevens 
The sophomore Flint showed off his speed in the initial exchange against the law student stevens, evading many of Flint’s shots and dealing back several of his own. however, only a few of the sopho­more’s quick punches made con­tact. The intensity picked up in the second round, with stevens forcing Flint against the ropes with a flurry of punches before Flint did the same to him. stevens seemed to tire near the midway point of the second round, as Flint landed a powerful 1-2 combination to the head of the law student. stevens regained enough energy to land some solid shots on Flint at the beginning of the third round, but again wore out by the end of the period as Flint aimed more hooks at his face. The punches had a major effect, as Flint won by unani­mous decision. 
Brian “Rowdy” Roddy def. Eric “P-Rex” Palutsis 
The junior palutsis came out swinging against the junior roddy immediately, backing him against the ropes and getting in a series of hooks before roddy fought his way back. later on in the first round. roddy hit palutsis with several straight right jabs to the stomach. both boxers spent most of the sec­ond round sidestepping and block­ing, with each landing an occasional hook to the head. in the final round, roddy landed a few jabs to the mid­section of palutsis, but palutsis used his height to land some shots on roddy’s head. in the end, roddy won in a split decision. 
180-pounds: Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti def. Brian “Cheese” Willis 
The senior sassetti used left jab after left jab in the first round to es­tablish himself over his sophomore opponent, but willis was able to sneak in a few hooks in response. sassetti knocked out willis’s mouth guard early in the second and the senior pushed his opponent into the ropes early in the third, connecting on another hook. he knocked out the sophomore’s mouth guard again late to secure the victory by unani­mous decision. 
Eric “I Still Can’t” Reed def. Jack Considine 
The taller considine kept reed at bay in the first round, but reed worked his way into striking range in the second period. he began to have success with this strategy, connect­ing on several left jabs to the fresh­man’s head. considine fought back using 1-2 combinations as reed be­gan to tire in the third. reed landed several of his own combinations early in the third but the freshman began opening up as the round wore on, just missing on several near-devastating right upper cuts. The closeness of the fight was reflected in the judges’ split decision, which gave reed the victory. 
see bouTs conT. PAGE 12 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 



HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS  | hillary mangiaForTe 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you will find yourself in the middle of emotional matters this year. some will be positive and some negative. you will have to balance your options and consider how your decisions will affect others. your insight must not be cast aside. Follow what’s in your heart and you will make the changes that will bring the best results. your numbers are 7, 16, 22, 27, 33, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): protect your reputation. put in extra hours or add more detail to the way you do your chores and your job. help others and you will avoid being centered out. less complaining and more production is the key to your success. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you can improve your professional position if you add skills or services to what you are currently offering. your peers, colleagues and superiors will consider you valuable if you keep up with technology and business trends. innovation coupled with teamwork is required. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your investments may need a tune-up. go over personal papers and any joint holdings you might have. a change regarding the person you do financial or legal business with will help you get your money matters in better shape. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): acceptance will help you maneuver through any negative encounter you face. The sooner you deal with responsibility, the quicker you will be able to move on to the people, places and things you enjoy most. don’t let dead weight hold you back. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Taking action will allow you to show what you’ve got to offer and place you in a very cushy position when it comes to both your personal and professional connections. don’t let an emotional issue cloud your vision or your progress. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): walk away from an argument. love and romance are in the stars, and setting plans to enjoy time with someone you think is special will brighten your day. children will play a positive role in your life. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out and about. The more you interact with people who share your interests or concerns, the further ahead you will get. a change regarding your relationships with others may be necessary if you are heading in a different direction. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): do, rather than discuss, when it comes to domestic situations or decisions that must be made. by taking action you will confirm that you are willing to go the distance to make things happen. explore friendships with people you find inspiring. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a misunderstanding can cost you, so choose your words carefully. helping others will raise your profile, but don’t allow anyone to take advantage of your good nature. Keep your money in a safe place. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): rely on your business savvy and ability to outmaneuver others. Taking an unusual route to reach your goals will help you bypass some of the competition you face. an unexpected change in one of your relationships must not throw you off course. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Trust in yourself and put your time and effort into achieving your goals, not helping someone else advance. make changes that will enable you to use your skills innovatively and you will surpass anyone trying to stand in your way. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): legal settlements, contracts, investments or any matter that can help you out financially should be dealt with. money will come to you from an unusual source. don’t feel like you have to share what you receive. 


Birthday Baby: you are a helper and a participant. you are inventive and imaginative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city      state Zip 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 81, waKe ForesT 63 
BASEBALL | sanTa clara 2, nd 1 
notre dame stays perfect 
McCarty loses in 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
despite a night of cold shoot­ing, no. 2 notre dame topped acc rival wake Forest on Thursday by 25 points, win­ning 86-61. 
“overall, we played a pretty good game on a night when we didn’t shoot the ball that well at all,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “To be able to put up that many points in a game like this is great.” 
notre dame (26-0, 13-0 acc) leads the ncaa in 3-point shooting this season, as the irish have hit 41.6 percent of their shots from behind the arc. against wake Forest (14­12, 5-8 acc), notre dame hit only three of their 16 3-point attempts. 
“when we shoot like that, it does influence our offensive mentality,” mcgraw said. “i think we need to shoot a little smarter. we needed to step in­side and get to the free-throw line a little bit more; we prob­ably should have attacked the lane a little bit more.” 
irish sophomore guard Jewel 

pitching duel 
solo home run off sophomore right-hander nick mccarty. 
mccarty was tagged for the loss since he gave up the sin­gle that put Kuhns’s winning run on base before exiting with two outs in the seventh. 
The three notre dame pitch­ers — mccarty, orwick and senior right-hander donnie hissa — combined for eight hits, three of them for extra-bases, and six strikeouts. 
despite not coming away with the win, mccarty threw 52 of his 69 pitches for strikes and did not allow a walk. 
The lone score for the irish came in the bottom of the sixth with freshman sec­ond baseman cavan biggio’s home run, which flew down the first-base-side foul line and just made it over the right-field wall. The solo shot was the first of biggio’s collegiate career. 
biggio went 2-for-3 with a single and a walk to 
see baseball PAGE 16 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
peter summerville entered the game for only one pitch in Thursday’s tilt between notre dame and santa clara, but that one pitch made all the difference in the broncos’ 2-1 win over the irish at nelson wolff stadium in san antonio. 
The santa clara senior catcher delivered a pinch-hit single on the first throw he saw from irish freshman left-handed reliever Jim orwick in the top of the seventh in­ning. The hit drove in broncos freshman third baseman max Kuhns for the go-ahead run in the opening contest of the irish baseball classic. 

senior right-hander d.J. Zapata went the distance for loyd shone as the lone bright and has just been fantastic at 
santa clara (2-4), collecting spot on a rocky shooting night, both ends of the floor,” mcgraw 
eight strikeouts and limiting hitting nine of her 17 shots. said. “she’s been rebounding, 
the irish (1-3) to six hits. against the demon deacons, scoring, driving the ball, and 
The broncos struck first on loyd scored 29 points and getting to the free-throw line. 
the scoreboard in the top of pulled down 10 rebounds. 
the third inning with senior “she has been playing so well see women’s bball PAGE 17 
center fielder greg harisis’s 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish face ACC-leading UVA 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
play on the east coast, return to south bend in the wee hours, go to class, go to practice, head back east. 
repeat. 
For the third time in seven days, notre dame will pack its bags and travel to an acc opponent when it plays at no. 14 virginia on saturday. 
“This is by far the most travel i’ve done in a week timespan,” se­nior guard eric atkins said. “This has definitely been different for me and pretty hard.” 
virginia (22-5, 13-1 acc) sits atop the conference standings after previously undefeated syracuse fell to boston college on wednesday. The cavaliers have won 10 consecutive games, in­cluding a 68-53 win over the irish (14-13, 5-9) on Jan. 28. 
“This is the one team that really thumped us and a lot of respect with how they’re playing and con­fidence they’re playing with,” irish coach mike brey said. “i think it will be a heck of a barometer for us since last time,” 
in that game, the cavaliers jumped out to a 32-12 lead 15:27 into the game and never looked back as they cruised past the irish. 

notre dame finished the game with 20 turnovers, leading to 29 virginia points. 
“The game when they played us here was one of those games when you could say we weren’t in it as much as every other single game we lost,” junior forward pat connaughton said. 
virginia will bring in the na­tion’s top scoring defense, allow­ing just 55.5 points per game. The cavaliers have held their last four opponents to fewer than 60 points. 
“everybody is always in posi­tion,” atkins said of virginia’s de­fense. “it seems like they never get out of position defensively. They all trust each other very well. it was a great defensive display while i was on the court, which was bad.” 
brey said virginia’s length on the perimeter, especially 6-foot-6 sophomore guard Justin anderson, caused problems for the irish. 
“They’re going to guard the heck out of you,” brey said. 
in the first game, virginia 
see m bball PAGE 17 

BENGAL BOUTS | QuarTerFinals 
boxers battle to advance 
By GREG HADLEY, JOSH DULANY, BRIAN PLAMONDON, RENEE GRIFFIN, ZACH KLONSINSKI and CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports writers 

134-pounds: Jeffrey “JWeezey” Wang def. Stephen “M&M” Gaetano 
This fight began with wang dic­tating the pace and landing several jabs on gaetano throughout the first. wang went from strength to strength, bobbing and weaving to create some room for his lethal straight jab. gaetano tried to estab­lish himself in the fight in the third, but wang countered with left hooks, taking the fight by unanimous decision. 
Daniel “Jet” Lee def. Robert “One Man Wolf” Pak 
both fighters came out strong in the first. lee delivered some strong straight jab combos, while pak landed some well-timed right hooks. however, pak’s failure to get inside in the second round meant lee was able to continue dominate with his deadly combos. in the third pak fought valiantly, but lee was just too strong, giving him the win by unanimous decision. 
Andy Fausone def. Edward “Big Ed” Leppert 
Fausone asserted his dominance early and stayed aggressive in the later rounds on his way to a win by unanimous decision. The sopho­more opened the bout on the defen­sive, blocking multiple jabs before landing a right hook that leppert answered with a hook of his own to Fausone’s head. as the fight pro­gressed, both boxers continued to lead with combinations while try­ing to get in close to throw hooks. Fausone cornered leppert twice in the second round, before he finally knocked the sophomore leppert on his back after a series of hard jabs. Fausone kept the pace up in the third round, maintaining his tech­nique and finishing off the victory. 
Matthew Muliadi def. Glen “G-Mac”McClain 
muliadi established control in the first round and never let up, taking the win by unanimous de­cision. mcclain seemed to forfeit his height advantage early on in the bout when muliadi stymied him every time he tried a straight right punch. but, muliadi relied on a wide array of punches, including several hooks that found the fresh­man’s head. in the second round, he backed mcclain into a corner, land­ing solid punches while dodging mcclain’s hooks. The sophomore finished strong, throwing left hooks throughout the third round on his way to the win. 
140-pounds: Niels Seim def. Keith “The Chief” Loh 
seim, one of only a few left-hand­ers in the tournament, relied on his defense to outmaneuver the sopho­more loh in a unanimous-decision victory. The boxers appeared to be well-matched early, trading punch for punch. seim, a grad student, landed a few 1-2 combinations while loh struggled to connect on almost all of his punches against seim’s strong defense. seim con­tinued his great blocking and dodg­ing in the second round before loh managed to land a few punches. seim finished strong, however, landing multiple straight rights, and took the victory. 
Ben “Bad” Hoffner def. Juan “Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish” Alvarez 
in a close, back-and-forth match, the freshman hoffner came out on top with a split-decision victory as alvarez tired in the third round. hoffner displayed his quickness early, but the senior was able to counter with a slew of straight-right punches. alvarez opened the 
see bengal bouTs PAGE 18 






