THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 47, ISSUE 118 | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Prospective students experience Notre Dame 
HISE weekend 


Reilly weekend includes press box shows students 
reception, class academics, dorm 
shadowing life, service 

By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer News Writer 
The University of Notre 

This weekend, students from Dame brought students from 
across the country travelled to around the world to campus 
Notre Dame to participate in the from April 6-8 to partake in the 
Reilly Visitation Program from Hesburgh International Scholars 
April 5-8 to learn more about the Experience (HISE), which pro-
University and experience stu­vides prospective international 
dent life firsthand. students with a glimpse into life 
Associate director of admis­at the University. 
sions Gabe Brown said par-According to assistant director 
ticipants in the Reilly program of admissions Julie Moloney, the 
include the top one percent of Latin American and Caribbean 
students in the University’s ap­council initiated the program 
plicant pool. six years ago in hopes of provid­
“These are students with lots ing international students with 
of college options so they’re be-the opportunity to see and ex­
ing admitted to some of the best perience Notre Dame prior to EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer colleges and universities in the 
Two attendees of the Hesburgh International Students Experience mingle before Taste of South Bend lunch see HISE PAGE 9 Sunday. The program brought students from around the world to see the University firsthand. see REILLY PAGE 7 


Saint Mary’s students dance for charity 
By KELLY KONYA 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
From noon to midnight Saturday, Dance Marathon hosted its ninth annual fun­draiser for Riley Hospital for Children in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Senior Dance Marathon co-president Ellen Smith said every cent of the $86,765.70 raised during the 12-hour event benefited the children at Riley in many ways. 

Junior co-president Kristen Millar said the essence of Dance Marathon is to stand for those who can’t. 
“Twelve hours represents the hours in a clinical shift, 12 hours in a chemothera­py session and there are 12 different types of pediatric cancer,” Millar said. “Thus standing for those 12 hours is a symbol of perseverance.” 
Millar said Saint Mary’s 
see Dance PAGE 4 


CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 

Participants in the Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon listen to Bob Yenna, whose daughter is receiving treatment at Riley Hospital for Children. 

Observer wins awards 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer earned third place in the Division I “Newspaper of the Year” category at the 2014 Indiana Collegiate Press 
see ICPA PAGE 6 


Wofford gives talk on Hesburgh and human rights 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
News Writer 
Harris Wofford delivered the final installment in the Hesburgh Libraries Lecture Series on Friday with a pre­sentation titled “Fr. Hesburgh and Human Rights: His Legacy and Our Bridge to the Future.” Wofford dis­cussed University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh’s commitment to service, higher education and human rights. 
Wofford has served as a senator of Pennsylvania, associate professor at the Notre Dame Law School and legal counsel to Hesburgh on the first United States Commission on Civil Rights. 
“[Fr. Hesburgh] is Notre Dame’s,” Woffard said. “[One] cannot go around the globe without knowing that Notre Dame is on the map as one of the great universi­ties, and that’s part of Fr. Ted Hesburgh’s legacy. 

“If you would look at his schedule, or see him in South Bend or have dinner with him at the Morris Inn, you will see how often he is called on as teacher, as friend, as priest, for advice and help.” 
Hesburgh was selected to be on the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 1957. Wofford said he met Hesburgh when the University President Emeritus read a memorandum written by Wofford on the Civil Rights Commission. 

Hesburgh contacted Wofford to ask if they could discuss his memorandum and, following that discus­sion, Hesburgh asked Wofford to serve as counsel to him on the Civil Rights Commission, according to Wofford. The Civil Rights Commission went on to write the Civil Rights Act of 1965. 
“Those two years [work­ing] with him were two of the greatest years of my life, and he is an extraordinary leader,” 
see HESBURGH PAGE 6 


TUNNEL ExPANSION PAGE 4 SCOP PAGE 11 ACA PAGE 13 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 24 MEN’S LACROSSE PAGE 24 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
               Brian Hartnet  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 

News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: Gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: Mary Green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’Mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who would you take a bullet for? 

Andrew Santos 
sophomore 
O’Neill Hall 
“Pope Francis.” 
Katie Farren 
freshman 
Howard Hall 

“Anyone in my family (my dogs included).” 
Maria Ianni 
sophomore 
Howard Hall 
“My future niece.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Morgan Andrews 
freshman 
Lyons Hall 
“My brother. He is in the army, taking a bullet for me, so I’ll take one for him.” 
Sam Proulx 
freshman 
Alumni Hall 
“Father George.” 
Sierra Hadju 
freshman 
Howard Hall 
“My brother.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Meg Handelman Mary Green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Emily McConville Casey Karnes Kayla Mullen Renee Griffin 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Maria Massa Caelin Miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

American Politics in Hesburgh Lecture on Fascism and War Bookish History Ten Years Hence 
Karla Moreno Gabriela Leskur 
the 21st Century Public Policy DeBartolo Performing Flanner Hall Mendoza College of DeBartolo Hall Hesburgh Center for Arts Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Business 7 p.m.-8 p.m. International Studies 4 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Lecture on Irish 10:40 a.m.-12:10 p.m. 
Corrections 

Lecture on Latino civil 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Panel on the Spanish romanticism and the Lecture on emerging 
The Observer regards itself as engagment. On Nelson Mandela. Civil War culture of the copy. issues in business. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Memorial Mass Crisis in Ukraine We Are What We Tell ZumbaThon Women’s Lacrosse 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Basilica of the Sacred Kroc Auditorium McKenna Hall Rockne Memorial Gym Arlotta Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
Heart 7 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. Dinner and discussion Lecture by Margaret Register online via The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Rwandan Genocide with leading scholars Atwood on the impact RecRegister. Duke Blue Devils. 
we can correct our error. 

memorial Mass. on the Ukrainian crisis. of stories. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | THE OBSERVER 

ND team founds children’s outdoors program 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame doctoral biology student Victoria Lam recently founded “Triple C,” a six-week rock climbing program aimed at fostering passion for the out­doors in young students in the South Bend community through a combined effort of graduate and undergraduate students at the University. 
Manuel Rocha, a current se­nior and Notre Dame climbing club president, said the three Cs stand for camping, climbing and cameras. 
“The main mission of Triple C is to connect underprivileged youths to the outdoors,” Rocha said. “We hoped that through these activities, the students would develop confidence, lead­ership and teamwork.” 
In addition to these quali­ties, he said he hoped the pro­gram would also foster life-long knowledge, skills and love for the outdoors. 
Although the program fo­cused mainly on rock climbing, Rocha said mentors also intro­duced students to stream ecol­ogy education and photography. 
“Our first weekend, the stu­dents toured the museum of biodiversity and learned about invertebrates,” he said. “We then went to Juday Creek where Ph.D. candidates in biology taught the students about stream ecology and conservation.” 
During the trip to Juday Creek in Granger, Ind., Rocha said the program emphasized teaching the students different ways to act as “stewards of the environ­ment.” Part of the trip included projects where students con­ducted field studies and de­signed their own experiments. 
Rocha said the program also incorporated a photographic component to expose students to nature and sports photography. 
“The students learned basic photography skills from a Notre Dame instructor and were then given a camera for each of the small groups – about three kids per mentor – to take pictures throughout the duration of the program,” he said. 
Creating this program re­quired funding, which Lam said she received through a Notre Dame Graduate Life Grant and a Merrell Pack Project Grant from Outdoor Nation. 
“I have actually been select­ed to be a part of the Outdoor Nation Advisory Council and am helping as an university engage­ment adviser for their upcoming Campus Activation Challenge,” 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

she said. 
Through participation in the challenge, Lam said the pro­gram could potentially win $5,000 for club sports in addition to an outdoor festival. 
Although exact dates for the next program cycle are not cur­rently available, Rocha said stu­dents can expect Triple C to take place again in the early fall. 
“[Graduate and undergradu­ate] students can become in­volved with Triple C by being a mentor,” he said. “Although we did most of our recruiting for mentors though the climbing club, it’s open to all students.” 
To join the climbing club email list, Rocha said students can contact ndclimb@nd.edu 
As for children who would like to enroll in the program, Rocha said recruitment takes place from the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) and La Casa de Amistad. 
“We go there during the sum­mer and give a presentation about the program,” he said. “From there, we see what stu­dents are interested in joining. We also work very closely with the directors of both places to make sure that we select stu­dents that are motivated and will be a good fit for our program.” 
To create this program, Lam said the team also worked with Humberto Delgado, Educational Youth Program Coordinator at La Casa de Amistad and Duane Wilson, Advanced Skills Program Director at the RCLC. 
“Our point of contact at RecSports was Dave Brown at Rolfs [Sports Recreation Center], who is in charge of club sports, and I believe he said he was look­ing into expanding their outdoor recreation initiatives,” she said. 


Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

Telhami explores Arab identity 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
News Writer 
In the latest installment of the “Ten Years Hence” speaker series, which asks speakers to analyze an is­sue’s effect on business and politics in the next decade, Professor Shibley Telhami from the University of Maryland discussed the shift in Arab identity. 
The lecture, titled “The 

World  Through  Arab  
Eyes,”  took  place  Friday  
at  the  Mendoza  College  of  

Business. 
Telhami said his interest in Arab identity began even before the chain of protests and civil unrest in Middle Eastern countries, including Tunisia, Libya and Egypt. 
“What got me interested was not so much the upris­ings but the discourses that preceeded them,” Telhami said. 
According to Telhami, the 1978 Camp David Peace Accords were among those critical discourses. More recently, he said he has fo­cused on discourses regard­ing public opinion in the Middle East. 
“In all cases I studied, rulers behaved as if public opinion mattered even when they could act against the public through autocratic regimes,” Telhami said. 
To understand the importance of public opin­ion in the Arab world, Telhami said he utilized re­liable research methods over a broad range of countries. 
“I set out to have 10 years of public opinion polling in six Arab countries to under­stand how media habits have changed notions of identity and public opinion in the 

“Overall, the trend was a decline in affiliation with the state, an increase in identification with Islam and a robust identification with Arab ethnicity. ” 
Professor Shibley Telhami 
University of Maryland 
Arab world,” Telhami said. 
Telhami said his survey asked citizens of six coun­tries to rank the importance of three identifying traits: their nationality, their re­ligious affiliation and their ethnicit y. 
“Overall, the trend was a decline in affiliation with the state, an increase in iden­tification with Islam and a robust identification with Arab ethnicity,” Telhami said. “In other words, trans­national identity overtook national identity. 
“If one identifies as Arab, one feels affiliated with peo­ple from Morocco to Saudi Arabia, and if one identifies as Muslim, one may draw connections with people as far away as Malaysia.” 
Telhami said the informa­tion revolution accounts for much of the change in iden­tity. In particular, he said the Arabic-language media outlet Al Jazeera has provid­ed citizens of Arab countries with news outside state-con­trolled television and radio stations. 
“Media from outside the borders of a country plac­es transnational identity at center stage,” he said. “When we asked citizens of Arab countries the question, ‘whom among your leaders do you admire most?’ they not only listed leaders in the Middle East but also includ­ed Hugo Chaves of Venezuela and the former French presi­dent Jacques Chirac.” 
Telhami said the informa­tion revolution will continue to empower citizens of Arab countries.
 “In my own opinion pub­lic empowerment in the Middle East, far from being episodic, is with us to stay,” Telhami said. “No one can put the genie back in the bott le.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Saint Mary’s students attend women’s conference 
By KELLY KONYA 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
When The Daily Beast’s fifth annual “Women in the World” summit kicked off at the Lincoln Center in New York last Thursday, two Saint Mary’s students were in attendance. 
Juniors Paige DeRouin and Kaitlyn Rabach (Editor’s Note: Rabach served as the former Saint Mary’s Editor for The Observer) witnessed live jour­nalistic storytelling from glob­al men and women on courage, resilience and the need for positive change, Rabach said. 
“Tina Brown, former editor­in-chief of The Daily Beast, has really been pushing this newfound style of journal­ism forward,” Rabach said. “It is focused on storytelling and personal experiences. This three-day summit featured women and men from all gen­erations and walks of life. 
“All the speakers really told a story. The summit gave them a medium to share their voice.” 
DeRouin and Rabach cur­rently participate in American University’s Washington Semester Program, an ex­change where students study and intern in the nation’s capital..Both are working as interns at iLive2Lead, a non-profit organization pro­viding high-level leadership skills to young women from around the world, DeRouin said. Their internship brought them to New York for the con­ference, she said. 
“We could not have picked an better internship while studying in D.C.,” DeRouin said. “iLive2Lead is run by three amazing women, and the organization’s mission is to empower young women all over the world. 
“They have hosted training summits in nations all over the globe and have served women from over 60 countries. Our bosses understand the impor­tance of mentoring, and have worked to mentor Kaitlyn and I throughout our time at the organization. This push for mentorship is what led us to New York. They wanted us to hear these stories from leaders all over the world.” 
While at the conference, Rabach said she heard dis­cussions on topics related to human rights issues, espe­cially abuses related to wom­en. Former secretary of state Hillary Clinton and the cur­rent managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Christine Lagarde were two of the conference’s keynote speakers. 

“Seeing Secretary Clinton and Madame Lagarde speak was beyond incredible,” Rabach said. “I grew up with these women as my role mod­els. It is women like Hillary Clinton and Christine Lagarde that have shaped my views on feminism and social justice. 
“They are two of the most influential women in the world and I cannot wait to see what the future brings for them. Both are thinking about their next steps right now – Clinton is contemplating a presidential run in the United States, and Lagarde is doing the same for her home country of France.” 
While at the conference, Rabach said she had the op­portunity to personally inter­view Lagarde and Ambassador Catherine Russell of the Office of Global Women’s Issues in the State Department. Both DeRouin and Rabach were asked to blog about the confer­ence for The Huffington Post and The Daily Beast, DeRouin said. 
“Not only was I able to hear some of my role models on stage, but I was actually given the opportunity to go back­stage and ask them some questions of my own,” Rabach said. “Both Madame Lagarde 
Tunnel expansion begins 
By JACK ROONEY 
Associate News Editor 
Following the University’s announcement of upcom­ing building construction across campus, the Office of Facilities Design and Operations began construc­tion of the underground tun­nel system late last month, Director of Construction and Quality Assurance Doug Schlagel said. 
Schlagel said the construc­tion will have minimal impact on students because the work primarily affects the edges of campus, where students don’t often spend time. 
“It may certainly affect how some off-campus students ar­rive to and where they would traditionally park and how they would walk from their car to their building,” he said. 
Schalgel said his office will give frequent and visible no­tice about any interruptions. 
“Through a series of post­ings to our website with maps and navigational routes and announcements across cam­pus, we’re hoping to make sure that everyone has the information and it’s clear to help minimize any disrup­tions that all this work could potentially have,” he said. 
According to documents on the Facilities Design and Operations website, the tun­nel construction is broken into two branches. The east branch of the tunnel begins at the power plant and ex­tends east of Stepan Center, then south to Library Circle, near the site of the recently announced research facility. The south branch of the tun­nel will connect south quad to the Compton Family Ice Arena, moving east in front of DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and crossing Eddy Street before extending to Compton. 
The most significant con­cern for the east branch will be access to Hammes Mowbray Hall, which houses the cam­pus post office and Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) headquarters, Schlagel said. 
“The biggest challenge is making sure that there’s al­ways public access to the post office and Notre Dame Security Police, which through a series of planning meetings with security and other campus constituents, we were able to make sure that that facility is available and open to the public at all times,” he said. “Short of just some traffic reconfigura­tion and traffic control and signage, we think that that should be fine.” 
Schlagel said the construc­tion on the tunnel system is preliminary work meant to make way for new campus educational and residential facilities. 

“The purpose of the tun­nel and utility infrastructure work that’s being implement­ed is to help support and connect to the central power plant the new facilities that are being planned for cam­pus,” he said. “This includes the new research complex, two new residence halls, Jenkins-Nanovic Hall, which is the social sciences build­ing, and then of course the Campus Crossroads project, everything involved with the stadium and the School of Architecture building.” 
The Office of Facilities and Design plans to complete most of the aboveground work prior to freshman orientation and the first home football game Aug. 30, Schlagel said. 
“That’s not to say that there won’t be work continuing in­side the tunnels themselves because there’s a lot of piping and that sort of stuff that has to happen after the tunnel it­self is built,” he said. “The idea is to basically have the sites restored by the time students return in August.” 
Schlagel said students should be aware of their sur­roundings and regularly check The Week@ND emails to re­main up to date on road clo­sures and affected facilities. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
and Ambassador Russell have taught me so much about what it means to be a woman, espe­cially in today’s society, and I was able to shake their hands, interview them and really see how great of women they are even behind the scenes.” 
Another focal point of the conference was hearing stories from Syrian refugees and aid workers, DeRouin said. 
“In the mainstream media, Syria is often forgotten about,” DeRouin said. “The human rights abuses in Syria were brought up throughout the entire conference, and speak­ers were calling the conflict the biggest humanitarian fail­ure since Rwanda. … In cases of crisis, women and children are affected the most. I really felt a call to action after the conference.” 
Both women said this expe­rience was a great addition to their four years at Saint Mary’s. 
“It was great to see women leaders from all over the world talk about relevant issues,” DeRouin said. “The conver­sations we were able to hear were directly related to what we have been talking about at Saint Mary’s and in D.C. Plus, Saint Mary’s, iLive2Lead and “Women in the World” are all about empowering women 
Dance 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

is a great place to carry on the tradition of Dance Marathon, raising funds and caring for those impacted by Riley. 
“Dance Marathon directly gives funds to the hospital but also sends unending love and support to the children and families at Riley,” Smith said. 
Families who have been impacted by the hospital were invited to speak at the event. Smith said this aspect of the even is a very impor­tant tradition. 
“[The families] remind us why we dance, for those chil­dren who can’t,” Smith said. 
“Saint Mary’s is a unique place in that it is all wom­en, and regardless of time it has remained true to its mission from the [Riley Foundation],” Millar said. “Dance Marathon was start­ed nine years ago by two girls who were profoundly impacted by Riley’s Hospital for Children. 
“Although Notre Dame is a tremendous school with abundant resources, Saint Mary’s will always be a small school with a big heart.” 
Millar said the turnout at this year’s event was the best Dance Marathon has had yet. 
“We had so many people stay the full 12 hours, which was very inspiring,” Millar said. 

and really forming a sister­hood that spans the globe.” 
Rabach said the conference encouraged her to be a positive force against some of society’s current evils. 
“Empowering women is not only a moral and philosophi­cal issue, but it is actually an economic issue,” Rabach said. “Madame Lagarde said, ‘empowering women is a no­brainer” and it really is. … At the end of the conference, Tina Brown encouraged us to be ‘change makers’, and I can’t wait to be a change maker for individuals, especially women and girls, all over the globe.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Smith said she hopes Dance Marathon will con­tinue to raise awareness for the hospital in upcoming years 
“I think it is so important for Saint Mary’s students to participate in Dance Marathon because it gives us all a chance to help others who desperately need and 
deserve  our  love  and  sup­ 
port,” Smith said.  
Sophomore  Public  
Relations/Dancer  Relations  

Committee Member Katie Morrissette said she fell in love with Dance Marathon her first year and have con­tinue to be involved ever since. 
“It’s inspiring to see the amount of girls so invested in the cause, especially be­cause many of them haven’t been affected directly, but have been impacted by the Riley stories,” Morrissette said. 
Morrissette said the event was rewarding, especially at the end when the total amount fundraised was revealed:. 
“After the 12 hours, when our total was revealed, we could put a number to how much work we’ve done,” Morrissette said. “It’s re­warding knowing all of that is going to families like the ones we interacted with at our own marathon.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students run 5k to fight homelessness 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
News Writer 
A group of Saint Mary’s students, faculty and ad­ministrators participated in the Homeward Bound 5K for St. Joseph County on Saturday. The Homeward Bound run/walk contrib­uted to local organizations to fight homelessness and provide housing. 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Sssociation (SGA), organized a group of more than 40 members of the Saint Mary’s com­munity to participate in the event. Saint Mary’s senior Kat Sullivan, who organized the event, said it was fun to dress up as superheroes and help local organizations. 
“We’re supposed to rep­resent the superheroes of South Bend, the organiza­tions that really give back to the community, so we were representing Center for the 
Hesburgh 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Wofford said. “He could not have been achieving every­thing he was achieving at Notre Dame and everything he was doing outside of Notre Dame without being a very effective man,” Wofford. 
Hesburgh was also very crucial to the creation of the Peace Corps, Wofford said. 
“The great carriers of the Peace Corps were the institutions of higher ed­ucation, colleges and uni­versities with experience overseas, administering projects and be involved di­rectly. Hesburgh worked to Homeless and Hannah’s House, so all the funds that we raised will go to those organizations,” Sullivan said. 

Duane Wilson, chair of Homeward Bound for St. Joseph County, said this is the seventh annual Homeward Bound 5K in St. Joseph County and the third year the Robinson Community Learning Center has hosted the event. 
“The Homeward Bound 5K is to bring awareness and raise funds for afford­able housing and to sup­port the homeless,” Wilson said. “Last year we raised $16,000 and [the money] gets divided up between five agencies that support the needs of homeless­ness, specifically Bridges out of Poverty, Habitat for Humanity, Hannah’s House, Center for the Homeless, Hope Ministries and the Robinson Community 
frame a program for Notre Dame to run the Peace Corps in Chile … Hesburgh began the Peace Corps Program in Chile,” Wofford said. 
Hesburgh’s accomplish­ments are due to his lead­ership skills and explosive personality, Wofford said. 
“Fr. Hesburgh is one of all the people I’ve worked with that is the most fun, most respected, most generating energy and ideas,” Wofford said.  
Hesburgh’s contributions stretch around the world and continue to inspire younger generations, Wofford said. 
Wofford closed his presen­tation by quoting Hesburgh himself. 
Learning Center.” 
First year student Elizabeth Chandler said she had a great time partici­pating in the race with her friends and was happy she could contribute to helping Hannah’s House and Center for the Homeless. 
“The Homeward Bound was my first 5K I’ve ever done, and it felt so great knowing I not only com­pleted this race, but I also helped fight homelessness and poverty,” Chandler said. “It was a really re­warding experience”. 
First year student Maureen Daday dressed up as Batman. 
“I thought the atmosphere was awesome because ev­eryone was so excited to help the local organizations in South Bend,” Daday said. “People from Saint Mary’s really wanted to help out, and it was cool seeing all the students come together 
“Having travelled across the face of our beautiful planet and traversed all its oceans and continents, hav­ing shared deep human hopes with brothers and sisters of every nationality, religion, color and race, having bro­ken bread and found loving friendship and brotherhood everywhere on Earth, I am prepared this day to declare and run for a good cause, I will definitely participate in the Homeward Bound next year.” 
Bethel College, Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s were asked to form groups for the event. Senior Kat Sullivan said that par­ticipating in events that benefit local organizations have made her realize how important it is to give back to the community. 
“I see firsthand what the Center can do for the South Bend community by work­ing with the guests at the Center for the Homeless, so I realize how important events like the Homeward Bound 5K are,” Sullivan said. “… These organiza­tions do so much for the South Bend community, and it’s important for us to give back.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 
myself a citizen of the world and to invite everyone every­where to embrace the vision of a common humanity, our noblest hopes and a common quest for peace on Earth, now and in the next millen­nium,” Hesbugh said in 1974, according to Wofford. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
ICPA 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Association (ICPA) awards ceremony Saturday at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. Staff members took home 15 other awards. 
The Observer’s new web­site, launched in January and designed by Assistant Managing Editor Kevin Song and former Graphics Editor Steph Wulz, won first place in both “Best Overall Website” and “Best Overall Website Design.” The site, ndsmcob­server.com, won third place in “Online Publication of the Year.” 
The staff took third place in “Best Use of Facebook” in the online category. 
Viewpoint Editor and for­mer Scene writer Gabriela Leskur won first place in “Best Entertainment Column” for her Sept. 10, 2013, column “How to avoid your ex on campus.” Associate Scene Editor Miko Malabute took first place in “Best Entertainment Feature Story” for “Breaking Bad’s 
R.J. Mitte talks disability” published Oct. 21, 2013. 
For “Best Entertainment Feature Story,” Scene Editor Allie Tollaksen won second place for her Jan. 22 piece “John Jeremiah Sullivan.” Columnist Matt Matt Miklavic took first place in “Best Opinion Column” for his April 26, 2013, column “Hold on to hope.” 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | THE OBSERVER 




Reilly 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
country,” Brown said. “We’re trying to show them some of the best Notre Dame has to offer over the course of about three days in hopes of having them enroll next fall.” 
The Reilly program was originally created through the transformation of a scholarship fund that paid partial tuition for one stu­dent, Brown said. 
“We thought it might … af­fect more top academic stu­dents by using that money for a visit weekend,” he said. “The donor agreed, and we were able to use that funding to be able to provide a visit weekend for some of our top admitted students.” 
Reilly is an all-expense­paid program. Brown said this weekend is the second of two weekend experiences Notre Dame offers each year in the spring semester. 
Those who attend not only have great academic re­cords, but also are dynamic through their involvement in extracurricular activities, he said. Reilly Weekend gives students the opportunity to see if Notre Dame truly is the right fit for them. 
“I think it’s important to ask them what types of things they’re looking for in a school, what factors are important to them,” Brown said. 
He said the program allows students to see the academic challenge the University of­fers along with the spiritual aspect and “community at­mosphere that’s unlike just about any other place in the country.” 
“I think the reason so many people are passionate about Notre Dame is the people, and the people really make the place,” Brown said. 
He said it’s important to let the participants know that the faculty and staff are there to support them throughout their time at Notre Dame with everything from under­graduate research to study abroad to starting various clubs and organizations. 
“You’re always just sur­rounded by this great com­munity and great people while you’re here,” he said. 
According to the Reilly website, students participate in welcome dinners, presen­tations, various activities, student panels, classes and multiple tours as part of the Reilly experience. 

“I hope that they see an ac­curate portrayal of what life at Notre Dame is like,” Brown said. “I hope they see all the things that we can offer, not only in that dimension of great, high powered academ­ics, but that there’s a com­mitment to service.” 
Senior Antoinette Pusateri, former Reilly participant and current member of the Reilly student committee, said one of the big program events that demonstrates this com­mitment to service occurs on Sunday and includes a tour of the Center for the Homeless. 
“We tour the Center for the Homeless, and we get to speak to some of the staff and residents there,” she said. “We want to portray how big and integral the part of ser­vice is in giving back to the community for Notre Dame. 
“We were excited for it, and it’s been well received. To students, the idea of giving back for the gift we’ve been given resonates with them.” 
Another event Pusateri said students tend to enjoy is the closing press box dinner. 

“It’s the big conclusion to the weekend. On Monday night, we have dinner in the press box and have a profes­sor address everyone [with 
a] ‘nowhere else but Notre Dame’ kind of speech,” she said. “The sun is setting over the golden dome and the students’ names are on the scoreboard.” 
Pusateri, who has worked on the committee since her freshman year, said this weekend marks her ninth Reilly experience, includ­ing the one she attended as a high school senior. 
“I’ve kind of been spear­heading it this year and last year, and it’s just really in­credible every year just how talented but how humble these students are,” she said. “It’s a great spirit that the group has.” 
The admissions counselors and student committee panel work together closely to plan this amazing program, she said. 
“Together with the Reilly alumni, we basically just help facilitate this week­end,” Pusateri said. “We could not do this without the Reilly alumni who help be­cause they’re kind enough to open their rooms and their hearts to the Reilly [prospec­tive students] for the whole weekend.” 
Past Reilly students host the high school seniors, an­swer their questions and make them feel at home, which she said is the number one task. 
“The Reilly alums come out of the woodwork to help and really make these students’ Reilly as fantastic as ours was,” she said. 
Although she wanted to go to Notre Dame since she was eight years old, Pusateri said Reilly gave her the 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

opportunity to see herself as a student holistically for the first time at the University. 
“[With] Reilly, just from the dorm community to the faith life here on campus to eating in the dining hall to going to class in Jordan Hall to going to a basketball game, I got to get the full spectrum.” 
After this, she said she didn’t see any other college option besides Notre Dame. 
“When I left [Reilly week­end], I didn’t want to leave. I would have been perfectly content with staying, not going back to high school. That’s how much I loved it,” she said. “Absolutely, Reilly was a huge thing. You feel a part of something much big­ger than yourself.” 
The greatest piece of ad­vice Pusateri said she could give to Reilly students this weekend is to listen to their hearts in making their col­lege decision. 
“This is one of the toughest decisions, picking a college,” she said. “I think, going through four years of college and looking back, how much you learn outside the class­room, let alone in the class­room, about yourself and the people around you, I think it is a very big decision. 
“I think each individual has to look at their own situation, you know what they’re look­ing for, the person they want to be in four years and how will this university help them in achieving that personal development, academically, spiritually, emotionally. The people that you meet and the experiences that you have will last a lifetime.” 
Pusateri also said students should be open-minded and learn everything they can about each university they apply to. 
“These students are among the top in the nation and they have the most incred­ible opportunities to vari­ous different elite places so I just recommend that they … think about what they truly want out of an education and how this four-year deci­sion will impact the next 40 years,” she said. “Hopefully they decide that Notre Dame is the place for them.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | THE OBSERVER 



HISE 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
making a college decision. 
“A lot of students don’t get the opportunity to visit Notre Dame before they have to make their decision, and we all know how beautiful this campus is and how great the people are,” she said. 
Moloney said the interna­tional students get the chance to experience the life of a Notre Dame student through the program. 
“We organize a lot of differ­ent activities and events for them,” Moloney said. “They get to do college information sessions with each of the dif­ferent departments with a lot of professors and some of the academic advisors in the dif­ferent departments.” 
In addition, Moloney said students are allowed to attend up to three classes in order to gain a better understand­ing of the academic aspect of student life. Participants also have the opportunity to ob­server dorm life and student-student interactions. 
“They get to stay in the dorms with student hosts, so the hope is that they’re getting to see Notre Dame from all an­gles before they have to make that decision as to where they see themselves the next four years,” she said. 
On Sunday night, the stu­dents partake in the press box event at Notre Dame stadium, according to the HISE agenda. 
“It’s really kind of neat for the students to be able to be up there,” Moloney said. “I think some of them real­ize how big of a deal it is, and some don’t until they come to Notre Dame.” 
Another trademark event of the weekend is the clos­ing gala on Tuesday evening, Moloney said. 
“There’s a nice dinner, and there’s a speaker,” Moloney said. “Then we have a big dance afterwards with a photo booth and competi­tions. Everyone knows that they get to come, dress nicely for that and have a lot of fun.” 

Notre Dame has one of the highest percentages of students who study abroad among universities in the United States, and Moloney said it is also important to have international students attend the University. 
“Adding diverse minds and cultures is really enriching all across the board,” she said. “I think students that come back from [study abroad] ex­periences are so enriched aca­demically and culturally. 
“I think that it aligns per­fectly with the mission of the university to be bringing these diverse minds to Notre Dame just to stir the pot a little bit in terms of students that have grown up in different parts of the world with completely dif­ferent cultures and complete­ly different university systems and education systems.” 
Moloney said she hopes 

Memorials held for Fort Hood shooting victims 
Associated Press 
KILLEEN, Texas — The church program pictured an empty road being envel­oped by the dark clouds of a sweeping thunderstorm, and the service’s lesson was from Isaiah 35:4, “Be strong, fear not.” The preacher implored those gathered Sunday that they would find hope in God, but also acknowledged the question on everyone’s mind: Why Fort Hood — again? 
What would have been a routine Sunday service at Tabernacle Baptist Church just outside the sprawling Texas military base became a tribute to the soldiers killed four days earlier when a fellow service member opened fire. It also offered some catharsis for the com­munity struggling to com­prehend Fort Hood’s second fatal shooting rampage in less than five years. 
Similar somber reli­gious gatherings were held throughout the military town of Killeen, but there were more questions than answers. 
“A lot of us, I think this morning, are asking the question, ‘Why? Why would this happen? Why Fort Hood again? Why are these types of things allowed to happen?’” Pastor Robert Sperbeck told dozens gath­ered at Tabernacle, where 90 percent of the congregation is current or retired military personnel. “The devil is the author of what happened on Wednesday, but we do know the answer, we know there is hope.” 

Investigators say Spc. Ivan Lopez, an Army truck driver from Puerto Rico, had ar­gued with soldiers in his unit moments before killing three people and wounding 16 others and then fatally shooting himself. Base of­ficials have said Lopez, who saw no combat during a de­ployment to Iraq, was being treated for depression and anxiety while being assessed for post-traumatic stress disorder. 
The shooting immediate­ly revived memories of the November 2009 attack by Nidal Hassan, an Army psy­chiatrist who killed 13 and wounded more than 30 peo­ple at the base. 
The White House said Sunday that President Barack Obama planned to attend an official memorial service Wednesday at Fort Hood. But in the surrounding town, the grieving has already begun. Residents have also held a march and a vigil, while Killeen’s Central Christian Church erected a memorial with a trio of crosses honor­ing those killed and 16 flags for those wounded. 
Sperbeck led the sing­ing of “Amazing Grace,” passed a collection plate for the shooting victims and read the names of the slain soldiers.= 
He said Sgt. Daniel Ferguson, a 39-year-old from Florida, “died a hero,” not­ing that he was killed while holding a door shut to keep the shooter from entering a room and targeting more po­tential victims. 
The pastor said that 38-year-old Staff Sgt. Carlos Lazaney-Rodriguez from Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, was a 20-year Army veteran who was just seven months from retirement. And Sgt. Timothy Owens, 37, from Effingham, Ill., “had planned to make a career serving in the military.” 

“Lord we pray for the mili­tary, for our fort where there are many that are without hope, that are in the midst of depression,” Sperbeck said. “They need help and we’re here to help them.” 
As she listened, tears streamed down the face of 31-year-old Kathy Abad, whose military police officer husband was at Fort Hood at the time of the shooting but didn’t witness the attack. 
“My heart is shattered for all the families,” Abad said afterward. “It hits home, feeling the loss of wives and 
mothers  and  entire  fami­ 
lies.  Wounds  have  been  
reopened.”  

After the 2009 shooting, Fort Hood tightened securi­ty. Abad said that in the days since Lopez’s rampage, even more measures have been imposed. She said her hus­band reports that post of­ficials have begun stopping nearly every car heading into the base to search for weap­ons, even though command­ers insist that can’t continue forever for logistic reasons. 
Fort Hood covers 340 square miles, with more than 40,000 soldiers living on post and 80,000-plus mil­itary and civilian employees and contractors coming to work there every day. 
the HISE experience shows students all of Notre Dame’s strengths and allows them to decide if the University is the right fit for them. 
“We have programming that really reflects around what I kind of say are three pillars of Notre Dame,” Moloney said. “The mind, heart and spirit … our tradition of academics, community, spirituality. 
Despite being a respected academic institution, Notre Dame is not the right fit for ev­eryone, Moloney said, but she added that if a student is inter­ested in community and spiri­tuality as aspects of a college experience, then Notre Dame is a good choice. 
“I think every student that graduates from here, you know that you’re graduating not just with a top-notch edu­cation, but you’ve also grown a lot personally in every as­pect of the way,” she said. 
Moloney said Notre Dame is a place where students might experience their highest and lowest moments, but through these experiences, students grow markedly. 
“In a nutshell, I would rec­ommend students to Notre Dame if that sense of grow­ing as a whole person really appeals to them and know­ing that, when you graduate, you’re going to be tasked with making a difference in the world, whatever you choose to do,” Moloney said. 
This task falls to students in every major, whatever career path they choose, Moloney said. 
“We’re challenging all of our students and all of our graduates to go on and make a difference,” Moloney said. “I think that’s one of the reasons I think people are attracted to Notre Dame because it is so mission-centered and be­cause it comes with such a heavy task but a very manage­able task.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

Afghanistan hosts smooth elections 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan — Afghans and the international community hailed its presiden­tial election as a triumph of de­mocracy over violence Sunday, despite complaints about ballot shortages and sporadic fraud after millions of people braved a Taliban threat to vote for a new president. But some cautioned against declaring a premature defeat of the Islamic militants. 
Securing the vote was a test for Afghan government forces as they prepare to take full respon­sibility for their own security as the U.S. and allied forces end their combat mission at the end of this year. The consensus was that they largely passed, though there was sporadic violence. 
A roadside bomb hit a pickup truck transporting ballot boxes Sunday in the northern province of Kunduz, killing three people, officials said. But the major at­tacks that had been feared did not materialize. 
“This in itself is a victory over violence and a victory over all those who wanted to deter de­mocracy by threats and vio­lence,” said Thijs Berman, the head of the European Union’s election assessment team in Kabul. 
Electoral officials, meanwhile, urged patience, saying officials continued to log complaints and tally ballots. The ballots were coming from more than 20,000 polling stations nationwide, some in extremely remote and rural areas. They were being transported to tally centers in all 34 provinces before the results reach Kabul. 
Some candidate fore­casts and partial results are expected in the coming days. Noor Mohammad Noor, a spokesman for the Independent Election Commission, said pre­liminary results were due April 24 and final results will be an­nounced May 14. 
With a crowded field of eight candidates, nobody was expect­ed to get the majority needed to win outright. That would force a runoff between the top two vote-getters, which would be held at the end of May. President Hamid Karzai was constitution­ally banned from seeking a third term. 
Noor said initial reports show a turnout of more than 7 mil­lion people, nearly 60 percent of eligible voters. That was sharply up from the estimated 4.5 mil­lion people vote in 2009’s presi­dential and provincial council elections, which were marred by widespread vote-rigging. 
The Taliban had warned vot­ers to stay home, saying elec­tion workers and polling centers were fair game. A spokesman for the group, Zabihullah Mujahid, claimed in a statement Sunday that more than 1,000 attacks took place “to disrupt the fake and predetermined elections set up by America.” The group often exaggerates its claims. 
A number of high-profile attacks before Saturday, in­cluding two on offices of the Independent Election Commission and several target­ing foreigners, heightened con­cern. Hundreds of thousands of Afghan security forces fanned out and erected checkpoints at intersections, searching cars and people. Workers also patted down voters, in some cases three times, before they entered poll­ing stations. 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sense of direction 
Caelin Miltko 
Scene Writer 

I’m going to preface this by saying I love Notre Dame. I can’t imagine going to school anywhere else, and I regularly find myself looking at the Dome and wondering how I got so lucky to I get to live here. 
The differences between here and my home state of Montana seem monumental. Sometimes, I really can’t believe (and, more importantly, can’t understand why) I made the decision to move to Indiana of all places. 
The thing is, as I sit here on the ninth floor of the library staring out towards Grace Hall and the Stepan Center, I’m still a little shocked by how flat Indiana is. I mean, I knew about this. It’s a fact I was well-acquainted with before uprooting my­self 1,691 miles for school. Still, as a child raised in a valley in the middle of the Rocky Mountains, I didn’t realize quite how disori­enting it would be. 
In Missoula, I always know which way is south. I just have to find the South Hills and from there, I can orient myself using the cardinal directions. The mountains act as a sort of giant compass. I can’t find that in Indiana. 
For most Domers, there would appear to be a similar landmark at Notre Dame: just find the Dome and then you know where you are. 
Let me tell you something: the Dome is not the same as a mountain. I can walk around the Dome in a matter of minutes. So when I move around campus, it moves in relation to me. Using a huge mountain to orient myself is far more reliable, as it stays pretty consistently south of my location. 
I don’t deny that the Dome is helpful for orienting yourself on campus. If I have a general idea of where it is, I can find almost any building based on a map. The Dome is not helpful if you tell me that you are east of something. Depending on my location on campus, the Dome could be east, west, north or south. Mountains don’t move like that. 
My dad would probably hope for me to end this by saying that the Dome has helped me find my way after I felt lost in the dis­orienting move to Indiana. If I say this isn’t the case, I don’t think it means I love Notre Dame any less. If I want it to have some deeper meaning, I suppose I could make some allegory about how Notre Dame has broadened my horizons and opened my eyes to the millions of opportunities I wasn’t aware existed when I was in Montana. 
I could say that my first year here has convoluted my plans for the future. I could argue that I’m learning new ways to ori­ent myself and not just on the map. This wouldn’t be entirely inaccurate. 
But perhaps, these are just facts. They don’t need to have some deep greater mean­ing to have meaning. 
Indiana is flat. Montana is mountainous. The difference is disorienting. Maybe that’s all there is. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Paperless: worth the risk 
Christian Nofzinger 
Ask the Greenman 

Three years ago, my high school began offering incoming students iPads in a push to go paperless. This really upset me, not because of the sustainable initiative, of course, but because I was a fresh­men at Notre Dame at the time and was conspicuously iPad-less. The initiative garnered lots of sup­port from the local news media, but after the first year was over it received mixed reviews from the teachers. You see, many of the teachers were hesitant allowing students to have such easy ac­cess to technology in the class­room.  They felt that it could be a distraction, and one year later they realized that they were right. The iPads were too much for high school students. It turns out it is difficult to teach 15-year-old boys playing “Angry Birds.” However, my school’s president is sticking with the drive because he sees its potential. 
Though my high school suffered some setbacks, I still believe Notre Dame should follow my high school down the road to paperless learn­ing through the use of technology. Just from April 2012 to June 2012, Notre Dame used nine million sheets of paper. If you were to stack it, you could make a 3,000 foot tall tower, that’s 300 feet taller than the Burj Khalifa. Granted, a lot of this paper contains partially-recycled material, but Notre Dame still uses a staggering amount of paper. This is partially because it is almost impossible to go paperless on Notre Dame’s campus. Notre Dame needs to take steps to become a more pa­per friendly campus. 
Tablet computing in the class­room allows students a variety of paper alternatives. Programs like Microsoft Onenote allow students to write on notes in a natural way with their hand resting on the screen. There are also accessories for the iPad that allow students to type using a keyboard. These two methods allow for students to make the switch from taking notes on pa­per to taking notes electronically, no matter what their note taking style. However, there is one major obstacle that paperless students often face: professors. 
Most professors at Notre Dame still ask for a paper copy of student papers. However, this is an out­dated concept. Microsoft Word now allows professors to write in-line comments using the review fea­ture. A simple seminar on how to utilize this feature could allow the University to mandate that all pro­fessors accept electronic copies of papers. Sure, this may upset some of the less tech-savvy professors, but think of the paper savings and the print quotas of the Program of Liberal Studies students. 
Many professors are justified in their hesitation to allow students to use laptops and tablets in their classes. Like my high school teach­ers, they fear that there is more Facebook-ing being done than learning. However, there are ways around this. Instead of propos­ing a Big Brother-esque camera in the back of the room as a solu­tion, I propose an honor system. Professors should believe that their students are using their laptops for good not evil, and students should strive to earn their trust by refrain­ing from surfing the web in class (I suppose we could make a small exception for March Madness). 
There may be obstacles in going paperless or trying to use paper less, but for all the reasons I’ve just investigated, I think the positives outweigh the negatives. 
Email your predicaments to the Greenman at askthegreenman@gmail. com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The Greenman will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

PrismND leaders respond to SCOP panel 
When the University of Notre Dame released its official statement “Beloved Friends and Allies” more than a year ago, it acknowledged that its review of services showed “that numerous gay, lesbian, bi­sexual, transgender and questioning (GLBTQ) students seek additional support” beyond what was given by the University at that time. It called for “a safe and supportive environ­ment for all members of the Notre Dame community” and said that “the University deplores any of­fenses against that fundamental hu­man dignity and calls for an abiding spirit of inclusion within the Notre Dame community.” We believe that the adoption of this plan is a com­mitment that everyone here at Notre Dame is called to participate in. 
With this promise to the University’s GLBTQ students in mind, we wish to address the con­ference sponsored by Students for Child Oriented Policy (SCOP) on April 3. 
It is clear from the advertise­ments that those who planned it wished to explore the Catholic defi­nition of marriage. This discourse on marriage is supported by the Pastoral Plan, and such discourse is expected to occur at one of the country’s premiere Catholic univer­sities. However, some of the people invited by SCOP to conduct the dis­cussion failed to show the respect for all of God’s children called for by the Church. 
Bishop Harry Jackson Jr., one of the speakers at the panel, com­mented that “being gay was the fla­vor of the week” and noted that he believed people chose their sexual orientation. His comment demeans those who are GLBTQ rather than giving them the pastoral support endorsed by the Church and this University. As Pope Francis said, “Tell me, when God looks at a gay person, does he endorse the exis­tence of this person with love, or reject and condemn this person? We must always consider the person … Who am I to judge?” 
Additionally, among those attend­ing the conference were represen­tatives from the Family Research Council (FRC), whose available ma­terials demeaned and invalidated lesbian, gay and bisexual identities, calling them a harmful choice and even insinuating that homosexual­ity or bisexuality leads to higher rates of child molestation. Rather than supporting the Church’s posi­tion that those who “identify as gay or lesbian ‘must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity’ (Catechism of the Catholic Church 2358),” the FRC actively promotes a rejection of one’s sexual orienta­tion – going so far as to say that interventions to make a gay person heterosexual are harmless, despite extensive social science research proving otherwise (see the American Psychological Association’s 2009 review of Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation). The FRC ma­terial also says that “homosexuals experience considerably higher lev­els of mental illness and substance abuse,” and blames individuals for the personally detrimental effects of societal prejudice. 
SCOP’s sponsorship of these views during the conference stands in sharp contrast to the mission of the University and the Catholic Church to provide pastoral care to GLBTQ individuals. We maintain that the inclusion of these positions at the conference by SCOP is harmful to GLBTQ students and Notre Dame’s commitment to them. 
We are not opposed to the exis­tence of SCOP, nor to the discus­sion it intends to have. Rather, we condemn the part of the discussion that degrades the lives of those who identify as GLBTQ in order to fur­ther its purpose. 
Moving forward, we hope that those who conduct any discourse on marriage keep in mind that behind the issue are GLBTQ-identifying people who hold God-given dignity. Any rhetoric that diminishes or dis­respects the dignity of GLBTQ indi­viduals harms all involved. 
Bryan Ricketts President of PrismND sophomore Duncan Hall 
Lily Crawford Vice President of PrismND sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall April 6 
UWIRE 

Why we need white racial satire 
Taonga Leslie 
Harvard Political Review 

In a recent installment of Black Girl Dangerous, a popular blog of the post-new left, Mia McKenzie ques­tions the willingness of people of color to defend The Colbert Report against Suey Park’s #CancelColbert Twitter campaign. “What is white racial satire doing for us that is so important?” McKenzie asks, wonder­ing why people of color would put themselves on the line in defense of a white comedian. 
The wording of the question is part of a trend in post-new left circles that devalues the nuances of individual experience in favor of identity-based narratives. A person of color defend­ing Colbert is suspect because his or her primary motive should be racial self-interest. Colbert’s race outweighs the content and context of his satire, allowing McKenzie to draw a false equivalence between The Colbert Report and Chelsea Lately. The details of the event itself are less important than their potential as a jumping off point for a discussions of race, gender, and sexuality. In the process, individual experiences are flattened and personal agency is diminished. 
Park’s very campaign is emblemat­ic of this approach. Despite the cam­paign’s name, Park is not particularly concerned with any single joke or even Colbert himself. In an interview with Salon, she describes the hashtag as a “tool” to describe the evil of “whiteness at large.” According to Park, no individual white person is welcome in her revolution against the racist hegemony because “white­ness will always be the enemy.” Park expresses impatience with “under­standing context,” instead highlight­ing the overwhelming importance of race in determining her understand­ing of events. 
Black Girl Dangerous takes a similarly deterministic approach to identity and interpersonal relations. White supremacy, patriarchy, ho­mophobia and cissexism, are treated not as overall trends, but as literal realities that create near-impossible divides between identity groups. According to the blog’s ideology, em­pathy across lines of gender, race or sexuality is virtually impossible. In fact, a large proportion of the blogs posts are dedicated to casting sus­picion on the very idea of an “ally.” Aside from a page that encourages readers to become “allies of the blog” for $20 a month, the term is treated with a mix of skepticism and disdain. 
Emphasizing boundaries and di­visions is one of the blog’s primary motives. While McKenzie and other contributors might make passing mention of self-avowed enemies of the movement, their true vitriol is reserved for those who attempt to transgress social boundaries. Thus, activists are far more likely to criti­cize Macklemore’s pro-gay anthem “Same Love” than Eminem’s blatant­ly homophobic “Rap God.” People who attempt to serve as allies to a movement outside their identity are far more suspect than those that act in self-interest. 
Tightening down on boundaries makes good sense as a business strat­egy for rising stars of the post-new left. By emphasizing the importance of race in shaping interests, identity bloggers can essentially corner the market. In this light, Suey Park’s in­terview style has as much to do with self-promotion as it does with social change. Park devotes as much space to referencing her own work as a creative writer and comedian as she does to critiquing the powers that be. Park’s message to potential audienc­es and employers is clear. Her iden­tity as a person of color allows her comedy to succeed where the work of white satirists inevitably fails. 
Yet, while the new left’s boundaries keep the privileged out, and benefit activists colonizing new markets, they also police the behavior of the disadvantaged identities the new left claims to speak for. When people of color, gays and women transgress identity-based barriers, they are of accused of internalized racism, ho­mophobia and sexism. In the case of Colbert, McKenzie’s question is rhetorical. A white comedian can do nothing to advance the cause of equality — “It’s white supremacy (with a heaping helping of patriar­chy and male privilege) that tries to convince us otherwise.” 
But the question remains to be an­swered: “What is white racial satire doing for us?” Or, more specifically, what is Stephen Colbert doing for us? As a straight, white, male comedian, Colbert represents the possibility of a human rights discourse that isn’t solely based on self-interest. The pos­sibility that identity may shape our actions and tastes, but it does not predetermine them. The possibility of empathy. 
Colbert is by all means an imper­fect ally. Sometimes his jokes go too far, and sometimes they uninten­tionally detract from his broader purpose. Yet, at its best, his work calls into question and exposes the unsound foundations of our nation’s racist, homophobic, transphobic and sexist assumptions. Activists like Suey Park and Mia MicKenzie have made a name for themselves by high­lighting and reinforcing the bound­aries that divide us. Stephen Colbert and, yes, white racial satire, show us how absurd those boundaries are to begin with. 
This article was originally published on April 5 for Harvard Political Review (HPR), America’s preeminent undergrad­uate journal of politics and public policy. The HPR is written and published en­tirely by Harvard undergraduates, with help from the Institute of Politics. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
Scene Writer 

“Breaking Boundaries” was the theme for this year’s PEMCo Revue. According to the director Anthony Murphy, the goal was to use songs from musicals that tested restrictions in their original contexts and then stretch them even further in this performance. 
The program started with the entire group performing “Masquerade” from “Phantom of the Opera.” While the acoustics in the LaFortune Ballroom occasionally made it hard to hear the singers over the band in the group perfor­mances, the dancing kept the audience engaged through the entire performance. 
In a literal expression of the theme of the night, the two vocal performers (Katie Mullins and Emily Nash) liter­ally broke through a line of their fellow thespians to begin their performance of “Freedom” from “The Unauthorized Biography of Samantha Brown.” 
Theatrical transitions like this were common in the beginning and the end of the performance. During the middle, the transitions were less smooth, though this did not detract too much from the performance as a whole. 
One of the most interesting transitions was the way the group chose to end the 10-minute intermission. Emily Nash took her seat for the next song (“Screw Loose” from “Cry Baby”) and instead of announcing the end of inter­mission, she cleared her throat until she had the attention of the audience. 
This fits in perfectly with the character singing the song, who croons about having a “screw loose” inside her head. Nash’s facial expressions during this performance were some of the best of the night. 
While acoustics seemed to be a problem within the group performances, the solo performers did not seem to have the same issues. As a whole, the singing seemed much stronger when fewer performers were on the stage. 
One of the most notable boundaries that PEMCo pushed in its performances of these songs was in the performance of “On My Own” from “Les Miserables.” Performed by Samuel Evola, the song pushed the expec­tations of who should be performing this song. 
Traditionally performed by a female playing Eponine, a male vocalist performing this song definitely cast a dif­ferent light on the emotional ballad. PEMCo also played with traditionally gendered performances in the song “A Miracle Would Happen” from “The Last Five Years,” where Sam Schubert took on the traditionally male role of Jamie. 
Perhaps the most engaging group performance of the night was “Let the Sunshine In” from “Hair” which fea­tured vocalists Quint Mediate and Maggie Moran. 
The performance ended with the entire cast dancing through the aisles of the audience, which was a fun inter­lude between many of the slower songs. 
The seniors in the group performed “When I Grow Up” from “Matilda the Musical.” The song featured some of the strongest vocalists in the Revue and was definitely among the highlights of the second half of the show. 
The end of the PEMCo Revue featured a reprise of “Let the Sunshine In,” after the entire cast performed their final song. As with all the group performances, the cho­reography of “Like Breathing” from “Edges” was compel­ling. The final song featured multiple soloists from among the group and watching each of them step forward as they sang their lines was a powerful finale to the theme of the night. 
Each of the performances lent something unique to theme of “Breaking Boundaries.” As a whole, the perfor­mance definitely questioned expectations in an enter­taining and engaging way. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

Late Night host David Letterman will be retiring next year. The Scene Staff weighed in with our picks for who should take the open spot on CBS. 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene Editor 

Although other women have been suggested to fill Letterman’s shoes, including Chelsea Handler and Ellen DeGeneres, the actress I’d most want to see on the “Late Show” is Aubrey Plaza. If you haven’t seen any of her interviews, you have to check out some clips immediately. She is so unbelievably awkward yet hilarious; every single one of her interviews begs to be watched over and over again. If she were on the other side of the desk, I have a feeling the awkward silences would bring out some priceless moments from celebrity guests. 
More realistically, however, would be Neil Patrick Harris. The lovable actor has just enough charm and quick wit to take Letterman’s spot, and he probably has a little more free time now that “How I Met Your Mother” has ended its run. 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
Associate Scene Editor 

Is there any way we can get Bill Simmons as a guest host for David Letterman? The guy clearly knows his sports and pop culture, and if you follow Grantland at all you’d know just how much fun it can be listening to him bring out the light-hearted conversation­alists in each and every one of the guests he brings onto his set. But definitely not as a permanent host. He’d probably try to theorize new ways to reinvent the show so much that it turns unrecognizable. Yeah, either him or Zac Efron. Because – you know what – I have a soft spot for the guy. 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 

America’s favorite jerk is one of the best contenders for Letterman’s spot right now. As the voice of a generation, Kanye has the star power to exponentially increase the Late Show’s viewership. No one else could put more heart, more effort or more vulgarity into the Late Show than Kanye. Furthermore, the man has some of the best people skills in the entertainment industry, as seen by his heartwarming incidents with Taylor Swift, Jimmy Kimmel and George Bush. His interviews would be stellar, as he would most likely respond to the featured guest’s every comment with his trademark “Huh?” Maybe Kim Kardashian could help with the more intellectually challenging interviews. The biggest problem CBS has with Kanye taking over the show, however, is his proposal to turn the classic “Tonight’s Top 10” segment into a “Top 10 Things About Me Today” piece. 
MARIA MASSA | THE OBSERVER 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Senior Scene Writer 

With rumors swirling that Stephen Colbert is CBS’s top choice to replace David Letterman as host of the Late Show, it’s hard to argue against him as a perfect replace­ment. Colbert would have to ditch his long-standing conservative blowhard character and play himself, but I think he’s funny enough and smart enough to use that as an op­portunity to grow his comedy. 
Outside of Colbert, I’d love to see Tina Fey and Amy Poehler get a shot to take over the show together. It’s not a traditional format, but maybe it’s time to tweak the traditional format and try something new. Poehler is still busy with “Parks and Rec” for now, and Fey seems to be juggling a million projects at once, but after watching them on SNL and then hosting the Golden Globes, they could be a legendary team of late night hosts. 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
Scene Writer 

Disclaimer: This opinion may be partly influenced by the grudge I hold against Summer (Zooey Deschanel) for breaking Tom’s (Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s) heart into 500 pieces. 
Zooey Deschanel has repeatedly proved herself to be the most awkward celebrity talk show guest and would be an accordingly awful host. Don’t get me wrong, I was a New Girl fan and I even went through a stage after watching “500 Days of Summer” where I wore light blue everyday and only listened to The Smiths (in an attempt to lure in JGL). However, her “adorkable” brand could only take her so far before the conversations about nail art, pajamas and dog pictures would become trite. How would Leonardo DiCaprio respond to a question about his stance on scrunchies? 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
Scene Writer 

As someone who doesn’t watch a lot of talk shows, I thought I’d investigate the news surrounding David Letterman’s choice to retire from the Late Show. In an article in the LA Times, the writers discussed the viewership of the Late Show being primarily older viewers because most teenagers and 20-somethings would rather watch their favorite YouTube stars. As such, in order to increase the younger viewership of the Late Show, I propose CBS replaces Letterman with a YouTube star such as Grace Helbig or Tyler Oakley. While questionable as to whether these Internet celebrities would be willing to switch mediums to television, I think their addition to the late night show circuit would add a good level of diversity. As anyone who watches their channels knows, these YouTube stars would probably have some interesting questions for our favorite celebrities. 
THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By ERIN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 
On Saturday, students, parents and prospective students flocked to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center for ACA, “A Collegiate A Capella” Showcase. The show was hosted by the Undertones, Notre Dame’s premier (and only) male a capella group. Since the show featured a capella groups from all over the country, tick­ets were more expensive than usual, presumably to help cover travel costs. The audience had high expectations. They were not disappointed. 
The University of Michigan’s G-Men set the bar high for the night, nailing Lady Gaga’s “Applause” and Kanye West’s “Love Lockdown.” Though their soccer jerseys gave off a jock vibe, they were arguably the most mu­sically talented group in the first half. Their choreography, full of body-rolls and provocative pos­es, was humorous and impres­sively synchronized. 
The G-Men rounded out pop numbers with Bon Iver’s “Skinny Love,” which soon be­came a crowd favorite — it was the only individual song to re­ceive a standing ovation. Their soloist from Azerbaijan exuded confidence as he let his voice ex­plore the extremities of his range without losing control. The en­semble crescendoed with him until the stage swam with their voices. Throughout the piece, the group often paused, allowing the audience to hear the echoes reverberate into silence. Their original dynamics showed audi­ence members that silence can be as powerful as overwhelming sound. 
Next up was Indiana University’s Another Round. Wearing suits and snapping their fingers, Another Round crooned old favorites such as Bill Withers’ “Lean on Me” and the Beatles’ “With a Little Help from my Friends.” Though most of their songs were serious, they switched it up with their last song, which was a parody about loving their dry campus. 
The Vanderbilt Melodores, who deserve props for coming up from Nashville, mounted the stage with a rocking country tune. They finished the first act with a Backstreet Boys mash­up —possibly the best one that’s ever been performed, which is saying a lot since so many groups try to create their own B-Boy mix. 
After intermission, Tuft’s Beelzebubs brought Spanish flavor with “Te Quiero.” Their soloist nailed every note and de­livered the lines with sass and a convincing Spanish accent. 
Notre Dame freshman a ca­pella enthusiast Abby Balmert commented, “The Beelzebubs commanded the audience’s at­tention. They are the most expe­rienced group, and they know it.” 
The Beelzebubs are known for having their recordings ap­pear on “Glee,” but the group admitted that Tufts is not so well known for its athletic prow­ess. So, to humorously prove his strength and agility, one mem­ber succeeded in going through one of his friends’ legs without touching the floor. Amusing? Yes. Will jocks flock to Tufts? Probably not, though anyone who enjoys watching boys in suits dance à la “Single Ladies” probably will af­ter seeing the Beelzebub’s rendi­tion of Destiny’s Child “Jumpin’ Jumpin’.” 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 
Finally, it was Notre Dame’s time to shine. Some audience members were concerned that the Undertones had to follow groups who had placed in na­tional championships and re­corded songs for television. However, they had no reason to fear. 
The Undertones not only proved they can sing and dance 
— they also proved they can rap with the Black Eyed Peas’ “Let’s Get It Started.” Junior Brendan Evans’s rendition of The Killers’s “Read My Mind” was one of the best numbers of the night. Soloists junior Jamie Towey and senior Andrew Cloetingh were incredible as well. 
Notre Dame, unlike many of the other universities repre­sented at ACA, does not have a nationally renowned voice or theatre program. None of the Undertones are even voice ma­jors. However, the Undertones were just as good, if not better, than the other extremely talent­ed and well-known groups. 
Overall, the night was a rous­ing success, and senior Billy Raseman, president of the Undertones, deserves major props for putting it together. Best of all, the concert was put on in conjunction with the Boys and Girl’s Club of St. Joseph County, and seven local kids came on stage and got to greet the audi­ence. All were members of the lo­cal choir and hope to perform on the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center stage one day. 
In a sentence: the ACA was the male version of Pitch Perfect, but with better music, dancing and meaning. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Celebrities add fame to fanbases 

Mary Green 
Sports Editor 
Shortly after Kentucky clinched a wild 74-73 victory over Wisconsin on Saturday to advance to the men’s bas­ketball championship game, the Wildcats celebrated in their locker room with Drake, apparently the newest mem­ber of Big Blue Nation. 
This scene belonged in one of those “Celebrities — They’re Just Like Us!” sec­tions in a newsstand gossip magazine. After all, these celebrities are just like us — they cheer for their favorite players and teams and revel in the glory of a big win, ex­cept they are famous and/ or wealthy enough to cel­ebrate with the team itself rather than with non-famous friends on a couch in a less­than-noteworthy suburban house after polishing off a bag of chips and a jar of salsa. 
Yes, instead of doing that, Drake high-fived the Wildcats, toasted a glass of Gatorade in his official, NCAA-approved paper cup to coach John Calipari and probably exchanged hair tips with injured center Willie Cauley-Stein. 
But the Drake-Kentucky friendship is just the latest in a long line of relation­ships between celebrities and teams. Even more, there are still so many athletes out there without famous friends (who are not their teammates or opponents, of course), so here are a few acquaintances I’d like to see. 
Jennifer Lawrence and the Tampa Bay Rays 
Hollywood’s quirkiest actress with the quirkiest manager in professional sports — what’s not to love? J-Law could probably help Joe Maddon come up with some interesting coordinated-dress themes for team travel days, and then the two of them could bond over a nice glass of merlot after a Rays win. 
The GIF of Lawrence tum­bling on the stage steps at the Oscars would also be a nice accompaniment to DJ Kitty, the feline disk jockey that ap­pears on the Tropicana Field jumbotron every game and has become a cult favorite of Tampa Bay fans. 
Zach Galifianakis and the Houston Rockets 
Someone has to bring the beards of Galifianakis and James Harden together in the same building, which could very easily be the Toyota Center in Houston. Imagine the giveaway possibilities — bobbleheads, fake beards, chia pets. 
The Rockets’ marketing department would have a field day with the visual pro­motions of two legendary beards, and the community relations department could use the facial-hair twins as inspiration for a no-shave November campaign to ben­efit a local charity. 
And both Galifianakis and Harden are comical guys, so they could team up to ease any tension created by losing streaks or poor performances. 
Jay-Z and the New York Yankees 
Yes, I know Hov and the Bronx Bombers were friends before, as evidenced by the Brooklyn-born rapper dis­cussing the Yanks in a few of his songs and donning a New York cap on the cover of his “Kingdom Come” album. He even joined Alex Rodriguez on a float in the Yankees’s 2009 World Series champi­onship parade through the streets of the Big Apple. 
But something tells me their relationship fizzled after Jay-Z started his own sports agency, Roc Nation, and singlehandedly per­suaded Robinson Cano to sign with Seattle instead of remaining with New York. 
It’s time these two groups reconciled and reunited be­cause a match between the most business-savvy rapper in the game and a franchise worth $1.85 billion just seems to make sense. 
Nancy Reagan and the NFL 
As a former First Lady, Nancy Reagan is more than a celebrity, and clearly the NFL is more than one team. With the high number of football players arrested and suspended for drug usages, someone has to tell these ath­letes to “just say no,” and who better than the woman who led that national campaign during the War on Drugs? 
This alliance does not have as much promotional value as the others and is not as funny as the pairing of Cam Newton with the “Play 60” kid, but at least one friendship on this list had to have some sort of redeeming quality, and Mrs. Reagan teaming up with the NFL can provide that. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Diamondbacks defeat Rockies in Denver 
Associated Press 

The home runs are coming in bunches for Mark Trumbo, and the reasons behind the power surge are the least of his concerns. 
Trumbo homered in a fourth straight game, matching a career best and an Arizona team record, and the Diamondbacks averted a sweep by beating Colorado 5-3 on Sunday. 
“I couldn’t tell you when it’s coming or why it’s happening,” said Trumbo, whose two-run shot in the fifth was the 100th homer of his career. “Maybe the mechanics are just a little more geared to driving the ball right now. It’s not something I’ve con­sciously thought about too much, but you take what you can get.” 
Trumbo’s bat backed the pitch­ing of Wade Miley, who went eight strong innings to extend his mastery over the Rockies. 
Miley also chipped in at the plate with a career-best three hits, including an RBI single. He also benefited from a defense that turned five double plays as the Diamondbacks won for just the second time in nine games this season. 
“Wade did an excellent job and that’s what we needed,” Trumbo said. “He’s a bulldog. You know he’s going to go out there and give you every ounce of stuff that he has that day. His stuff was good today and the double plays were so timely.” 
Miley improved to 7-0 with a 2.52 ERA in 10 career games (nine starts) against the Rockies, matching the longest winning streak against Colorado to start a career. Three of those wins have come at Coors Field. 
“My mentality against these guys is the same as it against any­body else,” Miley said. “They’re very aggressive and I just try to throw strikes. They’re going to get you sometimes. That’s just how the game works.” 
On Sunday, he got them more often than not. The winning pitcher in Arizona’s only other victory this season, Miley (2-1) allowed two runs and seven hits. 
“He mixed a lot of fastballs and sliders,” Rockies outfielder Carlos Gonzalez said. “We tried to get a rally going but hit into the double plays. He had pretty good sink on the ball and there was nothing we could do.” 
Addison Reed gave up a leadoff single to Gonzalez in the ninth and Gonzalez stole second and went to third on catcher Miguel Montero’s throwing error. Troy Tulowitzki walked to put runners on the corners. 
But Reed induced Wilin Rosario to ground into a run-scoring double play and then got Nolan Arenado to fly out to left for his second save in as many chances. 
Trumbo, who walked in his first two plate appearances, con­nected off Brett Anderson (0-2) for his fifth home run of the season, a two-run shot in the fifth that sailed into the left field bleach­ers and stretched Arizona’s lead to 5-0. Anderson went six innings and allowed five runs and 10 hits. 
MLB 

Cubs avoid  sweep in 8-3 win over Philadelphia 
Associated Press 

Ryan Kalish wants to make the most of his opportunity with the Chicago Cubs. 
Kalish got his first hit since Sept. 11, 2012, when he rapped an RBI triple in the first inning Sunday in the Chicago Cubs’ 8-3 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies. He also had a two-run double and drew two walks as the Cubs avoided a sweep. 
Kalish missed all of last sea­son after he underwent neck and shoulder surgeries. 
“I’ve enjoyed every single day,” he said. “I’m trying to live my life like every day could be your last.” 
Kalish made his second start for the Cubs in his first trip to the major since he played for the Boston Red Sox in 2012. 
“Every day I just come in and I’m ready for whatever’s thrown my way, especially with every­thing I’ve been through,” he said. “I just want to give it my all when I get the chance.” 
Carlos Villanueva (1-2) al­lowed a run in five innings in 

FOR RENT 

2 BR 1.5 BA close to campus. 1 to 
his first start and third outing of the season for Chicago. 
A.J. Burnett (0-1), who signed a one-year, $16 million con­tract with the Phillies after he spent the last two seasons with the Pittsburgh Pirates, allowed eight runs, four earned, in 5 2-3 innings. He struck out three but walked six. 
“I just didn’t get it done,” Burnett said. “I was pitching behind. I missed first pitches. The key today was throwing strikes. That was embarrassing. I don’t care who you are, that is unacceptable.” 
The Cubs scored four runs in the first and sixth innings. Their offense broke out after they scored eight runs and were 4 for 40 with runners in scoring position in their previous five games. 
“They’ve strung together a lot of good at-bats over the last five or six days. We just don’t have a lot to show for it,” Cubs man­ager Rick Renteria said. “Today, we happened to have some balls find holes, and we took advan­tage of it.” 
The Phillies scored a run on Chase Utley’s groundout in the fifth to cut the lead to 4-1. Manager Ryne Sandberg chal­lenged the call that Utley was out at first, but the review con­firmed it. Ryan Howard lined into an inning-ending double play. 
“It was a bang-bang play,” Sandberg said about the chal­lenge. “It’s the fifth inning. We need baserunners. It was worth a shot.” 
The Phillies went 1 for 15 with runners in scoring position. They scored two runs off reliev­er Jose Veras in the ninth. 
Villanueva made his first start after he pitched in relief in two extra-inning games against the Pirates. He allowed game-win­ning hits in both games. 
“I wasn’t happy when that happened,” Villanueva said. “I feel like I’ve grown a lot in my years here. You tell me that would have happened to me 5-6 years ago — I don’t know how I would have handled it. I take the positive out of it. Now I have a chance to contribute.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2 year lease. Call 574-360-6910  Football.  GREAT  location  - next  
to  Eddy  Street  Commons.  Call  
RENTAL  ­ Commencement  and  574-360-6910  

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | ND 7,  MARYLAND 0; ND 7, PITT 0 
Irish notch pair of sweeps in ACC play 
matches in straight sets, with 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

Sports Writer Closs’s 6-2, 6-2 win at fifth singles clinching the match for 
The No. 20 Irish put up a pair the Irish. of sweeps this weekend, inside Notre Dame’s top two singles and outside of the Eck Tennis players, Sanders and Gleason, Pavilion. The pair of shutouts both lost their opening sets, marked four in a row for Notre but they would both fight back Dame after the Irish blanked to win their second ones, forc-Marquette and Wake Forest ing 10-point tie breakers. Both last week. matches ended well after the 
The Irish (12-8, 5-6 ACC) match result was decided, but started the weekend off strong Louderback said he was proud with a Friday sweep of the of the fight his team displayed Terrapins (5-10, 1-8) indoors. regardless. Building off of recent suc-“They don’t want to lose,” cess, Notre Dame took the Louderback said. “A lot of it is doubles point to start the pride, too.” match, with freshman Mary On Sunday the Irish took on Closs and her junior partner Pittsburgh (4-11, 0-11) in their Molly O’Koniewski winning first outdoor home match of their first match as a pair, 8-1. the season. Once again the Notre Dame’s top pair of senior Irish got off to an early 1-0 lead Brittany Sanders and sopho-by taking the doubles point. more Quinn Gleason clinched Closs and O’Koniewski contin­the doubles point with their ued their early success togeth­8-4 victory. er with an 8-2 defeat at third really well.” court with a 6-2, 6-0 victory well coming into the net and 
“[Maryland’s] a good sol-doubles, while Sanders and Closs said she agrees with over Panthers junior Amanda taking some balls out of there.” id team,” Irish coach Jay Gleason finished off the point her coach as to the effective-Wickman at No. 5 singles, fol-The weekend put the Irish Louderback said. “I felt like we with an 8-5 victory as the top ness of the pairing. lowed by Sanders and her 6-1, in a position to put together a started off really strong with pair. “It was fun playing with 6-1 defeat of freshman Audrey strong run to end the season the doubles … we’ve played Closs and O’Koniewski Molly,” she said. “We set each Ann Blakely at the top singles. and head into the ACC tourna­better and better as the semes-are only the latest pairing other up. Molly sets me up at Robinson would clinch the ment on a high note. They will ter’s gone on.” to be sent out on court by the net and I get first serves match for the Irish, putting look to continue their four-
The Irish kept the pressure Louderback, but the two have in so that she can attack from them up 4-0 with a 6-1, 6-0 win match winning streak next on the Terrapins as Closs, shone early. there.” in the four spot. Vrabel, Kellner weekend with two matches freshman Monica Robinson, “Molly’s really solid off the Notre Dame continued the and Gleason would all finish on slate, including their final sophomore Julie Vrabel and ground, doesn’t miss returns, hot play as all six singles play-off their matches in straight home match Friday against senior Jennifer Kellner all won lobs well,” Louderback said. ers won their first sets, never sets. Virginia Tech. quick first sets to start the “Mary has a great serve and giving Pittsburgh a chance “I thought we all stayed pa-singles part of the match. All cuts balls off really well, so to come back into the game. tient and worked the point all Contact Zach Klonsinski at four would go on to win their they complement each other Closs was the first off the weekend,” Closs said. “We did zklonsin@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS | ND 4, WAKE FOREST 3; NC STATE 4, ND 3 
Notre Dame splits weekend road trip 
Observer Staff Report 
No. 12 Notre Dame went 1-1 this weekend, defeating No. 21 Wake Forest in a 4-3 thrill­er Friday in Winston-Salem, N.C., before suffering an up­set 4-3 loss to unranked North Carolina State on Sunday in Raleigh, N.C. 
Losses in all three of the doubles matches against Wake Forest (14-8, 3-4 ACC), includ­ing a defeat of the No. 7-ranked pair of senior Greg Andrews and sophomore Alex Lawson by Wake Forest sophomores Pedro Dumont and Jon Ho, put the Irish (14-8, 4-4) in a hole right away. 
However, Notre Dame put together a comeback in the singles matches, with wins by Andrews, sophomore Quentin Monaghan, senior Ryan Bandy and sophomore Eric Schnurrenberger giving the team a victory in the end. It came down to the wire, as Schnurrenberger won in a tie­breaker in the final match. 
The loss against North Carolina State (14-7, 3-5) on Sunday was similarly competi­tive. Freshman Josh Hagar and senior Billy Pecor came away with the sole Irish doubles singles. against North Carolina State, the weekend with a split. win of the weekend, but Notre Andrews, Bandy and fresh-but losses by Monaghan, Hagar Notre Dame next plays ACC Dame’s second attempt at a man Eddy Covalschi tri-and Schnurrenberger left the opponent Miami at home dramatic comeback failed in umphed in their matches Irish on the losing side to close Friday at 3:30 p.m. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | THE OBSERVER 



ND SOFTBALL | DEPAUL 4, ND 2 
Irish offense sputters against DePaul 
Observer Staff Report 
Despite building a 2-0 lead heading into the sixth inning, No. 23/25 Notre Dame was un­able to hold off an offensive surge from DePaul on Friday at Cacciatore Stadium in Chicago, ultimately losing 4-2. 
The was the second late-game comeback in three games for the Blue Demons (24-8, 7-0 Big East) against the Irish (22­8, 3-3 ACC), having previously winning last year’s contest by a score of 5-2 after again scoring four runs in the sixth inning. 
The Irish started the game off strong, with junior All-American centerfielder Emilee Koerner stroking a two-out double into the gap for her ACC-leading 13th of the season before being stranded in scor­ing position in the first inning. 
Sophomore first baseman Micaela Arizmendi managed to break the scoreless tie in the second inning, connecting on a pitch from DePaul senior left-handed ace Kirsten Verdun (14-5) over the right-centerfield wall for her seventh home run of the season and fifth in 10 games. Arizmendi is currently tied for the team lead in home runs with Koerner, who also has driven seven deep. 
The Irish notched a second run courtesy of a bases-loaded sacrifice fly in the third inning by junior third baseman Katey Haus, but that would be the last run of the game for the Irish. 
DePaul senior Hannah Penna provided the turning point of the game, coming in as a pinch hitter before crank­ing a pitch from Irish senior ace Laura Winter over the wall for a three-run home run in the bottom of the sixth inning to give the Blue Demons their eventually insurmountable 4-2 lead. 
Though ultimately respon­sible for the decisive runs against the Irish, once again Winter (14-4) submitted a solid performance on the mound. Over six innings of work, she allowed only five hits and one walk and struck out nine bat­ters while allowing only three earned runs on 87 pitches thrown. 
The Irish will resume play Wednesday when they travel to Chapel Hill, N.C., to take on North Carolina. First pitch is scheduled for 4 p.m. at Anderson Stadium. 


NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | UCONN 75, STANFORD 56 
Connecticut advances to face Irish in title game 

the Huskies advanced to an-Notre Dame, an 87-61 winner outscoring them 47-32. challenge for us was to score,” 
Associated Press 

other title game with a 75-over Maryland, on Tuesday Kaleena Mosqueda-Lewis VanDerveer said. “We worked 
The Connecticut Huskies 56 win against Stanford on night in the title game. It will found her shooting stroke, hard defensively, had a lot of are back in a very famil-Sunday night. be the first women’s national scoring all of her 15 points in good stops. Their size, when iar position, undefeated It wasn’t easy early, though title game between unbeaten the second half. they went big, their size is and playing for a national the Huskies (39-0) did their teams. “I think that at times we really disruptive. Probably championship. part in setting up the highly “It wouldn’t be any fun if were a little jumpy and ex-more than anything, they 
They’ll be going for an un-anticipated championship you didn’t beat teams that cited,” Stewart said. “Had to have very skilled players, precedented ninth national showdown of undefeated were any good,” UConn settle down and get into right play very well together.” championship after Breanna teams. coach Geno Auriemma said rhythm of the game. (We) Thompson, a freshman, hit Stewart scored 18 points and They will square off against of the matchup with Notre went on a run at the end of four of her first five shots for 
Dame. “I think women’s the first half and shots start-10 quick points, helping the 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
basketball needs rivalries ed falling.” Cardinal get off to a good like this, teams that aspire Hartley added 13 points for start early. The Cardinal led to be great and want to win UConn and Stefanie Dolson by as much as six a couple championships.” and Moriah Jefferson each times, the last at 22-16 with 
Now the Huskies have finished with 10. 12:32 left when Mikaela Ruef joined the UConn men’s team Stanford (33-4) lost its third banked in a jumper just be-in playing for the national national semifinal since fore the shot clock expired title. The men play Kentucky reaching the 2010 champion-with 5:39 to go. on Monday night in Texas. ship against UConn, which It was the third sluggish 
“I think it’s awesome,” se-the Huskies also won. All-start for the Huskies, who nior guard Bria Hartley said. American Chiney Ogwumike missed shot after shot and “Our men are excited for us, finished with 15 points and had a couple tough shoot-and we’re doing the same 10 rebounds. Amber Orrange ing stretches in the first half. for them. All the fans in scored 16 points, and Lili The first lasted more than Connecticut are really proud Thompson had 12. 5 minutes and the second right now. Both teams have “It’s been an amazing re-nearly 7 minutes. Auriemma worked hard this year. Now markable experience to have said the game played out in the time has come, and we Stanford on my jersey one the first half like the struggle want to make sure we finish last time,” Ogwumike said. he expected. on a good note.” Stanford coach Tara “Hard to make shots un-
The Huskies also won their VanDerveer had promised less you’re Kayla McBride at 45th straight game after the Cardinal wouldn’t go the Final Four,” Auriemma overcoming another sluggish down easy, and her team said of the Notre Dame se­start. Stewart, the Associated never stopped competing. It nior who scored 28 to help Press player of the year, didn’t help that the Cardinal the Irish advance. “I thought missed her first four shots didn’t take a free throw in once we settled in and got and UConn was up just 28-24 the first half. The Huskies our rhythm and I thought we at halftime. had a big edge there too (17 played one of the best games 
But Connecticut settled of 24) while Stanford was 8 of we played all year given the down and put the Cardinal 10. fact we beat a really, really, away in the second half, “We knew that biggest really good team. 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

BASEBALL | FLORIDA STATE 8, ND 7 (12); FSU 11, ND 2; FSU 4, ND 3 
No. 1 Seminoles sweep Irish in three games 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Senior Sports Writer 
Notre Dame lost two one-runs games in Tallahassee, Fla., in a three-game sweep by No. 1 Florida State. 
The Irish (10-20, 1-14 ACC) lost, 8-7, in 12 innings Friday night after carrying a 7-5 lead into the bottom of the eighth. The Seminoles (26-5, 13-2) swept a doubleheader Sunday with 11-2 and 4-3 wins. 
“It’s tough,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “I thought we played well enough to come away with two wins with a couple better bounces of the ball or a pitch made here or there. I was encour­aged by that. … We’re putting ourselves in a position to win a lot but we just haven’t learned to win.” 
On Friday, Notre Dame used a five-run eighth inning to take a 7-5 lead, aided by three Florida State errors. Irish freshman catcher Ryan Lidge’s double off Seminoles sophomore right-hander Jameis Winston gave the Irish a 6-5 lead. One batter later, junior right fielder Robert Youngdahl singled home Lidge. 
But Notre Dame pitchers walked eight Seminole hitters in the final five innings, and Florida State scored a run in the eighth, ninth and 12th. 
“We could have closed that game out by not creating offense for them,” Aoki said. 
Seminoles freshman catcher Gage West led off the 12th with a triple off Irish sophomore right-hander Nick McCarty. Florida State senior shortstop Casey Smit brought West home with a single to hand the Seminoles the walk-off win. 
McCarty (1-6) took the loss while Seminoles freshman right-hander Taylor Blatch (1-0) earned the win. 

Due to rain, Saturday’s game was moved to Sunday. The dou­bleheader was Notre Dame’s sixth doubleheader of the sea­son and second in as many weekends. The Irish are 2-10 during twin bills. 
Irish sophomore left-hander Michael Hearne (1-4) lasted just one-and-one-third innings in Sunday’s first game and gave up eight runs, three earned, six hits and walked one. Florida State jumped on Hearne and the Irish early, scoring nine runs in the first three innings, including six in the second. 
Notre Dame hammered out 14 hits but could only muster two runs and committed three errors. 
“Defensively, I thought we played horrible,” Aoki said. “We went back to some stuff from our team since that first weekend against FAU.” 
Both junior designated hitter Conor Biggio and fresh­man third baseman Kyle Fiala went 3-for-4 in the game. 
In the second game, Irish junior right-hander Pat Connaughton (0-2) had his lon­gest outing of the year, going five-and-two-thirds innings, giving up four runs on seven hits but walking seven. 
“This has kind of been his trend for us,” Aoki said. “His first outing is usually pretty good and then he has a few rocky ones, and he gets himself back into it. He’s getting himself into a routine, and he’s getting those runs he needs. He was a lot better today.” 
Florida State grabbed a 4-1 lead after a three-run fourth in­ning but the Irish scored one in the sixth and one in the seventh. Notre Dame threatened to tie the game in the ninth with run­ners on the corners with one out. 
But junior third baseman Kevin DeFilippis grounded into a game-ending double play, and the Seminoles earned the sweep. 
“I was encouraged by the way that we played,” Aoki said. “I was encouraged by the way we fought back in games one and three. And, to be honest with you, I thought we kept playing hard in game two even though we were getting our lunch hand­ed to us.” 
Coming into the series, Notre Dame pitching had only al­lowed two home runs, but the Seminoles tagged the Irish for five dingers over the weekend. 
“They’re really talented,” Aoki said. “That’s a really, really good offense.” 
Notre Dame will try to re­bound when it plays Chicago State on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. at CSU Baseball Stadium in Chicago. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF | IRISH CREEK COLLEGIATE 
Platt’s runner-up finish helps ND take sixth 
individually,” junior Patrick freshmen Matt Rushton and said. “We all made some fifth with a team score of 873 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

Sports Writer Grahek said. Liam Cox both had strong mistakes that could have (298-281-294). 
Platt moved within one performances. Rushton easily been avoided but the The Irish return to ac-
Senior tri-captain Niall stroke of the overall lead had five birdies in his final guys are starting to show tion April 21 in the Oak Hill Platt tied for second place in with consecutive birdies on round to post a 2-over par some improvement.” Intercollegiate. the individual draw to help the 13th and 14th holes. 73 to tie for 17th place with The Irish definitely saw “The guys are starting to the Irish earn a share of sixth He birdied the first and a 4-over-par 217 (72-72-73). improvement from the first show more maturity and place after the final round of third holes but bogeyed the Cox earned a final score of round to the second. Overall, handling their emotions the Irish Creek Collegiate at sixth — his only bogey on 227 (80-70-77). the Irish had a 10-stroke better,” Platt said. “The The Club at Irish Creek in the front nine. Platt fired a “Matthew finally got his team improvement from freshmen put up some good Kannapolis, N.C., on Sunday. one-under 34 on the front groove back this week with a round one to its afternoon rounds which they can use as 
The Irish tied Duke for nine to finish with a 2-un-solid performance and Liam 18 holes. confidence moving forward. sixth place with a total score der-par 69. continues to gain confidence No. 47 Georgia State We just need to continue to of 874 (295-285-294). Platt’s Platt and Akron senior as well,” Grahek said. earned the team victory practice and play outside second-place finish marks Charlie Bull (72-69-68) Grahek birdied three holes with a final round 5-over-now that the weather is get-the best individual result shared second place overall in his third round to earn par 289, as part of a total ting better at home and we’ll on the season for any Notre at 4-under 209. a 75. He tied for 41st place score of 859 (288-282-289). be in great shape for the next Dame golfer. With his ninth “I made some mistakes in with an 11-over par score of No. 50 North Florida fin-tournament.” career top-five finish, Platt places I don’t normally make 224 (76-73-75). Sophomore ished second at 860 (291-The Irish compete in the took the lead in the pro-mistakes, but I was able to Cory Sciupider finished the 279-290). The tournament Oak Hill Intercollegiate in gram’s all time scoring aver-make up for it by putting re-weekend with a total of 238 co-host Charlotte (287-284-Rochester, N.Y., on April 21. age at 73.19. ally well,” Platt said. (77-80-81). 300) and No. 36 Wake Forest 
“We are all so proud of The Irish maintained con-“I think for the most part (288-292-291) tied for third Contact Kit Loughran at Niall and how well he played sistency across the board, as the team played well,” Platt place at 871. Ohio State took kloughr1@nd.edu 
LPGA | KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP 
Thompson captures Kraft Nabisco title 
Associated Press 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. —Lexi Thompson went after it at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, smashing driver on every hole she could. Michelle Wie reined in her power, hitting conserva­tive fairway-metal stingers and only occasionally letting loose with the driver. 
Thompson ended up can­nonballing into Poppie’s Pond late Sunday afternoon in the traditional victory leap, while Wie was left to wonder about her strategy. 
“I play this course very ag­gressively,” the 19-year-old Thompson said. “I didn’t want to change the way I played the last few days because my driver won’t get me in any trouble on a lot of the holes. So, laying back wouldn’t really make sense. 
“The greens were a little firm­er, so even with a wedge in your hand you had to play for quite a bit of bounce out. I figured the closer I could get, even if I was in the rough, I could get it pretty close to the hole.” 
Thompson closed with a bogey-free, 4-under 68 for a three-stroke victory over Wie, birdieing four of the first nine holes to open a five-stroke lead and parring the final nine. 
“This is what I’ve worked so hard for,” Thompson said. “This was one of my goals coming into the year, to win a major. I’ve always seen myself winning a Kraft Nabisco. It’s such a huge honor with all the history be­hind the tournament.” 

Wie birdied the final hole for a 

71. She used her driver only four times, choosing to hit fairway woods on the other 10 driving holes — leaving her as much as 60 yards behind Thompson. When both hit 3-woods, Thompson also had the advantage. 
“I stuck with my game plan and I think it was the right play,” Wie said. “Who knows? In hind­sight you would do something here or do something there, make a putt there. That’s the way golf is. I just couldn’t get any­thing going today.” 
Thompson finished at 14-under 274 at Mission Hills for her fourth LPGA Tour vic­tory. She opened with a 73, shot a tournament-best 64 on Friday and had a 69 on Saturday to tie for the lead with Wie at 10 un­der. The 6-foot Florida player had only one bogey — when she missed a 3-footer on the par-5 18th Saturday — in her last 55 holes. 
“When I had a bad hole, I’d just fight right back,” Thompson said. “Or if I hit a bad shot, just know that I can get it up-and­down or get it on the green.” 
Five years after she first played the event as a 14-year-old ama­teur, Thompson became the second-youngest major winner at 19 years, 1 month, 27 days. 
Morgan Pressel set the mark in 2007 at Mission Hills at 18 years, 10 months, 9 days. 
“It has been an honor to play at this tournament so many years,” Thompson said. “Only being 19 and to win it is even the biggest honor ever.” 
Thompson has three victories in her last 12 starts, winning in Malaysia and Mexico late last season. She also won the 2011 Navistar LPGA at 16 to become the youngest winner in tour his­tory, a mark broken by Lydia Ko in the 2012 Canadian Women’s Open. 
“I’m really looking forward to the future,” Thompson said. 
The 24-year-old Wie won the last of her two tour titles in 2010. 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | THE OBSERVER 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | REBEL INTERCOLLEGIATE 
Notre Dame takes 13th of 18 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame tied for 13th out of 18 teams at the Rebel Intercollegiate tournament in Oxford, Miss., over the weekend, finishing with a 40-over-par score of 904. 
Sophomore Talia Campbell led the Irish with a 5-over score of 221, tying her for 20th place in­dividually. Campbell shot 73, 76 and 72 in the three rounds Friday and Saturday at the Ole Miss Golf Course. 
The second-best scorer for Notre Dame was junior Ashley Armstrong at 226 (76-74-76), fol­lowed closely by freshman Jordan Ferreira at 227 (74-77-76). 
Senior Kristina Nhim finished fourth for the team at 230 (80-77­73), bouncing back from struggles in the first two rounds to score one-over-par in the final round. Junior Kelli Oride rounded out the Irish lineup with a score of 242 (82-80-80). 

Georgia Regents University Augusta captured the overall team title with a 7-over score of 871, with Kennesaw State, Tulane, Texas State and East Tennessee State making up the rest of the top five. 
The tournament was the last of the regular season for the Irish, with their next action coming in the ACC Championship. 
Notre Dame will travel to Greensboro, N.C., to play in its first-ever ACC Championship on April 18-20. 
MLB | NYY 6, TORONTO 4 

Sabathia earns first win of season in Yankees victory 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — CC Sabathia pitched six innings for his first victory of the season, Brett Gardner hit a two-run home run and the New York Yankees beat the Toronto Blue Jays 6-4 on Sunday afternoon. 
Sabathia (1-1) allowed four runs and seven hits, walked none and struck out six. 
Sabathia was hit hard in Tuesday’s opening day loss at Houston, allowing six runs and eight hits, including two home runs, in six innings. 
The left-hander was taken deep again Sunday when Melky Cabrera connected in the first inning. The homer 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

was Cabrera’s third of the sea­son and third this series. 
Maicer Izturis followed with an infield single but was erased on a fielder’s choice. Sabathia retired 16 of the next 17 hitters before running into trouble in the sixth. 
Jose Bautista started Toronto’s two-out rally with a single, Edwin Encarnacion singled and Bautista scored when Dioner Navarro dou­bled past Yangervis Solarte at third. Erik Kratz followed with a two-run single to center, with Navarro scoring easily when Jacoby Ellsbury’s throw to the plate was off target. 
Kratz took second on the throw, but was left stranded when Brett Lawrie flied out. 
Adam Warren worked the seventh, Shawn Kelley pitched the eighth and David Robertson finished for his sec­ond save in as many chances. 
The Yankees jumped out to a 3-0 lead against Toronto’s Drew Hutchison in the first with just one hit, taking ad­vantage of two walks and a hit batter. Ellsbury collected his first RBI with a groundout and Kelly Johnson drove in two runs with an double. 
Gardner ended New York’s longest homeless drought to begin a season since 1975 when he drilled a two-run shot off Hutchison in the fourth. 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


W Lacrosse 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
the game. She absolutely, I don’t want to say single-handedly, but 11 saves in a half against a team that shoots 44 percent was huge.” 
Notre Dame went into half­time down 4-1, but came out of the locker room poised to make it a competitive game. Irish se­nior midfielder Margaret Smith scored on a feed from sopho­more midfielder Stephanie Toy to open up the second half and cut the deficit to two. Virginia answered with two successive goals before Fortunato added her second goal of the game on an assist from junior midfielder Caitlin Gargan with 26:13 left to make it a 6-3 game. 
From that point, the Cavaliers scored four consecutive goals in four minutes, including two by junior attack Courtney Swan, to put Virginia up 10-3. 
“They had a four-goal run, and I attribute that to the draw,” Halfpenny said. “They won the draw 13-4 [in the second half], but I give a lot of credit to my team even though they lost the draw in the second half they still played them to a 9-7 score. Credit my defense on that. They were able to come up with the ball in big situations, but also we have to control the ball better on offense.” 
Despite trailing the entire game, and at times facing large deficits, Notre Dame outscored Virginia 9-7 score in the second half. After only scoring once in the first half, Halfpenny credited the improved offense with better communication and more ag­gressive play. 
“Our offense started commu­nicating more to one another and we were able to get second and third chances,” Halfpenny said. “Some of those goals came off a second and third chance where we were able to get the ball back after a shot on goal as well as communicating more to one another, and attacking a little more.” 
Notre Dame has now dropped back-to-back home games. The Irish face another tough test with No. 9 Duke coming to town Friday. In order to get back in the win column, Halfpenny said she needs to see more from her offense. 
“We have to be organized and fluid for 60 minutes,” Halfpenny said. “There was some brilliant-looking offense, but we have to be more consistent. Our youth is going to continue to work on that.” 
The Irish will look to salvage their three-game homestand in a Friday-night showdown with Duke at 7 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
M Lacrosse 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
show differently,” Irish sophomore defender Edwin Glazener said. “They did get a lot of possessions and were patient with the ball, allow­ing them to score a lot more than we would’ve liked. 
“They were just on.” 
Duke set the tone two min­utes into the first quarter with a goal from senior at­tackman Jordan Wolf. The Irish responded 49 seconds later with a goal from junior midfielder Nick Ossello, who came up from the right lane. 
Despite this close start, the Blue Devils quickly tal­lied four unanswered goals to go ahead, 5-1, by the early part of the second quarter on goals from Wolf and sopho­
more  midfielder  Deemer  
Class.   
Wolf  and  Class  contin­ 

ued to lead Duke’s attack throughout the game and tallied four goals and three assists and five goals and two assists, respectively. 
Notre Dame ended a scoreless draw of more than 20minutes with a man up-goal from freshman mid­fielder Sergio Perkovic to make it 5-2, but it was Duke who led at halftime, 6-2. 
The start of the second half looked promising for the Irish with a man-up goal from junior attackman Conor Doyle less than a min­ute into the third quarter, cutting the Duke lead to three at 6-3. The Blue Devils, though, went on to score seven straight times to claim a 10-goal edge by the open­ing minute of the fourth quarter. 
“I think we struggled re­acting to what they were doing,” senior defender Stephen O’Hara said. “They had six very good play­ers who made the right plays and shot the ball well throughout the game. 
“It was one of those games that we got down early and never really recovered from it.” 
Notre Dame attempted a rally at the onset of the fourth quarter as the Irish deposited three unanswered goals in 1:42 to make it 13­
6. Senior midfielder Jim Marlatt initiated the run with the first score, which was followed by a man-down goal from senior attackman John Scioscia and then a goal from junior midfielder Jack Near 15 seconds later. 
Duke responded with a pair of goals from sopho­more midfielder Myles Jones. Ossello scored his second and the last goal of the day in the last two minutes on a skip pass up the right side from Doyle, bringing the fi­nal score to 15-7. 
Overall, the Blue Devils outshot Notre Dame, 44-34, but the Irish won the faceoff battle, 15-10, with senior midfielder Liam O’Connor taking every attempt for the Irish. The Blue Devils were 3-of-5 in man-up opportu­nities and Notre Dame was 2-of-6. 


Moving forward, the Irish recognize that a loss like this can provide insight on the remainder of their sea­son, O’Hara said. 
“I think it was very hum­bling as a team to get beat like we did, but at the same time, it was nice to see we never gave up regardless of the score,” O’Hara said. “I believe we’ll learn that with the type of teams we play, we can’t afford to have a slow start, and we need to piece together a full 60-minute game.” 
The Irish take on Marquette on the road Tuesday at 5 p.m. in Milwaukee. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

W Basketball 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
Irish sophomore guard Jewell Loyd scored the first basket of the night on a fourth-chance shot. That play would prove to be indic­ative of the entire evening, as Notre Dame outrebounded Maryland, 50-21, and held the Terrapins to just four of­fensive boards. 
“The biggest key, the thing that we worked on all week against our practice guys was boxing out, really getting a body on someone,” McGraw said. “Not worrying about who’s going to go get the re­bound, just putting a body es­pecially on [Maryland senior forward] Alyssa [Thomas], making sure she didn’t get the rebound. So whoever was guarding her, that was their job, just to keep her off, not to get any rebounds.” 
Loyd hit a second layup at 18:31, which was answered with a shot from Maryland freshman center Brionna Jones, who would bury the first three baskets of the night for the Terps and finish with 16 points. 
The Irish and the Terrapins traded the lead back and fourth, and at 12:31 redshirt junior guard Laurin Mincy hit a jump shot to tie the game 17-17. Over the next sev­en minutes, the Irish would go on a 16-4 run sparked by senior guard Kayla McBride. McBride finished the game with 28 points. 
“Without Ace [Achonwa] in the game, we ran a few more sets than we usually would and tried get [McBride] the ball early on,” McGraw said. “And then when she was playing well we wanted to continue to give it to her. She can really create a lot of shots out of our entire offense. I thought she did a great job in transition, but she was re­ally good on the ball screen today, too.” 
And while McBride was a huge key to replacing Achonwa’s production, the senior guard insisted she made a point of taking pres­sure off herself. 
“I was just trying to have fun,” McBride said. “The past couple of games I’ve been pressing a little bit. I’m a se­nior and I felt like I had to do too much. I let the game come to me. But it was a team effort all around.” 
The Terps were not able to create a run of their own in the last few minutes of the first half, and as the final seconds of the period ticked down Irish junior guard Madison Cable hit a 3-point­er to give the Irish a 48-31 lead going into the break. 
The Irish onslaught contin­ued in the opening minutes of the second half. Twenty seconds in, Loyd hit a con­tested jumper to stretch the lead to 50-31. McBride hit a layup on the next possession to put Notre Dame ahead by 21. 
Unlike the Jan. 27 meeting between the two teams, when Maryland erased a 22-point Irish lead, there would be no second-half 20-point come­back for the Terrapins. 
“They just wanted it more,” we did to them last time, so they weren’t going to take us lightly in the second half. We are a second-half team, and they knew that, so they just played harder than us.” 
Maryland  freshman  guard  
Lexie  Brown  said.  “They  
clearly  remembered  what  


Thomas, Maryland’s all-time leading scorer and a three-time ACC player of the year, finished her college ca­reer with an uncharacteristi­cally frustrating night. The senior picked up two fouls in the first half and another two in the first 11 minutes of the second. Her usually ex­cellent shooting suffered for long stretches as she went 5-for-13 from the floor for 14 points, most of those scored after Maryland had fallen far behind the Irish. 

“When that happens to Alyssa, at times she has to pull back because she knows she wants to be on the floor. So definitely it was difficult,” Maryland coach Brenda Frese said when asked about Thomas’s foul trouble. 
While Thomas was strug­gling to stay on the court, role players like Notre Dame junior forward Markisha Wright took advantage of the limelight. Wright scored 12 points and grabbed nine rebounds. 
“What a great day to bring it out,” McGraw said of Wright’s performance. “She really was great. I think she’s been ready all year long. … I think this is a moment she’s been looking forward to, the opportunity to go out there and play more than she has been, and she really took ad­vantage of it.” 
Cable added seven points, and freshman forward Taya Reimer and freshman guard Lindsay Allen tallied nine apiece. 
The Irish will play Connecticut for the national title Tuesday night. The tip­off at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tenn., is sched­uled for 8:30 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


Rebounding 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
offensive rebounding and be­ing dominant on the glass,” Maryland coach Brenda Frese said. 
Without Achonwa, the Irish did struggle to defend the in­terior at first, surrendering six points to Terrapins fresh­man center Brionna Jones in the early going. Reimer, who started in Achonwa’s place, picked up a quick foul and sat down in the first five minutes. 
But behind the steady play of junior forward Markisha Wright, who picked up 12 points and nine rebounds af­ter averaging 2.1 points and 1.5 rebounds all year, the Irish steadily pulled away on the boards, ending the game with a 50-21 margin overall. 

“I think this was the most I’ve played all year, so I was able to use those minutes to my advantage,” Wright said. “My mindset was to be more aggressive and to get more rebounds.” 
Wright’s breakout perfor­mance came as no surprise to her teammates, who said she is just as dominant in training. 
“[What she did] was noth­ing,” Loyd said. “Markisha is unstoppable. We see it all the time in practice, so for her to come out here and perform here at the Final Four for ev­eryone, that’s exciting.” 
Loyd also enjoyed a good day on the boards, hauling down nine in total, tied with Wright for the game lead. Both Loyd and Wright out-rebounded Maryland senior forward Alyssa Thomas, who entered the game with 28 double-doubles and an aver­age of 11 rebounds per game. 
“All of us had that mentality of just rebounding the ball,” Loyd said. “Maryland is re­ally good at rebounding, and Thomas does a great job on the boards and putting it back up, so we focused on keeping her off the glass.” 
When Notre Dame played Maryland on Jan. 27, Thomas put up 29 points and 12 re­bounds, while Achonwa was limited by foul trouble. This game, the Irish held Thomas to 14 points and six rebounds, and although Achonwa was not on the court, she provided her teammates with a spark from the sideline. 
“At the beginning of the game, we talked, and it went beyond just me,” Achonwa said. “I went around the cir­cle, and I asked every single one of them if they wanted to go home anymore, and every single one of them said, ‘No.’ So I said, ‘You put me on your back, you put each other on your back, you need to do it for all 13 people in this ring.’” 
Filling Achonwa’s spot in the lineup, Reimer recovered from some early nerves and chipped in nine points, five rebounds and four assists on 30 minutes of work. 
“I knew that I was going to be nervous, coming into this environment as a freshman,” Reimer said. “My teammates helped me focus, and I just re­laxed and focused and came back.” 
Reimer and the Irish will face Connecticut on Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. The Huskies rank 12th nationally with a 9.2 re­bound margin. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | THE OBSERVER 

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | HILLARY MANGIAFORTE 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: Choose your battles wisely, but don’t run and hide. If you want to get ahead, face opposition smartly and with all your facts in order. Swift action and precise strategic maneuvers will ensure your success and your safety. Accept the inevitable so that you can move on to make improvements that are doable. Your numbers are 7, 12, 22, 28, 34, 39, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Emotions will spin out of control if you let trivial matters get to you. Don’t get into an argument because someone doesn’t think the same way you do. Keep your life simple, get your chores out of the way and keep the peace. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Check out your options and make a decision. Sign up for an activity or event that interests you, but reserve judgment. Now is the time to learn, not to make an impulsive decision based on limited information and knowledge. Love is highlighted. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Taking action may be your way of getting what you want, but do your research before getting started. You are likely to make a mistake if you base your choices on what you hear in passing. Get the facts before you proceed. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your imagination and you will find ways to have fun without being indulgent. Emotions will run high, making it necessary to be positive and mindful of others. Romance will improve your personal life. Live, love and laugh. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An abrupt change may be unsettling, but if you stay calm and look at the pros and cons, you will find a way to turn a lemon into lemonade. Travel delays can be avoided by mapping out your route prior to leaving. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your heart is in the right place, and offering assistance can lead to personal benefits, but refrain from making cash donations. Your time and expertise are sufficient. Wasting money will cause a problem between you and someone you love. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Don’t share your concern with a colleague, peer or anyone who can affect your position or reputation. Keep your life simple and your expenses down. Domestic problems and regrets are apparent if you aren’t willing to compromise. Keep the peace. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Explore, experiment and live life to the fullest. Expand your interests, friendships or romantic relationship with someone special. Do something unique that will lead to greater joy, happiness and longevity. Health, wealth and love are highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Not everything is as it appears. An unfortunate situation will develop if you get involved in a joint money venture. The truth may hurt, but it will be necessary. Focus on making your home life better and your residence more efficient. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t feel pressured to jump into action because someone is being demanding. Rethink your plans. Get together with someone you love or an old friend, and you will be able to turn a negative day into a positive and fruitful experience. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get back to basics and consider the things you used to do that made you happy. The activities you enjoy and are skillful at executing can be incorporated into something that can also generate extra cash. Invest in your interests and your future. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Spend time with people you enjoy. Socializing or hosting an event will put you in the spotlight. Share your creative plans for the future with people you feel can make a contribution. Love is in the stars. Mix business with pleasure. 

Birthday Baby: You are sympathetic but not a pushover. You are proactive and energetic. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 



Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 87, MARYLAND 61 

Rebounding keys way with 28 points 
McBride leads the Final Four win 
By VICKY JACOBSEN By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer Associate Sports Editor 
“Next man in.” 

Just 27 seconds after the It’s a favorite saying of 
opening tip, No. 1-seed Notre Irish football coach Brian 
Dame had three offensive Kelly, but on Sunday it was 
rebounds and all the mo-the Notre Dame women’s 
mentum against No. 4-seed basketball team that put the 
Maryland. philosophy into practice in 
After losing senior forward an 87-61 blowout win over 
Natalie Achonwa to a torn Maryland in the national 
ACL in the Elite Eight, the semifinal at Bridgestone 
Irish (37-0, 16-0 ACC) faced Arena in Nashville, Tenn. 
the daunting task of replac-Despite losing senior for­
ing their leading rebounder ward Natalie Achonwa to a 
while facing the Terrapins torn ACL in their Elite Eight 
(28-7, 12-4), who ranked third win, the Irish (37-0) did not 
in the nation in rebound miss a beat as they domi­
margin. nated the boards and outshot 
They responded by shut-the Terrapins (28-7) by 10 
ting down Maryland on the percentage points. 
boards, collecting nearly as “I think I saw it in practice,” 
many offensive rebounds (19) Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
as the Terrapins had in total said when asked when she 
(21). And it all started with knew her team would be able 
that opening possession, to play without Achonwa. “I 
when senior forward Ariel saw it the day after [her in-
Braker, freshman forward jury]. When we came back 
Taya Reimer and sophomore Wednesday for practice, I 
guard Jewell Loyd all col-thought you could see it in 
lected rebounds before Loyd their eyes. They were deter-
finally sank a layup. mined that this was not go­
“They set the tone from ing to slow them down.” GRANT TOBIN | The Observer the first possession with the 
Irish sophomore guard Jewell Loyd drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 87-61 victory in one of the see W BASKETBALL PAGE 22 national semifinals Sunday. Loyd contributed 16 points and nine rebounds in the win. see REBOUNDING PAGE 22 
MEN’S LACROSSE | DUKE 15, ND 7 
Notre Dame unable to overcome dominant Duke 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
It was all blue, all Duke, all afternoon, as No. 7 Notre Dame lost, 15-7, to ACC-rival No. 3 Duke on Saturday at Arlotta Stadium. 
The two teams entered the game tied for second in the ACC with identical 2-1 con­ference records and a share of first place on the line. The Irish (4-4, 2-2 ACC) could not find their rhythm against the Blue Devils (10-2, 3-1), who held the lead the entire game to pass Notre Dame in ACC standings. 
“I think we matched up well even though the numbers 
see M LACROSSE PAGE 20 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish freshman midfield Sergio Perkovic scans the field against Duke on Saturday. Perkocic scored his ninth goal of the season in the game. 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | VIRGINIA 13, ND 8 
Colgan, Virginia shut down ND 
By ALEX WILCOX 
Sports Writer 

Draw controls and goaltend­ing proved to be the deciding factor in No. 6 Notre Dame’s 13-8 loss to No. 16 Virginia on Saturday. 
The Irish (8-5, 1-4 ACC) strug­gled to get in a groove through­out the game, as Virginia (7-6, 1-3) dominated draw con­trol and time of possession. Without many opportunities to score, Notre Dame still man­aged to outshoot the Cavaliers, 31-27. The Irish converted only 
25.8 percent of their shots into goals, though, well below their season average of 43.3. 
“We can’t have excuses,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “We have to tighten it up and work for better angles to get high-percentage shots.” 
Cavaliers senior goalkeeper Liz Colgan ranks fifth in the country in terms of saves per game with an average of 10.0, and she added 16 more saves to her total Saturday. The Irish took 16 shots in the first period, yet only one got by Colgan, an unassisted goal by Irish fresh­man Cortney Fortunato. 
“When you go 1-for-16, that’s going to be a tough way to win any game, and we have to tight­en that up against a good goal­keeper,” Halfpenny said. 
“[Colgan’s] been doing this. If you look back at what she does, she has had some crazy days in goal keeping Virginia in 
see W LACROSSE PAGE 20 


ND Women’s Tennis vs Pittsburgh  W 7-0  Men’s  Golf at Irish Creek Collegiate  T-6th  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Marquette  Tues, 5 p.m.  
Men’s Tennis at NC State  L 4-3  Men’s Lacrosse vs Duke  L 15-7  
ND Women’s Basketball  W 87-61  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs Virginia  L 13-8  Baseball vs. Chicago State  Tues, 7:30 p.m.  
Baseball at Florida State  L 11-2  ND Softball at DePaul  L 4-2  
Baseball at Florida State  L 4-3  ND Women’s Golf at Rebel Intercollegiate  T-13th  ND Women’s Basketball vs UConn  Tues, 8:30 p.m.  






