THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 

VOLUME 47, ISSUE 91 | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 18, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Weekend celebrates juniors, parents 
Students, families share campus traditions through gala, academic workshops 
By MADISON JAROS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame welcomed juniors’ parents to campus last weekend, this time not to cheer for Irish football, but to attend Junior Parents Weekend (JPW). 
A committee of 13 ju­niors, led by JPW chairper­son Shannon Hagedorn, planned the event, which aimed to expose parents to the strong sense of tradition at Notre Dame. 
“My goal for this year’s JPW was to make it a really special and elegant week­end,” Hagedorn said. “In selecting the program pic­tures, centerpieces and dec­orations, I tried to represent the tradition and magic of Notre Dame.” 

Even though severe storms in the Northeast pre­vented some parents from Photo courtesy of Shannon Hagedorn 
Juniors and their parents mingle at the Junior Parents Weekend  dinner Saturday in the Joyce Center. see JPW PAGE 3 More than 4,000 people attended the weekend’s events, which also included a gala and dorm brunches. 



Professor wins research award 

By ALEX CAO 
News Writer 
Computer science pro­fessor Kevin Bowyer re­ceived the 2014 Institute of Electrical Engineering and Electronics (IEEE) Computer Society’s Technical Achievement Award for his research in the field of biometrics. 
Bowyer said he and his group of student research­ers work in facial recogni­tion technology, focusing on “using infrared imaging and 3-D imaging as well as using regular pictures like you would take with a 
see BIOMETRICS PAGE 4 


Club sponsors autism conference 
By JESSICA MERDES 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Special Friends Club will hold its fifth annual Autism Conference on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
Vanderbilt pediatrics professor and Notre Dame alumna Julie Lounds Taylor will give a talk ti­tled “Understanding the 
Transition  to  Adulthood  
with  Autism  Spectrum  
Disorder.”  
Sophomore  Thomas  

Gordon, a member of the Special Friends Club, said Taylor is a leader in exam­ining how people with au­tism interact with the rest of society.
 “Dr. Taylor’s research program investigates how individual, family and so­cietal factors interact to promote healthy develop­ment, and she is especially interested in how families experience the transition to adulthood for young adults affected by Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD),” Gordon said. 

Gordon said the Special Friends  Club aims to bring speakers to the conference who have made a signifi­cant commitment to fight­ing autism. 
“The beauty of the Autism Conference is the profes­sionals invited to speak at the event,” he said. 
“Past speakers have rep­resented a group of indi­viduals who have impacted the knowledge we have of ASD through their research 
see AUTISM PAGE 4 


Play explores story of Jackie Robinson 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
News Writer 
The Mad River Theater Works (MRTW), an Ohio-based touring theater company, presented the play “Everybody’s Hero: The Story of Jackie 
Robinson”  on  Monday  
night  in  O’Laughlin  
Auditorium  at  Saint  
Mary’s.  

Written and directed by Jeff Hooper, co-found­er of MRTW, the musi­cal told the beginning of Robinson’s baseball career for the Brooklyn Dodgers. A cast of six performed, including Bob Lucas, co-founder of MRTW and the show’s composer. 
Richard Baxter, 
see ROBINSON PAGE 5 


ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

An actor portrays baseball great Jackie Robinson in the play “Every­body’s Hero” in the Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium on Monday. 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 BENGAL BOUTS PAGE 16 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew Gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite Saturday morning cartoon? 


Alex Sun 

Jennifer Cochrane 
junior 
junior 
Keough Hall 
Pasquerilla East Hall 
“Pokemon.” 
“Doug.” 

Courtney Krishnan 

Erin O’Brien 
junior 
junior 
McGlinn Hall 
Lewis Hall 
“Blue’s Clues.” 
“Recess.” 

Evan Doney 

Kristina Flathers 
junior 
junior 
Keough Hall 
Lewis Hall 
“Recess.” 
“Doug.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori Roeck Katie Heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie McCarty Aaron Sant-Miller Henry Gens Rebecca Rogaiski 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Erin Rice Kevin Noonan 


Photo Viewpoint 

Tunnel Tours LGBTQ 101 Zen Meditation Men’s Hockey “Solomon Northup’s 
Zach Llorens Austin Taliaferro 
Power Plant LaFortune McNeil 102 Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Odyssey” 8 a.m. - 3 p.m. Room Center Arena DeBartolo Performing For grad students 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 7:05 p.m. - 9:05 p.m. Arts Center 




Corrections 

only, part of Graduate Two-hour interactive Meditation practice The Irish take on the 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
In the Feb. 3 article “SMC explores Appreciation Week. presentation. open to all. BU Terriers. 1984 adaptation of faith and law,” Adrienne Lyles 
“Twelve Years a Slave.” 

Chockley was misquoted, saying 
“The Naked Truth” Special Friends Play: Clybourne Park Notre Dame 
“Ex-offenders lack a connection 

155 DeBartolo Autism Conference DeBartolo Performing Symphony Orchestra “12 Years a Slave” 
to something greater than 

7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library, Arts Cener DeBartolo Performing Ibid. 
themselves.” In fact, she said ex-
On advertising’s image Carey Auditorium 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Arts Center 6:30 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. 
offenders often lack “self-love.” The 
of gender, with Jean 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Race and generational 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 2013 adaptation of 
Observer regrets the error. 

Kilbourne. Reception will follow. issues in Chicago. Winter concert. “Twelve Years a Slave.” 


JPW 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
attending, 4,000 people were involved in the week­end’s events, Hagedorn said.  
Hagedorn said the week­end involved a number of diverse events, including a gala, collegiate workshops, a JPW Mass and a presi­dent’s dinner. 
“It was so fun to see ev­eryone mingling and danc­ing at the gala, meeting professors at the academic workshops, coming togeth­er for the Mass and sharing dinner and brunch together with incredible speakers, including keynote speakers [University President Fr. John] Jenkins, [junior class president] Olivia LaMagna and [director of the Institute for Educational Initiatives Fr. Timothy] Scully,” Hagedorn said. 
Junior Stephanie Scherer said JPW opened her eyes to how large the junior class was. 
“Sometimes you don’t re­alize how many people you don’t know until you’re all in one place,” Scherer said. 
Junior Catherine Puma said student involvement in the event helped build community within the ju­nior class. 
“I feel a better sense of community, especial­ly since we had student speakers, because so many people were involved,” Puma said. 


Junior Kathryn Bush said the experience gave her parents a chance to bet­ter understand her life at Notre Dame. 
“[Our] parents liked to see how we made the University our own,” Bush said. 
The weekend was not only an opportunity for students to interact, but for parents to meet their 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

children’s friends and their parents, Puma said. 
JPW also reminded stu­dents that graduation is closer than they think, Scherer said. 
“It gives us a sense that we don’t have much time left here, so we want to en­joy it and have an impact before we leave,” she said. 
Contact Madison Jaros at            mjaros@nd.edu 


Professor makes playwright debut 
By KELLY KONYA 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

Former Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s professor Matthew Benedict will make his debut as a local playwright Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at the South Bend Civic Theatre. 
His play, titled “A False Lie,” begins when two strangers meet on an ordinary fall day in Cape Cod, both attempting to escape their complicated lives, Benedict said. 
“Over the course of the en­suing day, they slowly reveal to each other their physical and psychological scars, and through this joint revelatory act, each embraces the ‘false lie,’ or ‘truth,’ ignored,” he said. “‘A False Lie’ explores how trust cultivates truth and truth triggers redemption.” 
Benedict, who most recent­ly taught a course in language and literature last semester at Saint Mary’s, was also a member of the Notre Dame Department of English for 18 years. He received his M.A. in English and an M.F.A. in creative writing from Notre Dame, he said. 
Benedict said the two main characters of “A False Lie,” Grace and Kane, are protago­nists from two separate short stories he had published years ago. 
“In these intervening years, I’ve tried several times to put them into the same narra­tive,” he said. “Attempts at several short stories and even a novel failed, and rightfully so. One day while working on another play, a thought bub­ble appeared: Put Grace and Kane in a play. 
“Bingo. Six weeks later, I had the first draft of ‘A False Lie.’” 
Benedict said he enjoys writing plays because of their need for physical movement accompanying psychological action. He doesn’t experience writing fiction the same way, a genre that can cause a writ­er to become obsessed with the work’s introspectiveness. 
“I guess if there’s a ‘lesson’ from the history of ‘A False Lie,’ it’s you have to have both the courage and the pa­tience to try different forms,” he said. “Something that’s somewhat dead as a poem, for example, might actually work as a play. Something that just doesn’t feel right as a story might be a photograph. 
“Finding the appropriate medium, form and genre is as important as what that medi­um and form and genre even­tually become.” 
Benedict said he is excited for the play’s production and hopes the story will hold to­gether and be plausible, even poignant, for the audience. 
Saint Mary’s first-year Mary Prebys, a former stu­dent of Benedict’s, said she will definitely be in the au­dience to see Benedict’s pas­sion and brilliance for writing and theatre shine through his work. 
“Professor Benedict’s class last semester was hands down my favorite class,” Prebys said. “He had an incredible way of relating all of the texts we read to each other and to our world and society today. 
“I learned so much in his class, but I believe the most important thing he taught was the importance of asking questions outside of class.” 
Prebys said Benedict was always willing to meet with students, which was when she saw firsthand his zeal for teaching. 
“It was in those conversa­tions that I truly felt myself grow, not only in my writ­


“He had an incredible way of relating all of the texts we read to each other and to our world and society today.” 
Mary Prebys 
first-year student 
ing, but in how I mentally approach a topic and think through that topic,” she said. “Even though he taught a literature class, I felt I grew more as a philosopher and critical thinker, in the best way possible.” 
Saint Mary’s first-year Colleen Maus, another for­mer student of Benedict’s, said Benedict was very in­triguing in class because the students never knew what to expect from him. 
“He always managed to command the class in an en­gaging and interesting man­ner,” Maus said. “We could easily tell how passionate he is about his field.” 
Benedict said he is currently working on two plays: one an expansion of a short story and the other historically-based. 
“I’m also doing some very rudimentary work with comic and graphic writ­ing,” Benedict said. “We’ll see where it goes. you just never know, which is why I like writing, and teaching so much: you just never know. But what joy, excitement and fun it is finding out.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at           kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 



THE OBSERVER | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 18, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


biometrics 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
normal camera you’d get from Best Buy, or with your phone.” 
Bowyer said he is re­searching iris-recognition technology over retina-rec­ognition technology for the former’s practicality and reliability. 
“The iris is the muscle that controls the size of the pupil, how much light gets in,” he said. “With the ret­ina you have to get up real­ly close [and] shine a light through the small hole in the eye to get a picture of the back into the eyeball. … Another thing we have been involved in ... is this idea that if you start using the iris-imaging to recognize somebody — so you sign up and you enroll in a system to get into your bank account with [your] iris — that the quality of the match [does] not degrade over time.” 
Bowyer said he and his team perform their research 


“One of the things that comes up often is the idea of using the 3-D shape of the face as a way of recognizing a person.” 
Kevin Bower 
professor 
by using digital mapping as opposed to photographic recognition. 
“One of the things that comes up often is the idea of using the 3-D shape of the face as a way of rec­ognizing a person,” he said. “Think of an Arnold Schwarzenegger science fiction movie or something where they sweep a light beam over the face to get the shape of a face. It’s a high-tech and a bit of a ‘sci­ence fiction-y’ idea. 
“But the thought is that the 3D shape is not so much affected by lighting. If you’re standing under a light or if you have light coming at you from the side ... then it would look differ­ent than it would normally. If you used a 3-D shape cen­ter, lighting wouldn’t im­pact it, and if you look at the face from the side, you can still get information about the face.” 
Bowyer said his research has been influenced by the Boston Marathon bomb­ing that took place April 15, 2013. 
“There were all these spectators that were taking all these pictures,” he said. “There were all these busi­nesses taking video. There was no shortage of images 

and no shortage of videos  in supporAutism  ting those whose special interest topic.”  
and images that had the  lives andCONTINUED FROM PAGE 1   families are af-The Notre Dame com- 
people in it. But face recog­ fected by  it in the class­munity can help make the  
nition technology did not  and a lifelong commit- transition to adulthood  
really help solve the crime  ment to helping us come “This for people with autism  is an area  
… and the government rec- closer to understanding  smoother, Mondi said.  
ognized that.”  ASD.” wher e we, as “If individuals with ASD  
In the future, the United  The Special Friends young college  are to reach their fullest  
States may fall behind  in  Club’s president, senior stud potentials as they move ents and  
facial recognition technol- Christina Mondi said our  into adulthood, they will  
ogy, Bowyer said.  emersociety needs to develop  ging need the understanding  
“The country that’s prob- better strategies for sup-prof essionals, and support of their class- 
ably leading the world in  porting autistic individu­coul d make a mates and community  
applied biometric recogni­ als and their families. real difference  members in doing so,”  
tion technology is the coun­ “According to the  she said. “This is an area  
try of India,” he said. “They  in forging [Center for Disease  where we, as young col- 
have an ambitious program  Control], roughly 1 [out a cul ture of lege students and emerg­ 
where they are going to get  of] 88 children will be acce ptance ing professionals, could  
all of their 1.3 billion citi­ diagnosed with ASD,” for o make a real difference in ur peers  
zens a biometrically-en- Mondi said. “Almost all  forging a culture of accep­ 
abled government I.D. …  affected by students will inevitably  tance for our peers affect- 
The rest of the world would  have a family member, ASD.”  ed by ASD.”  
de facto use the technology  friend, colleague, class-Christina Mondi  The event is open and  
… and the U.S. will have to  mate or neighbor affected president  free for all students. For  
play catch-up with the rest  by autism. … It is incred-Special  more information, visit Friends Club  
of the world.”  ibly important that stu­ the conference’s website.  

Contact Alex Cao at              acao@nd.edu 
dents be aware not only of what autism is, but of how they can play a role 
room, workplace and community. This is not a 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





robinson 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

director of special events, said MRTW came to Saint Mary’s last year, and per­formed the play “Freedom Bound.” 
“[MRTW] has been around since the late 1970s, and their primary mission is to get original works out into areas that don’t have ac­cess to the arts,” Baxter said. “Their purpose is to take their program with the original music and take it to school auditoriums and places that don’t have access to touring shows. They’re coming to Saint Mary’s be­cause they have a great show and they have a history of doing great shows.” 
MRTW came to Saint Mary’s as part of the Shaheen/Duggan Performing Arts Series, sponsored by the Office of Special Events. This series which will feature a yet-un­announced spring theater performance from April 3 to 6 and a performance of “The Snail and The Whale,” a chil­dren’s show that will pre­miere April 26, Baxter said. 
“‘Everybody’s Hero’ was written in 2004 with per­mission from the Robinson family and will conclude its run with MRTW tomorrow in Ohio,” Lucas said. 
The show was chosen by the Office of Student Activities because February is Black History Month and because Robinson broke many racial barriers, Baxter said. 
“Baseball means grass and summer and that’s what we need right now — warm weather,” Baxter said. “More importantly this celebrates the breaking of a racial bar­rier in professional sports, and [Robinson] made it pos­sible for athletes in all fields and all arenas to integrate the professional world of sports.” 
Baxter said the cast of “Everybody’s Hero” hopes to instill the feelings of joy, pride and courage to go out on one’s own in its audience. The play examines the ways individuals can help make the world a more inclusive environment , Baxter said. 
“We need to be socially conscious,” he said. “We need to be inclusive. We need to take this sense of community we have here and take it past the confines of the campus as we go out. 
“I would hope a student coming to see the show would go out and ask, ‘How can I help integrate the 


 ‘“Everybody’s Hero’ was written in 2004 with permission from the Robinson family and will conclude its run with MRTW tomorrow in Ohio.” 
Bob Lucas                         
composer 
world in which I’m going in whatever way? … How can I make this a more accepting environment?’” 
Kalyn Whitaker, assistant director of arts for the Office of Special Events, said the performance allows the au­dience to see what Robinson experienced. 
“[The play helps the au­dience learn] the story of Jackie Robinson and … the things he experienced dur­ing his time and how much he influenced baseball at the time, and not just baseball itself, but anything toward the African-American cul­ture and how far he pushed it into the future,” Whitaker said. 
Contact Alex Winegar at             awineg01@saintmarys.edu 



THE OBSERVER | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 17, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

The problem with slacktivism 

InsIDE Column 

Geek life vs. Greek life 


Rebecca Rogalski 
Sports Writer 

Before transferring to the University of Notre Dame this past fall, I spent my fresh­man year down in SEC territory at the University of Missouri. Upon my acceptance to Missouri, I made a commitment to posi­tively improve myself both academically and socially throughout my four years of college, no matter what. 
In terms of academia, it was evident that I would succeed at Missouri, even as I was pursuing a journalism degree from one of the most highly touted journalism schools in the nation. However, when it came to the social aspect of my collegiate experience, that promise I had made to myself could not be upheld. This reasoning can be summed up by two simple words: Greek life. 
you can’t attend a state school and not hear about the Greek community. At these schools, fraternities and sororities are the central hub for the collegiate social scene across the nation. Throughout my time at the University of Missouri, I experienced exactly what it was like to be a member of the Greek community. Unfortunately, this experience left me disheartened, feeling as if my overall growth as an individual had been impaired. I eventually determined, this college envi­ronment that I once thought would have a strong sense of community was utterly shat­tered by the very presence of Greek life. 
The polarization between Greeks and Non-Greeks at the University of Missouri was the main indicator of a sig­nificant problem. It seemed as though the only way to have the social life that I wanted could be found through Greek life. But, once you joined the Greeks, there was no going back. Non-Greek students, labeled “GDI’s” (abbreviated for “God D*** Independents”), were harshly ridiculed by fraternity men and sorority women alike. 
How does this behavior foster a com­munal environment? Where is the class and maturity that these Greek men and women claim to uphold? I find it incredibly appalling that this lack of respect for others is tolerated. 
At the University of Notre Dame, we pride ourselves on living by the foundation that Father Sorin set forth. He envisioned Notre Dame as becoming “one of the most power­ful means of doing good in this country”. I believe that the University’s familial sense of community can be attributed to that vi­sion. One can see this displayed through the “Peace be with you” hugs at dorm mass, singing the alma mater after football games and earnestly praying alongside one another at the Grotto. We are 8,000 students strong, standing beside our fellow peers through it all. 
So the next time you explain to someone that dorm life is exactly like Greek life, please reevaluate your statements. Here at Notre Dame, we rise above the Greek life standard, respecting all by treating one another with dignity and compassion. We are Notre Dame students. We are all nerds. We are all cool. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Michael Fliotsos 
Viewpoint Columnist 

Lots of words can be used to de­scribe the members of our genera­tion — busy, distracted, stressed, what have you. Of all of those, “connected” seems to be the most ubiquitous. Information regarding the world around us is more avail­able than ever before. News reports from across the globe are available almost immediately on Twitter timelines and Facebook newsfeeds everywhere, and the news diffuses through social networks at a break­neck speed, with the popularity of certain tidbits of information growing exponentially in a snow­ball effect as they are shared and retweeted. Truthfully, we are mem­bers of the most well-informed generation of young people to date. 
The connectivity of the modern age and this social media informa­tion translation has subtly crept its way into how young people involve themselves in social causes. One needs to look no further than the viral sensation that was Kony 2012 (throwback, right?) to get an un­derstanding of how powerful and pervasive internet-catalyzed social movements can become. Aside from the fact that by early 2012, Kony’s followers were estimated to number only a few hundred at best and the video erroneously pinpointed Kony to be in Uganda as opposed to the Central African Republic, the indisputable fact remains that within the span of a week, 100 million viewers were more educated about the man and his injustices where very few even knew who he was before. It’s obvi­ous social media has drastically changed the number of people who are aware of obscure social, politi­cal and economic issues across the world and there is nothing inher­ently objectionable to that. 
As we should probably know by now, knowing is just half the battle — this type of viral market­ing can only do so much to work past that goal. Some people are frightfully willing to throw their support behind certain campaigns and it makes sense why — doing so makes us feel good, and we are supposedly doing our part to help others become more aware of the issue at hand. The problem with this line of thinking is it encour­ages quantity of engagement over quality of said engagement. When our Facebook profiles are chock-full of likes for certain charitable organizations and causes, one can­not help but wonder the amount of time and effort — if any — that person put behind said cause in the real world. This type of “slacktiv­ism” can have deleterious effects when people are too caught up in the touchy-feely, lovey-dovey pathos of the campaign that they become numb to what — or who 
—
 they’re even supporting in the first place. A recent study from by Sara H. Konrath of the University of Michigan found empathy — the feeling of “genuinely caring about other people’s emotional experi­ences” — has steadily decreased over the past several years, a trend magnified by the unavoidable nar­cissism inherent with social media. This trend bleeds over to and hurts social causes whose main sup­port comes from the online realm 

—
 people are more than happy to support a cause by clicking a but­ton, but when it comes to actually going out and volunteering? That’s a much harder sell. It goes without 


saying that if we struggle to feel the daily struggles of those with whom we actually interact, it is exceed­ingly difficult to feel a genuine sense of solidarity with a cause on a Facebook page. 
All of this is not to say that get­ting information about social is­sues on social media is inherently disingenuous — it just means we as consumers of that information have to be more active in sift­ing through the vast amounts of information we have available at our fingertips to become active advocates for change in the real world. We must never lose sight of the physical value of getting out there and, as clichéd as it sounds, making a difference. Marching for a cause in Washington, D.C. or South Bend, Ind., requires a physi­cal presence (and in the case for March for Life, braving negative 20-degree weather) that forces you to feel a tangible connection to the cause you are supporting. Standing in the elevator lobby of LaFun handing out fliers or selling an item for charity, or garnering support for a cause forges an inti­mate connection between you and said cause that an Upworthy video simply cannot foster. Ultimately, we must come to realize that while social media can act as the con­duit of information that can ignite the spark within, the only way to make that flame into a true fire is to get out in the world and kindle it yourself.  
Michael Fliotsos is a sophomore Science-Business major residing in Duncan Hall. Contact Michael at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDItorIAl CArtoon 



A long walk under the Dome 
Maura Kelly 
Guest Columnist 

At the President’s Dinner on Junior Parents Weekend, Father Jenkins said Junior Parents Weekend only served as a reminder to parents that “this is a four-seasons school.” Laughing politely with the crowd at the comfortable and familiar joke about the weather, I didn’t realize how deeply that sentiment would actually resonate with me. 
We were reminded constantly dur­ing the weekend that Junior Parents Weekend is the beginning of the end. Parents were informed that we are now old, wise adults preparing for graduation, tycoons of maturity, education and worldliness. We are certainly not the doe-eyed babes of that sparkling, mystical fresh­man year of college. We are so far removed from two years ago when we were the mere apprentices of the new. But what they forgot to men­tion between recycled-yet-heartfelt speeches about how we are the best class ever, was freshman year, soph­omore year and even junior year were really astoundingly hard. 
Coming to a prestigious univer­sity like Notre Dame is an honor. It is a source of deep pride, some­thing making you puff your chest out when someone from home asks where you go to school. But it also means that you go to school with the smartest and most accomplished kids in the country. It means that you compete on a grading curve that is not too easy to ride when study­ing has to take a backseat to stress, depression, homesickness, family problems and social anxieties. But you are not riding that curve alone. you’re on it with the same kids who “decided to be a doctor the day they were born” and the ones who are the “CEOs of Overachieving Teenage Start-Up, Inc.” At the very least, they aren’t the ones who seem to be strangled by self-doubt every mo­ment of their college career. But then again, you’re usually so deep in your own worries you can’t tell if anyone else is drowning too. The Titanic is burning in the distance, hundreds of bodies are flailing in that same ocean, but you’re too exhausted to reach out, too scared that you’ll pull someone else under. But college goes on and you try to survive the Notre Dame ride — you pull off passing grades because you are a world class “faker,” you go to parties, get drunk, talk about boys, volunteer in clubs and dream of making a difference in the world all while you feel like your world is only hanging on by one last shred of con­fidence and sanity. 
But then one day, you have your “Father Jenkins, four seasons” moment. 
As the tycoon of maturity and ex­perience that I have become, I’ve learned that if you’re offered any opportunity to get a ride in a real and heated car to cut down on any of the walking distance between the JACC and Badin, you take it. So I got into my parents’ car after the Junior Parents Weekend brunch, let them pull into Main Circle and said my goodbyes. As I made my way across the South Quad diagonal to my dorm, four thoughts entered my head in succession. First, my good­bye to my parents just then felt so similar to my goodbye outside of Badin in the late summer of 2011, when I started my time at Notre Dame. Second, the bustle of campus over the weekend was reminiscent of the family atmosphere of fall foot­ball weekends. Third, it was stupid-cold outside in a skirt in the snow. Fourth, the strange noise I repeat­edly heard this weekend was actu­ally the very first chirps of spring songbirds. 
Four seasons. 
As I thought about that strange combination for a few paces, I felt a deep and new weight of contentment settling into my soul. How many times had I made that walk back to Badin before, coming back from class, a cab or a football game? How many times did I spend that long, quiet walk questioning myself and my place at this school? Of those many walks, many were dark and lonely. But this one wasn’t. My “four seasons” moment communicated something to me, quietly and softly as the snow rustled on the muddied path under my feet. I had some­how survived those darkest days of self-doubt in what was supposed to be that happy, wild and spar­kling freshman year of college. And sophomore year of college. And even junior year of college. 
Maybe the Junior Parents Weekend speeches were right and we are the best class ever and we are tycoons of maturity, education and worldli­ness. Maybe we’re not. But they are right about one thing. If this is the beginning of the end of my time at Notre Dame, then I am going to fin­ish as a person who is much differ­ent from the girl who came in feeling so inadequate. I’ll leave as someone who has friends and a dorm she is proud to show off to her parents. I’ll be someone who has made the tran­sition from drowning, to swimming. I’ll be someone who can walk across campus on the heels of past experi­ences at Frosh-O’s, football games, snowy days and Frisbee tosses and truly feel like I’m walking the paths of my home. I’ll be a proud survivor of all the good and the bad alike. 
I will be a true Father Jenkins, four-season Domer. 
Maura Kelly is a junior residing in Badin Hall. Contact Maura at mkelly26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
uWIrE 



GOP should clarify immigration stance 
Ethan Demers 
The Daily Orange 

Speaking last Thursday, House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) made a concerted effort to temper immigration reform expectations for this year. 
“I never underestimated the difficulty in moving forward this year,” Boehner said, “There’s widespread doubt about whether this administration can be trusted to enforce our laws. And it’s go­ing to be difficult to move any immigra­tion legislation until that changes.” 
I believe Boehner is saying this be­cause he fears immigration reform could harm the GOP midterm elections in very conservative districts. For the fu­ture of the Republican Party, members need to address immigration reform as soon as possible. Otherwise, they risk losing significant ground in national elections as the Hispanic population continues to increase. 
Prior to these remarks, it appeared Boehner was prepared to aggressively push for immigration reform in 2014. For months he had been saying the House would take action on immigration. 
It is disappointing to see that, yet again, Boehner appears to be governing at the mercy of Tea Party Republicans, rather than leading his party to where it needs to be to win national elections. 
But it’s not only Tea Party Republicans that Boehner fears alienating with im­migration reform. Centrist Republicans from conservative districts who are likely to face challenges from Tea Party candidates are understandably wary of the possible political repercussions of supporting immigration reform — especially if reform includes a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants or “amnesty” as many conservatives refer to it. 
While it is true President Barack Obama has made unilateral changes to the Affordable Care Act unauthorized by Congress, this cannot be an excuse for Republicans to refuse to move forward on immigration reform. Throughout time, the general public will become quite weary of hearing it if blaming the Affordable Care Act for all of the nation’s problems is the GOP’s only message. 
yet the reality is, under Obama, more illegal immigrants have been deported than during any previous administration. He simply cannot be blamed for the fact that Republicans can’t seem to agree on how to move forward. 
Groups like the Tea Party Patriots will never be supportive of Boehner, no mat­ter how hard he tries to accommodate their interests. Even after Boehner made his comments, Jenny Beth Martin, na­tional coordinator of Tea Party Patriots, was still critical of him. 
“We fully expect him to change his mind again,” Martin said in a statement. “This is not leadership in any sense of the word and clearly demonstrates that Speaker Boehner’s ability to speak for the House of Representatives, the Republican Party or even the American people is over.” 
Groups like these will never support Republicans like Boehner, and it’s time he forgets about letting them influence him and begins concentrating on what is really important: pushing forward an immigration bill that is bipartisan enough to pass in not only the U.S. House of Representatives, but also the Senate. 
The GOP publicly released its im­migration reform principles on Jan. 30, 2013, and that was an important first step. Republicans can no longer be ac­cused of not being explicit in their terms thanks to this. 
Republican politicians must begin to treat immigrants and minorities as human beings who can add value to our economy, society and culture. The language of “illegal alien” is deci­sive and should no longer be used by Republicans. It will be measures like these that are just as important as any policy decisions in the long run. 
If Boehner really cares about his own legacy as Speaker of the House and the future of his party, it’s time he started to show more political courage on this issue. 
Otherwise, Republicans can expect the 71 percent of Latino voters who sup­ported Obama instead of Mitt Romney in 2012 to vote for a Democrat again in 2016. 
The Daily Orange is the independent student newspaper serving Syracuse University 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 18, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Kevin Noonan 
Scene Editor 

The late night comedy program line-up has been shaken up for the first time in five years. Jay Leno is out the door, presumably for good this time, and Jimmy Fallon will be at the helm of “The Tonight Show” for the foreseeable future. In retrospect, Conan O’Brien briefly taking over the show for Jay Leno seems like a blip on the radar. Though, the fact that you haven’t seen him since January 2010 should remind you that something happened to him, he’s gone. Don’t lie, you haven’t seen him on TBS — al­most nobody has. 
All indications this time, though, are that the late night schedule is set in stone for now. Well, it’s television, so it’s set in stone-colored Play-Doh 
— which is as good as you can ask for, I guess. As we enter the next gen­eration of “The Tonight Show” with Fallon as host, we will see a show bat­tling with comedy heavyweights for audience attention. Jimmy Kimmel is a little over a year into his move to 11:35 in the line-up, and David Letterman, Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert remain as strong as ever, so I think it’s about as good a time as any to take stock of where everyone stands, power-ranking style. It comes with two exceptions — first, I’m only going to rank hosts under 60, since an educated guess tells me those are the only shows that people under 60 watch. And second, before anybody calls me a sexist, Chelsea Handler isn’t included, but neither is Craig Ferguson and both for the same rea­son — nobody watches their shows. Not “nobody,” okay, but their viewer­ship numbers don’t put them in the same category as everyone else. 
And one last caveat — though it may seem like I’m critical of some of these hosts, and though it may sound like I’m more a fan of one than the other, and though it may look like I’ve ranked them based on perceived quality, I would, in fact, probably drop out of school right now to accept a job (or internship, I’m not picky) with any of them. Just keep that in mind in case you happen to be read­ing this on your lunch break, Conan. 
6. Conan o’brien 
Conan was, at one time, the bright­est star in late night. When he was coming on after Leno in the 90s and early 2000s for “Late Night with Conan O’Brien,” he was weird some­times, he was gross sometimes and he was smarter than his own good sometimes, but he was always hilari­ous. The energy was always high and the jokes were always absurd. He was slow out of the gates when he took over “The Tonight Show” in 2009, and he’s rarely been seen since. 
5. seth meyers 
He’s an unknown entity in terms of hosting his own show, but as head writer on “Saturday Night Live” and anchor for Weekend Update he proved his ability to make people laugh. If the Tina-Fey-as-Sarah-Palin sketches are any indication of what’s to be expected on his new show, which he and others have really only described as not a copy of Jimmy Fallon’s show, it’s worth giving a try. And with Lorne Michaels on board as an executive producer, “Late Night with Seth Meyers” has a good chance. 
4. Jimmy Kimmel 
This was a tough call, because even though Jimmy Kimmel has been rising in the ratings over the last year and has earned his place in the 11:35 timeslot, he’s gotten lost in the press hullabaloo driven by Leno’s depar­ture and Fallon’s coup. He edges out Jon Stewart in terms of viewership most nights (based on the few weeks of ratings numbers I’m looking at, most of this is just a gut call on my part), but he doesn’t seem to have the same kind of cultural resonance as Stewart. More than anything though, that Tostitos “Worst Contest Ever” stunt during the NCAA football National Championship game was just … awful. 
3. Jon stewart 
Ever after stepping aside for the summer and letting his leading cor­respondent, John Oliver, sit in his seat and deliver “The Daily Show,” Stewart is still a master of skewering. His show is consistently pointed and funny every night, and bit-by-bit he continues to eat into the ratings of his network competitors. The only thing that keeps him from being number two, really, is that he’s not Stephen Colbert. 
2. stephen Colbert 
Stephen Colbert, though, plays Stephen Colbert every night, much to his advantage in the power rank­ings. The character he’s created has transcended its original concept of simply parodying Bill O’Reilly. Colbert’s show hits hard and moves fast, and he never breaks character. The pistachio commercial at the Super Bowl was decidedly weird, but his name is still mentioned for seem­ingly every major entertainment role in Hollywood. If David Letterman ever retires, expect Colbert’s name to thrown around a lot. 
1. Jimmy fallon 
Fallon is, without a doubt, the hot­test name in late night television. He may not be the naturally funniest (I’d say Colbert, maybe Kimmel), or the best joke-writer (Meyers, I’d guess, but it’s a toss-up) or even the most brilliant (Conan, probably, though some say Colbert), but he has all three qualities to spare, and he is without a doubt the absolute best showman in the business. When he takes the stage every night, he puts on a show, combining his humor, musical tal­ent, intelligence and natural good will to win over the audience. With The Roots at his side, Lorne Michaels at his back and his boundless energy fueling the show, I think “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” will be a huge hit. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Erin McAuliffe 
Scene Writer 

Kanye West released a remix of Beyonce’s single, “Drunk In Love,” on Valentine’s Day. The song is from Beyonce’s self-titled album and features her husband, Jay-Z, laying down some lusty lyrics. 
Beyonce and Jay-Z are undoubtedly the power couple of our generation, but add Kanye West into the mix and “ain’t nobody messin’ with that clique.” The trio is the Illuminati personified. They are my dream — or should I say My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy — come true. Literally. Just last week I took a nap and dreamt that Kanye took me under his wing. Also, becoming Beyonce is obviously a recurring theme in my imagination, so this combination makes sense. 
In classic yeezus fashion, Kanye adds some raunchy references, samples his own song, and gives a shout-out to his fiancée on the track. He makes sure to emphasize Kim K’s bootay in a surprisingly endearing way, saying, “Let me remind you, you got a great future behind you.” Such inspirational words. Kanye is such a giving man, rapping pep talks to his wife over Beyonce’s beats. What more could a woman ask for? 
The remix features a sample of Kanye’s own 2007 hit, “Flashing Lights.” He’s one of the few artists who can pull this off. Beyonce, of course, is another. She re­cently sampled her own song, “Bow Down,” in the track, “Flawless.” This is totally fine because she is “Flawless” and all we can do is “Bow Down” to her. 
Another memorable — and clean — lyric that Kanye raps in “Drunk in Love” is, “put you on that bike, you bound girl.” In case anyone forgot about West’s con­troversial music video for “Bound 2,” he raps a line to trigger memories of the majestic green-screened, Kardashian-driven motorcycle ride. The message here is that if you’re Kanye, you can reference your own songs because you’re Kanye and you do what you want. 
Beyonce also released a short teaser video to accom­pany the remix. It features her, clad in chaps, swinging a lasso above her head while some horses gallop around her. Since I have applied to work at various dude ranches out west this summer, I totally relate with this image and it’s most likely how I will be spending my summer — in a bikini with chaps on, lassoing horses (and men), while fulfilling my aspirations of becoming Beyonce. 
Perhaps this teaser means we can expect a full video to come. Will Kanye be featured? Might Kim K make her second video appearance? (Music video, that is). 
Video or no video, this song has enough star power to “Run This Town.” Just think, the mega-star wattage of Beyonce herself was enough to black out the Superdome, but if we add in Jay-Z and Kanye West? Double dang. 
I don’t know if I’ve given Jay-Z enough credit in the article thus far, but his star-power can be summed up like this — over break I told my mom her gas tank was running on empty and she responded, “Running out of gas is just one of my 99 problems.” This verifies Jay-Z’s lyrics have managed to reach literally everyone. 
Be sure to give this “Drunk In Love” remix a listen. The combination of Jay-Z, Beyonce and Kanye West makes for something of a holy trinity, and “yeezus Walks” all over the track. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 18, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Kevin Noonan 
Scene Editor 

At some point in this article, I’m going to review the movie “Nebraska,” which I enjoyed and believe de­serves the acclaim heaped upon it by critics. But first, you’ll have to sit through some context so I can explain why it’s unlikely I’ll ever sit through it again. 
A few weeks ago, Scene featured a fantastic profile on and interview with acclaimed nonfiction writer John Jeremiah Sullivan. I’ve read enough of Mr. Sullivan’s work to arrive at the easy conclusion that he’s both much smarter than me and a much better writer than me, which is to say, approximately two paragraphs. I found much of what he said fascinating, but I took some issue with one particular point: 
“Really, if anything, the whole regional question, for me, has put me in touch with how absurd the whole thing is,” Sullivan said. “It’s really a kind of costume drama. It’s like cosplay and always has been. 
“The moment I found out the regional stuff was kind of crap, it became very interesting to me, which is weird. When it had seemed like a monolithic thing, a real thing, it had seemed kind of tiresome, like some­thing I just wanted to stop talking about. But when I realized that it was some sort of weird play that we’re all acting in here, then it got interesting.” 
I get what he’s saying. I see the argument that region­al identity is put on and not real and we want to take on the identity when it’s advantageous to us but not when it’s not. I understand, but I don’t agree — not totally, at least. 
I grew up in Kansas, I went to high school in Missouri and I go to college in Indiana. Almost the entirety of my formative years has been spent in the Midwest — more specifically, I’d say, in Kansas. To say that Kansas and its culture, identity and image haven’t influenced and informed my own identity is incomprehensible to me. I grew up in the suburbs, and you can say suburbs every­where are pretty much the same because that’s part of what defines the suburbs, but we passed a century-old farmhouse planted in the middle of the suburbs on our walk home from grade school every day and knew the 90-year-old man who’d lived there his whole life and re­membered when it was all farmland and swamp — that had an effect on me. If I had a bad night in high school, I could turn left instead of right, drive 10 minutes and park my car in a wheat field with no modern civilization in sight — that had an effect on me. I was too unaware growing up to recognize it, but pretty much everyone had similar values, tendencies and ways of speaking — that had an effect on me. 
Right or wrong, real or not, product of human nature or of decades of successful marketing, where we’re from affects who we are. It’s a part of us, and, in my opinion and with due respect to Mr. Sullivan, that’s important. 
It was that part of me, the one that still draws from Kansas and the Midwest for identity, that wanted to turn off “Nebraska” approximately 30 minutes in. Director Alexander Payne is from Omaha, Neb., and screenwriter Bob Nelson is from yankton, S.D., and their midwestern influences bleed through in the film. 
And it truly is an exceptional film. The story follows Woody Grant (Bruce Dern) and his son David (Will Forte) as they embark on a quest from Billings, Mont., to Lincoln, Nebr., after Woody receives what is clearly a bogus letter in the mail claiming he’s won $1 million and must come to Lincoln to collect it. 
Bruce Dern gives an astounding performance as Woody, an aging alcoholic, mentally deteriorating war-veteran and all-around jerk. Will Forte gives nearly as impressive a performance in his understated delivery of the sad, unaccomplished David in the shadow of his older brother, the local news anchor, Ross (Bob Odenkirk). 
They encounter Woody’s family and old friends and foes along the way, everyone believing he’s won the lottery, and nearly everyone (family included) believing they’re owed a piece of the pie. June Squibb, as Woody’s grouchy but loving wife, delivers one of the greatest and most powerful “Go f*** yourselves” lines I’ve ever seen on screen and adds tremendously to this intricate illus­tration of family that Payne creates. 
As a story, it’s tremendous. As a study of family life and what success means to different people, it’s spec­tacular. As a look at a crotchety old man who just wants a new truck and an air compressor, it’s darkly hilarious. But as a midwestern film, which it very much is, it’s a slap in the face. It’s a midwestern movie for people who don’t want to learn anything about the Midwest. 
Outside of the Grant brothers, nearly every character we meet is fat, ugly, stupid, petty, mean and old. “Old” may not be the best term, as some of them are middle-aged, but the total lack of any youth is painfully appar­ent throughout. The characters are racist, but too dumb to be so maliciously — that’s just the way they are. This is a place where nobody does anything different, where nobody changes and where frivolous disputes are car­ried over decades. 
The whole world of the movie seems to be portrayed as anachronistic, without even taking into consider­ation that it’s shot in black and white. The buildings are old and wearing down, just like the men. The business­es that are still open seem to be almost exclusively bars, and everything else looks to be closed.  The men of this world fought in wars and put hard labor into their jobs, and while these aren’t things to be looked down upon, necessarily, it certainly didn’t lead them to any sort of happiness or success in their lives. 
This may be Payne and Nelson’s experience and re­lationship with the Midwest — they love the place, not the people. They seem to think that, like the one-wom­an newspaper in Woody’s hometown, the Midwest is a relic of the old days, and the old days weren’t that good. 
But that’s not my Midwest. That’s not where I grew up. It may be a different perspective than that of either of the coasts, but the Midwest in my identity is alive and well, and it’s not quite so old, ugly and ignorant. 
As I said before, “Nebraska” is a great film worthy of praise. It’s well made, engaging and heartfelt. But at its core, for me, at least, it’s an art film about the Midwest that allows film critics and coastal elitists to appreciate the Midwest while keeping their distance from it and still being able to look down on flyover states and the people who inhabit them. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 


sPorts AutHorItY 


Lens should remain on the athletes 
A.J. Godeaux 
Sports Writer 
I’m a big fan of the Olympics. But, like many, I find it ex­tremely annoying trying to avoid spoilers. 
Having the end of events spoiled for me has me consid­ering pulling a Count of Monte Cristo by going into hiding for the next week. Beyond that, it has me thinking: media outlets and reporters are willing to do just about anything to boost ratings, get page views or in­crease buzz on a story. 
ESPN, CBSSports and other media outlets used to post spoiler alerts for these types of events – yahoo! Sports still does – but in today’s Twitter world, that’s almost impossible to hope for. 
For sites like ESPN, what better way is there to knock NBC’s primetime slot than to tweet, text or alert fans to the latest breaking Olympic news? ‘Oh, trust me, Mr. Bob Fan, you don’t want to wait until tonight to watch Shaun White fall on his butt. Come read our three articles on what went wrong, and since you already know what happened, you might as well not watch tonight!’ (Of course, these outlets could very well simply be reporting the news, but the cynic in me says no, and, besides, that doesn’t make a good column.) 
Honestly, though, it doesn’t bother me that much. I had a South Bend fourth-grader almost spoil the White result for me, too, and I probably would have checked Twitter or Facebook that day, as well. So, there’s really no way to get away from it. 
What did bother me was how uncomfortable I felt dur­ing NBC’s post-race interview Saturday with U.S. skier Bode Miller, an episode I found much more egregious of this ends-justify-the-means strategy. 
To fill in those who missed it, Miller – who had failed to medal in both the downhill and super combined events earlier in the week – had just won the bronze medal in the super-G. It was Miller’s sixth Olympic medal, the most of any American skier in history. 
NBC reporter Christin Cooper approaches Miller, and when the tape rolls she asks him the classic questions a 36-year-old in the twilight of his career would be asked, inquiring how it felt to win a medal at his age, if there was “a lot of emotion riding on this race,” and so forth. Miller, unprovoked, brings up his deceased brother, Chelone, who passed away last year of a seizure. 

At that first mention of his brother, Miller already starts choking up, but Cooper feels the need to ask him about it again. Miller was still emotion­al but answered the question without too much of an issue. 
That’s when it should have ended. But Cooper asks again, recounting to Miller how he and his brother were going to enjoy together what’s expected to be Miller’s last Olympics. 
At this point, Miller was sob­bing, holding his bodyweight up by the railing in front of him. NBC could easily have cut back to the studio, but the network doesn’t. It lingers on Miller as Cooper awkwardly lays her hand on him in a sort of pseudo-comforting pose. 
Miller has since Tweeted his support for Cooper, claiming it was well within the boundar­ies to ask him further about his brother’s death, but the interview is still the capstone on what has been a troubling trend in this year’s Olympic coverage. 
The Salt Lake Tribune is currently compiling a list of all the athletes who have had the media report on the death of a friend or relative, and all you need to know about it is this: it’s long. I don’t know why the coverage of these athletes, who have complex backstories and achieve worldwide media prominence once every four years, has to be whittled down to a death or family hardship, but it is. 
Bode Miller is a 36-year-old near the top of his sport and a man whose life has had more turns and jumps than an Olympic downhill course. you don’t have to reduce him to tears to show that to America. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

smC bAsKEtbAll | SMC 72, ALMA 61 

Belles claim victory over Alma on Senior Day 
bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 13 
the match, overpowering Martin. Willis struck Martin with a right hook to send him straight to the ground in the third round, win­ning the fight unanimously. 
Justin “Penta” tabit def. Jack “shadow recruit” ryan 
Tabit was able to dominate this matchup against Ryan from start to finish, putting to­gether a myriad of combination strikes to Ryan’s body and forc­ing him towards the ropes and corners through the majority of the match. Each time Ryan at­tempted to pick up momentum, his defense was penetrated by Tabit’s blows, and, in the end, Tabit walked away with unani­mous decision. 
Jack Considine def. Jack “J.G three” Griffin 
Considine was very precise on when and where he decided to take his strikes on Griffin. He waited until Griffin was the most vulnerable, which was whenever Griffin needed to recover after bombarding Considine with an 

FOR RENT 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
Henley said defense was anoth­er key to the Belles’ success. 
“[Paul, Knapke, and Bias] did very well for us on offense,” she said. “But, what impressed me more is how our team played defensively. Our team stood its ground. Winning on Senior Day is always special. you want to send out your seniors on a positive note and this team did that.” 
The Belles now turn their at­tention to their game against Olivet, which stands at second in the MIAA standings after losing only once in its last 16 games. The Comets (20-3, 12-2) narrowly beat Saint Mary’s on a last-second shot in a 70-68 win on Jan. 22. 
“We need to focus on their in­side game and slow down their guards in transition,” Henley said. “We know we can compete with them.” 
The matchup against Olivet, the second-to-last of the year for Saint Mary’s, will take place Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 

By ANDREW ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s capitalized on turnovers and strong defense to break out of an early deadlock against Alma and come away with a 72-61 victory Saturday on Senior Day. 
The Belles (7-16, 5-9) and the Scots (0-24, 0-15 MIAA) traded baskets for most of the first half, but neither team gained a signifi­cant edge. Alma shot well from beyond the arc, making four of its nine three-point attempts, while Saint Mary’s created several easy baskets. 
There were six ties and 14 lead changes in the first half alone. Neither team led by more than three points until the final two minutes of the opening half, when senior guard Shanlynn Bias stole the ball on consecutive posses­sions, and the Belles took a 39-33 lead into halftime. 
“The first half was back and forth a lot,” Irish coach Jennifer Henley said. “They had some key turnovers at the end that we were able to convert into points, which gave us a little cushion.” 
Saint Mary’s opened the second half strong, with a 15-4 run, el­evating its lead to a game-high 17 points midway through the half. Then, the Scots stopped making their shots while the Belles con­tinued to push their transition game, extending their lead, which Henley said she attributed in part to 12 second-half steals and Alma’s 26 total turnovers. 
Scots junior guard Mallory Pruett, who had 19 points in the contest, led the comeback charge for Alma. Though she cut the lead to six with under four minutes to play, Saint Mary’s sophomore for­ward Krista Knapke had two con­secutive put-backs, contributing to the Belles’ 44 points in the paint and securing the eventual 72-61 win. 
Three players provided all but nine of the Belles’ points. Junior forward Ariana Paul finished with 17 points and 12 rebounds, Knapke had a career-high 24 points and eight rebounds, and Bias also recorded a career-high with 22 points and six steals on her Senior Day. 
erratic array of punches. Through the first and second rounds Griffin was unbalanced with his form as he tried to take the of­fensive. Considine focused on punishing Griffin’s head from the first round and carried it over to the third round, when the referee stopped contest to give Considine the victory. 
James “the Iceman” Hodgens def. Eric “tt showbiz” Krakowiak 
Hodgens aggressively attacked with combinations of jabs and hooks to Krakowiak from the first bell. Krakowiak was forced into a defensive technique for the first round as Hodgens focused all of his efforts into damaging Krakowiak’s body. It looked like Hodgens was going to continue the onslaught in the second round as one of his blows sent Krakowiak to the ground. Krakowiak met Hodgen’s offense with intensity, forcing Hodgens to tire out going into the third round. The come­back fell short, and Hodgens won the close matchup with a unani­mous decision. 
lucas sullivan def. luke “I am Your father” Pardue 
Sullivan maneuvered around the ring defensively as Pardue took several hooks and jabs to­ward Sullivan’s body. As the match wore on, Sullivan consis­tently broke through Pardue’s par­ries and landed several headshots. In the third round, both fighters were fatigued, but Sullivan was able to give the extra push to land decisive blows to Pardue’s head and win him the match by unani­mous decision. 
Jack Corrigan def. sandy “back breaker” mcshea 
Corrigan was able to put the momentum on his side and dominate the matchup from start to finish. McShea kept it close early by showing a stifling defense that would not allow any strikes to land, but Corrigan eventually broke through and hit McShea with a strong com­bination of hooks and jabs to McShea’s head. McShea never recovered, as Corrigan walked away with the unanimous decision. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
“Oh you can’t make yourself stop dreaming who you’re dreaming of, if it’s who you love, then it’s who you love.” -“Who You Love” by John Mayer featuring Katy Perry 



nD WomEn’s tEnnIs | MICHIGAN 6, ND 1 
mEn’s tEnnIs | ND 4, MISS. STATE 1; ND 4, FLORIDA 0; VIRGINIA 4, ND 2 
Notre Dame bounces back 
Irish fall to 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
Sports Writer 
At the ITA National Indoor Championships last week­end, the No. 16 Irish best­ed No. 9 Mississippi State 4-1 on Saturday and No. 12 Florida 4-0 on Sunday after dropping their first match to defending national cham­pion No. 1 Virginia on Friday 4-2. 
“I think we played really well in all three matches,” Irish coach Ryan Sachire said. “We put ourselves in a position to beat the defend­ing national champion on Friday, and even though we lost a competitive match, the guys still responded by beating two very talented SEC teams to close out the weekend.” 
Heading into the week­end, Notre Dame focused on improving its doubles play, which had proven inconsis­tent in recent matches. That focus paid off as the team took two out of three dou­bles points in their matches. 
Against the top-ranked Cavaliers (6-1, 1-0 ACC), the duos of senior Billy Pecor and sophomore Josh Hagar as well as senior Greg Andrews and sophomore Alex Lawson claimed victo­ries in the second and first doubles slots with scores of 6-4 and 6-5(3), respectively. 

“In two out of three matches our doubles teams improved significantly,” Sachire said. “It’s all about how you approach it mental­ly, and our guys worked hard to give us the edge heading into singles play.” 
The Irish rolled over the Gators (5-5) on Sunday morning. Pecor and Hagar did not complete their match because the teams of Andrews and Lawson and se­nior Ryan Bandy and sopho­more Eric Schnurrenberger already secured the team doubles point for Notre Dame. 
In singles play, Andrews, Bandy and sophomore Quinton Monaghan swept past their Florida opponents in the first, third and sec­ond flights, respectively. All three matches were won in straight sets. 
“The biggest thing we em­phasized heading into the tournament was being com­petitive in all nine slots,” Sachire said. “We know that we are not always going to 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

win all of our matches, we are just trying to put our-
Wolverines 
selves in a situation to win from the top down and we did that this weekend.” 
Against Mississippi State, the Irish lost their only doubles point of the weekend, forcing them to attempt to come from be­hind in singles play. Bandy, Hagar, Schnurrenberger and Andrews quickly overcame the deficit and secured the 4-1 Notre Dame victory. 
Notre Dame will take to­day off and resume practice Wednesday as they prepare to face Ohio State and Ball State back at their home Eck Tennis Pavilion this upcom­ing weekend. 
“Our consistency has to be there as we progress through the schedule. We are really emphasizing an attack mentality both at an individual and team level. Everyone has something to improve on,” Sachire said. 
The Irish hit the court Saturday against Ohio State at 12 p.m. and against Ball State at 7 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Writer 

Getting back on the courts for the first time in two weeks, No. 22 Notre Dame fell 6-1 to No. 13 Michigan in Ann Arbor on Saturday. 
The Irish (5-2) dropped the doubles point to start the match, as the Wolverine duo of Sarah Lee and Amy Zhu knocked down the No. 41 pair of senior Jennifer Kellner and freshman Monica Robinson 8-3 in the No. 2 doubles slot. 
At No. 3 doubles, freshman Mary Closs and senior Julie Sabacinski lost a close 8-5 decision against Michigan’s Ronit yurovsky and Laura Ucros to secure the doubles point. 
“We’ve been struggling a lot in our doubles,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “Hopefully, we’ll get bet­ter this week. … We’ve been struggling at three doubles [Closs/Sabacinski] and they played much better. It was a tight match the whole way.” 
In the singles portion, the Wolverines seized control, winning all but one of the six matches. No. 12 Betkas defeated Sanders, 6-1, 6-3, while No. 18 yurovsky beat Quinn Gleason, 6-2, 6-1, and No. 98 Bolender made quick work of No. 105 Robinson, 6-3, 6-0. A strength of the Irish early in the season was their depth at the five and six spots of their sin­gles rotation, but it was not so Saturday, as Closs fell to Zhu, 7-6(4), 6-3, and Vrabel dropped a tight match to Ucros, 7-5, 7-5. 
“[The Wolverines] are very good and they’re good at their place,” Louderback said. “They looked good and they played very well.” 
The lone bright spot for Notre Dame came from Kellner, who upset No. 75 Lee, 4-6, 6-4, 10-6. 
“We didn’t want to lose 7-0 to them,” said Louderback. “That helps to have some­one pull that out. She lost the first set and came back really well. She had lost to [Lee] two years ago when we played them in the NCAAs. She’s had two or three matches [this season] where she has been up in the tiebreaker in the third set where she hasn’t gotten to finish, so I’m sure she was excited to not only win but be able to finish one of her matches.” 
The Irish kick off their ACC season when they host Georgia Tech on Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion be­fore heading to Miami to take on the Hurricanes on Sunday. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 14 
first round, Howe backed Delillo against the ropes with his longer reach before Delillo forced him back. In the second round, Howe seemed to target Delillo’s body and hit home several times, though Delillo was able to land a shot to the head. In the final round, both fighters landed some violent hits to the head of his opponent. Howe’s height gained him the better edge of the split decision. 
Charles “Chuck” rollino def. Patrick “the fool” folley 
Power proved to be the key fac­tor in this bout, as Rollino fought his way to a split-decision win over Folley. Folley hit Rollino hard in the head midway into the first round and pushed him into the corner during the second, but Rollino extricated himself fairly quickly. Folley landed several blows to the head but seemed to lose energy as time wore on. Rollino made a ma­jor comeback in the third round as Folley exhibited signs of ex­haustion, giving him a win by split decision. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 
trevor “sting” stevens def. nick “the Irish Cowboy” Keleher 
Keleher came out swinging be­fore Stevens landed a slew of right hooks to end the first round. He followed by landing multiple blows on the defensive Keleher in the sec­ond round. Stevens again took the offensive in the third round, cor­nering Keleher early and finishing strong on the tiring Keleher to win by unanimous decision. 
brett “Italian Ice” sassetti def. David Jensen 
Sassetti, a defending champion, was quick on his feet early as he landed a series of jabs on Jenson. The bout featured some good back-and-forth between the box­ers before Sassetti knocked Jensen to the ground with multiple right hooks. Although Jensen came out stronger in the third round, Sassetti knocked him to the ground, killing Jensen’s momentum and secur­ing himself a win by unanimous decision. 
melchior “Il lupo” Perella­savarese def. nicholas “stud” Walter 
Perella-Savarese and Walter fought an even first round with neither boxer landing many punches. In the second round, Perella-Savarese was able to back Walter into a corner, landing mul­tiple right hooks. Perella-Savarese continued his strong performance in the final round, going on the of­fensive on his way to winning by unanimous decision. 
Eric “I still Can’t” reed def. Clayton “C Dawg” Conroy 
Reed demonstrated his quick­ness early, landing solid right hooks on his opponent. Conroy came back strong to end the first round before Reed beat the bell with an­other crushing right hook. Conroy started with the upper hand in the second round before being knocked back against the ropes. Both boxers showed great bursts of energy in the third round before Reed tired, but Reed managed to hang on for a win by split decision. 

Justin “shady” mcGrady def. mark “Your Calendars“ Waguespack 
Both boxers showed great quick­ness and footwork early on in an even first round. Waguespack was able to land a few jabs in the sec­ond round before being examined by the medical staff, and McGrady was declared the winner after the referee stopped the fight. 
Phil “ bald Eagle” mannelly def. Andrew “brink” brinkerhoff 
Mannelly relied on his quickness to help him land a series of blows early on before the match evened out. Mannelly came on very strong in the second round and landed jabs to Brinkerhoff’s head and core. Brinkerhoff turned it up a notch in the third round, but it wasn’t enough, as he fell to Mannelly in a unanimous decision. 
Cassidy “I’m no lady” laux def. seamus “famous” Creedon 
Both boxers were aggressive out of the gate before Laux was able to get Creedon on the ground. Laux used a series of hooks to put him in the driver’s seat and stayed on the offensive with multiple blows to Creedon’s core. Laux was de­clared the winner when the fight was stopped in the first round due to injury. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Writer 
Chip blood def. Kieran Carroll 
Blood started slow but picked up steam as Carroll tired in the later rounds. Carroll bounced around the ring confidently early in the first round, landing a number of fast combinations and a resounding right to the head of Blood. Carroll’s strong start caught up to him, as he appeared to lose steam, giving his opponent a chance to counter with a combination of right hooks and jabs. Blood completed the come­back in the third round using body shots and left jab-right hook com­binations to score the split decision victory. 
Garrity “biscuit” mcosker def. Ezra Kim 
This bout opened with a slow pace before McOsker seized control to defeat Kim by a unanimous de­cision. The first round began with the two opponents circling each other for the first 20 seconds of the match. McOsker began opening up, using a dangerous left hand to land several hard shots to the body of his opponent. McOscker had success with the same controlled approach in the second and third, landing solid right hooks to counter Kim’s swings. Kim could not figure out a way past McOskar’s defenses, leading to the unanimous decision victory. 
Paul “Pride of the 415” toboni def. luke “the Crimson fountain” miller 
Toboni came out swinging and never slowed down, earning the victory over Miller by unanimous decision. Toboni punched high early on in the fight, landing sev­eral combinations to the head of Miller, who countered by concen­trating on Toboni’s body. Toboni used strong left jabs early in the second round to open up his oppo­nent. He eventually transformed the jabs into deadly combinations as the round wore on. Toboni be­gan mixing in dangerous upper cuts on his way to the victory as the match drew to a close. 
Gage “the Heart-break Kid” o’Connell def. skyler “I’ll make A man outta” Hughes 
O’Connell hammered relent­lessly away at the taller Hughes and forced the referee to stop the con­test in the third round, giving him the win. O’Connell’s attack started the first round with wild hooks fly­ing, landing enough blows to put Hughes on the defensive. Hughes tried to use both hands to shield his face but left his body open to blows. O’Connell kept up the pressure in the second and third, eventually knocking Hughes down, late in the third before the referee stopped the fight to give O’Connell the victory. 
matthew “the bond Hall brawler” schaefer def. Kevin Kim 
Schaefer rallied after a slow start to claim a split decision victory over Kim. The two fighters circled each other at the beginning of the match, throwing feeler jabs that hit air. Kim was the first to con­nect, as his jabs cleared the way for some rights to the head. In the sec­ond round, both boxers came out with a much faster pace, swinging and landing punches. Kim began to tire in the third round, which opened the door for a comeback by Schaefer, who used a couple of hard combinations to secure the split decision. 
Josh “Pride of the south” Whelan def. michael “the moose” lucente 
This showdown went to the smaller Whelan, who took the fight to Lucente by unanimous decision. Whelan spent the first round work­ing his way underneath most of his opponent’s jabs. Whelan contin­ued to be aggressive in the second round, putting Lucente on his heels and landing a couple of strong right hooks. Whelan put Lucente on the ropes early in the third round, al­ternating blows to his opponent’s head and body on his way to a unanimous decision victory. 
Jason Ellinwood def. Calvin “bender” Campopiano 
This bout was dominated by the much taller Ellinwood, who won by unanimous decision over Campopiano. Ellinwood worked his height advantage to land jabs to the head of his opponent while staying out of reach. Campopiano could not find a way inside Ellinwood for most of the fight. Ellinwood was able to use a sec­ond-round combination of left and right jabs to Campopiano’s head that threw Campopiano off bal­ance. Campopiano tried to throw himself into Ellinwood’s body but ended up taking more of a beating as Ellinwood cruised his way to victory. 
Calvin Hemington def. J.D. “saturday” Zarate 
Hemington landed several heavy combinations and con­trolled the fight from start to finish to win over Zarate when the referee stopped the contest in the second round. Swinging early and often, Hemington used his length advan­tage to establish himself in the first round. Zarate responded early in the second round, but Hemington absorbed the onslaught and coun­tered with one of his own, eventu­ally working Zarate into the ropes. Hemington continued the pres­sure into the third round, once again putting Zarate into the ropes causing the referee to stop the con­test late in the round. 
sebastian “El Papa” de la Casas def. CJ “the rated-r superstar” Pruner 
De la Casas gave his fans a vic­tory by unanimous decision over Pruner. The boxers began the match in a fury of flying arms and legs, with de la Casas cornering Pruner and connecting on his op­ponent’s body, to the delight of his boisterous fans in the corner. De la Casas continued to pound on Pruner for the next two rounds, knocking him down once in the second round on the way to a unanimous decision victory. 
Patrick shea def. thomas Hughes “Your Daddy” 
Shea made use of his quick feet and fast high-low jab combina­tions to hold on for a unanimous decision victory over Hughes. Shea’s hard punches established himself against Hughes, knock­ing him to the mat early in the first round. Hughes came out more of­fensive in the second round but failed to land any significant blow, and Shea came back with a hard left hook to regain the advantage. Hughes strung together a couple of strong combinations late in the final round, but it was not enough to prevent Shea from advancing by unanimous decision. 
brian “rowdy” roddy def. Hunter White 
The much taller Roddy used his length to his advantage and cruised to a victory by unanimous decision over White. Both boxers opened up early in a high-flying first round. White could not seem to find a way to get within striking range his op­ponent, having to lean into Roddy to try and land some body blows. Roddy was able to land most of his shots to the head of White, the de­ciding factor as he advanced with a unanimous-decision victory. 
mike “the stache” flanigan def. Christopher stepien 
Stepien came out strong against Flanigan, but Flanigan worked his way back and forced the referee to stop the contest in the second round. Stepien started the first round with several hard body-head combinations that forced Flanigan into a defensive position. The sec­ond round started in a similar fash­ion, but Flanigan quickly seized control, knocking down Stepien four times with left hooks before the referee stopped the fight to give Flannigan the second-round victory. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
By MANNY DeJESUS 
Sports Writer 
Eric “P-rex” Palutsis def. John “Gantran” szatkowski 
Palutsis and Szatkowski started off the first round with quick offen­sive attacks. Szatkowski was able to land a right blow to Palutsis’s head, drawing blood, but Palutsis pushed through and continued to efficiently make his offense work to his advantage. Palutsis allowed Szatkowski to hit him with combi­nations of hooks to his body to start the second round, countering with powerful combination head shots to conclude the second. The third round was a back-and-forth battle, but in the end, Palutsis was able to come away with the victory in a unanimous decision. 
Alex “turtle” Jirschele def. Alex “Easy” mcIntyre 
Jirschele used a flurry of quick strong jabs to gain control, knock­ing McIntyre to the ground early in the first round. Jirschele was able to control the ring with quick feet, keeping McIntyre in the middle. Moving into the second round, McIntyre tired, allowing Jirschele to hit clean uppercuts. Both fight­ers slowed down the pace of the matchup in the third round, but McIntyre was able to take advan­tage of Jirschele’s low energy by hit­ting him with hard right jabs to the head. Nonetheless, Jirschele was victorious by unanimous decision. 
Zack “bedrock” flint def. matthew “the Goon” DiDonato 
Flint and DiDonato showcased their speed from the start of the match. While DiDonato quickly threw punches, he wasn’t able to land them efficiently. Flint dodged all jabs and combinations and countered with powerful body blows throughout the rest of the first round. Flint continued to make DiDonato pay by hitting a multitude of right hooks to the head. The referee was forced to call the match after Flint hit DiDonato cleanly in the temple countless times. 
brian “Cheese” Willis def. sam “little bear” martin 
Martin hit Willis with a bar­rage of strikes early, forcing Willis to struggle on the ropes. Using his small stature, Martin was able to control Willis’s movements using his quickness. The second round featured more energy between the two fighters. Both threw wild punches at one another but rarely connected. In the third round, Willis was able to take control of 
see BOUTS PAGE 10 


THE OBSERVER | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 18, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

W bball 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
the three-point play at the halfway point of the period. 
A 3-pointer from Loyd put the Irish up by 10 with 1:46 remain­ing in the half, and on the next possession, senior Kayla McBride passed to an air-bound Loyd, who sank the layup to give the Irish a 12-point lead, the biggest of the half. The yellow Jackets, however, got the final work of the period, as sophomore Aaliyah Whiteside hit a 3-pointer to cut the Irish lead to eight going into halftime. 
Though Georgia Tech main­tained defensive intensity well into the second half, the yellow Jackets could not keep up with the Irish on the scoreboard. Loyd led off scoring in the second half with a 3-pointer that stretched the lead to 11, and though free throws from Whiteside brought Georgia Tech within eight points, the Irish steadily built a comfortable double-digit lead over the next five minutes. 
The yellow Jackets never recov­ered, and the Irish led by as many as 22 before settling for a 15-point win. Georgia Tech had to finish the game without sophomore forward Roddreka Rogers and freshman guard Kaela Davis, who together contributed 19 points before foul­ing out. 
Loyd scored 27 points, her eighth 20-point game of the season. 
“She had a quiet 27,” Georgia Tech coach MaChelle Joseph said. “She is lethal. She gets it done, and you don’t even know she’s getting it done.” 
Senior forward Natalie Achonwa celebrated her senior night with 21 points and 10 rebounds, her sixth double-double of the season. Before the game, the Senior Night ceremony included a rendition of “O Canada” for the Ontario native. 
“It takes a toll on you, having that break in your warm-up,” Achonwa said of the Senior Night festivities. “But it was fun at the same time, so we got to enjoy it with our team­mates and our coaches. … But ‘O Canada’ really was the touching part, and I was really grateful that they did that for me.” 
McBride and forward Ariel Braker were also honored during the pregame ceremony. 
“[The senior class] has been the heart and soul of this program,” McGraw said. “I think all three of them have contributed in such different ways, and the great thing about this trio is that they comple­ment each other so well. you have a vocal leader in [Achonwa], a leader by example in [McBride], and Ariel is the one that’s going to give the personal touch, and she’s going to keep everybody laughing and ev­erybody loose. 
“As you lose seniors, you hope they leave something behind, and this group — there are going to be some giant holes to fill when they’re gone.” 
The Irish will be back on the court Thursday when they travel to Winston-Salem, N.C., to take on Wake Forest at Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Tip­off is at 7 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
bouts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
third round as fatigue started to set in for both fighters. In the final minute of the fight, Smith con­nected on two hard shots to the face to put the finishing touches on his unanimous win. 
ryan Dunn def. Aidan “the last Gladiator” Coronel 
It was a short and bloody bout between the Dunn and Coronel, as Dunn stayed on the offensive to take the win in the third round after the referee stopped the con­test. Coronel came out on the de­fensive and Dunn took advantage by pounding away at his head and body. Coronel blocked most of the punches and he landed few of his own. In the second round, Dunn continued to hammer away at Coronel, combining head and body shots to pick up the pace and intensity of the fight. The ref­eree separated the fighters several times as Dunn bloodied Coronel’s nose, before the fight was stopped in the third round. 
“sloppy” Joe Guilfoile def. frank “the tank” Dizenzo 
In a hotly contested fight that went all the way to the final sec­onds, Guilfoile won by split deci­sion over Dizenzo. In the first round Guilfoile and Dizenzo traded body and head shots and danced around the ring. Dizenzo landed a few strong shots to the head at the very end of the round, but both fighters started the second round on the de­fensive. Guilfoile rallied to end the round with some hard jabs to the face. In the decisive third round, Guilfoile landed several punches to the head that ultimately gave him the split decision. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
Conor “the Invisible Hand” Durkin def. fernando “olaf” Garcia 
The bout started off in a see­saw battle between Garcia and Durkin, with Durkin taking the match by split decision. Both fighters came out tentatively, but Durkin settled in faster, landing early blows. Durkin finished the first round strongly and continued to dominate the second. Garcia dominated the third, picking his punches selectively and land­ing some big blows. In the end it was not enough, and Durkin just squeaked by for the split decision. 
Alex bogucki-barak def. Arun nadar 
Momentum swung wildly be­tween Nadar and Barak before Barak took control in the final round to win by unanimous deci­sion. Nadar started stronger in the first round, landing some quick hits and dodging flailing punches from Barak. At the end of the first round Barak started to come into his own, inflicting heavy damage on his opponent with sharp jabs and crisp combinations. The sec­ond round saw both boxers trad­ing hard shots, but a few big hits from Barak gave him momentum, which he carried over to domi­nate the third, earning the win unanimously. 

Connor “Khalippur” Chelsky def. James “boxmayer” bachmayer 
Bachmayer came out swing­ing, but Chelsky wore down his opponent to win by unanimous decision. Bachmayer was on the offensive early in the first round and quickly established him­self with a few heavy punches to Chelsky’s body. Chelsky began to claw back into the bout at the end of the first, and matched Bachmayer for most of the second period, landing several punches. With newfound energy, Chelsky put Bachmayer on the defensive in the third round, overwhelm­ing his opponent and winning by unanimous decision. 
John “saxman” rieth def. Daniel “Get At me” meehan 
Meehan was quick out of the blocks in this bout, establishing an early edge as Rieth struggled to gain any momentum. The sec­ond round saw Meehan step it up even further with a combination of quick punches, although Rieth fought back valiantly with a few hard counters. In the final round, Meehan kept control of the fight and won by unanimous decision. 
Jim “the fiend” boyle def. liam “trooper” Chan 
Both fighters came out strong in the first round, trading blows in what was a conservative start to an eagerly awaited fight. However, Boyle began to get the upper late into the first round, landing sev­eral punches in succession. Chan fought back well in the second round and began to dictate the fight toward the end of the round, but it wasn’t enough to stop Boyle, who regained control in the third. Boyle edged Chan for the split-de­cision win. 
sean Himel def. Ian “the Wright stuff” Cronin 
The first round was evenly matched, with each fighter land­ing punches and countering the other fighter’s blows. Himel struggled at the beginning of the second as Cronin began to get some momentum going, put­ting together some hard-hitting combinations. However, Himel finally got into a rhythm late in the second, mounting a resurgence. Cronin took the majority of heavy blows in the third, and Himel took the fight by a split decision. 
Contact Cornelius McGrath at cmcgrat2@nd.edu 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
Sports Writer 
Austin Cartier def. mateos “Caveman” matigian 
Cartier came out on the offen­sive, landing shots to Matigian’s head before using his reach ad­vantage to throw the occasional jab at the end of round one. Cartier used the same strategy in round two, landing body punches to start the round. Matigian at­tempted to counter, but Cartier landed two hard counterpunches before the fight went to the final round. Matigian came out of the break strong, charging Cartier and landing multiple shots in the first 30 seconds of the round. It wasn’t enough, and Cartier held on to a split decision win. 
Conor “the Wild man” Douglass def. Andres “Gio” lincon 
Both fighters started the fight throwing a flurry of punches, with Douglass connecting on a shot in the opening round that had Lincon bleeding. Lincon started the second round throwing big right hooks but only connected on a few. Douglass focused on throw­ing jabs to keep Lincon off balance before attacking with hooks of his own. Lincon seemed to tire in the final round as Douglass connect­ed on multiple jab-hook combina­tions to win by split decision. 
Joe sulentic def. nate stone 
Sulentic and Stone both em­ployed defensive strategies to start the fight, dodging and dancing around the ring. Stone missed on a few straight rights to begin the sec­ond round, giving Sulentic the op­portunity to land two strong rights of his own, one of which drew blood. After the stop, Stone was a precise fighter, landing well-timed jabs to Sulentic, but ultimately wasn’t able to dodge enough of Sulentic’s jabs and straight right combos, as Sulentic took the fight by split decision. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Joe “trix are for kids” brogan def. Casey “Porkchop” mcCaffrey 
Brogan and McCaffrey started slow but quickly ratcheted up the intensity as Brogan finished with a split-decision victory. In the first round, each boxer successfully ducked or dodged the worst of the other’s blows. McCaffrey had some trouble landing his counterblows. The match heated up as time went on, with McCaffrey briefly backing Brogan against the ropes. Brogan landed some solid hits and evaded several uppercuts by McCaffrey. Strong hits in the last round were enough for Brogan to win in a split decision. 
Collin “memaybe” Corcoran def. Joe “the Howard st. food mart” monardo 
Corcoran took down Monardo in a fast-paced fight by unanimous decision. The two seniors’ speed was clear from the outset, but the initial flurry of punches from both fighters did not seem to do any sig­nificant damage. Corcoran gained the upper hand near the end of the first round with some hard shots and got inside on Monardo to land several strong punches during the second round. Monardo tried to rally early on in the final round but Corcoran pulled away for the win by unanimous decision. 
scott “bootstrap” rousseau def. John Pearl 
Rousseau and Pearl fought hard and pushed each other to the final bell before Rousseau took the match by split decision. Both boxers began with several vicious combinations. Pearl took some major hits to the head while going for Rousseau’s body. The second round consisted of some artful dodges by Rousseau until Pearl was able to knock him to the ground with a strong hit. Rousseau bounced back, locking Pearl in a bear hug before the round’s end. The third round was more of the same, with both boxers getting in several hits. The two had to be sep­arated twice, but Rousseau won by split decision. 
michael “Greasy” Grasso def. Joshua smith 
Grasso started strong and held on through the second and third rounds for the unanimous deci­sion victory over Smith. Grasso began with several jabs to the head and upper body. The sec­ond round started much better for Smith, as he came out with en­ergy and engaged Grasso almost immediately with several heavy punches. Grasso brought Smith into a headlock and got some solid jabs in before the round ended. In the third round, Grasso had some strong counters to Smith’s shots, landing a few punches to the head of his opponent. This proved to be enough for Grasso to claim the win by unanimous decision. 
David “no Way, no” Howe def. Chris “the second Amendment” Delillo 
Howe had a significant height advantage over Delillo and used it to his advantage for the split-decision win. Early on in the 
see BOUTS PAGE 13 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



CrossWorD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHlY PunlIKElY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

ControllED CHAos | HILLARy MANGIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
suDoKu | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HorosCoPE | EUGENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: Procrastination won’t get the results you are looking for. Align yourself with the doers. Put your intuition to work for you and size up the best possible way to get the results that will buy you greater freedom. Work, money and investments will help you gain the confidence required to mingle with people who have as much to contribute as you. your numbers are 5, 8, 19, 26, 35, 44, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Concentrate on your future, not on your past. Make changes based on what’s important to you and how you want to move forward personally. Opportunity will develop if you share your ideas and concerns with someone influential. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Helping others can be rewarding as long as you aren’t being taken for granted. Draw the line if anyone is too demanding. your time and expertise is valuable and you should be rewarded for your effort. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think before making a decision that will alter your status. Mixing business with pleasure will not play out in your favor. Make decisions based on your goals, not your current desires. Ask for written documentation before you commit. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your imagination coupled with your expertise and you will find a way to improve your relationships as well as your home environment. Compromise and you will get into a give-and-take situation that is both comforting and prosperous. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t fear change or what others think of you. Move in the direction that offers guidance and a better future. Make choices that will make you happy and content with your life. Take better care of your mental, physical and financial wellness. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep an open mind and go the extra mile. What you do to help others as well as to ensure that you are living up to your expectations, integrity and standards will determine who stands by your side and respects you. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Network, ask questions and use your intuitive intelligence in order to make the best choice. A contract will bring you financial gains. Focus on the fine print and details. A good idea can turn into a great one if you don’t cut corners. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you may face opposition, but don’t get coerced into doing something for the wrong reasons. Get your facts straight from the source before you jump into action. Taking control will save you from ending up in a vulnerable position. Romance is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don’t allow an emotional encounter with someone to ruin your plans. An honest answer may not be easy to deliver, but it will help you reach your destination quicker. An alteration regarding your home or domestic situation is likely to be costly. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A financial, contractual or legal matter will turn in your favor. Don’t leave any stone unturned. Look over personal papers and make a decision without getting angry or jumping to conclusions. A calm, calculated response will lead to victory. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you may have an unusual way of doing or seeing things, but it’s your innovative ideas and unique way of following through that will help you reach your goals. Don’t let anyone make you feel self-conscious. Do your own thing. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  Reconsider your connection to the people around you and look for a way to collaborate in order to reach a common goal. A change in attitude regarding children or friendships will bring you closer to the people you love the most. 


Birthday Baby: you are intuitive, productive and trendy. you are helpful and considerate. 
JumblE | DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 
City State Zip 

THE OBSERVER | tuEsDAY, fEbruArY 18, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
nD WomEn’s bAsKEtbAll | ND 87, GEORGIA TECH 72 
Irish roll Yellow Jackets on emotional Senior Day 
Notre Dame keeps undefeated season alive behind Loyd’s 27 points 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

Georgia Tech made a concerted effort to bring down No. 2 Notre Dame on Senior Day, but the yellow Jackets could not withstand the un­defeated Irish, who ultimately won 87-72. 
“I think next year we’re going to have Senior Night on the first day of classes, August 27th. There won’t be a game, but we’ll celebrate the seniors,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw joked after the game. “I feel like every year it’s the same thing with the emotion of the mo­ment. I thought we got ourselves together in the second half, but the first half was a little rough.” 
Georgia Tech (17-9, 7-6 ACC) grabbed an early 8-2 advantage over the Irish with two 3-pointers from junior guard Sydney Wallace and a jump shot from senior guard Tyaunna Marshall. 
“The ACC is the best league in women’s basketball, and every team comes in with that kind of intensity, especially for us, because it’s a chance to beat a top team and everyone is gunning for us. We have a big target on our back,” McGraw said. “At the beginning of the game, I was a little worried when they hit back-to-back threes and got off to a pretty good start, so I was glad they steadied the ship and were able to finish the game.” 
The yellow Jackets were able to hold off the Irish offense for the first five minutes, but then the shots began to fall for Notre Dame (25­0, 12-0 ACC). Sophomore guard Jewell Loyd hit two field goals, and with 11 minutes remain­ing in the half, sophomore guard Michaela Mabrey hit a jump shot from the outside to tie the game at 
10. Less than a minute later, fresh­man guard Lindsay Allen hit a free throw to put the Irish up for good, then followed that up by making a contested layup and completing 
see W BBALL PAGE 14 
bEnGAl bouts 

Irish boxers complete preliminary round 
By JOSH DULANY 
Sports Writer 
Keith “the Chief” loh def. Isaiah “frank the tank” lee 
The night’s opening fight went to the Loh, who used his combina­tions to claim a unanimous victory. The first round began slowly, with both fighters cautiously probing each other with jabs. Loh landed a few hooks to the head and seized control in the second stanza with crushing one-two combina­tions and devastating hooks to Lee’s head. In the final round, Lee mounted a brief barrage of jabs, but Loh responded with enough hard shots to wrap up the unanimous decision. 
Juan “fish two fish red fish blue fish” Alvarez def. ned “swerte DE” Vara 
Alvarez overwhelmed Vara with hard body shots to take the fight by unanimous decision. Both fighters landed only a few blows in the first round as Alvarez danced around Vara’s jabs. Vara continued to jab at Alvarez in the second round, but the stayed light on his feet and dodged most shots before getting a few combinations of his own. In the final round Alvarez continued to work his way inside on Vara and landed several left and right hooks to give him the win. 

Jack “Attack Jaiclet” taiclet def. Jack “Can’t Hold me back” Guilfoile 
The sophomores battled back and forth, but Taiclet used his height advantage to pull away with a the unanimous win. Both fight­ers came out with flurries of jabs to the head and body. Taiclet used his left jab and right hook to dictate the action as the round progressed. Guilfoile tried to work his way in­side, but the sophomore used sev­eral explosive hooks to keep his shorter opponent at bay. Taiclet controlled the third round with his longer reach and earned the unan­imous decision. 
Garret “fedEx” schmelling def. Phillip “the thrill” stenger 
Schmelling dominated the fight to earn the win in a referee stopped contest against Stenger. Both fight­ers came out swinging, as Stenger tried to control the bout with his lengthy jab, but Schmelling fought it off and got inside on his opponent’s body, pounding him with violent combinations. After a brief stoppage for Stenger to get treatment for a nosebleed he tried to rally, but Schmelling continued to control the bout with authorita­tive body punches before the refer­ee stopped the contest after round two, giving Schmelling the victory. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
Edward “Armagetti” smith def. David “Different” mattia 
Smith used his stamina and conditioning to tire Mattia and take the victory by unanimous decision. The fight opened with Mattia dancing around Smith and peppering his body with hard jabs. Smith rallied towards the end of the first round, backing Mattia against the ropes and landing shots to his head. In the second round, Smith kept the momentum by pushing Mattia against the ropes and jab­bing at his head. Smith succeeded in bloodying Mattia’s nose in the 
see BOUTS PAGE 14 


ND Women’s Basketball at Boston College  W 87-72  SMC Basketball vs. Olivet  Wed., 7:30 p.m.  ND Softball vs.  Pacific  Thu., 1 p.m.   
ND Women’s Golf at Central District Invite  Ongoing  Men’s Basketball at Miami  Wed., 9 p.m.  ND Softball vs. BYU  Thu., 3:30 p.m.  
Men’s Swimming at ACC Championships  Wed.-Thu., All Day  ND Women’s Basketball at Wake Forest Thu., 7 p.m.  
ND Women’s Golf at Central District Invite  All day  Women’s Swimming at ACC Championships  Wed.-Thu., All Day  Baseball vs. Santa Clara  Thu., 8 p.m.  







