The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 123 | MONDAY, APRIL 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Warm weather marks Blue-Gold weekend 
The Shirt 2014 features new fabric on anniversary 
By WEI LIN 
news writer 
students wondered what color, design and logo would adorn The shirt 2014 as they stood waiting for the grand unveiling out­side the hammes notre dame bookstore enjoying free food and cheerleading performances. 
The unveiling ceremony, which takes place each year on the day before the blue-gold spring game, began at 6 p.m. 
students who bought The shirt after the ceremony received a 15 percent discount on up to two shirts. 
This year’s shirt features the outside and inside of the football stadium on the front and back of The shirt, respectively. The shirt 2014 is heather blue made with 
see shirT PAGE 5 







Tens of thousands of Irish fans attend Blue-Gold Game 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
hundreds of fans poured into notre dame stadium on saturday to watch the irish scrimmage in the annual blue-gold spring game, a tradition that began 85 years ago. 
students and fans threw tail­gates, dressed up in notre dame gear and shouted traditional cheers throughout the game. officer Tim mccarthy with the indiana state police shared his first joke of 2014 with the lively crowd. The official attendance number was 27,986. 
John rydberg, a freshman in o’neill hall, said, “my friends and i decided to go all out for this game. it didn’t matter at all that it was just a scrimmage. in the 
see game PAGE 5 



Former nd vp dies at age 89 

Observer Staff Report 
James w. Frick, former university vice president for public relations, alumni af­fairs and development, died wednesday at the age of 89 at his home in naples, Fla., ac­cording to a university press release. 
Frick enrolled at notre dame as a 23-year-old fresh­man after serving in the u.s. navy during world war ii. he worked part time for the university development of­fice, then called the notre dame Foundation, before graduating and entering full-time into the foundation, the 
see Frick PAGE 5 




Moms visit Saint Mary’s campus for tours, blessing 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
approximately 240 mothers traveled to saint mary’s this past weekend to celebrate the annual Junior mom’s weekend (Jmw) on campus. 
Junior class president nicole o’Toole said the weekend kicked off Friday with a wine and cheese reception in the student center lounge. 
o’Toole said Jmw is a great opportunity to bring the junior class together. 
“it’s great to meet everybody’s moms and it’s a special oppor­tunity for students to show their mothers just exactly what saint mary’s means to them,” o’Toole said. 
Junior emmi hazen said Jmw is a great way to honor the spe­cial women in our lives. 
“i think it’s a great way for all of the amazing young women at saint mary’s to pay tribute to some of our greatest role models, whether that be our mom, grand­mother, sister, aunt, or close fam­ily friend,” hazen said. “They have all helped shape our lives and lead us to saint mary’s in one way or another.” 


hazen said the weekend is such a special time for the daughters, but also the moth­ers who have always supported them. 
“i know my mom was look­ing forward to coming to this weekend because, although she was not a saint mary’s grad her­self, she knows how important it has been to me these past three years,” hazen said. 
see moms PAGE 5 


beloved staff member dies 
Observer Staff Report 
curry c.l. montague, 
principal  custodian  
of  notre  dame’s  main  
building  for  about  30  

years, died april 7 at the sanctuary at holy cross, a south bend senior living community, at the age of 81, according to a university press release. 
“in a sense, he was al­most an icon of the build­ing itself,” university president emeritus Fr. edward a. “monk” malloy said in a statement. “his enthusiasm and upbeat perspective were shown 
see monTague PAGE 5 


shamrock challenge PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 FooTball PAGE 16 women’s lacrosse PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

What do you think about this year’s The Shirt? 

James Firth 


Jacob Stanton 
sophomore 

senior 
keough hall 

alumni hall 
“my boy cammy d killed it.” 

“it looks like a denim outfit.” 
Connor Sullivan 
senior 
walsh hall 
“i think it’s pretty swag.” 


Liv Bratton 
sophomore 
off campus 
“it’s not hot pink, but i like the back design.” 
Liam O’Connor 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 

“you could look normal wearing it outside an nd game.” 


Sharia Smith 
junior pasquerilla west hall 
“i think it’s pretty cool, but i don’t see Touchdown Jesus.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman conor kelly Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville alex wilcox kayla mullen evan anderson 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Research Day Blood Drive Pill Drop Morning Prayer Morning Prayer 
Jodi lo austin Taliaferro 
Harper Hall Rolfs Sports Stepan Center Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred 11 a.m.-6:45 p.m. Recreation Center 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Heart Heart Cancer-related 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Bring any unused pills 9 a.m. 9 a.m. 
Corrections 

research lecture and Sign up online at www. to be disposed of. Service to celebrate Service to celebrate 
The observer regards itself as poster competition. givebloodnow.com Holy Thursday. Good Friday. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
HealthSouth Lecture Stations of the Cross Panel Debate Zen Meditation Stations of the Cross 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Mendoza College of Grotto of Our Lady of DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Grotto of Our Lady of 
however, recognize that we will make 
Business Lourdes Arts Center Center Lourdes 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Talk by former CFO of Part of Holy Week. Debate on sports at Open to all. In celebration of Good 
we can correct our error. 

HealthSouth big-time universities. Friday. 


Students found company to screen fake medicines 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The use of paper analytic devices (pads) as low-cost, low-technology tests for screening counterfeit and substandard pharmaceuticals re­sulted from collaborative efforts between the science departments of notre dame and saint mary’s college, and now notre dame stu­dents are in the process of taking this new technology to the market through the entrepreneurial busi­ness venture, imani health. 
notre dame senior sean mcgee began research with the pads project two and a half years ago. This past year, fellow senior luke smith joined the project along with esTeem student amanda miller, who graduated from saint mary’s in 2013, and mba students chase lane and valeriano lima to create imani health. 
“on average, i believe the who and interpol estimate that 30 per­cent of drugs are counterfeit that are sold, and it causes pretty sig­nificant problems with human health,” mcgee said. 
notre dame associate profes­sor of chemistry and biochemistry marya lieberman and professor of chemistry and physics at saint mary’s Toni barstis continuously work to combat this problem, mcgee said, through the creation and improvement of these cheap paper-based devices. 
“hundreds of thousands of people every year are at risk for something like this and also from a monetary perspective, the phar­maceutical industry loses 75 bil­lion dollars in revenue as a result of counterfeiting,” he said. 
mcgee said the imani health business plan began when smith approached him and suggested submitting the pads project to the mccloskey business plan competition. 
“imani health focuses on tak­ing the pad project and essentially transferring it out of the lab and maturing it into a product that we can get out to the world,” he said. “we’re looking at maturing the pad itself and also the accompanying software package that would allow it to develop a worldwide database that would basically paint a real-time map of where counterfeiting is happening.” 
according to mcgee, the soft­ware package is currently in devel­opment in the lab of professor of computer science and engineering patrick Flynn. 
“he estimates that with one ded­icated person it would probably take somewhere close to a year [to develop the software],” he said. 
although certain aspects of the project are still undergoing work, mcgee said that in addition to en­tering the mccloskey business plan competition, imani health also entered the onestart competition for science entrepreneurs. 
“we just applied to get to the fi­nal round,” he said. “we submitted our stuff and we’re waiting to hear back if we’ve made it. 
“if we do, we will be going to san Francisco on may 22 to compete in the final round, which will entail us trying to win $150,000 in start up money and free lab space for a year at the [glaxosmithkline] laborato­ries in the bay area.” 
mcgee said the results of the onestart competition would be released within the next few weeks. 
results of the mccloskey com­petition were, however, released last week. although imani health made it to the semifinals, which consisted of the top 12 teams from a field of more than 150 applicants, mcgee said the team did not win. 
mcgee said although the loss was unfortunate, there was still room for improvement for the busi­ness plan, the most crucial dealing with patent approval. 
“The intellectual property doesn’t exist yet because the pat­ents are pending at the uspTo,” mcgee said. “The problem is that they have a back log of about three years.” 
although mcgee will not see the project completed firsthand due to his graduation at the end of the semester, he said lieberman and barstis would continue working on the pads project. although the pat­ent is the main missing component at the moment, progress can still occur. 
“right now we’re going to focus on product maturation,” he said. 
mcgee said quick and easy drug testing might significantly aid cer­tain fields such as work in customs, border patrol and airports. 
“They can seize drugs and take them and test them on the spot rather than having to send them to a lab where they have to continue to test it,” he said. 
right now, the facilities that conduct drug testing do not have the resources to keep up with workload. 
“even here, domestically, we can see it being used by various dieticians and urologists because there’s becoming an increasing prevalence of people buying their medications online,” he said. 
with such a large counterfeit-drug industry, mcgee said an ef­ficient and low-cost method of detecting drug quality is essential. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

Fulbright graduates attend SMC re-entry seminar 
process and women’s leadership, as part of a panel discussion. quality expansion specialist for the opportunity to visit the organiza-
By TABITHA RICKETTS 

news writer mana derakhshani, associate di-“each of the women on the panel indiana association for child care tions that they represented, dinner rector of cwil, said. of local women leaders shared with resources and referral, the press and an evening at a local family’s saint mary’s college hosted “The seminar is focused on the participants their personal release said. home and attending ‘The wiz,’ a 2014 Fulbright women’s re-entry helping the women with the tran-leadership journey and talked another local, retired direc-musical theater show at the south 
seminar this past week. sition back to their home coun-about challenges they had faced tor of bilingual services for the bend civic Theater,” derakhshani The seminar, held april 9-13, in-tries. workshops deal with reverse and ways that they had overcome south bend community school said. 
cluded about 45 female Fulbright culture shock, leadership styles, them,” derakhshani said. corporation, maritza robles, was at the end of the seminar, the 
graduate students from latin women’s issues globally and practi-The panel members included the seminar’s keynote speaker. women will complete their studies, 
america and the caribbean, ac-cal skills such as networking, grant-kathryn schneider, executive di-derakhshani said the seminar according to the press release. 
cording to the saint mary’s press writing, problem-solving and rector of st. margaret’s house; schedule was very intensive, al-derakhshani said the women at-
release. in the seminar, students conflict resolution,” derakhshani linda baechle, president and ceo though some events were planned tended from universities all across 
examined the difficulties they said. of the ywca of north central to provide social interludes. the country. 
may face in their re-entry into the in addition to sessions led by indiana; andrea popielski, execu-“events of note were the visit to although the application pro-
professional communities of their cwil faculty and staff and saint tive director of hannah’s house; the amish community for a spe-cess to host the seminar was highly 
home countries. mary’s political science and Jesusa rivera, mexican-american cially prepared amish meal in competitive, derakhshani said The saint mary’s center for english professors, the press release community activist and bilin-an amish home and a tour of the saint mary’s had a well-established 
women’s intercultural leadership said five participants from the local gual case manager for proteus menno hof museum, the panel involvement with the Fulbright 
(cwil) focused on the re-entry community were invited to engage and yully ortega, a hispanic of women leaders followed by the program. “saint mary’s has hosted Foreign paid adverTisemenT 

language Fulbright Teaching assistants in arabic and chinese for the past few years,” she said. “saint mary’s faculty have ob­tained Fulbright grants for research or teaching abroad [and] students have obtained Fulbright grants to go to graduate school ... or to teach english in another country.” 
she also noted the similarity be­
tween the seminar’s mission and 
the college’s. 
“while we have never hosted this specific event before, Fulbright’s goals for the participants ... are closely aligned with saint mary’s mission of preparing women to make a difference in the world,” meyer-lee said. 
“Through this event, we hope to shine a light on saint mary’s college as a place that prepares women to become global lead­ers. we also knew that having 35 to 40 young women from over­seas on our campus would widen our horizons if only a few days,” derakhshani said. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricket01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Shamrock Challenge raises money for Special Olympics 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
over the past four sunday mornings, notre dame stu­dents, faculty and staff ran, rowed, biked and swam for the first annual shamrock challenge, sponsored by recsports, to raise money for the st. Joseph county special olympics. 
participants competed in a variety of athletic events spread out over the four weeks and across campus rec­reational facilities, earning points for miles run, sit-ups completed or inches jumped. Those who accumulated the most points throughout the month earned weekly or overall prizes provided by recsports, notre dame Food services, legends of notre dame and The vitamin shoppe in mishawaka. 
each participant, compet­ing as an individual or in a hall team, sponsored a special olympics athlete with his or her registration fee. amy marquez, a recsports intern who organized the event, said shamrock challenge contin­ues recsports’ relationship with the special olympics af­ter the late night olympics, a similar fitness competition, ended in 2012 after 22 years due to lack of space. 

marquez said she and recsports facilities coor­dinator ed beven designed shamrock challenge to take place during facilities off-hours and to appeal to as many people as possible. 
“we wanted to try to find something to replace the late night olympics, and also we were thinking of how we could get more men involved in our fitness type things,” she said. “we have a lot of group fitness things, but it’s mainly just women who are involved, so we wanted to put some­thing together to get the men out there, and we figured men like to do competition-based things, so this is kind of the idea of it.” 
shamrock challenge began march 23 with running and rowing competitions in the rolfs sports recreation center (rsrc). The next sunday, competitors did push-ups and rode exercise bikes in the rockne memorial. april 6 promoted swimming and sit-ups day at the rolfs aquatic center, and this past sunday featured a variety of activities at the rsrc, including sprints, ropes and burpees. 
marquez said about 50 peo­ple registered and 35 partici­pated. she estimated the event raised about $300. she said although space might be an issue, recsports hopes to ex­pand shamrock challenge in future years, including bring­ing in special olympics ath­letes to compete, as they did in the late night olympics. 
“They go all out for these athletes, and our hope is that next year [the special olympics athletes] can join them and be on a team with them,” marquez said. “we wanted to see how it would go the first year and how many numbers it would get. hopefully next year we can do that.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
belle-a-palooza ushers in spring 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
student activities board geared up for the spring season with a campus-wide carnival event, belle-a-palooza, on Friday at saint mary’s. 
students and other members of the saint mary’s community were welcomed to the dalloway’s green for a “belle of a good time!” 
“These are the most important days up to final exams. students need a chance to unwind and as members of the activities board, we have a job to do that.” erica chiarello, president of the student activities board, said. 
alli gerth, student activities board (sab) vice president, said saint mary’s hosts various cel­ebrations during the year. other events across saint mary’s in­cludes: movie nights in vander Theater, midnight madness, murder mystery dinner, study day massages and more. 
in years past, belle-a-palooza was celebrated in the student center lounge due to bad weath­er,  chiarello said. 
“i was glad that the event was held on the beautiful greens of smc. it was important to at­tend events like these because it brought the smc family back to­gether,” belle-a-palooza attendee and saint mary’s junior nicole papiernik said. 
gerth said activities at belle-a-palooza included: mechanical bull, crafts, dJ, face tattoos and inflatables. The assortment of food that was available included: smoothies, fudge puppies, pop­corn and cotton candy. 
“it was a good way to unwind, relax,” sophomore emily eash said. “it was a great way to have some young fun.” 
sophomore shannon schlak said it was good to be a kid for a day before exam season began. 
gerth said sab plans to hold more events to take advantage of the warm weather while they can. 
senior Jordan diffenderfer said she enjoyed the event and reflect­ed on her time at the college. 
“wow, it was a mix between a beautiful day and a fun-time; i think sab did a great job,” she said. “i just wish i weren’t graduat­ing. i will miss things like this.” 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Shirt 
conTinued From page 1 
a 60 percent cotton and 40 per­cent polyester blend, sophomore camden hill, The shirt executive committee’s designer, said. 
hill said an obstacle designers faced was deciding on a concept. he said designers had to first de­sign the 25th anniversary logo before proceeding to work on the design of The shirt. 
“From a design standpoint, i think we were trying to do some­thing new this year but not radi­cally different from the previous years. we had to keep it consistent with kind of the image The shirt has created, but we were looking into different things,” hill said. “we wanted try a different color and we thought the 25th anniver­sary would be a great time to try a new fabric as well. The heathered fabric gives it a unique look, un­like the two previous blues.” 
hill said unlike the previous years where The shirt focused on certain players, this year’s shirt 
Moms 
conTinued From page 1 
o’Toole said 237 juniors reg­istered for the weekend’s events, amassing the total number of participants at 480. 
on saturday afternoon, o’Toole said, there were tours of reidinger house and heritage room and mass in the church of our lady of loretto at 5 pm. 
o’Toole said she read the bless­ing over the class of 2015 at mass and it was a unique moment in focused on the stadium. 

Junior John wetzel, president of The shirt executive committee, said, “coach kelly has had tre­mendous success at home during his time as a head coach, which is why we thought it was appro­priate to feature the stadium as the main focus in this years shirt. with the design on the back we were hoping to [portray] all the pieces of the full notre dame football experience by includ­ing the band, the fans and the players.” 
wetzel said an obstacle was making sure that the timing of the unveiling was perfect. They had to coordinate brian kelly’s arrival, the committee members changing into their shirts, the band being prepped play while also coordinating online and so­cial media releases, he said. 
The unveiling ceremony co­ordinators senior catherine simonson and sophomore catherine williams spearheaded the majority of planning and co­ordination of the performances 
her time at saint mary’s. 
“i loved getting to read the blessing i wrote for my mom to our entire class,” o’Toole said. “she was crying, i almost started crying, and it was really special for me.” 
The blessing over the class rings, traditionally scheduled during Jmw, has been recently switched to a senior week activ­ity, o’Toole said. 
“[The ring blessing] has been a tradition to be saved for senior week because most girls do not 
paid adverTisemenT 

for the actual unveiling ceremo­ny, wetzel said. 
The committee expects to sell around 20,000 shirts in the first day, wetzel said. 
as for improvements for next year’s planning process, hill said, “i thought what could’ve benefit-ted us was nailing down a more specific concept initially. we were a little nebulous going into the de­sign process, and we thought we were more specific than we were. … in retrospect, it would’ve been better to have a better more solid understanding of the concept be­fore designing the shirt.” 
hill said he has noticed a gener­ally positive reaction to this year’s shirt design. 
“i take the anonymous Twitter comments to be the most telling, because they have nothing to lose; they aren’t trying to appease me, and even from those, i’ve heard a lot of good and positive feedback,” hill said. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
order their rings until Jmw so they can pick it out with their moms,” o’Toole said. “doing it during senior week ensures that everybody has their rings for the blessing.” 
saturday evening’s cocktail hour and dinner with college president carol ann mooney were followed by a silent auction that raised over $6,000 for the ju­nior class, o’Toole said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Game 
conTinued From page 1 
end, it’s more about school spirit and having fun than anything else.” 
For many seniors, the game represented their last notre dame football game as students. 
senior kelsie corriston said, “it was a little nostal­gic to be there, realizing that i would never watch a notre dame football game as a student again. but i will most definitely be back in the years to come to cheer for the Fighting irish.” 
The shirt 2014, which was unveiled Friday, was worn by band members who played traditional favorites. This year’s blue-gold game marked the last time the irish would play on the grass field; after commencement week­end, the university plans to lay down FieldTurf to replace the current natural grass field. 
a portion of the proceeds of the game support the notre dame club of st. Joseph valley, who sponsor schol­arships for area high school students attending notre dame next year, according 
Frick 
conTinued From page 1 
press release stated. 
Frick became the first notre dame administrator to focus exclusively on development work, and he later became the university’s director of devel­opment in 1961. in 1965 he was elected vice president for public relations and development as the first lay officer in university history, according to the press release. 
“Jim Frick took over a fledgling development organization and turned it into one of the most successful fundraising opera­tions in the nation,” university president emeritus Fr. Theodore 
m. hesburgh said, according to the press release. “Few individu­als have left the university more in their debt than he, and few have had a more decisive and widespread effect on the his­tory and development of notre dame.” 
Frick served for 18 years as vice president, during which time notre dame initiated four major fundraising campaigns that gen­erated more than $300 million, according to the press release. 
Montague 
conTinued From page 1 
continuously.” 
a mississippi native, montague moved to south bend in 1947. he worked in the main building for nearly 30 years before retiring in 2000, the press release stated. 
“in 2004, montague’s name was added to notre dame’s wall of honor, a display on the main building’s ground floor to und.com. The names of those students were an­nounced during a halftime ceremony. 
a number of visiting pro­spective students also came out for the game to experi­ence notre dame football for the first time. 
Julia Frank, a senior in high school planning to attend notre dame next fall, spent the week­end touring campus. 
“it was such a great expe­rience to spend the weekend here,” Julia said. “now i’m so excited for the fall to come. i almost don’t want to go back to high school.” 
not all students were able to make it out to the game, however. admission was free for students. 
Freshman ruth cooper said, “i have two tests and two papers this week, and i knew i needed to spend saturday studying.” 
“sometimes you just have to prioritize. yes, football is fun, but in the end, we are here to get an education, and that always comes first for me,” freshman megan pogue said. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 
“Frick’s twin enthusiasms — for his job and for his alma ma­ter — could be costly,” the press release stated. “a nearly compul­sive record keeper, he once no­ticed and remarked that in 1976, a particularly eventful year of his tenure, he spent 36 weeks travel­ing 70,000 miles and ate 263 din­ners away from home. 
“such exertions contributed to several heart attacks, two of them nearly fatal, and were noted officially in 1983 when the university conferred on Frick an honorary degree citing ‘a man who has literally worked his heart out for notre dame.’” 
Frick earned a doctoral de­gree in educational administra­tion from the university in 1972 and, upon retirement as vice president, served on the board of trustees from 1983 to 1985, the press release stated. 
a funeral mass will be cele­brated wednesday at 9:30 a.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. visitation will be held Tuesday from 2-4:30 p.m. and 6-9 p.m. memorial contributions may be made to notre dame magazine, the notre dame annual Fund or the community Foundation of st. Joseph county. 
recognizing ‘exceptional men and women whose contribu­tions to notre dame are last­ing, pervasive and profound,’” the press release stated. “according to his citation, one of 27 on the wall, montague ‘provided the notre dame community and its guests with a congenial, memorable and inspiring example of how hard work, devoted service and charity transform duty into joy.’” 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Ode to crawdads 
Keri O’Mara 
graphics editor 

The sun is out, the kegs are full and our backyards are filled with denim-clad crowds gathered to par­ty. as we all know, once the weather begins to improve, it officially be­comes “darty” season, and we all suddenly become much more inter­ested in Frisbees, back porches and barbecue (or, for a small minority, a small crustacean called crawfish). 
This past weekend, notre dame’s art, art history and design depart­ment gathered for the annual craw-fish boil, a gathering of students, faculty and alumni for a day of drinking, networking and bonding over this louisiana-style cookout. a lot of preparation goes into this feast, in which 100 pounds of live crayfish (also known as craydads or mudbugs) are shipped out over­night for the event. upon their ar­rival at the boil, brave attendees can interact directly with the craw-fish before they become their meal, placing these mini lobster-look­a-likes on our ears like living ear­rings and attempting to endure the pain of their claws enough to snap a photo (without getting too emo­tionally attached, of course). 
Then comes the even better part of the day, in which a giant pot of these steaming hot crawdads are poured over a table, like a cajun­seasoned christmas present. as we all eagerly stand in anticipation for the consumption, it is only those dedicated enough that earn a spot around the table. next, we must compete ferociously with those around us to devour as many as possible. There is a highly skilled art to consumption, however, and a very specific method, which in­volves aggressive twisting, cracking and sucking of these little crawfish. and yes, it looks just as unattract­ive as it sounds. 
around the crawfish table, all judgment is gone as participants shamelessly partake in this dis­turbingly savage communal feast. The aftermath of the feeding frenzy involves a lot of lysol wipes and maybe even a shower, but more im­portantly, you have earned a new and incomparable bond with your fellow tablemates. while i joke that the crawfish boil is my favorite hol­iday, it is a truly unique event that brings the whole department and all who attend together in a memo­rable way. This annual event is one i will always look forward to and hope to share with others in years to come. 
Contact Keri O’Mara at      komara@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Mia Lillis 
we are nd 

on march 27, 1973, marlon brando was awarded the oscar for his perfor­mance as don vito corleone in “The godfather”. however, brando was not present to accept the award. instead, he sent sacheen littlefeather in his place to turn down the oscar, and to deliver a 15-page speech explaining this rejec­tion. while she was not able to deliver the full speech at the oscars (since the oscars producer threatened to arrest her if she spoke for more than a minute on stage), she was able to convey that brando’s rejection stemmed from a deep disgust with the way that american indians had been historically treated in the united states and, in particular, how they had been portrayed by hollywood. Forty years ago, marlon brando was aware that visibility and portrayal mat­ters, and that the consistent typecast­ing, villainizing, misrepresenting and whitewashing of indigenous peoples on the part of largely white hollywood executives was a problem inseparable from, and likely perpetuating, the oldest and most long-lasting power imbalance in our nation’s history. 
and yet, upon examining contem­porary culture, it seems that sacheen littlefeather and marlon brando’s words have fallen upon relatively deaf ears. last year, white actor Johnny depp was cast as the fictional character Tonto in the walt disney reimagining of the lone ranger series. in an industry where an overwhelming majority of lead roles are white (81.9 percent in 2006, according to a berkeley study), such whitewashing of non-white roles exac­erbates the exclusion of actors of color in hollywood. popular films of the last couple of decades continue to perpetu­ate cultural misunderstanding among americans. Films such as “The last of the mohicans”, “pocahontas” and oth­ers have failed to accurately portray any single indigenous tribe (“mohicans” itself is a blend of the “mohegan” and “mahican” tribes) and have sustained the broad misconception that the dif­ferences between indigenous tribes are inconsequential. 
college parties such as “cowboys and indians,” or our very own “native americans and hoes” party hosted by notre dame students about a year ago, continue to encourage misunderstand­ing about, and disrespect of, american indian populations, the most visible indicator being the disrespectful use of war bonnets and ignorant use of the headband (which was used by very few indigenous tribes, unlike what hollywood would have us believe). in short, ignorance abounds among non-indigenous americans when it comes to american indian tribes. 
but our ignorance is not limited to cultural ignorance. The systemic de­struction and massacre of american indians is yet to be found recounted accurately in history textbooks used in american schools. The colonial intro­duction of diseases such as smallpox and cholera killed upwards of 90 per­cent of indigenous people who had not developed immunities, and the extent to which this near-genocide was unin­tentional or biological warfare on the part of colonists is still up for debate among modern historians. 
Following the united states victory in the american revolution (in which the british signed over large tracts of indigenous land to colonists without consulting or acquiring the right to do so from such indigenous tribes), american indians continued to suffer injustices, whether it was land expan­sion, violation of treaties (which were often created non-consensually) or at­tempts on the part of presidents such as george washington to “civilize” them. The displacement of american indians to reservations was signed into law by president andrew Jackson, allowing for the united states to embark on the “manifest destiny” at the cost of horrific human rights violations such as ethnic cleansing. The relocation to reserva­tions was followed by a history of forced cultural assimilation, forced land pollu­tion (as many reservations near urban areas become sites of garbage landfill and other sites of government nuclear disposal) and other injustices, which continue to this day. needless to say, this column cannot even begin to cover the true depth of injustice that indig­enous people have suffered on their own land. 
Those of us whose families are not relatively recent immigrants to this country have profited from this deep injustice. we have inherited riches from ancestors that participated in this eth­nic cleansing and genocide, simply by moving to this country and occupying land that was stolen from indigenous people who rightfully owned it — ironi­cally enough, in the process founding a country that values the “right to prop­erty.” americans have the audacity to haughtily call putin’s actions in ukraine unjust without acknowledging that their own country was created through these same unjust actions.  
This is not to say that putin has the right to invade ukraine, but rather, that non-indigenous americans have a deep­er obligation to our indigenous brothers and sisters. perhaps, instead of ignor­ing this history of violence, we can ac­knowledge our ancestral guilt. perhaps we can support legislative attempts to improve conditions on reservations. perhaps, instead of watching inaccurate or problematic films such as “The lone ranger”, we can support the indigenous film community and watch films such as atanarjuat. perhaps, instead of blind­ly supporting sports teams such as the washington r*******, we can stand with the thousands of american indians that oppose their racism. perhaps, at the very least, we can stop wearing war bonnets to college parties. 
Mia Lillis is a senior living in Cavanaugh Hall. She can be reached at mlillis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



South Bend, for you 
Lauren Eckert 
guest columnist 

Two days ago, about six houses south of the Frances street abode i call home, a perfect, innocent two-year-old was shot and killed. The act was senseless, horrendous and purportedly a result of gang violence. i was mortified, to say the least. 
when relating the tragedy to my notre dame cohorts, their responses converged in disgust, shock and one depressing echoed line. This line sang something to the tune of “That’s won­derful south bend, for you!” 
Flashback to one month ago: i’m sit­ting comfortably on a plush and snug couch in a tastefully-refurbished high school swimming pool, sipping on kombucha tea and relaxing to a much different tune. The accidentals, an up­and-coming folk duo out of Traverse city, are blowing my mind with their talent and energy. as i’m rocking out to an instrument i assume is a modified cello and highly considering giving up my senior year at notre dame for life-on-the-road as a groupie, the elderly gentlemen next to me takes a break from pounding his marimba drum to offer me a sip of his indiana microbrew. i turn him down. he’s enjoying it way too much for me to steal a precious sip of the raspberry-infused wheat ale. my friend giggles next to me, “That’s won­derful south bend, for you!” 
i’ve long anticipated the day i would finally write my observer viewpoint column. as april of my senior year at notre dame rapidly progressed, it’s about time i did. yet, if you had told the wide-eyed freshman version of myself that my contribution to student opin­ions on campus would look something like this … well, i simply wouldn’t have had it. 
That’s because, like most students, i’ve lived in south bend for the last four years. wait, let me try that again. as a senior, like most students at notre dame, i’ve lived in my homework as­signments for the last four years. i’ve lived in my dorm parties, my dining hall dates, my football morning tailgates, my chaperoned service outings and my preconceived notions about life out­side the ominous and infamous “notre dame bubble.” 
it irks me to use that clichéd term. and it is important for me to say, i love the bubble. i love endless fresh vegeta­bles and steaming hot entrees on call at south dining hall, i love the beautiful walks around well-kept lakes and most of the time i love a world filled with 20-something-year-olds and the profes­sors, staff and other people living in the world of 20-something-year-olds. when you’re a busy and motivated notre dame student, the bubble is a wonder­ful place for productivity and beautiful times with like-minded friends. 
but bubbles, my notre dame fam­ily and friends, can be dangerous little things. 
because had i not taken the leap off of campus and eventually been coaxed out of the bubble by the new and wonderful notre dame bridge project, events like ignite michiana and a survival-based need for groceries, i wouldn’t have met bethy at purple porch co-op, the hill st. local food cooperative. Today, she spent at least 15 minutes running around the store attempting to find a sample cup big enough to let me try the home-cooked broccoli cashew-cream soup. i would have been much the worse without my hours of puppy-play and kitten-snuggling at the humane society of st. Joseph county. i never would have gaped in awe at the infa­mous “sword of John adams”, an artful compilation of every bleeding steak possible featured exclusively at the locally-sourced, sustainable restaurant corndance Tavern. i probably wouldn’t get free hugs and decadent cheese and chocolate samples every time i visited whole Foods market (admittedly way too frequently). i definitely wouldn’t have shared passionate conversations about the thriving south bend unity gardens, the growing eco-friendly south bend culture and the value of the arts in architecture with kathy, the passionate notre dame alumna and proprietor of the trendy circa arts gallery located a mile south of campus. i haven’t even gotten into my love for the crazy socks i recently purchased at Just goods (indiana’s oldest Fair Trade general store), the live music sundays at chicory café, the south bend adventure club or the bustling Farmer’s market. 
i list to you these experiences because south bend is an immensely underap­preciated special kind-of-place with a special kind-of-people you aren’t go­ing to find anywhere else. and these special kinds-of-people are aching to get involved with the energy, intel­ligence and youth locked inside the notre dame bubble. They want to share with you their food, their story, their music, their art and their city. They’ve all been working hard to instigate posi­tive change for a very long time, and it is finally budding to fruition in sprouts like unity gardens, downtown sb First Fridays, greening the bend campaign and so much more. 
my viewpoint article is less opinion and more strong suggestion: give “The bend” a chance and break out of your safe zone. i’m not asking you to race out and grab a job application to work at the south bend museum of art or start obsessively adoring the gluten-free, organic and home-made carrot cake muffins at the garden patch market to the monetarily unsustainable level i do. 
be notre dame. 
go on your service trips to africa, dance your heart out at club Fever, tail­gate every saturday ever and even ad­mit to scaling stepan center. appreciate the bubble. 
but, be south bend too. 
when you remove the imposed filters and experience the city for yourself, i think you will find — not a city of trag­edy, violence and unbearable winters 
— but effervescent and alive culture, musical appreciation, art and culinary adventures just waiting for you to take part in. That is wonderful south bend, for you. 
Lauren Eckert is an senior studying environmental science. She can be con­tacted at  leckert@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
a discourse on dishonesty 
Raymond Michuda 
common sense 

do you remember when president obama told americans, “if you like your health care plan, you can keep it?” according to fact-checker politiFact, obama told the american people 37 times that obamacare would not force people that were satisfied with their current plans to change them. unfortunately, even as people were getting forced from their plans dur­ing the act’s disastrous implementation, obama appeared multiple times and reaf­firmed this statement, leading politiFact to name this the 2013 “lie of the year.” Just re­cently, however, he admitted in what i found to be a convoluted, excuse-ridden manner that the affordable care act might actually force people to change their plans. however, this really made me wonder if he really just figured this out. i find it unlikely that barack obama, president of the most pow­erful country in the world and graduate of harvard and columbia, did not understand the basic effects of his defining pet project. with this being said, the only reasonable conclusion is that he lied. 
even obama supporters ought to admit that as an elected official, he owes us a cer­tain amount of honesty. but this isn’t the first time he’s done something like this, and i doubt it’s the last. our president has a history of deception and broken promises, and by the time i finish describing some of his past transgressions, you should be outraged. 
an example of our president’s hypocrisy could be found in the statement he made when he took office that there would be an “unprecedented level of openness in gov­ernment” (whitehouse.gov). his statement has proven to be false. one case in particu­lar calls obama’s openness into question. remember operation Fast and Furious? if you’re not familiar with it, the bureau of alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms allowed for guns to be illegally purchased with the hope of being able to track the gun purchases back to mexican drug cartels. it backfired when some of these guns were involved in the murder of a united states border patrol agent. when congress tried to investigate us attorney general eric holder and his involvement, obama invoked executive privilege in order to keep secret many docu­ments pertaining to the operation. 
why would a president that stands for transparent government use executive privilege to impede a congressional inves­tigation of a member of the government? adding to this contradiction is the fact that as a candidate, obama accused the bush administration of “hiding behind executive privilege.” 
To call attention to a further hypocrisy, it cannot be forgotten that obama is an avid supporter of gun control. he wants to take away the guns of law-abiding american citizens, but when our government lets drug cartels illegally obtain guns, he does everything in his power to impede the investigation. 
here’s another good example of his du­plicity: during his 2008 campaign, obama informed us that “The biggest problems that we’re facing right now have to do with george bush trying to bring more and more power into the executive branch and not go through congress at all, and that’s what i intend to reverse when i’m president of the united states of america” (townhall.com). 
when i recently heard him say this, i was dumbstruck, and i still am, since this came from the same person that in his most recent state of the union told us he would implement many policies “with or without congress” (cnn.com). does he actually think that we won’t notice his hypocrisy and dishonesty? unfortunately, most people won’t. coupled with the collective adora­tion displayed toward obama by the media and the prestige and honor of being the first black president, in many people’s eyes, he can do no wrong. while some claim that since he is the president he deserves our re­spect, i disagree. in fact, i think we must do everything in our power to convince people otherwise. 
holding a position of power does not au­tomatically mean you deserve my respect. please do not take this out of context, but hitler was in charge of germany for a while. did he deserve the respect of the germans that he led? 
let me be very clear: i’m not advocating that people treat obama poorly. we ought to treat him reasonably as a fellow human be­ing. however, when a man in power stands up in front of this country and systemati­cally disseminates a multitude of lies, i think our trust in him should be shaken. i think we should label him what he has proven to be in many cases: a hypocritical liar. we should do so loudly, and without fear, because it is precisely this attitude that will ensure our country remains the gleaming beacon of freedom that our founders envi­sioned. labeling the president as a liar is not unpatriotic — in fact, it is the exact opposite. Questioning authority is a requirement of freedom, and, therefore, doing so is a patri­otic duty for all of us. i’ve just listed a few of the many lies obama has told. please stay on the lookout for more. listen with a doubtful ear and the utmost suspicion when dealing with politicians. only then can we be sure we are doing everything in our power to protect ourselves from tyranny. 
Raymond Michuda is a sophomore in the College of Engineering. He can be contacted at rmichuda@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

sometime last year, after having a long conversation comparing hbo’s “girls” to its network predecessor “sex and the city,” i realized how common four-women televi­sion shows and movies were. i decided to crowd-source for more examples and was hit with a tidal wave of ti­tles: “sisterhood of the Travelling pants,” “mean girls,” “golden girls,” “heathers” and dozens of other examples were suggested. Four women, it seemed, was the equa­tion for success in female-targeted film and television. 
recently, however, it seems as though a new model is emerging. while reading up on new shows that will de­but this spring, a theme emerged: shows starring two fe­male, best-friend leads. 
while the format certainly isn’t new (there was “laverne and shirley” in the 70s and “square pegs” in the 80s, to name some of the most recognizable), the few ex­isting shows currently sharing the format on air are less than inspired, namely usa’s underwhelming tag-team crime show “rizzoli & isles” and cbs’s consistently un­funny “2 broke girls.” but, i like to think that in part due to the impossible-to-underemphasize success of comedy central’s “broad city” this winter, three new female-led, double-lead comedies are debuting this spring, two on primetime television. 
premiering on april 29 is “playing house,” a comedy starring, and written by, real-life friends lennon parham and Jessica st. clair. The show will follow a newly-single mother-to-be (parham), who recruits her best friend (st. clair) to help her raise the child. The single-camera, half-hour long sitcom will air on usa and looks at least a little promising, though parham and st. clair’s series have had trouble gaining traction in the past. 
after the unexpected success of teen comedy series “awkward,” mTv has decided to try its hand at the “best friend” comedy, this time with “Faking it.” The show will premiere on april 22 and stars newcomers katie stevens and rita volk as high school sophomores who gain popu­larity when they are mistaken as a lesbian couple by their school. The girls then proceed to fake their sexuality in pursuit of popularity. 
The premise is interesting and, in my opinion, ex­tremely precarious, and it will be noteworthy to see how cautiously writers will tread into relatively unknown waters with the show’s plot. while i don’t have many ex­pectations for this show and foresee the almost infinite missteps it could take, i am still intrigued. 
Finally, there is “doll & em,” a hbo series that be­came available on hbo’s instant player last month af­ter the network acquired it from uk network sky living last year. starring and written by emily mortimer (“The newsroom,” “30 rock”) and dolly wells (“bridget Jones’s diary,”), the comedy follows exaggerated versions of the two actresses when mortimer, the more successful ac­tress of the two, pays her best friend to be her assistant. Full of celebrity cameos and self-deprecating, self-aware humor, the show is reminiscent of the underrated and hi­larious hbo mockumentary “life’s Too short,” starring warwick davis. “doll & em” certainly shows plenty of promise in its six-episode first season and will hopefully return to show off its creators’ writing and acting chops with more episodes to come. 
as news stories pile in about the underrepresentation of women in television, it is exciting to see how these new “best friend” shows will play out. it is nearly impossible to explain how refreshing it was to see not only two women write and star in a show with “broad city,” but also to see how funny these women were. 
it is important not only that women are being repre­sented on television, but also that two of the three new shows are written by their stars and all three are com­edies that provide a fresh breath of air into the world of television. while some look better than others, all three are potential steps in the right direction. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

music criticism is often a huge debate. i say that X album is good; you say y album is a million times better in every way. i say X album is brilliant because it has proper­ty a; you say X album is brilliant because it has property b. i say that X album didn’t age well; you say that X album is even more relevant today than when it was first released. To back up our respective argu­ments, we appeal to a number of factors: lyrics, production value, quality musical arrangement, innovation in form, po­litical power, the list goes on. but there’s one factor that’s almost always missed. perhaps it’s the reason critics consistently slam pop music and dubstep and trap. it’s the fun-factor: how much a record can be enjoyed as a piece of energetic, exciting entertainment. 
so much of modern dance music is weighted down by anti-fun factors. it’s often overly formulaic, holding no sur­prises or left turns for the listener to stum­ble into. more experimental pieces take themselves too seriously, trying to create epic narratives or scenarios which leave dancers trying to look cool while jump­ing up and down with little to no purpose. These two factors are products of artistic fear: producers and record labels are often scared to play with the listener in fear of looking silly; only overt parody acts like lmFao and The lonely island seem will­ing to include amusing sounds and in­struments in their music. 
That’s not to say that the idea of fun in dance music is completely extinct. after all, there’s duck sauce’s “barbara streisand,” which throws a sample of a man pronouncing the name of the song onto a ridiculously catchy beat. There’s “Thrift shop,” which combined witty punchlines with an infectious saxophone groove. but no artist in recent memory has crafted an entire album, which aims to be amusing, danceable and artistic. dance music, which is supposed to be fun, has lost its sense of humor. 
That’s where Todd Terje steps in. his new record, “it’s album Time,” is an exu­berant journey in fun and wit from start to finish. The very title pokes fun at Todd Terje’s trajectory as a musician; the man’s reputation grew on incredibly strong eps and singles but he’s expressed that he wants a record to show his mother. The intro of the record latches on to that idea, featuring a man whisper the album title over a groovy beat. From there the record takes off into a journey of pure joy. 
setting the stage for the rest of the re­cord, the first true track on the record (“leisure suit preben”) follows a wonky baseline through psychedelic, swirling synthesizers that are consciously exag­gerated. The bass is bouncy to the ex­treme, while odd percussion noises waltz through the background. while the in­struments follow in the line of cheesy disco retro, the song is exquisitely formed 
— it builds up into a driving stroll, drops off a rhythmic cliff, regains its footing and rolls into the next track on the record. 
The bouncy bass and wonky synthesiz­ers echo throughout the record, jumping from groovy (“alfonso muskedunder”) to salsa-inspired (“svensk sås”) to gor­geously sad (“Johnny and mary”). Todd Terje’s love of the vibrantly fun works well in every context he puts them in; perhaps because so few modern producers are shooting for the playful elasticity of old synthesizers, this results in an incredibly fresh-sounding record. 
however, Terje’s best work appears in the form of dance tracks that shoot for the stars. The undeniable energy of tracks like “delorean dynamite,” the “swing star” pair and closer “inspector norse” works wonders when paired with Terje’s fun-comes-first production style. These are songs that are meant to be danced to, but they’re also meant to be funny — instead of climaxes where the audience is cued to start jumping up and down in intense fashion, Terje’s music presents moments of absolutely unrivaled enjoyment factor. and isn’t that what music’s all about? 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

“It’s Album Time” 
Todd Terje 
Label: Olsen Records 
Tracks: Johnny and Mary (feat. Bryan Ferry), Delorean Dynamite, Inspector Norse 
If you like: LCD Soundsystem, DJ Koze 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 
on wednesday through sunday, the notre dame Film, Television and Theatre department pre­sented “blood wedding.” Federico garcia lorca was inspired to write the play when he read a newspaper article about a bride who fled her wedding with her cousin. a few hours later, they were both found dead. Though the play did not fol­low actual events exactly, the run­away bride and cousin are central to the story. 
The curtain opened on a sparse­ly decorated stage; the furniture was limited to a table and a few chairs. strips of silvery paper that resembled tinfoil hung in the background, and the lighting crew changed the mood of the scenes by shining gold or tan lights on them. 
From the first scene, the audi­ence knew “blood wedding” was not going to be a typical play. with the stage barely lit, the cast mem­bers stood on the stage, each clap­ping to a different beat. next, a video about fascism was projected onto the back curtain, and the en­semble turned around to watch it. Though it was not clear how the film connected to the play, the au­dience had a feeling that it would factor into the show later. 
next, professional flamenco dancer nino de los reyes came on stage and commanded the audi­ence’s attention with his passion­ate and precise routine. reyes is a flamenco master who has danced in spain, europe, asia, central and south america. Throughout the show, he continued to pop on stage and perform various numbers. 
The audience understood his presence at the wedding scene, for plenty of weddings feature music and dance. during other parts of the show, though, the audience did not exactly understand why there was a random flamenco dancer holding a poem. 
with a bit of research about the show, it becomes clear the dancer represents lorca, the playwright. without this prior knowledge, though, it was hard for the audi­ence to appreciate the full mean­ing of the flamenco. 
For the rest of the first act, the audience kept encountering new characters. They all had worked on their spanish accents. Though some were more convincing than others, the majority mastered roll­ing their r’s. 
some actors neglected their accents every now and then, but natalia cuevas, who played mother, and kate sanders, who played neighbor, deserve recogni­tion for maintaining their authen­tic accents throughout. as they gossiped, they handled their fans nimbly and naturally, as if they had been doing so for 40 years. 
other standouts in the first act included freshman alexa monn, who played the flirtatious, ram­bunctious maid perfectly. The bride, played by catherine baker, was also quite convincing. her middle part and sulky coun­tenance was reminiscent of a spanish Jennifer lawrence who simply cannot choose between gale and peeta, or in her case, the groom and her married ex-lover leonardo. 
as the second act started, the play adopted a more dramatic, dreamy tone. audience member freshman caitlin hogan remarked that the lines sounded more “po­etic.” now, the actors were not depicting the story literally, but surreally. 
The woodcutters, played by sophomore Jacob schrimpf and se­niors david díaz and christopher brandt, lunged onto stage in slow motion. They were hunting for the runaway bride and her lover, so instead of sprinting around the stage, they stepped and spoke ultra-slowly. They may have a fu­ture in ballet, for they exhibited superior leg strength when they extended and retracted their legs with control and technique. 
when the woodcutters exited the stage, they re-entered in cos­tumes that were interesting, to say the least. shrimpf, who played woodcutter no. 2, came out as the moon, wrapped in a diaper-like creation. Though his torso and lower legs were mostly bare, his shoulders were covered with the top part of an army jacket and medals. 
The moon, who was “all-seeing,” was supposed to stand for fascism and its big brother-esque qualities. schrimpf needed both confidence and creepiness for such a challeng­ing role, and he excelled in both. 
next díaz, who had portrayed woodcutter no. 1, came out as the beggar. he was even more fright­ening than schrimpf. robed in a black cape and clutching a gnarled stick, the beggar groaned and squealed about death. when the groom came through the woods, the beggar seemed to orchestrate the scene where the groom and leonardo stabbed each other. 
The rest of the play featured more mourning and, of course, more creepiness. Freshman anna schäffer, with her innocent blonde bob and charcoaled eyes, was cast perfectly as the haunt­ing young girl. sweet and satanic, she reminded audiences of dakota Fanning from “Twilight.” 
after so many deaths, the tears seemed to drag on a bit. however, the actors’ emotion was com­mendable. at the end of the show, the audience clapped genuinely; they were impressed with how well students had handled such a bi­zarre and challenging piece. 
“blood wedding” was a mar­riage that pushed audiences and actors alike out of their comfort zone. it may not have been the wedding every little girl dreams of, but it was definitely a memorable occasion. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Tanking teams look to the future 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
with the end of march madness and the approach of the nba postseason, hope is on the horizon for the cel­lar dwellers of professional basketball. 
For fans of the philadelphia 76ers or milwaukee bucks, i can only assume that the end of the regular season must almost be as exciting as it would be if their teams were making the playoffs. it certainly is a merciful halt to the catastrophically bad sea­sons both teams have had. 
The numbers speak for themselves. The 76ers tied a league record by losing 26 straight games and they still not could reach the standard of bad set by milwaukee. both teams rank in the bottom 10 of the league in almost every statistical cat­egory imaginable — points per game, points allowed per game, offensive efficiency, defensive efficiency, field-goal percentage and rebound margin, to name a few. 
so why is there reason for hope? well, the draft is just around the corner in June and this year’s crop of one-and-done players is one of the best in years, according to most scouts. Joel embid, andrew wiggins, Julius randle, marcus smart and Jabari parker (assuming he declares for the draft) are all first-round picks that have the potential to push what­ever team they land with into the playoffs, either in 2015 or down the road. 
so if there’s no chance that a team will make the playoffs — the situation the bucks and 76ers, along with the lakers, the celtics and the magic, have found themselves in the past few weeks — why wouldn’t that team’s coach do his best to make sure that the franchise got the best available pick in June? 
Tanking, or losing on pur­pose, has been a fairly com­mon tactic of the league’s worst in the bid to secure the best draft pick possible. it happens most often in basketball because — unlike baseball or sometimes hock­ey — draft picks, if they work out, can make an immedi­ate impact on their team. in football, one great draft pick can immediately reverse a team’s fortunes — andrew luck and the indianapolis colts come to mind — but with more players on the field and two entirely sepa­rate groups of starters, it is definitely rarer. 
so tanking has a high up­side for basketball teams, especially when they have the chance to land a fran­chise player that they can build their lineup around. To be fair, on an individual level, for players that are try­ing to sign multi-million dol­lar contracts, there is little incentive to tank. besides, nobody likes losing. but coaches have the final deci­sion on who plays and who does not. in the final months of the 2005-2006 season, the minnesota Timberwolves took star kevin garnett out of several close games in the fourth quarter for no strate­gic reason and finished with a top-10 draft pick. 
in the short term, tanking makes for basketball that is so bad for fans to watch that it is embarrassing. The bucks and the 76ers rank last in the nba in attendance. but fans demand excellence year after year, and in the long run, tanking can be the start of a wildly successful stretch. 
The san antonio spurs had the worst season in fran­chise history in 1996-1997, but i doubt any current fan cares, because from that aw­ful year, the spurs secured the top pick in the draft and selected Tim duncan, who has led the team to four championships and 16 straight playoff appearances since. 
recent concerns about tanking, coupled with a new commissioner in adam silver, have led to propos­als that would eliminate or penalize the practice. but small-market teams like milwaukee simply do not have the money to compete in the free agent market against big-spenders. The draft is the only way they can possibly get the top-level talent needed to make the nba a truly competitive league. and the best way to ensure a high pick is to lose. coaches and general manag­ers have little incentive not to tank. For fans, one abys­mal season is sometimes the price you pay for long-term success. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GOLF | The masTers 

Watson wins Masters 
Associated Press 

augusTa, ga. — bubba watson’s second masters title was nothing like the green jacket he won two years ago. 
The only daring shot watson hit was one he really didn’t need. The wild swing in momentum came on the front nine, not the back nine of augusta national. and the sweetest difference of all sunday was seeing his 2-year­old son walk toward him on the edge of the 18th green af­ter his three-shot victory over Jordan spieth. 
watson turned in another masterpiece and joined an elusive group as the 17th player to win the masters more than once. 
he turned a two-shot defi­cit into a two-shot lead on the final two holes of the front nine, then kept spieth, 20, and everyone else at safe distance the rest of the way. watson closed with a 3-under 69 to beat a pair of masters rookies in spieth and Jonas blixt of sweden. 
Two years ago, when he hit that wild hook out of the trees on the 10th hole to win in a playoff, his wife and newly adopted son were watching at home in Florida. This time, young caleb was decked out in a green-and-white striped masters shirt and green ten­nis shoes as he waddled over to his father. 
“This one’s a lot different,” watson said. “The first one, for me, it was almost like i lucked into it.” 
after high-fiving the crowd on his way to sign his card, watson returned to butler cabin to take back that green jacket he slipped on adam scott a year ago. 
“after giving it away last year, i wanted it back,” watson said. “i told adam we could just swap it back and forth every year.” 
spieth, trying to become the youngest masters cham­pion, could only watch from the side of the green. 
he dazzled the massive crowd early by holing out for birdie from the front bunker on no. 4, and making back-to-back birdies to build a two-shot lead through seven holes. bidding to become the first player in 35 years to win a green jacket in his first try, spieth looked to be well on his way. 
but he three-putted for bo­gey on no. 8 — the first 6 on his card all week — as watson got up-and-down for birdie to tie for the lead. spieth then made a rookie mistake, leav­ing his approach below the flagstick on no. 9 and watch­ing it roll back into the fair­way, setting up another bogey and two-shot swing. 
whatever prayer he had might have ended at amen corner. 
his tee shot on no. 12 found rae’s creek. he missed a short birdie attempt on the 13th. 
watson was too powerful, too experienced, too tough to beat. spieth closed with six pars for a 72 and tied for second with blixt, who never went away but never really threatened. blixt shot a 71. 
“That was fun, but at the same time, it hurts right now,” spieth said. “i wanted to get in contention on the back nine sunday, but didn’t come out on top.” 
watson finished at 8-under 280 and goes to a career-best no. 4 in the world. 
miguel angel Jimenez, the 50-year-old wonder from spain, shot 71 and finished alone in fourth. matt kuchar lost a share of the lead with a four-putt double bogey on the fourth hole and never chal­lenged again. he closed with a 74 and tied for fifth with rickie Fowler (73). 
This was nine holes of the­ater everyone expected out of sunday at augusta national 
— except it was the front nine. 
nine players were separat­ed by three shots at the start of the final round only for this to turn into a two-man show. 
after trading pars on the opening hole, either watson or spieth — sometimes both 
— made birdie or bogey over the next nine holes. 
They matched birdies on the par-3 fourth hole when spieth holed out from the front bunker and watson hit his tee shot into 4 feet. spieth led by as many as two shots for most of the front nine, and his spectacular over­shadowed a steady hand from watson. 
Two holes to close out the back nine changed every­thing. amen corner swung the masters in watson’s favor for good. 
about the only excitement came on the par-5 15th hole, when watson had a three-shot lead. he hit his tee shot well left, blocked by a few pine trees. instead of laying up safely in front of the water, he hit through the trees with a shot that just cleared the false front of the green and went just over the back. 
all he got was a par. over the final hour, that’s all he re­ally needed. 

MLB | mariners 3, aThleTics 0 
late homer lifts mariners 
Associated Press 

seaTTle — yoenis cespedes hit a two-run homer that broke a scoreless tie in the eighth inning, lifting the oakland athletics over the seattle mariners 3-0 sunday. 
cespedes pulled a 2-2 slider from charlie Furbush (0-1) into the left-field bullpen. cespedes’ second homer of the season came after Jed lowrie drew a leadoff walk. 
Josh donaldson added a solo home run in the ninth, his third, off lucas luetge. 
a’s starter scott kazmir pitched two-hit ball for six in­nings, striking out nine without a walk. 
dan otero (2-0) retired two batters in the seventh. luke gregerson worked the eighth and sean doolittle allowed one hit in the ninth for his first save. 
chris young made his first start since sept. 9, 2012, while with the new york mets. Troubled by shoulder problems all last sea­son, he went to spring camp this year with the nationals, was re­leased and signed during the last week of training camp by seattle. 
young pitched six shutout in­nings, giving up four hits. he walked three and struck out two. young’s other outing for seattle was a two-inning scoreless stint in relief. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
If you have 3 quarters, 4 dimes, and 
FOR RENT 

4 pennies, you have $1.19. You also 3 Bed house for rent $850, have the largest amount of money 574-302-5312 in coins without being able to make change for a dollar. In an average 
lifetime, a person will walk the equiva­lent of five times around the equator. There are two credit cards for every person in the United States. Karaoke means “empty orchestra” in Japanese. 



TRACK AND FIELD | border baTTle 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 6, nc sTaTe 1; nd 7, va Tech 0 
barbers sweep 100m events 
Irish win two 

By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
notre dame competed at the border battle in kentucky this week­end against host louisville and a pair of in-state foes, purdue and indiana. 
Thirty women and 29 men made the trip for the irish in the last event before the acc outdoor championships in chapel hill, n.c., beginningwednesday. 
The irish earned four total event victories, all courtesy of the no. 22 women’s unit. Junior Jade barber won the 100-meter dash by a .19-sec­ond margin, finishing in 11.51 sec­onds in 3.1 mile-per-hour wind. another irish victory came courtesy of her twin sister, junior kaila barber, who finished first in the 100-meter hurdles. barber finished in 13.47 seconds. 
“before the race i was really ner­vous because it’s not something i usually do,” Jade barber said. “it felt like a punishment because i’m so bad at it, but they were making me do it anyway. but my coaches kept telling me i was good at it. before the race, coach Turner took me aside, and we did drills that would simulate how the race would feel and the me­chanics that were necessary to run well, so when it was time to race, ifelt confident that i was going to do well.” 
The last irish victory was claimed bf senior megan yanik in the 400-meter hurdles. yanik finished in 
1:00.67 and was followed closely by junior teammate michelle rotondo, who ran in 1:00.95 to finish second. another top performance for the irish women came from senior aijah urssery, whose time of 24.25 in the 200-meter dash placed her behind only sophomore la Toya williams of indiana. 

The top field performer for the irish was junior mary esther gourdin whosr triple jump of 12.70 meters was .35 meters better than second-place finisher sophomore cierra brown of purdue and a full meter better than nearly all of the rest of the field.non the men’s side, fresh­man harvey smith finished second in the 400-meter dash with a time of 47.52 seconds. his senior team­mates Jarrod buchanon and bryce 
paid adverTisemenT 

ACC matchups 
wood finished third and fourth in the 110-meter hurdles after clocking in at 14.03 and 14.46 seconds, respec­tively. dunn finished second in the 400-meter hurdles with a personal best of 53.22 seconds, trailing only senior andre’ peart of purdue. 
in the field, senior logan renwick finished second in the long jump by just .04 meters with his 7.25-meter jump. he earned another second place finish in the triple jump at 14.66 
Observer Staff Report 
after an emotional senior night against virginia Tech on Friday that stretched their cur­rent win streak to five matches, the irish continued their win­ning ways with a victory on the road against north carolina state on sunday. The irish (14­8, 7-6 acc) knocked off the wolfpack (7-12) by a score of 6-1. 
The irish looked strong from the start of the match, with the doubles team of sopho­more Quinn gleason and se­nior britney sanders defeating wolfpack senior Joelle kissell and junior sophie nelson, 8-4. The irish also received a vic­tory in the second doubles spot from seniors Julie sabacinski and Jennifer kellner, who de­feated wolfpack freshman liza Fieldsend and sophomore rachael James-baker 8-5. 
The irish received winning performances from their singles players as well. Freshman mary closs quickly defeated wolfpack senior christy sipes by a count of 6-1, 6-1, while sophomore Julia vrabel toppled nelson in singles play, 6-1, 6-3, to give the irish an early 3-0 lead. 
The wolfpack were never able to recover from the early losses, and though they would manage to gain a victory on the efforts of James-baker, who de­feated gleason in singles play by a score of 7-5, 6-4,ythe irish secured victories in all other singles flights. irish Freshman monica robinson defeated north carolina state junior elisha hande by a score of 6-4, 6-4. sandersewas triumphant in singles play as well, defeating kissell, 6-4, 7-5, at the number one singles spot, while kellner defeated wolfpack junior nicole martinez, 7-6(5), at the three spot. The victory for the irish is their sixth in a row, with their last loss coming against north carolina on march 23. 
The irish resume play saturday against syracuse. The match is set to begin at 12 p.m. 

meters. seniors Ted glasnow and 
ND WOMEN’S ROWING | lake naToma inviTaTional 
peter kristiansen finished second and third, respectively, in the javelin throw at 54.32 and 53.38 meters. 
Notre Dame takes 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 
fifth on the lake 

Observer Staff Report 
no. 9  notre dame finished fifth in this weekend’s lake natoma invitational in Folsom, calif. The irish earned six runner-up finishes in saturday’s heats and had three more runner-up results in sunday’s group b finals. 
notre dame was one of six top­20 teams at the invitational and finished behind no. 1 california, no. 6 brown, no. 7 stanford and no. 4 usc. 
The irish started the meet off strong as their varsity four entry, di­rected by junior coxswain mikaela prego, won the second heat of the invitational with a time of 7:22.3, which won the heat by over six seconds. From there, every irish entry finished second in its heat in saturday’s action. 
in the second varsity eight, the notre dame entry, featuring sophomore coxswain alex Techar, rowed to a time of 6:43.8, finishing four seconds behind usc’s entry. The varsity eight saw notre dame get closer to usc, as it finished just two seconds back while notre dame’s second varsity four closed saturday’s morning session with a runner-up time of 7:36.6. 
saturday’s afternoon session saw notre dame garner three more second-place results. The varsity four maintained the momentum from their morning win and chal­lenged top-ranked california’s en­try for the entire race. ultimately, the golden bears beat out the irish by three tenths of a second. in both the second varsity eight and the varsity eight the golden bears got easier wins, as they outpaced notre dame by ten seconds and eight seconds, respectively. 
The day concluded with the sec­ond varsity four final where the irish entry, led by sophomore cox­swain Jill ryan, finished in third behind california and usc. 
sunday’s competition featured three more finals. notre dame was slotted in group b with stanford and san diego for each of the re­gatta’s three sunday finals. The cardinal held on to win the var­sity four group by two seconds over notre dame’s entry that clocked in with a time of 7:25.2. 
stanford won both the var­sity eight and second varsity eight groups as well. in the second var­sity eight, notre dame rowed to time of 6:43.0 and the varsity eight team closed out the regatta for the irish with a time of 6:29.8 that was only five seconds back of stanford. 
brown won two of the final day’s group a finals, but top-ranked california held on to take the over­all victory. 
For the irish, the invitational marked their first action in almost a month, but they are now heading into a couple weeks of competition. They head to belleville, mich., on saturday before competing in the dale england cup in bloomington, ind., on april 25 and 26. 


The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND SOFTBALL | nd 8, Florida sTaTe 5; Florida sTaTe 9, nd 7 
irish split with seminoles 
Observer Staff Report 
The no. 23/25 irish split the first two games of a three-game series with acc rival no. 7/8 Florida state on sunday. 
The irish (25-9, 6-4 acc) took the first game of the day with an 8-5 victory. The seminoles (39-6, 16-3 acc) are the high-ranked opponent that the irish have defeated since 2002. 
Tied after five innings, notre dame plated three un­earned runs in the bottom of the sixth to take an 8-5 lead and shut out the seminoles in the seventh to earn the victory. sophomore infielder micaela arizmendi led the team with two rbis while koerner and simon tied for a team-high two runs each. Florida states redshirt junior shortstop maddie o’brien, last weeks acc player of the week, led her team with two home runs and two rbis. 

irish senior laura winter, who was selected seventh overall in the 2014 national pro Fastpitch draft on march 31, pitched all seven innings for the irish. in the day’s sec­ond game, sophomore allie rhodes started for the irish and pitched eight innings be­fore turning the circle back over to winter. 
The irish held a four-run lead in the sixth inning of the sec­ond game, but the seminoles rallied in the seventh and scored five runs. after a score­less eighth inning, sophomore first baseman victoria east and senior outfielder kelly hensley scored in the top of the ninth to ice the game for the seminoles. 
redshirt freshman Jessica burroughs and junior lacey waldrop shared the circle for the seminoles. 
irish senior outfielder lauren stuhr led the team with two runs and wester, koerner, arizmendi and ju­nior catcher cassidy whidden contributed one each. Junior infielder katey haus earned four rbis. 
monday’s game will serve as the tie-breaker of the se­ries. The irish take on the seminoles once again at 7 
p.m. monday at melissa cook stadium. 

Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
when junior first baseman blaise lezynski led off with a single to center and made his way around the bases on a hit­by-pitch, sacrifice bunt and ground out. 
The stalemate continued until the top of the 11th, when irish senior right-hander donnie hissa (0-2) began the inning allowing a walk and a single. Junior right-hander cristian Torres replaced hissa after a boston college hitter executed a sacrifice bunt to move his teammates to second and third, and Torres promptly issued a walk to load the bases. Junioe matt Ternowchek took the mound and gave up an in­field single to sophomore third baseman gabriel hernandez that allowed boston college to score one run, and butera followed with a double to left­centerfield that gave the eagles a 4-1 advantage. Those three 11th-inning runs were half of all the runs scored by boston college in the series. 
“we had as much to do with creating that inning as they had to do with it,” aoki said, calling the inning  an aberra­tion in an otherwise excellent weekend. 
lezynski knocked in the first irish run in the bottom of the first saturday afternoon, and notre dame scored three more in the fifth inning when senior catcher Forrest Johnson hit a single and scored on a triple from junior right fielder robert youngdahl. sophomore short­stop lane richards followed with a double that scored youngdahl, and richards made his way home on back-to-back singles from junior designated hitter conor biggio and junior center fielder mac hudgins. 
connaughton opened the game with three perfect in­nings and did not allow a runner past first base until the seventh inning. he walked just one batter in his first complete game as a collegiate pitcher. 
The irish began the second game of the doubleheader with a two-run first and never looked back. lezynski had four hits in five at-bats and is now hitting .338 for the season. The irish finished the game with 11 hits, including three doubles and two triples. 
“overall, we’ve been making pitchers and defenses make plays and make pitches against us,” aoki said. “i think we were in a rut for a while – and i think a lot of that was due to guys pressing – where we were get­ting ourselves out more than opposing pitchers were get­ting us out. we just weren’t be­ing aggressive enough when we committed to swinging the bat, and i think that part’s been a lot better.” 
over 1,000 spectators watched at least one game of the series, which also served as a fundraiser for the pete Frates #3 Fund. The fund supports als research and helps cover medical expenses for Frates, a former boston college play­er suffering from als. The notre dame players also had the chance to meet Frates, who was a captain at boston college when aoki was the eagles’ skipper. 
“it was great. Fans from bc came out, some of the for­mer players from when i was at bc came out, we had for­mer players from notre dame come out,” aoki said. ”i can’t be grateful enough to all those people, and i think we did a good job of raising money for pete.” 
The irish look to keep the winning-streak going against michigan state on Tuesday. First pitch is scheduled for 
3:05 p.m. at mclane baseball stadium in east lansing, mich. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
W Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
performance reflects her growth over the course of the season. 
“it’s been exciting to see what [murray] can do,” halfpenny said. “she was tracking the ball really well, holding her line, working her angles and also being incred­ibly active when we needed her to.” 
From the first irish goal, scored by sophomore attack kiera mcmullan almost two minutes into the game, notre dame never surrendered its lead. The offense was high­lighted by a career-high five goals from freshman mid­field and attack cortney Fortunato. brosco scored her first four goals of the season and sophomore attack rachel sexton also contributed two tallies. 
halfpenny said the crucial momentum swing of the game occurred midway through the second half. The blue devils had gone into halftime los­ing by five goals and returned to the field hungry. Trimble scored two consecutive goals to narrow notre dame’s lead to three. Fortunato then re­

“Our offense has to take it one game at a time and continue to improve.” 
Christine Halfpenny 
coach 

sponded with her fifth goal of the match, a game-changing play, halfpenny said. 
“you could see the shift in momentum when cortney scored that goal from brosco at the 14:47 mark,” halfpenny said. “after that play, you had to hold the bench back.” 
duke’s junior attack kerrin maurer came into the game as her team’s leading scorer and notched a team-high five goals. in the blue devils’ numerous attempts to claw their way back into the game, Trimble scored three goals and sophomore attack kelci smesko and junior midfield erin Tenneson scored one apiece. 

halfpenny said her team needs to fine-tune its offense and work on draw controls before Tuesday’s game at no. 17 ohio state. 
“our offense has to take it one game at a time and con­tinue to improve,” halfpenny said. “we did lose the draw 15-8 and, at the end of the day, to come away with a win speaks a lot of credit to my team.” 
The irish travel to ohio state on Tuesday to take on the buckeyes at 6 p.m. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 15, roberT morris 5 
Irish depth keys victory over Robert Morris 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame came out fast and never looked back on its way to a 15-5 win over robert morris on saturday at arlotta stadium. 
The irish used a 9-0 run in the first half to take a 10-2 lead into the locker room. notre dame (6-4, 2-2 acc) benefited from 11 different players scor­ing goals, the most since its season-opening victory over Jacksonville. 
“it’s good to have a lot of guys get involved and con­tribute,” sophomore defense matt landis said. “it means that we have significant depth and a lot of options going into the postseason.” 
The irish offensive on­slaught was led by freshman midfield sergio perkovic, who contributed a career-high four goals while adding an assist. 

“we’ve had a lot of con­tributions from underclass­men,” landis said. “it means we have a growing program and it speaks to a lot of the hard work of the underclass­men picking up our system.” kavanagh to open the scor-to us, and our defense is re-game’s outcome was all but “The last two victories re­
robert morris (5-7, 2-3 ing. Junior midfielder nick ally good at handling that,” guaranteed. ally showed that when we nec) struggled in most fac-ossello and perkovic later landis said. “it helps when “we pride ourselves on our stick to our system and ev­ets of the game saturday. The scored six seconds apart to the ball is in the offensive communication and work-eryone does their job we can squad was 6 of 25 at the face-open up an 8-1 lead with zone because it takes the ing as a unit, and [saturday] be really effective on both off X while being outshot by 5:24 left in the second quar-pressure off of us.” we showed we could do the offensive and defensive notre dame 47-19. in addi-ter. aside from perkovic, For the notre dame de-that,” landis said. ends of the field.” tion, the colonials failed on senior attackman John fense, the five goals allowed notre dame has now put The irish return to acc nine clear attempts. scioscia was the only other was a season low. Freshman together back-to-back wins play this saturday when 
The irish offense scored irish player with multiple goalie shane doss started for just the second time they host no. 3 maryland a. early and often, includ-tallies as he scored twice. between the pipes, but he this season as they head noon at arlotta stadium. ing a pair of goals 14 sec-“getting the lead obvi-was later replaced by ju-into their last regular sea­onds apart from perkovic ously helps because we can nior conor kelly and se-son game before the acc Contact Brian Plamondon at and sophomore attack matt force the other team to come nior kyle ripp when the tournament. bplamond@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 6, Florida sTaTe 1 ; nd 7, miami 0 ; nd 6, valparaiso 0 
nd takes three matches on senior weekend 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
coming off a tough loss on the road, no. 12 notre dame sent its seniors off in style over the weekend, sweeping no. 47 miami on Friday and taking two matches sunday, over no. 30 Florida state and valparaiso. 
The match against the seminoles (16-10, 4-6 acc), which the irish (17-8, 6-4) won 6-1, also served as senior day for greg andrews, ryan bandy and matt dooley. all three se­niors won at least one match, with bandy and dooley pair­ing up for a doubles win and andrews taking a singles vic­tory to go with his doubles win with freshman Josh hagar. 
“Throughout the last four years, it’s been a lot of fun to coach them, a lot of fun to work with them and a lot of fun to watch them grow,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “all three have been through an enormous amount of growth through their time here at notre dame, and it’s not al­ways been easy … and they’ve had a lot of challenges along the way, but i’ll tell you what ¾ these three guys have a lot of character.” 
andrews, ranked no. 20 in the nation, enjoyed a particu­larly good weekend, winning all three of his singles match­es, including wins over miami senior omar aly, ranked no. 70 in the country, and Florida state junior dominic cotrone, ranked no. 84. andrews also paired with hagar to collect two doubles victories. 
against miami (14-9, 4-6), the irish dominated, 7-0, with only one singles match going to a tiebreaking third set. sophomore Quentin monaghan, playing in the no. 3 spot for the irish for the sec­ond time all season, grabbed the first of his three singles victories on the weekend. 
after their two conference victories, the irish returned to the court sunday evening to take on valparaiso (16-7, 2-2 horizon) with almost an entirely new lineup. sachire took the opportunity to give players who had not seen the court often in the spring some match experience. early on in the match, the crusaders seized on notre dame’s inex­perience and took the lead in four of the six matches. 
“you know, [valparaiso] is a good mid-major team,” sachire said. “i think there was a little anxiety on our part. Those guys haven’t been used to playing a lot of matches, so this was a big deal to them, and when you play a quality opponent like [valparaiso], it’s going to be a close match.” 
behind a big rally from andrews, who lost his first set to valparaiso freshman Jeffrey schorsch, 6-0, but came back to win, 0-6, 6-2, 6-2, the irish stormed back to claim the 6-1 victory, which included their third straight doubles point on the weekend. 
The hurricanes and seminoles currently sit in ninth and eighth place, re­spectively, in the acc, while notre dame places fourth. after one last regular season match against boston college on saturday, the irish head to the acc conference cham­pionships, which are sched­uled to begin on april 24, in cary, n.c. The irish own a 3-1 record at neutral sites, including a 4-0 upset of no. 15 Florida, and a 5-4 mark it away matches. 
“we’ve had success every­where we’ve played,” sachire said. “whether it’s at home, on the road or at a neutral site, we’ve done a really good job of performing at a consistently high level every match we’ve played in any venue. at the same time, we know that from here on out, we’re playing against some great teams, and every match will be a battle.” 
The irish finish off their regular season9saturday on the road against boston college in chesnut hill, mass. First serve is scheduled for 1 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

notre dame to install FieldTurf in stadium 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
despite the initial wish to keep natural grass, synthetic FieldTurf will be installed at notre dame stadium, director of athletics Jack swarbrick 
said  after  saturday’s  blue- 
gold game.  
installation  will  begin  

following commenment weekend (may 16-18), and the university anticipates the in­stallation process to be com­pleted by aug. 15, in time for the start of the 2014 football season. 
“we were spending a lot of time trying to find a grass answer,” swarbrick said af­ter the game. “if we could — if we could have figured out a way where we knew with commencement, with the construction that’s going to go on here for three years, could we get ourselves to a posi­tion where we would have a high-quality grass field week in and week out, and we just couldn’t get ourselves there. so it was more process of elimination that caused us to finally say, ‘ok, we’ve looked at everything. we’ve talked to everybody. let’s go ahead.’” 
irish head coach brian kelly said he also would have pre­ferred to maintain a grass field, but the field conditions with natural grass had become too limiting for the program. 
“it’s really about getting a surface where there’s some consistency week in and week out for our players,” kelly said. “i think today was an indica­tion. we can’t even practice out there, and we want to be able to get out there with our team; we want some safety issues to be not part of the equation, and look, i think everybody is in agreement, if we could get the best sur­face there in grass, we’d love to have that. we just haven’t been able to get to that.” 
The desire to keep grass in the stadium stemmed largely from a hope to keep a tradition intact, swarbrick said. 
“it’s probably more a per­sonal preference than an athletics department prefer­ence,” he said. “i like it. i’m an alum here. it’s part of the dynamic of the place. so i was inclined to say, ‘can we do it?’ and some of the other iconic stadiums have held on to it — green bay, the rose bowl. so both those things played a role, but we just couldn’t get ourselves there.” 
although FieldTurf does not have the tradition factor on its side, it offers a lower-maintenance option, in terms of keeping up the field condi­tions over the course of the season, swarbrick said. The costs of synthetic versus natu­ral turf are comparable at this point, as well. 
“it’s remarkable how simi­lar the process is regardless of which way you’re headed,” swarbrick said. “we were gonna have to go way down and solve some structural and drainage problems no matter which way we went. so that was a non-factor. while fi­nances didn’t play a lead role here, last year we replaced our turf four times. it gets pretty expensive. it used to be — when i started thinking about this a few years ago — it would cost a little bit more to do FieldTurf, but that’s o.k. The economics were the reverse by the time we got here.” 
in addition, synthetic turf may allow notre dame to host more non-football events in the stadium, swarbrick said. 
“it helps a lot,” swarbrick said. “hockey’s the one that sort of jumps to mind. There aren’t a ton of stadium acts anymore in music. but we’ll be able to use it more. and of course that’s the entire fo­cus of the crossroads project. so it’d be crazy to have the crossroads project designed to do that and then have the field not be able to do it. we want it used like that. i don’t want anybody to take away from this that there’s some con­flict with commencement in the stadium. commencement should be in the stadium. it’s the right place for it. it’s where we want it to be. but it has a real consequence for the field, and it’s unavoidable.” 


Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Football 
conTinued From page 16 
linebacker John Turner led the defense with seven tackles apiece, and sopho­more linebacker Jaylon smith added six. 
The defense is still adjust­ing to a more multi-faceted, flexible defensive scheme under new defensive coor­dinator brian vangorder but settled into a rhythm as a unit in the second half. 
senior receiver amir carlisle, who hauled in a six-yard touchdown pass from Zaire, said the new-look defense has helped the offense prepare better in practice. 
“i think it was very good experience for the offense,” carlisle said. “The defense is very aggressive, as you probably know, and they play a lot of man-to-man, so being able to go against that every single day in practice, press, man, zone, so many different looks, i feel like it helped the re­ceiver corps grow and ma­ture, just getting so many different looks, and in the fall too, it’s going to help us tremendously.” 
Zaire finished 18-for-25 for 292 yards and two touch­downs. golson completed 13 of 24 passes for 154 yards and zero touchdowns. Zaire and golson alternated pos­sessions throughout the game. 

of the two, Zaire got off to the quicker start with a touchdown on each of his first two drives. The south­paw connected with sopho­more receiver will Fuller on the first drive for a 29­yard completion, which set up a one-yard touchdown plunge by senior running back cam mcdaniel. Zaire then found junior receiver 
c.J. prosise for a 39-yard touchdown pass in his next series. 
irish head coach brian kelly said in January that Zaire would have a chance to make his case for the starting quarterback job, and in the spring, Zaire voiced his own hopes that he would be a competitive part of the conversation. although a starter hasn’t been named, Zaire seemed to have staked himself a share of legitimate consid­eration, at least for some playing time. 
“i thought there was one series where malik kind of got off, got away from some of things that we need to do, but by and large, i thought he was fairly consistent,” kelly said. “his problem has been consistency of staying with progressions. … so that has been really good today. The consistency was much better for him.” 
golson stayed mobile and eventually found his stride on his second drive, with two 11-yard completions, one to sophomore running back Tarean Folston and an­other to sophomore receiv­er corey robinson. golson rushed for five yards into the end zone, personally capping off his first scoring drive. 
“everett, pocket aware­ness was okay,” kelly said. “he’s still got a ways to go there. i’d like to see more catchable balls. i thought there were some quick-game stuff that just ball placement needs to be a little bit better, but over­all, structurally, his un­derstanding of what we’re doing, it’s getting better, so i thought there was some progress.” 
Junior receiver chris brown (105), robinson (59) and Folston (54) led the team in receiving yards. 
sophomore greg bryant 

(8.4 yards per carry), Folston (5.4) and mcdaniel 
(3.7) split carries at run­ning back. bryant had the third-most rushing yards until a breakaway 51-yard run in the fourth quarter. 
The irish answered more questions during the blue-gold game about overall position personnel, rather than the status of individ­ual players on the depth chart, according to kelly. 
“i think we answered some questions there about units, more so than maybe one individual,” kelly said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Offense 
conTinued From page 16 
first few quarters of play saturday were any indication, it sure looked like the opposite would be the case in 2014. 
The irish scored (real) points on their first five possessions, four of which ended in touchdowns. notre dame led 42-3 at the end of the first quarter, prompting the question: will it be the offense this year that carries the load, in a flip from the last two seasons? 
“i wouldn’t say carry the load,” irish senior quarterback everett golson said. “i think the aggres­sive offense will complement our defense.” 
The thinking, as golson ex­plained it, is that the defense will be aggressive, the primary vibe ema­nating from defensive players and coaches under new defensive coor­dinator brian vangorder. we may not have seen it saturday — irish head coach brian kelly told nbc sports network at halftime we were seeing a dialed down version of the defense — but vangorder’s defense will be attacking. golson mentioned after the game that he’s been “exposed a lot” by them in practice. 
in turn, the offense will have to complement that defensive style, golson said. 
“if they’re going to be aggressive and have turnovers, the downside of that with that risk, there’s going to be touchdowns,” he said. “so we have to be aggressive as well and score points.” 
and that’s exactly what it boils down to, even if and when the defense improves. senior linebacker Joe schmidt spoke after the game about the high number of mistakes being made defensively and the long way the unit has to go. Junior corner­back keivarae russell said the notre dame squad looked young defen­sively, and in a (semi)-real game sit­uation against an up-tempo offense, things materialized a bit too quickly for the defense to handle properly. 
There’s a long way to go, and there’s plenty of talent on the de­fense, which began to find its way in the second half, as the defense outscored the offense 43-6 after the intermission. but even if the defense comes around, the blitzing and the press coverage will likely lead to mis­cues, as golson said. 
That’s why the offense needs to be potent. 
and it sure looked the part for much of saturday. sophomore quar­terback malik Zaire impressed with his accuracy, and the three running backs — senior cam mcdaniel and sophomores greg bryant and Tarean Folston — proved they’ll deliver in the passing game, too. kelly said he was pleased with the improved consistency from the re­ceivers, something he thought was lacking in spots during spring ball. 
but things became more strained for the offense in the second half. The consistency — one of the main offensive buzzwords this spring — wasn’t there from half to half. 
To fully complement an aggres­sive defense, notre dame could very well need its aggressive offense. 
and it will be needed on a consis­tent basis. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 



Happy Birthday: you will vacillate or be impulsive; either way, your timing will suffer if you cannot manage to set your priorities straight and focus on what’s important. setting a strict routine and strategizing to the best of your ability will be the difference between success and failure. set realistic goals and make each step you take count. your numbers are 9, 13, 23, 28, 35, 40, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): keep an open mind and refrain from sharing your opinions. distance between you and someone that tends to overdo it will help you stay on track and out of trouble. Focus on positive personal changes and your success. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t get down; get moving. concentrate on all the little things you need to accomplish in order to ease your stress and open your schedule to take on new and exciting endeavors. stick close to home and avoid unstable situations. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): experience, knowledge and following your desires will get you moving in the right direction. don’t let someone’s lack of enthusiasm or emotional manipulation slow you down. a proactive approach to whatever you pursue will be exhilarating and insightful. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Finish chores so that you can enjoy the rest of your day without feeling guilty or being reminded of your shortcomings. once you are clear of responsibilities, a romantic encounter or pursuing an entertaining outing should be planned. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your generosity will make you feel as good as it does your recipients. enjoy being the center of attention and embrace what is offered in return for your kindness. money or gifts will come from an unusual source. enjoy your good fortune. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a change in your status or reputation can be expected. protect your assets and do your best not to overcompensate for something that isn’t your fault or your responsibility. Time is on your side and the tables will turn. wait it out. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) you’ll have plenty to do and lots to see. embrace change rather than fight it. There is more to gain if you trust in your integrity, faith, knowledge and experience. a poker face will be required. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): an investigative approach to someone or something you have to deal with will put your mind at ease. use your intuition and your magnetic appeal to get the information you need. you can drum up support if you get involved in community events. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): embrace life and make the changes that will bring you contentment and greater happiness. socializing with friends will help you make a decision involving your current residence and the way you live. a hidden matter will be revealed. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t worry about what you cannot change. be more attentive to the people you care about most and those who can and will support you no matter what decision you make. protect your assets and your life will remain stable. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take charge and make things happen. don’t let someone else pull the strings and make decisions for you. There are opportunities that can take you to a better place. believe in what you know and can do, and you will succeed. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t feel you have to do what everyone else wants. it’s important to satisfy your physical and creative needs if you want to avoid feeling frustrated and taken for granted. impress upon anyone pressuring you that you need a little “me” time. 


Birthday Baby: you are smart, outspoken and progressive. you are aggressive and impatient. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Dual threat 
Zaire, Golson lead offensive attack in dominating first half of scrimmage 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
offense trumped defense for much of saturday’s blue-gold game, with sophomore quarterback malik Zaire and senior quarterback everett golson leading the offensive units. 
The offense secured a 57­15 advantage by halftime, but the defense launched a comeback to open the second half, closing the gap, only to lose 63-58 to the offense at notre dame stadium. 
graduate student safety austin collinsworth, grad­uate student linebacker kendall moore and junior 
see FooTball PAGE 14 



Mike Monaco 
senior sports writer 
last year, notre dame’s defense dominated the spring game with 10 sacks, two interceptions and a safety, limiting the offense to just one touchdown. 
last season, notre dame ranked 27th in scoring defense and 74th in scoring offense. 
Two years ago, the defense earned a 42-31 win in the blue-gold game. 
Two seasons ago, notre dame ranked second in scoring defense and 80th in scoring offense. 
on saturday, it was the irish of­fense that earned a “win” in the spring game, picking apart the de­fense throughout the first half en route to the 63-58 victory. 
in recent years, notre dame’s defense has impressed in the spring game and gone on to pick up the slack for a sometimes-stagnant offense in the regular season. if the 
see oFFense PAGE 14 

ND WOMENS LACROSSE | nd 12, duke 10 
Fortunato leads nd to win 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
in Friday’s acc conference matchup that came down to the last minute, the no. 11 irish triumphed 12-10 over no. 7 duke at arlotta stadium. 
duke junior midfield Taylor Trimble scored to pull the blue devils within a goal with 20 seconds left in the game, and duke (8-6, 2-4 acc) won the ensuing draw control, but irish sophomore midfield stephanie Toy came up with a ground ball to give notre dame (9-5, 2-4) control again, finding senior attack kaitlyn brosco who scored to put the game comfortably out of reach. 
irish coach christine halfpenny said she was not nervous when the blue devils climbed within one during the last two minutes of play. 
“i didn’t have a single doubt in my mind that the defense would be able to finish the game out,” halfpenny said. “i trust my defense and would take my defense over any oth­er in the country.” 

The  irish  defense  was  
backed  by  junior  allie  
murray’s  goalkeeping.  


murray, who came into the game with a 0.444 save per­
centage,  stopped  nine  of  
duke’s  19  shots  on  goal.  
halfpenny  said  murray’s  

see w lacrosse PAGE 12 

BASEBALL | bc 4, nd 1; nd 4, bc 2; nd 7, bc 0 
Irish take first conference series 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
Junior pat connaughton and sophomore michael hearne both earned complete-game wins against boston college during saturday’s doublehead­er, leading notre dame to its first conference series win as a member of the acc. 
“it was good,” irish coach mik aoki said of the series win. “i’ll just say, it’s been a long time coming. michael and patrick both played well; i thought we played pretty well.” 
connaughton (1-2) allowed six hits during the 4-2 victory, while hearne (2-4) shut out the eagles (11-24, 3-15 acc), 7-0, in saturday’s nightcap at cougar stadium at chicago state. boston college won Friday night’s series opener 4-1 in 11 innings despite a strong start from irish senior right-hander sean Fitzgerald (3-2). 
“i thought all three of them pitched great,” aoki said. “i think it took maybe three in­nings for Fitz [Fitzgerald] to re­ally get himself into a groove, but once he did i thought he was really outstanding, and i thought he was really dominant.”“pat was really good, greatly improved and much more in the strike zone. and michael played outstand­ing from beginning to end. of [boston college’s] base hits, i can only think of two that were really well hit.” 
The eagles struck first in Friday night’s contest when sophomore shortstop Joe cronin hit a double off of Fitzgerald to score junior sec­ond baseman blake butera. 
The irish (14-21, 3-15) tied the game at 1-1 in the sixth inning 
see baseball PAGE 12 


ND W Lacrosse vs. Duke  W 12-10  Baseball vs. Boston College  L 4-1  Softball vs. Florida State  Monday, 7 p.m.  
Men’s Lacrosse vs. Robert Morris  W 15-5  Baseball vs. Boston College  W 4-2  Baseball vs. Michigan State  Tuesday, 3:05 p.m.  
Softball vs. Florida State  W 8-5  Baseball vs. Boston College  W 7-0  ND W Lacrosse vs. Ohio State  Tuesday, 6 p.m.  
Softball vs. Florida State  L 9-7  ND W Tennis vs. NC State  W 6-1  Softball vs. Toledo  Wednesday, 6 p.m.  
Men’s Tennis vs. Miami  W 7-0  Men’s Tennis vs. Florida State  W 6-1  Baseball vs. Toledo  Wednesday, 7 p.m.  




