The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 3 | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
students use summer for research, service 
SSLP and ISSLP send hundreds to service programs around the world 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 
for the past several months, notre dame’s center for social concerns (csc) pro­vided students the oppor­tunity to serve with partner agencies, examine social issues and reflect on their experiences through the summer service learning program (sslp) and international summer service learning program (isslp) grounded in the roots of catholic social thought. 
Two hundred and seventeen students completed sslps in 175 sites across the country, which were sponsored by 106 notre 
see service Page 5 



Notre Dame institutes award research grants 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
This summer notre dame stu­dents traveled both across the country and around the globe to conduct research in an ar­ray of academic fields as a result of independent searches and university-funded programs. 
The nanovic institute of european studies, the Kellogg institute for international studies and the center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse) were three notre dame institutions that helped provide such funding. 
Jen fulton, student coordina­tor at the nanovic institute, said partial or full funding was pro­vided to 52 students to conduct 
see research Page 5 



smc implements master’s program in speech pathology 
By EMILY KEFALAS 
news writer 
what started out as an un­dergraduate program squeezed into three classrooms has ex­panded and updated to become a feature academic program at saint mary’s, director of clini­cal practice in the department of communicative sciences and disorders Janet lovett said. 
in June 2013, the college implemented its changes to the new master’s program and the current communicative disorders clinic housed in the madeleva classroom building, lovett said. The clinic treats clients from the surrounding areas. 
The new master’s program, speech pathology, will simply be referred to as the commu­nicative sciences and disorders department (csd), though the undergraduate students still receive their degrees in com­municative sciences and disor­ders, lovett said. 
“There are 20 saint mary’s se­niors, and there are four notre dame students who are co-ex­change students who can’t re­ally take it as a major but take all the required courses,” she said. “Total, i think, our major is about 95 students across all three years.” 
all seniors will participate in the clinical practicum for the fall semester, during which they will be assigned two cli­ents, lovett said. 
“This year we have 40 clients. we will be building the clini­cal population in anticipation of the start of the program,” lovett said. 
The news of an anticipated 
see speech Page 4 



Freshmen make first official Grotto trip 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 

bearing candles, programs and prayers, members of the class of 2018 packed the grotto on monday night for the freshman first visit to the grotto, a prayer service that helped introduce first-year students to faith life at notre dame. 
“it’s just a great way to begin the school year,” stephen spittle, a Keenan hall freshman, said. 
“it’s a nice community thing. it’s a nice way of showing a support group, showing that there’s oth­er people who believe what you believe in, and there’s always some place for you to go.” 
The service consisted of readings, speakers, prayers and songs, including the alma mater. Kate barrett, the campus ministry assistant director of residential hall liturgies, esti­mated that around 1,200 people attended the service, about the same number as the 2013 trip but up several hundred from previous years. barrett said she hoped the grotto would be an illustration of the importance of faith at notre dame. 
“i hope that [the freshmen], over the course of the whole orientation but concluding at the grotto, see their faith as a real component in their time at notre dame and that they have a 
see groTTo Page 5 


news Page 3 viewpoinT Page 6 scene Page 8 fooTball Page 16 women’s soccer Page 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                             alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite summer movie? 

Mike Powers 
senior 
off-campus 
“22 Jump street.” 


Dan McCormack 
senior 
off-campus 

“X-men: days of future past.” 

Eric Krakowiak 
senior 
off-campus 
“purge: anarchy.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Caroline Gerstle 
senior 
off-campus 

“return of the rise of the dawning planet of the apes.” 

Katie Eckart 
senior 
cavanaugh hall 

“X-men: days of future past.” 

Brad Stalcup 
senior 
fisher hall 

“how to Train your dragon 2.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

emily mcconville greg hadley alex winegar Zach Klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Keri o’mara caelin miltko 


Photo Viewpoint 

Campus Ministry LGBTQ Welcome Blood Drive Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica 
Kevin song gabriela leskur 
Freshman Kick-off Back Pinic Grace Hall Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred South Quad Fieldhouse Mall 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-7 p.m. Heart 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Benefits Relay for Life. Opening game versus 11:45 a.m.-12:45 a.m. 


Corrections 

Introduction for All are welcome. Rice. Music by the Notre The observer regards itself as freshmen. Dame Folk Choir. a professional publication and 
Grotto Trip Panel: Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass Women’s Soccer 
strives for the highest standards 
Bond Hall “Understanding South Quad Basilica of the Sacred Game 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
10 p.m.-11 p.m. Gaza” 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Heart Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
Asian American Hesburgh Center Rally for football game 7:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Association leads 12:30 p.m.-1:45 p.m. versus Rice. Mass includes music Notre Dame versus 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
weekly walk to Grotto. Discussion of conflict by the Women’s USC. 
we can correct our error. 
in Gaza. Liturgical Choir. 





ND researcher works to develop Ebola treatment 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The recent ebola virus out­break in west africa has killed more than 1,400 people, ac­cording to the world health organization. robert stahelin, adjunct associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, said this outbreak is the largest to date, with a fatality rate of ap­proximately 60 percent. 
ebola is one of two types of viruses in the the filovirus fam­ily, stahelin said. The other is marburg virus. 
“until recently, [filoviruses] were mostly thought to have been found in sub-saharan africa. 
so this particular outbreak is unique in the sense that it was the first in west africa, with liberia and guinea and sierra leone,” he said. “There are five different types of ebola that have been dis­covered so far. The strain in the current outbreak and probably the most well-known is called ebola Zaire.” 
stahelin said the ebola virus circumvents the immune system as it invades human cells. 
“so it actually starts to halt the immune response in our bodies, which makes it more difficult to fight off the virus as it continues to replicate,” he said. 
patients who have contracted the virus can begin displaying 


professor publishes research on trophy wives 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
do “trophy wives” really exist? do wealthy men marry women solely for their beauty? does perceived attractiveness have any impact on how people select their partners? 
elizabeth mcclintock, assis­tant professor of sociology at notre dame, set out to answer these ques­tions by conducting research on the “trophy wife” stereotype and its impact in determining partner se­lection. her research “beauty and status: The illusion of exchange in partner selection?” will be published in the american sociological review. 
“i’ve always been interested in how gender stereotypes are mostly really inaccurate,” she said. “The trophy wife stereotype, to me, was a really obvious one. The belief in that stereotype is pretty powerful across a lot of cultures.” 
in her study, mcclintock used a large, nationally representative sample of couples rated on attrac­tiveness while factoring in levels of education, socioeconomic status and other traits. her findings indi­cated that the levels of attractive­ness and socioeconomic status from both partners were typically well-matched. 
The results also suggested that people who use beauty to gain socio-economic status through their partners were rare. according to mcclintock, the only couples who exhibited a closer adherence to the trophy wife stereotype were younger couples in less-commit­ted relationships. 
“i took data that ranked couples’ attractiveness and showed that people mostly match on beauty,” mcclintock said. “what my data says is that if you have a really big sample of couples, [the trophy wife stereotype] doesn’t happen enough for it to be a statistically sig­nificant pattern in the data.” 
mcclintock said the belief in the trophy wife stereotype arises from a cultural tendency to selectively observe certain traits in partners depending on their gender, such as mainly observing physical appear­ance in women and socioeconom­ic status in men. she said she hopes that her research will help broaden public perceptions on partner se­lection and help dispel myths re­garding the ways people view men and women in relationships 
“i hope that it has an impact in terms of how people think of valu­ing men and women,” mcclintock said. “ The trophy wife stereotype tells women that your achieve­ments don’t matter; it’s only about how you look. it sets marriage as something very shallow.” 
mcclintock  said the belief in the trophy wife status also presents a problematic issue in sociological circles. she said sociologists often demonstrate reluctance to em­brace the simpler explanation of partner selection — that partners tend to match on the majority of aspects — and rather tend to for­mulate complex patterns of beau-ty-status exchange. 
“i hope that it will have an effect in academia. i think that there is a tendency in academia for people to look for the truth in stereotypes and sometimes to look for a more com­plicated story,” mcclintock said. “i think sometimes sociologists tend to ignore the obvious and look for a more complicated pattern.” 
mcclintock said she is currently expanding her research on partner selection by investigating assump­tions regarding interracial couples, specifically the idea that caucasian men and women only marry part­ners who identify as minorities if they are considered to have a high­er income or education. 
“i want to continue looking at these gender-race stereotypes in partner selection,” mcclintock said. “i hope to show that people actually select people they are compatible with.” 

Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
symptoms between two and 21 days after infection, stahelin said. 
“a fever above 100.4 degrees fahrenheit is common, as well as diarrhea, nausea and vomit­ing, which then moves into more lethargy and pain,” he said. 
stahelin said doctors have been using compassionate use molecules, which are usually mixtures of antibodies that could neutralize the virus. 
“There hasn’t been, to date, [a food and drug administration] approval for a drug to treat or prevent ebola infection,” he said. “There are also some promising vaccines on the horizon, maybe one that could be used for health care workers, for example, before they go treat the region of the outbreak. These things are still kind of in development.” 
stahelin said his research is fo­cused on creating a drug to treat the ebola virus, but it is still in the early stages. 
“we’re trying to discover the best pathways to inhibit the viral replication in our cells,” he said. “so we’re working with small molecule drugs and antiviral drugs to figure out which mix­ture or which drug itself would be best at neutralizing the virus’ replication.” 
americans should not fear an ebola virus outbreak in the united states, stahelin said. 

“surely the virus can be brought anywhere on an air­plane or a ship or something like that,” he said. “but the chances of a large-scale or even a small-scale outbreak in our country are an extremely minimal risk at this time. now we have the world health organization and the state of emergency in [west africa]. so if we do have a case of a patient coming here, rapid isolation is implemented and we have the facilities to deal with it. so it’s not really something that’s being considered a risk at this time.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Bestselling author to give SMC’s annual Christian Culture Lecture 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
reza aslan, new york Times-bestselling author, internationally acclaimed scholar of religions and pro­fessor of creative writing at the university of california, riverside, will speak at the 2014 christian culture lecture in o’laughlin auditorium on sept. 16, ac­cording to a press release 
from the  saint  mary’s de­ 
partment  of  humanistic  
studies.  

aslan will base his lec­ture, “Zealot: The life and Times of Jesus of nazareth,” on his best-selling book of the same title, the press re­lease stated. 
laura ambrose, assistant professor of humanistic stud­ies and coordinator of the christian culture lecture, said aslan is an ideal fit for the annual lecture because his work mirrors the college’s commitment to encourage an interfaith dialogue. 
“he identifies himself as being muslim, his wife is christian, his mother is christian and he both per­sonally and professionally seems committed to under­standing different faith tra­ditions in a global world,” ambrose said. “i think that is something as a catholic college, as a faith based in­stitution, [that] we have a real responsibility to encour­age, and he fits right into that.” 
aslan holds a bachelor of arts (b.a.), a master’s degree, a master of fine arts (m.f.a.) and a ph.d., all from different insti­tutions, according to his website. ambrose said this interdisciplinary back­ground enables him to speak to students from a va­riety of different academic concentrations. 
“one of the things we pride ourselves on in humanistic studies is that we are inter­disciplinary,” she said. “he received training in a num­ber of different areas. his 
b.a. was in religious stud­ies, his ph.d. was sociology and the history of religion, 
“He is a really engaging, interesting person who can get people to start to think about hard questions in ways that don’t seem so intimidating or in ways that shut down conversation. ” 
Laura Ambrose 
assistant professor, humanistic 
studies 
Saint Mary’s College 
his m.f.a. from university of iowa and he also has a mas­ter’s in theological studies from harvard. we liked that he could speak to the writ­ing side of a lot our students, so what it would be like to choose that life, but also this academic side in differ­ent disciplines that we have here.” 
clare maher, a senior hu­manistic studies and his­tory double major, said aslan embodies the essence of the 
christian  culture  lecture  
series.  
“The  christian  culture  

lecture is trying to provoke academic conversation and 

academic debate in a context that encourages the saint mary’s community to think deeper about things and to look at their own positions,” maher said. “… he looks at this perspective of Jesus from a very historical stand­point, and i always think that’s an interesting aspect coming from a catholic edu­cation myself all the way up until now.” 
ambrose said aslan com­bines analytical and person­al perspective on religion in a way that encourages hon­est intellectual conversation among students, academics and people with interests in religious studies. 
“he is a really engaging, interesting person who can get people to start to think about hard questions in ways that don’t seem so intimidat­ing or in ways that shut down conversation,” ambrose said. “a lot of times when people start to talk about religion you can retreat into this per­sonal space and then there is no real conversation and i think he is really good at calming people down and getting people to actually talk.” 
“he doesn’t discredit the personal and i think that’s something i find really pow­erful about him,” she said. “… learning how to have an intellectual discussion in a classroom can be hard be­cause there are the two sides of who we are. There is our gut instinct which may come from experience or emotion, and there’s that analytic part. That analytic part does work with the other and i think he is good at combin­ing that.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

speech 
conTinued from page 1 
master’s program in commu­nicative sciences and disor­ders excited many in the saint mary’s and south bend com­munities, but for now, the grad­uate program is considered an additional focus, lovett said. 
“we hope to take our first students in the fall of 2015. we have an accreditation visit coming up in october [from] the council on accreditation 
in  audiology  and  speech- 
language  pathology  (caa),”  
lovett said.  

in the meantime, faculty and staff want to keep the under­graduate program strong on its own, providing and maintain­ing the same level of opportu­nities it currently offers, lovett said. 
“we have to build the clinic especially. we have the faculty in place. we have five faculty now, but the clinic needs to be able to provide enough experi­ence in a lot of communication disorders for the graduate stu­dents to get at least a portion of the 400 hours they have to have in order to get certified need,” lovett said. 
“it’s a long process,” she said. “There’s an academic piece. There’s a clinical piece. There’s a resident kind of [period], what we call clinical fellow. you practice under the mentorship of a full-fledged speech pathol­ogist. Then you have to make sure you meet your require­ment to meet clinical require­ment, your c’s. in indiana you have to be licensed also, and most states around us do re­quire [the same].” 
colleges and universities now incorporate a five-year program for audiology stu­dents that combines under­graduate and master’s degrees, lovett said.  saint mary’s does not currently plan to offer a master’s in audiology, lovett said. 
The clinic’s future goals in­clude developing a teleprac­tice program, lovett said. Telepractice is a type of speech language pathology that clini­cians use with long-distance clients. 
“it’s very similar to providing speech services to people who need speech therapy,” she said. “Telepractice will be training the clinicians [in] what are the questions you ask, what do you practice, [what are] the things you have to do if you’re licensed in indiana and your client is in montana, or vice versa, [and] you have to be licensed in that state,” lovett said. 
lovett said she was one of the first to be hired for the master’s program. as an adjunct profes­sor with fellow communicative disorders professor susan lathem, lovett helps bring clients to the program and hires the clinical staff, includ­ing program chair dr. michael flahive, lovett said. 



“as the program director, he is responsible for making sure all the academic and clinical pieces are in place,” she said. “obviously i’m in charge of the clinical, but he’s in charge of everyone. he makes sure that our students are in a position to go out and do what they’re supposed to do and getting the appropriate grades. we work hand-in-hand when it comes to what we’re supposed to do.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
seniors emily scanlon and emily hazen have enjoyed the activity and opportunity their major has offered them dur­ing their time at saint mary’s, hazen said. 
“we love the program. i re­ally like all the professors [and] clinicians. we’re glad we decid­ed to focus on this area,” hazen said. 
hazen and scanlon each completed 25 hours of observa­tion last semester watching the members of the class of 2014 work with their clients, scanlon said. This year, they will use what they’ve learned through watching students engage with clients, scanlon said. 

“we’ve seen how it’s done,” scanlon said. 
The clinic and master’s pro­gram will have a chance at ac­creditation in october when the caa comes to evaluate the system and facilities, but students such as scanlon and hazen will continue to pursue the study of communicative sciences and disorders either way, scanlon said. 
“it doesn’t really seem like work, because we love it,” she said. 
Contact Emily Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 


Research 
conTinued from page 1 
research in 15 countries, including the united states. 
“This is the story of the nanovic institute,” she said. “if [a proposed project] has to do with europe, we’re interested in helping students do their projects, whether they are from the college of science or the college of engineering or mendoza or arts and letters or architecture.” 
with the number of funded stu­dents increasing from year to year, fulton said the institute is on a general upward trend of student involvement. she also said the va­riety of research fields “really runs the gamut.” 
“we have students who were doing lit research on french lit­erature,” she said. “we had some scientists over doing some intern­ships in labs. we had some voca­tional students looking at doing service in le mans. architecture students away on digs in ireland.” 
fulton said students today are entering a much more difficult and competitive job market where international experience and in­dependent research can help set them apart. 
“i think it’s really exciting that people like us here at the nanovic institute are giving students the opportunity to do that indepen­dent research and do internships that may not have been a possibil­ity for them if they didn’t have the funding to do so.” 
while the nanovic institute funded european projects, oth­er students partnered with the Kellogg institute to do research in africa, asia and the americas. 
senior graham englert, who conducted research throughout uganda under a Kellogg/Kroc un­dergraduate research grant, said he was one of about 50 notre dame participants who partnered with the Kellogg institute this summer. 
as students travelled to 20 dif­ferent countries to conduct their research, some partnered with organizations such as worldTeach and the foundation for international medical relief while others, like englert, conducted in­dependent research. 
“i completed ethnographic re­search during the first two weeks in Kampala and Jinja,” he said. “for the final three weeks, i interviewed health workers with experience responding to ebola and marburg [virus] outbreaks in gulu, Kabale and bundibugyo.” 
englert said he prepared for the experience by examining various global health research methods while attending global health and international development con­ferences at notre dame and other institutions. 
“interning in the crowe laboratory at the vanderbilt vaccine center sparked my inter­est in viral hemorrhagic fevers (vhf) when i assisted a gradu­ate student studying antibodies to ebola and marburg,” he said. 
“reviewing literature enabled me to identify lapses in knowledge re­garding the risks of responding to such outbreaks.” 
due to the frequency of vhf out­breaks in uganda, which included four ebola and two marburg out­breaks since 2000, englert said the country stood out as an informa­tive area to conduct research. 
“i investigated the psychologi­cal and social risks posed to health workers when responding to viral hemorrhagic fever outbreaks,” he said. “psychological risks were de­fined as depression, anxiety and trauma. social risks referred to any stigmatization or other negative repercussions from the public.” 
englert said although he ini­tially experienced anxiety at the prospects of interviewing health workers about such a sensitive topic, his first interviews in gulu went well and left him ener­gized for his remaining time in uganda. 
meanwhile in the united states, senior Jonathan Jou researched tendon and ligament regeneration in zebra fish through the harvard stem cell institute internship program partnered with the center for regenerative medicine atmassachusettsgeneralhospital. 

“i was initially looking for an opportunity to do research off campus,” he said. “i’d considered the [national institutes of health], i’d considered an amgen intern­ship with miT, but ultimately my advisor dr. wingert suggested i look into the harvard stem cell institute.” 
Jou said the research showed him the benefits of following the proper faculty members and fol­lowing one’s passion. 
“i learned that even though you’re 20 or 21 … you can still have big dreams,” he said. “people will embrace it as long as you can find the right audience. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
grotto 
others experience the same.” 
service 
fr. noel Terranova, the rector of 
conTinued from page 1 
conTinued from page 1 

Keenan hall, encouraged fresh-desire to make that important to men to use the grotto, modeled 
dame alumni clubs. fifty three them,” she said. “it’s going to take after the spot in france where 
students completed isslps in a different shape for every person, the virgin mary appeared to st. 
17 countries, according to csc but i hope that everyone here in bernadette, as a place of comfort 
international service learning their own way will feel a renewed and celebration and a reminder of 
and justice education direc­commitment for growing in their the generations-long faith com-
tor rachel Tomas morgan. The faith. it’s a really important part of munity at notre dame. 
isslp offers a chance to com-being a student at notre dame.” “That is why you are holding 
bine academic studies with megan burin, a first-year stu-a burning candle in your hands 
hands-on volunteer activities dent in pasquerilla west hall, right now. it is a symbol of the 
in vastly different cultures said the grotto gave her “a better light of christ . . . as you prepare 
across the globe, she said. appreciation of notre dame.” to embark on the journey of your 
The program includes a “i just wanted to get a sense of notre dame experience, know 
“year-long academic service-community, and i wanted to do that there will be difficult times . 
learning program that com-something as a class, and i think . . when this happens, know that 
prises two courses and the this place is a really special place there is a community of support 
eight-10 week service-learning to do it,” she said. to help you here at notre dame,” 
field placement so students re-also open students’ minds to i want to work in education freshman maddie organ, who Terranova said. “as a rector, i can 
ceive an academic framing that future academic and career policy.” also lives in pasquerilla west, say go to your rector, talk to your 
surrounds their immersion ex-decisions and deepen their senior emily horvath spent said the trip put her at ease for the rector, we can help. 
perience,” Tomas morgan said. commitment to community eight weeks in chennai, india, coming semester. “but at the bottom of all of our 
Theological reflection and service. sslp students earn working at vidya sagar school “i was nervous for classes and struggles there is a restlessness 
summer service learning di-three theology credits for their for children with developmen­everything else to start [yester-deep within ourselves that can 
rector andrea smith shappell summer work.“The sslp has tal disabilities. she said her pas-day], but coming here it was nice only be encountered in a place of 
said the sslp also encourages the potential for being a trans-sion for occupational therapy to know that [the grotto] will stillness. so when that struggle 
students to learn academic and formative experience for stu-led her to seek the opportunity always be here no matter what comes, find your candle. come 
personal lessons through ac-dents,” she said. “This may be of an isslp, which would push we’re going through,” she said. to the grotto. sit in the stillness. 
tive service and integration in a new understanding of putting her outside her comfort zone. barrett said the 35-minute ser-look within yourself. as your 
communities. their faith in action, redirecting “i spent my time working in vice was the result of coordina-face is lighted and warmed by the 
The sslp “recognizes that their career plans or deepening the occupational therapy de­tion among campus ministry, flickering of the prayers of others, 
building relationships with their commitment to commu-partment and teaching a cre­the folk choir and hall resident know that you are not alone.” 
people who live on the mar-nity engagement.” ative movement (music and assistants and frosh-o staffs, flora Tang, a breen-phillips 
gins of society brings knowl-sophomore amber bryan dance) class,” horvath said. who handed out candles and pro-hall first-year student, said she 
edge about people and social spent her eight-week sslp in “The curiosity to travel to a ran-grams and guided students into hopes to take advantage of faith 
issues in ways that cannot be new orleans serving at st. peter dom city in a random country, the grotto. life while at notre dame. 
taught in a classroom setting,” claver catholic church for the knowing no one, and see if i “you can’t get 1200 people in “i want to get stronger in my 
shappell said. local organizing ministry. could come out of the experi­one place at one time without a faith, and also get stronger ac-
both programs require stu-“i did a wide variety of things ence with amazing new rela­lot of people helping,” she said. tion-wise, like getting into service 
dents to take workshops and — help with the opening of a tionships plus a strong desire “it’s very much a group effort.” or making wiser decisions,” she 
classes on campus and then new school in the community, to pursue occupational therapy senior shannon hagedorn, the said. 
immerse themselves in the top-establish a good neighbor or-in a setting where i’d be work­service’s student speaker, encour-spittler said he hopes to achieve 
ic of study. Tomas morgan said dinance between community ing with children with devel­aged freshmen to cultivate their grow personally during his four 
the isslp, which encompasses members and businesses with opmental disabilities, made faith by finding a special place on years at the university. 
a three-credit pre-departure alcohol beverage permits, pack me choose to participate in an campus in which to reflect and to “i really want to be able, when 
theology course and one credit food in the food pantry and isslp.” value relationships with people at i’m done with these four years, 
for summer work, forces stu-map blighted property,”  bryan “This experience also opened notre dame. to be able to say that these four 
dents to recognize and evalu-said. my eyes to the battle for the “you’ll be surrounded by years have meant something to 
ate the existence of extreme bryan said the sslp sparked rights of people with disabili­amazing people,” hagedorn said. me, and while i don’t necessar­
poverty across the globe. a deeper interest in policymak-ties that is currently being “They’re there in the light and in ily know what that means, i want 
“Through our classes, stu-ing and reinforced her previous fought in india,” she said. “i the shadows, helping you truly to be able to look back and say 
dents are introduced to press-interest in education. formed friendships with people shine, and you’ll be there for them that those years changed me and 
ing global issues. students who “it was rewarding to help who face these issues every day. too. at notre dame, you will find those years changed how i look 
participate … already have a people get more than the im-forming these relationships and be tremendous models, men-at the world and at different situ-
strong heart for the poor. it is mediate change that can be has transformed my perspec­tors, inspirations and travelers. i ations and made me evolve as a 
our hope that our students also completed in 20 hours or so,” tive on issues of global human have been challenged more than person,” he said. 
develop and cultivate a mind she said. “after the sslp, i am development.” i had been before, but also lifted 
for the poor,” Tomas morgan going to be taking more re-higher and supported more than Contact Emily McConville at-
said. search and policy courses. This Contact Kyle Witzigman at ever before as well. i have seen emcconv1@nd.edu 
shappell said the sslp can experience reassured me that kwitzigm@nd.edu 



The observer | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
InsIde Column 

don’t settle for safety 

Isaac Lorton 
assistant managing editor 

i don’t know what i want to be when i grow up, i am a horrid procrastinator, and i have a receding hairline. in conclusion, i am one of the least qualified people to give advice, so take what follows with a grain of salt. you have been warned. 
my business friend (let’s call him Joe-bob), majoring specifically in accounting, recently asked me, “what if i don’t want to do accounting for the rest of my life?” he was worried because he was on a track and felt he had no way to reroute his train. Joe-bob had a high-paying summer internship with a “big-four” accounting firm in their audit department, a pending job offer and the rest of his life mapped out. he would work hard, retire early and then, when he had the time and loads of money, do all of the things he wanted to do now. 
my answer to Joe-bob was, “Then, don’t.” Things aren’t that simple, i guess. 
The college of business is extremely popular at notre dame. it has been on a dynastic streak of best under­graduate business school in the country, and it isn’t slowing down. it shouldn’t have to slow down either, because it is so good for the school; but is it good for you? 
as a liberal studies major and journalism minor, this isn’t an attack on the business school in order to promote the values of a well-rounded, holistic under­graduate curriculum. That has been done enough, by much more studied and intelligent people than myself. This is merely an example, common to many notre dame students, of becoming stuck in what seems to be the best route in life. whether it be business, english, engineering or pre-med, you should never feel that you have to do something in order to be happy; you should want to do it. 
Joe-bob is a great ceramics artist. i have a number of mugs from him, which look cool and haven’t broken yet (so that’s good news) and i have helped him move boxes and boxes and boxes of stupid-heavy ceramics pieces. although a burden to my strict, no-lifting­things-more-than-50-pounds policy, i begrudgingly do it, because it is refreshing to see people truly enjoy something. and Joe-bob truly enjoys ceramics. 
don’t get me wrong, Joe-bob doesn’t hate his major, but the most i have ever seen him focus are times when he would go to the ceramic studio for hours to finish projects, even when he didn’t have to. he sees ceramics only as a hobby, something he can do when he retires because there really is no money in making pottery. at least not enough money to have a solid portfolio and to travel around the world and have nice things and be financially stable and retire comfortably. but what are all of those things if you are miserable the whole time? why can’t Joe-bob open his own studio, do what he loves and use his business knowledge to improve his business? why must you stay the course if the course isn’t the right one for you? 
There is a problem when you put off doing what you love for what is practical, so that someday, hopefully, you will have time to follow through on your dreams. 
i understand this may seem idealistic and circum­stances don’t always allow for everyone’s dreams to play out, but that doesn’t and shouldn’t stop everyone from attempting to do what makes them happy, or me hoping for the best. i challenge everyone, especially the class of 2018, to go out and find your passion, and then pursue that passion relentlessly. don’t settle for the safe choice. strive for happiness. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Burst the bubble 


Sarah Morris 
candid contemplation 
The beginning of a new school year is exciting, ex­hausting and existential. exciting and exhausting are plainly apparent and have been since the days of lord­ing crayola colored pencils over my unfortunate neigh­bor’s roseart ones on the first day of school. however, i have only recently discovered the existential aspect of back-to-school and its roots in the stark culture shift from home to notre dame. 
we all experience this shift to some degree: each of us physically moves, we become surrounded by thousands of people our own age, and we once again recess from the “real world” to our small slice of collegiate utopia. but on a deeper level, the transition is even sharper. fresh from a summer at home in the san francisco bay area, now is a better time than ever to examine con­trasting worlds and the potential they hold. 
i was raised in a bubble. it was this bubble that in­spired me to go elsewhere for college, to see what the rest of the country had to offer. as one may guess, notre dame (and the greater midwest) has gone above and beyond in fulfilling my hopes. The range of lessons i have learned span from meteorological (thunder is loud, snow is cold), to nutritional (people can, in fact, live wonderfully happy lives without ever drinking $12 raw pressed kale-cayenne smoothies), to commercial (a company called vineyard vines makes pants in more colors than you could find in my aforementioned box of colored pencils). but the exposure i have genuinely enjoyed the most has been in matters of politics. 
before leaving my bubble, rarely did i encounter, let alone engage with, someone who held a vastly different set of ideological beliefs. of course disagreement exists and of course i know republicans at home (or know of them, at least), but the overarching political homogene­ity of the bay area is undeniable. 
Though notre dame’s population may find itself ho­mogenous in a score of factors, politics is actually not one of them. in fact, compared to most other colleges, 
edItoRIal CaRtoon 

notre dame is substantially more ideologically diverse. The common stereotype would characterize the stu­dent body as conservative, and statistically, it probably is. i am sure that far more students align closer to the right, but the school’s left-leaning cohort is absolutely large enough to keep things interesting. moreover, i have encountered many who identify as independent. in theory, such a persuasion enhances discourse even further, for a moderate is less likely to be impeded by blind partisanship in debate. 
as a student body, we take advantage of this oppor­tune environment to an extent, but should do so even more. i have witnessed conversations related to numer­ous political matters between very differently minded individuals, and the results are truly exciting. rather than dissipating into indignant storms of insults, peo­ple exchange intelligently formed ideas with respect. friends are able to share thoughts they would perhaps never consider otherwise. each side is humanized, and we discover that conservatives aren’t heartless, greedy zealots just as liberals aren’t socialist, godless spenders. 
i encourage all members of the notre dame com­munity to take part in such discussions. whether or not you consider yourself “political,” keeping abreast of pertinent issues is something we should all practice. it is more than likely that you and a friend do not see quite eye to eye on obamacare, the legalization of mari­juana or israel and palestine; this is the time to improve your own position and learn the merits of opposing ones through conversations. 
amidst all the excitement and exhaustion of this se­mester’s beginnings, examine the bubble from which you came. while it may not be filled with plastic bag bans and pride parades, there are surely opportunities for comparison, conversation and even contention ripe for the picking. 
Sarah Morris is a junior studying Political Science and American Studies. She lives in Ryan Hall and can be reached at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The places we will go 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

dr. seuss once said, “you will come to a place where the streets are not marked. some windows are lighted, but mostly they’re darked.”  seuss, surpris­ingly enough, wasn’t referring to the netherworld of south bend. rather, he was speaking to the paths we will find and “The places you will go.” his work and those words speak to all of us, whether a freshman, a junior or a teacher, in portending that we truly have little clue as to what the next year will bring. There will be highs, lows, memories and regrets in the coming weeks, months and, if you’re lucky enough to not be graduating come may, years. you will be challenged. 
your time here may not always be easy. 
you will fail. you may fail greatly, potentially cata­strophically. but you will get back up. 
you may struggle socially. you will see some friends grow closer and watch others fade away. 
you may struggle with the distance from home, siblings or, yes, even parents. 
you will likely struggle more academically than ever before. when i signed up for chinese freshman year, i didn’t envision getting a 73 on the first test i took in college. but i studied more and longer than i ever did before. and so the next test came. and with it, a big shiny number in the top right corner. 
it said 57. 

life is never quite as expected. you will fall and you will fail. but for every struggle you face, there are others who face the same. for every moment the ob­stacle seems insurmountable, know there are people here who will help you conquer it. you will lean on friends and on strangers, on adults and on students, and maybe even on some sappy playlist you made one night. we’re not judging. 
you will learn to embrace these struggles because with them come opportunities and memories the likes of which cannot be replicated elsewhere. 
you’ll have conversations with professors that could change your thinking, your major, your direc­tion or at least your failing grade. you’ll have conver­sations in the dorm that form friendships that will endure through tragedy and triumph. you’ll have a conversation with your hall staff over events you may not remember, but they claim occurred. you may have conversations over broken hearts and sudden losses. 
you’ll have a 3 a.m. conversation at Taco bell. somewhere between declaring that you “can’t even” and that you are “so over it,” you and whoever else is occupying the booth will announce yourselves as “besties.” 
you’ll travel far and wide from the andes to the alps, across continents and conflicts. 
you’ll lose some things. you’ll lose a friend or two, your keys or your wallet. you’ll lose your 4.0.  you may well lose your dignity somewhere between main circle and feve. 
you’ll have the chance to, as dr. seuss’ contem­porary equal asher roth once said, “do something crazy.” get in a little trouble. not too much, but a little. as a ra, i’m pretty sure this is where i’m sup­posed to say do so without violating du lac. do your best. 

make sure you educate your mind, but don’t forget to nourish your soul. my high school yearbook tells me that my ambition as of 2011 was to “live with no regrets.” while i haven’t managed to do so entirely, i can tell you that far more of the regrets i have re­volve around things i didn’t do rather than things that i did. so once in awhile, ditch the problem set for a night out. Try something new. don’t be afraid to make a fool of yourself.  ask out that girl or guy who you have supposedly no business talking to. meet new people. Take a class for the sake of it. find out where the heck carroll is. 
live so that when this year ends, and when your time at notre dame comes to a close, you depart knowing you accomplished that which you wanted to, that you experienced what you sought and that you spent the time you had making incredible memo­ries with incredible people 
ready or not, another year at notre dame is upon us. so hop aboard, enjoy the ride and discover to­gether the places we will go. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior finance and political science major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He has been described as “surprisingly competent.” He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
How can we measure what matters most? 
Fr. Joe Corpora 
guest columnist 

we have begun another school year at this university named in honor of our lady. but the be­ginning of school is not the only pressing event in august. in august we celebrate the assumption of the blessed virgin mary and the Queenship of mary.  
although devotion to mary has changed consider­ably in the past 40 years, the feasts remain important to the life of the church and to our understanding how god acts in us. The most important role that mary plays is to lead us to her son Jesus, the heart of our faith and of our church. when we perceive more clearly how mary devoted her entire life to Jesus, we perceive, in her own words, a lowly servant.   
The principal message of mary is something that we need to experience in our innermost being. but it is a message that we don’t really like. The message is this: it is safe and even good to be humble, to accept our lowliness and, what humanly speaking is more disconcerting, the feeling of being nothing. let me explain. 
in her magnificat mary proclaimed, “god has looked with favor on his lowly servant in her nothing­ness.” she knew her position to be a fact and was not afraid to acknowledge it. she found it to be the source of her joy: “my spirit rejoices in god my savior.” she was at rest in the center of her nothingness, her de­pendence on god and her need for a savior.  
The lowly know their need to be exalted by god. The poor know their need to be filled with the riches of god. The empty know how much they need god. 
Those who have nothing know that god is everything. 
we need to know our nothingness, our lowliness and our emptiness. The more we empty ourselves of pride and worldly worth, the more god can fill us with himself. The more we humble ourselves, the more god can exalt us. it’s a complete reversal of the world’s values as we experience them day-to-day. and since we are terrified to be “nothing,” we are always looking for ways to prove that we are something. 
if we are nothing, what can make us feel like we are something? data, metrics and graphs: things that calm our fears with numerical assertions of our im­portance. These can make us feel like we’re somebody big and we’re going somewhere important.  i lament that the church and her institutions have become more and more addicted to data and metrics during the past 40 years. is this addiction to data and metrics related to mary’s fading into the background and our corresponding loss of knowing our dependence on god? 
data and metrics are part of the life of a great university like notre dame. research has to be done to make good and informed decisions. but who can measure the grace of god? who can analyze data on how the lord moves in our lives? what metrics can explain the mercy and forgiveness of god? who can chart the growth of the interior life or god drawing the soul closer to himself? what metric can explain a student at notre dame who immigrated to this country when she was seven, whose parents have minimum wage jobs, who graduated last spring and enrolled last month in medical school at Johns hopkins? some of this can be explained, but most of it is grace and god’s action in the notre dame community, something that cannot be measured. 

can we think about life and mission at notre dame without reducing it to graphs and charts? can we be­lieve that god chooses the human and the intangible to confound the metrics?      
if the angel gabriel operated by any measureable, data-driven standards, mary would have been consid­ered so insignificant that no one would have given her a second thought. 
if there must be a metric, let it be this: is notre dame producing saints? not just scholars or research­ers or good people, but saints. do our students leave here more convinced that they are unconditionally loved by god and that nothing can ever separate them from the love of god?  This is the main metric that must guide our work and mission. 
in the midst of all our critical work and decision-making, may god help us keep a proper perspective on our need to somehow prove our greatness or our worth by filling ourselves with accumulations of data and measurements. in our own lives and in the life of this great university of our lady, may we know — without fear — our complete and utter nothingness and emptiness so as to be totally open to all that god wants to give us.  
Fr. Joe Corpora works in the Alliance for Catholic Education, serves as Latino Chaplain in Campus Ministry and is a priest-in-residence in Dillon Hall.  He is a sinner whose sins are forgiven.  And he loves anything made with tomato sauce.  He can be reached at jcorpora@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

with the start of the new school year comes a new scene series that we are excited to announce. while we love to write reviews of new films and Tv series and share opinions on the cutting edge of entertainment, the truth remains that it can be difficult to keep up with premieres on a college student’s schedule. 
so what do we students do while we are without cable or a car or the time to catch all the newest releases? we digital natives turn to internet streaming to fulfill our entertainment needs as netflix, hbo go and hulu have come replace cable boxes and dvd players. 
because of this, scene will offer guidance amidst the endless abyss that is instant streaming. we’re here to find out what’s new on your favorite streaming sites and what great films to take advantage of while they’re available at the click of a button. 
but since so many students turn to streaming sites, we don’t just want to give recommendations — we hope to start conversations as well. That’s why scene is introduc­ing “The weekly watch”: a way to critically examine films and television and, with your help, get readers in on the discussion. 
“The weekly watch” will feature a scene writer intro­ducing a film or show available on an instant-streaming website at the beginning of each week. That writer and — we hope — scene readers will watch that title by monday of the next week, when scene will run a critical, in-depth analysis of the film or show. Think of it like a book club, except for streaming movies and Tv. 
if you want to join in on the fun, we hope you’ll watch along and participate by tweeting along, commenting online or even writing in to scene. whether you get to­gether with your friends or take a study-break and watch alone, we want you to follow along with us as we take a closer look at some of the best entertainment soon to be on your queue. 
The first movie we will be examining is “The master,” a title newly available to stream on netflix. written and directed by paul Thomas anderson (“magnolia,” “There will be blood”), the 2012 film stars Joaquin phoenix and philip seymour hoffman in two remarkable performanc­es. phoenix plays freddie Quell, a world war ii veteran who struggles to assimilate back into post-war america. after travelling around the country taking and losing several jobs, Quell meets lancaster dodd (hoffman), the leader of a mysterious spiritual group called The cause. as dodd takes the troubled Quell under his wing, Quell is ushered into the group and begins to see the strange inner workings of The cause. 

inspired (not-so-subtly) in part by church of scientology creator l. ron hubbard, the character lancaster dodd is simultaneously charismatic and un­nerving, and philip seymour hoffman acts it expertly. but it is phoenix’s portrayal of Quell that somehow still steals the show. his performance is nearly flawless and didn’t go unnoticed: he was nominated for best actor in the 2013 academy awards for the role. 
anderson, one of the preeminent directors of the last 20 years, didn’t only draw from the life of l. ron hubbard 
— the director also has said in interviews that Quell’s life was inspired by stories “magnolia” actor Jason robards told him about the navy, early drafts of “There will be blood” and parts of author John steinbeck’s life, making the film a complex and its interpretations controversial. 
“The master” is layered, challenging and often sad, but also features some of the best acting and most beautiful cinematography in recent years. The film is certainly de­serves a watch and further analysis of its dark complexity. 
follow @observerscene for information about the weekly watch. 
Contact Allie  Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“maybe one day i’ll get away with something naugh­ty,” ariana grande quipped in a recent new york Times profile. like many teen idols before her, the 21-year-old former nickelodeon star is in the midst of navigating the transition from child star to bonafide pop diva. 
grande’s debut album “yours Truly” was one of 2013’s unexpectedly great blockbuster pop masterpieces. That album was sonically indebted to the 90s r&b of mariah carey, but lyrically tame enough for her legions of tween fans. references to sexuality from grande herself were oblique; mostly, she sang wide-eyed but self-aware sen­timents like, “i wanna say we’re going steady / like it’s 1955.” alongside her powerful voice, the way grande knowingly tip-toed around the constraints imposed by her clean-cut image became one of the album’s strengths. 
her sophomore effort “my everything” arrives almost a year to the day later, just as grande is achieving main­stream recognition. it is carefully calculated to capitalize on that momentum, moving her toward the epicenter of Top 40 without completely ditching the tweens just yet. The record is an assured evolution of the ariana grande brand, not an outright obliteration. Think britney spears’ “oops!… i did it again:” not that innocent, but not too risqué for the minivan cd player either. 
for the most part, grande wisely surrounds herself with capable collaborators that seek to bolster her dual role as a radio staple and pitchfork darling. These include proven hitmakers like swedish pop svengali max martin and german edm producer Zedd and tastemaker favor­ites like the rapper a$ap ferg and sleazy r&b artist The weeknd. 
sometimes the album threatens to veer wildly off the rails, especially during goofy guest verses from truly ter­rible rappers iggy azalea and big sean. in lesser hands, these encyclopedic credits would make for a disjointed album. yet, “my everything” succeeds by adopting what Tom ewing called “[t]he ‘revolver’ blueprint for pop al­bums — every track good, every track a potential hit.” it’s a strategy that seems to be working for grande so far; currently, three of the album’s singles sit in the top 10 of the billboard hot 100. 
The best songs on “my everything” revel in this maxi­malist, everything-and-the-kitchen-sink approach to hit-making. months later, the chaotic summer smash “problem,” with its klezmer-beat horns, fizzy synths and whispered chorus, is still as enjoyable as ever. another standout, “hands on me,” a darkchild-produced banger featuring a$ap ferg, is the most out-of-left-field. it re­calls lustful 2000s radio hits like beyoncé’s “baby boy” and nelly furtado’s “promiscuous.” it is also grande at her most provocative: “skirt off, keep the high heels on / might be a little thing but i like that long.” still, grande confidently proves she is capable of more mature content and her willingness to throw herself into the material is one of the record’s greatest strengths. 

The album’s major misfire is the hackneyed ballad “Just a little bit of your heart.” penned by one direction heartthrob harry styles, it suffers under the weight of a barely-there chorus and a melodramatic string section. it pales in comparison to the fantastic “almost is never enough” from her debut. 
That ballad, too, featured a boybander — The wanted’s nathan sykes — but was surprisingly soulful. fortunately, the album closer, “my everything,” fares better, with grande convincingly emoting the ballad’s vulnerability over sparse piano chords. 
“my everything” aims squarely for the charts but still cements itself as one of the year’s strongest, most fun pop releases. in the process, grande maybe gets away with something just a little bit naughty. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
My Everything 
Ariana Grande 
Label: Republic 

Best Tracks:  “Problem,” “Break Free,” “Love Me Harder,” “Hands on Me” If you like: Mariah Carey, Rihanna, Britney Spears 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
The observer | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

here at notre dame, the image of ireland is one made primarily of lepre­chauns, the color green and guinness. when students think of irish music, it’s probably the fight song that immediately pops into their heads. sure, they might know the words to the traditionally irish “wild rover,” but irish music is easily con­fused with whatever the band is currently playing. Traditional irish music, however, is a genre far richer than that which is readily available on campus. 
modern music in ireland can be a fun­ny thing. The country holds the record for most eurovision wins (seven since the beginning of the competition) but has not won since 1996. There is a strong country western following — 1990s country star garth brooks recently sold out (and can-celled) five concerts at the largest stadium in the country, croke park. steve earle’s “galway girl” is played nearly every­where, as much of a staple in pubs as the more traditional “fields of athenry.” 
wandering the streets of dublin at night, the tradition of almost nightly live music in pubs makes the experience nearly magical. of course, the talent of these prolific musicians varies and in some cases, the music selection is geared towards tourists to the point where it is no longer authentic. still, finding good live music in the city isn’t hard. 
in more rural places, where the number of people dwindles and with it the num­ber of musicians trying to catch their big break, the live music scene is still sur­prisingly vibrant.  it is here, in small local pubs, that the musical tradition of ireland lives on. 
one of the most fascinating parts of this culture is the practice of “sessions.” These are nights in pubs where any musician (though preferably those who play a fid­dle, flute, guitar or the like) may join in on the performance. usually, there is a group of two or three people at the core of such an event, but inevitably, others join in. 
These sessions provide an opportunity for musically talented people, who may otherwise be relegated to mere audience member, to contribute as much as they feel comfortable. some will sing a single song while others will end up playing un­til the bar closes. 
despite the freedom to join in, the ses­sions are not simply a free-for-all. There are a set of unwritten, important rules that are followed and help the music scene run smoothly. whoever begins the sessions will usually be in charge, unless a particularly talented musician shows up. 
There are important distinctions in irish traditional music made between songs, tunes, jigs, waltzes, etc. The pri­mary difference between a song and a tune is whether or not there exist words to accompany the melody. The distinctions between various tunes are imbedded in the rhythm and melody of a given tune. 
many of these tunes are rather short and will be played in “sets” of two or three. These sets vary across district lines and it is up to whoever is in charge of the ses­sion to determine what songs/tunes will be played in a given set, since many of the musicians may have different versions they usually play. 
The coming together of musicians who may have never met before is an interest­ing part of sessions. most numbers will begin with a single player, who is then joined by others once the song/tune is determined. most people in a session will be asked to begin a tune eventually by the person in charge. 
There are, of course, more professional ways to work with irish traditional mu­sic. musicians perform in concert halls, make cds and create their own versions of the tunes. There are even certain sets of tunes named purely after the person who first made them popular in traditional canon. still, these professional musicians are known to join into sessions with those who see music as more of a hobby. 

perhaps one of the best fusions of these two cultures is the all-ireland fleadh, which is held annually. This year, the cel­ebration took place in sligo. The festival consists of various competitions (whose competitors come from various places around the world, having taken part in regional fleadhs to garner entry) and ses­sions throughout the week-long festivities. 
however formal the situation may be, the tradition of live music in irish pubs is one that continues to live on in vari­ous ways. This is perhaps one of the most beautiful things about irish pub culture. regardless of where one is in the country, live music is almost always available, and sometimes even a visitor may be expected to join in on the performance. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

The latest release from swedish electronic band little dragon, “nabuma rubberband,” was released earlier may 9. it is the band’s fourth studio album and its first to be released through new label because music (the label works with other electronic acts such as moby, breakbot and Justice). previously, the band worked with peacefrog records. ironically, where the aforementioned because music acts are known for their “french touch” use of up­beat synths to create infective dance and nu-disco tunes, “nabuma rubberband” marks a departure from little dragon’s earlier, more upbeat albums. 
instead, “nabuma rubberband” explores the darker elements which were less prominent in earlier albums. even from the album’s opening track, “mirror,” little dragon brings in a dark, haunting atmosphere which permeates throughout the album. like many tracks on the album, “mirror” is driven almost entirely by a slow, nodding rhythm: a sharp contrast to little dragon’s trademark deep, fast-moving synthesizers. although the album’s three lead singles “Klapp Klapp,” “paris” and “Killing me” all retain the “bouncy” sound that little dragon invariably delivers on each new release, “nabuma rubberband” as a whole gives the listener a slower, downtempo little dragon experience. 
That being said, slow doesn’t necessarily mean boring. 
This slower pace leaves room for more experimentation with tempo and rhythm, and little dragon takes advan­tage of more complex rhythmic structures (see tracks “underbart” and “let go”), which have been seen only rarely, if at all, on earlier albums. 
in escaping the paradigm of synth dance music, little dragon also brings a much more emotional experience; these haunting rhythms and slow, minimalist melodies manipulate the mood of the listener in the way only elec­tronic music can. The album shapes a large, dark empty space around the listener — leaving plenty of room for the emotional, pining crooning of vocalist yukumi nagano, who comes through in “nabuma rubberband” stronger and braver than ever. nagano’s delicate but wuthering vocals stand in excellent contrast to the strong, com­manding beats on the album. 
in an interview with complex, bass player fredrick wallin said the band’s developing sound comes hand-in­hand with “understand[ing] synths more and more.” on “nabuma rubberband,” the band’s developing relation­ship with the synthesizer seems to have moved from a blinding worship to a understanding of its strengths and weaknesses. synth tracks on the album come across as more subtle and complementary to the song as a work, instead of the main attraction to be supplemented. 
“nabuma rubberband” features slow, walking beats that make for a great listen on a rainy week. The album’s lyrical content deals with deeply emotional topics: another change from the playful and celebratory lyrics of albums past. 

lines like “but when this girl’s made up her mind . . . / no turnin’ back, no wastin’ time . . . / stop braggin’ cause she broke your façade” (“cat rider”), or “now i didn’t rec­ognize you/did you lose the playful mood?” (“mirror”), elude to senses of sickly nostalgia and deep introspection on the part of the band, as well as help the tracks lend themselves to similar purposes during listening. little dragon has always hit the spot; its synth heavy hooks and rhythms keep fans committed with each new single, col­laboration and album. on “nabuma rubberband,” little dragon kept this consistent appeal while showing that it can also slow down. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
Nabuma Rubberband 
Little Dragon 

Label: Because Music Best Tracks:  “Mirror,” “Underbart,” “Let Go,” “Cat Rider” If you like: Mariah Carey, Rihanna, Britney Spears 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

sPoRts authoRIty 

Sports Illustrated drops the ball 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
if you looked at sports illustrated’s homepage Tuesday morning, you saw a layout dominated by football photos, for obvious reasons. oh, and a woman in a swim­suit because obviously — wait, because why? 
she’s amanda cerny, sports illustrated “lovely lady of the day.” under the “hot clicks” label, you can find a gallery of 12 photos of her in an assortment of sexy outfits and poses because why take coke out of a vend­ing machine like a normal person when it can be a sen­sual act? 
i’m a woman. i have no problem with women show­ing off their bodies. what i do have an issue with is the fact that a model in a swim­suit is the most prominently featured woman on sports illustrated’s website. 
There was a picture of venus williams further down the page and one of maria sharapova in action even closer to the bottom. it’s a sports website and the athletic women are at the bottom. but don’t worry, your eye candy is at the top. 
if there was a shot of williams or sharapova’s skirt flying up a little higher, would that have bumped them up the page? 
The fact that a hot model takes precedence over fe­male athletes on a sports website is a sign of disre­spect to female athletes who deserve recognition on those pages. 
i understand that men are the primary consumers of sports news. but is “because men” a good enough reason to feature a hot woman on sports illustrated’s homep­age? There are other maga­zines and websites if all you’re looking for is a picture of an attractive woman. 
The recurring “lovely lady” bit is more than a lit­tle bit tacky. The little yellow tag that says “hot clicks” above the picture coupled with the scantily-clad wom­an out of place on a page full of athletes makes it look like a third-party sidebar, one of those “attractive singles in your area” things that pop up when all you want to do is scroll through your facebook newsfeed. 
i respect sports illustrated. but i just don’t see how the “lovely lady” is necessary. it sends subtle but unsavory messages about women. 
it reinforces the idea that women are the sex meant to be ogled. where is the “hot dude of the day”? apparently, men are above that — they do things. athletic things. 
making the “lovely lady” the first woman viewers see on the website says that women sometimes do athlet­ic things, but the fact that we get to stare at their beautiful bodies is just as important as all that, if not more so. 
if young female athletes see the sports illustrated layout, they see that the athletes who look like them — the women — are relegated to second-class status. second not only to male athletes but also to women famous simply for being beautiful. That’s not a message that should ever be sent. 
The wnba playoffs are going on right now. if one argues that the wnba play­offs aren’t front page news, i would say that if there’s room on the homepage for a large photo of a gorgeous model, there’s room for a story about the women’s bas­ketball postseason. 
no offense intended to cerny. she truly is beautiful, “lovely,” as sports illustrated classified her. but the place for her is not as the featured woman on a sports website. put an athlete there. a fe­male athlete. in one of the photos of cerny, she’s posing with a soccer ball. There’s a place for that. it’s called maxim. 
if you want a picture of a woman with a soccer ball, call abby wambach or alex morgan. 
one would think a sports site, of all places, could con­vey how dynamic women are, that we are much more than objects. 
who’s ready to tell me i must be an ugly feminist in the online comments? i know you’re out there. and you’ve missed the point. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 


nCaa football 

Big Ten begins season on national, ‘neutral’ stages 
Associated Press 
four of the eight neutral-site games the first week of the college football season involve big Ten teams. 
Though not all the sites are truly neutral, all the games will generate the exposure every coach craves for recruiting. like bowl games, the openers also will produce lifelong memories for the players and varying financial re­wards for the schools. 
no team will travel farther than penn state, which plays ucf on saturday in dublin, ireland, in James franklin’s first game as coach. also on saturday, no. 14 wisconsin meets no. 13 lsu in houston and no. 5 ohio state takes on navy in baltimore. 
rutgers plays its first game as a big Ten member against washington state in seattle on Thursday. 
ucf won at penn state and was supposed to host this year’s game before agreeing to move it to dublin. franklin said he sees no disadvantage to going overseas because both teams must con­tend with the time-zone change and other challenges that go with traveling abroad. 
“we spent a lot of time prepar­ing our guys on what to expect and what the trip is going to be like so we can get over there and stay focused on what we have to do, which is play good foot­ball,” franklin said Tuesday on the big Ten coaches’ conference call with reporters. “whether that was played at state college high school or played in dublin, ireland, we’re excited about the opportunity to play central florida.” 
penn state and ucf declined to disclose how much money the schools will receive. The game’s organizer, the gaelic athletic association, didn’t respond to an email. 
wisconsin will earn $2 million for playing lsu at nrg stadium in houston. The badgers will get another $3 million in 2016 when they play lsu at lambeau field in green bay. next year wisconsin will make $4 million for playing alabama in arlington, Texas. 
“it gets us on the national stage,” badgers coach gary andersen said of this week’s game. “we’re playing an sec team and, quite frankly, we’re playing, tradition­ally the last few years, one of the best teams in the country, so kids 

like that when they’re recruited.” The game is a measuring stick for a wisconsin team that has 
questions  at  quarterback  and  
receiver  and  must  rebuild its  
defense.  

“some may say that’s not a great time to have the game,” andersen said. “but if you’re going to play a game like this, in the environ­ment of college football today, the first game of the year is the one to do it.” 
ohio state, which beat navy in columbus in 2009, will be clos­ing out a two-game series with the midshipmen. The buckeyes will earn $850,000 for playing the game at m&T bank stadium in baltimore, which is about a 45-minute drive from navy’s campus in annapolis. 
whether the game is in annapolis or baltimore, ohio state coach urban meyer likes the recruiting implications. 
“it’s a big recruiting area. a lot of great football players. a lot of history between ohio state and those players,” meyer said. “really in the last two years we’ve done well out there, so it’s excit­ing, and hopefully we get a lot of exposure. we have to do well, though.” 
basketball | usa 101, slovenia 71 

usa ready for world cup 

Associated Press 











mike Krzyzewski’s big men had barely finished pushing around slovenia when he was asked how they would match up with spain’s imposing frontcourt. 
“i’m not going to compare. i haven’t seen spain play,” Krzyzewski said. “if we play spain, it’s a long way away. so i’m just concentrating on u.s. and trying to get better.” 
There’s plenty of time, but his big guys are looking pret­ty good so far. 
anthony davis scored 18 points and teamed with Kenneth faried to dominate the inside, leading the u.s. national team to a 101-71 vic­tory over slovenia on Tuesday in its final exhibition game before the fiba world cup of basketball. 
faried finished with 14 

FOR RENT 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/Eddy Street - prime location. Email nd-house@sbc­global.net 
points for the americans, who next head to bilbao, spain, for their tournament opener saturday against finland. The defending world cham­pions also will face Turkey, new Zealand, the dominican republic and ukraine in pool play. 
a matchup with spain, and its big men of pau gasol, marc gasol and serge ibaka, wouldn’t come until the gold-medal game on sept. 14 in madrid. The americans picked a bigger team than usual after years of playing small, perhaps with spain in mind, and appear capable of looking eye-to-eye with anyone. 
“we just try to make sure that whatever we do, we do together, because we know it’s going to be tough in the tournament,” davis said. 
The americans weren’t particularly impressive throughout the last of their four warmup games, their first since picking their final 12-man roster on saturday. but they were aggressive, with davis and faried wear­ing out the slovenians — and even hooking up on a rare big-to-big alley-oop when davis threw down faried’s lob pass for a 65-39 lead midway through the third quarter. 

Kyrie irving added 13 points while starting at point guard for the americans ahead of derrick rose, and they played together at times. rose had three points. rudy gay and Klay Thompson each scored 11. 
The u.s. missed five of its first six free-throw attempts but got plenty more chances, finishing 29 of 46 at the line. slovenia was just 10 of 17. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANTED Looking to trade 2 tickets for MI in Section 3 Row 38 plus cash for 3 tickets together anywhere in the stadium for MI. Please call 574-850-2487  Well I remember the leaves a fallin’ /And far off music like pipes a callin’/ And I remember the golden morning/ I saw the long ranks as they were form­ing/ And there’s a magic in the sound of their name/ Here come the Irish of Notre Dame  -Cathy Richardson  



nba 

NBA alters rules to protect players 
Associated Press 
The nba is expanding the area that must be clear behind the basket and cutting the number of photographers along the base­line in an effort to improve player safety. 
The new regulations, calling for an extra foot of open space on both sides of the basket stan­chion, were sent to teams Tuesday by league president of operations rod Thorn and executive vice president of team marketing and business operations amy brooks in a memo that was obtained by The associated press. 
Thorn says clearing the con­gestion behind the playing area was planned even before indiana’s paul george broke his right leg when he crashed into the stanchion last month dur­ing a usa basketball exhibition game. 
“The conversations about this topic preceded paul’s injury by several years,” Thorn said. “as a matter of fact, at our league meetings in July we informed our teams this was the direction we were going. but of course when an injury occurs like the one to paul, it reaffirms the changes we have made and the need to con­tinue to evaluate our policies.” 
The “escape lanes,” the unoccupied area on either side of the stanchion to the closest photographer spot, will increase from 3 to 4 feet. 
only 20 camera positions, 10 on each baseline, will remain, down from 24 last season and 40 during the 2010-11 regular sea­son. each baseline can have six photo spots on one side of the basket and four on the other, and dance teams or other entertain­ers cannot be stationed along the baseline. 
“we have been studying this issue consistently over the last four years and these are just the latest adjustments to make the baselines an even safer area for our players, our team attendants and the photographers,” Thorn said. “many of the incidents of contact between players and photographers are around the basket area, so we felt it made sense to increase the open area between the baskets and the first photographer to four feet.” 
players have often been at risk of crashing into a camera when tumbling out of bounds behind the basket. The nba experi­mented with limiting photog­raphy spots during last season’s playoffs before deciding to make those changes permanent and mandating the bigger escape lanes. 
paid adverTisemenT 
nfl 

colts strengthen potent offense under luck 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — andrew luck has a few new wrinkles for opponents this season. 
he has three receivers with 1,000-yard seasons on their re­sumes. he has two pass-catch­ing tight ends, two running backs with workhorse pedi­grees and now he’s implement­ing a no-huddle offense, too. 
it’s just the natural progres­sion for one of the game’s best young quarterbacks, a move that could create all sorts of mismatches and help the colts take the next step in their super bowl chase. 
“i think it’s great when the time calls and the situation calls, it puts pressure on the de­fense,” luck said. “obviously it makes us tired, but hopefully it’s making them tired as well, or maybe more tired. i think the fast tempo, you can sustain a little momentum with it.” 
over the past two seasons, luck has provided all the mo­mentum the colts needed. 
since his arrival, indianapolis has completed one of the great­est one-year turnarounds in league history, been to the playoffs twice, won its first afc south title without peyton manning and produced the second-largest playoff come­back in league history. 
The glaring omission from that list is a super bowl title, something luck & co. hope to rectify in 2014. 
“we know what the outside expectations are, but we have our own,” coach chuck pagano said. “we’re chasing that lombardi (Trophy) and that’s our goal.” 
The colts have a myriad of reasons for optimism. 
They have slowly surround­ed luck with more playmak­ers and a defense that seems to be getting comfortable and finding players who better fit pagano’s 3-4 system. They have improved their special teams coverage units and their return game. now they’re giving luck a chance to install some of the offense and change tempos at will, as was the case with luck’s predecessor, manning. 

and luck can already see a difference. 
“absolutely the execution gets better,” he said. “i think you have the ability to do more with it the more you do it. i guess ev­erything should get better the more you do it. but you can tell guys are more comfortable with it, absolutely.” 
will that be enough to leap­frog perennial afc favorites denver and new england? perhaps. 
“we won the division, we won a playoff game, and now it’s just a question of trying to get deeper,” colts owner Jim irsay said. 
mlb | cubs 3, reds 0 

Wood leads Cubs over Reds 
Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — Travis wood got his first win in months and impressed his former pitching coach along the way. 


wood pitched six innings of two-hit ball against his former team, leading the chicago cubs to a 3-0 victo­ry over the cincinnati reds on Tuesday night. 
wood (8-11) struck out five and walked one in his first victory since he pitched eight innings in a 3-0 win at philadelphia on June 15. The left-hander, who made the all-star team last season, was 0-6 with a 5.45 era in his previous 12 starts. 
“That was nice,” he said. “my command was good. i was able to keep the ball down in the zone and get some quick outs.” 
arismendy alcantara hit a two-run shot and anthony rizzo connected for his 30th homer for the cubs, who have won four in a row for the first time since June 30­July 4. 
cincinnati was shut out for the 12th time this season. Johnny cueto (15-8) struck out eight in 6 1-3 innings in his second straight loss after winning seven consecutive decisions. 
wood improved to 2-5 with a 3.30 era in nine career starts against the reds. 
“he was commanding both sides of the plate with his cutter,” said cincinnati manager bryan price, who was the pitching coach when wood was with the reds. “he didn’t give us anything good to hit.” 

neil ramirez struck out the side in the seventh, pedro strop pitched the eighth and hector rondon finished for his 22nd save. 
rizzo went deep with two out in the first, driving a 2-1 pitch into the seats in right. he joined miami’s giancarlo stanton as the only two national leaguers with at least 30 home runs. 
starlin castro, in his first game back from the bereave­ment list, followed with a single as the rain increased, forcing a 50-minute delay just five minutes into the game. 
cueto blamed the rain for rizzo’s home run. 
“i was upset,” he said with catcher brayan pena serv­ing as his interpreter. “They knew it was going to rain. They should’ve called time­out and not started the game. i was afraid i was going to hit him with a pitch. i couldn’t grip the ball.” 
wood stayed loose by throwing in the cage about every 15 minutes. That work, plus throwing 96 pitches, led to manager rick renteria lifting him. 
“To be honest, that was an easy decision,” renteria said. 
alcantara followed matt szczur’s leadoff single in the seventh with his fifth homer of the season and second in two games. he also homered on sunday against baltimore in chicago’s final home game before embarking on a seven-game, six-day road trip. 

The observer | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

men’s tennIs 

nd stays optimistic despite losing former no. 1 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
after finishing 13th in the country a season ago, the irish aim to develop further in coach ryan sachire’s sec­ond season. 
notre dame finished 21­10 with an appearance in the ncaa championship round of 16 last season, the farthest the team has ad­vanced in the tournament since 2007. The finish was also one of the highest since notre dame finished sixth in the nation in 2007 and third in 1992. 
despite the loss of top talent, including greg andrews, who finished 25th in the country in sin­gles competitions and 17th in doubles competitions with junior alex lawson, 
notre  dame  returns  key  
contributors.  Junior  eric  
schnurrenberger  said  the  

adjusted roster should not be a problem as multiple players are able to fill in the hole left by andrews’ absence. 

“after the graduation of last year’s captain, greg andrews, the lead­ership situation has cer­tainly changed a lot,” schnurrenberger said. “we have many guys on our team that are able to step into greg’s shoes and take leadership. 
“There will maybe not be a single person that will be the designated leader this season, but it will be a col­lection of guys that will take the leadership position on our team.” 
The squad returns four seniors – dougie barnard, michael fredericka, wyatt mccoy and billy pecor. The quartet combined for a re­cord of 26-22 in singles com­petition. pecor also teamed up with junior alex lawson, half of notre dame’s top doubles tandem last sea­son, to win the iTa/usTa national summer doubles championship just over two weeks ago. 
The irish will bring back sophomores eddy covalschi and Josh hagar, who each won more than 20 matches their freshman year, as did juniors Quentin monaghan and schnurrenberger. 
schnurrenberger said he believes the team will be able to take the next step into the ncaa championships. 
“we had a great season last spring, and ending the year ranked 13th in the country is certainly a proof for that success,” schnurrenberger said. “however, i am con­vinced that we will do even better this year. we have a very deep team that means that everybody can beat ev­erybody on a given day. ... i think once we established ourselves as a consistent top-ten team, everything is possible and even a spot in the semifinals or the final of the ncaa tournament.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish junior Alex Lawson prepares to return a shot in a victory over Florida State on April 13. Lawson won the ITA/USTA National Summer Doubles Championship with Irish senior Billy Pecor two weeks ago. 
nd women’s golf 

Five return for Irish in 2014 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
with a mixture of experi­ence and promising young talent, the irish prepare for what is likely to be a chal­lenging but exciting tourna­ment schedule for the fall. 
The notre dame squad has already begun its 2014­15 campaign with an eight-day preseason trip to ireland on aug. 10-17, during which they played six rounds of golf at top-tier courses. The trip included a match play event against the irish women’s national Team at Tralee golf club, designed by golf legend arnold palmer, which ended in a 3-3 tie. irish coach susan holt said the trip was a great experience for her team. 
“it was a lot of fun and a great event for us,” she said. “we were fortunate to have such an incredible opportunity.” 
The regular season kicks off sept. 13 and 14 with the mary fossum invitational hosted by michigan state. The irish finished third in the tournament last year, including a second-place individual finish by two-time academic all-american and senior captain ashley armstrong. 
holt said she is confident heading into the tournament that the irish can start the year on the right foot. 
“everyone on the team has played the golf course and have played well the last few years,” holt said. “we’re go­ing in with the mindset to win and . . . get our season started on a really positive note.” 
notre dame returns five golfers from last year’s team, which finished tied for fifth in the acc cham­pionships and 18th in the ncaa west regional tourna­ment. The returners include armstrong and sophomore Jordan ferreira, the reigning washington state amateur champion and a 2014 u.s. open qualifier. 

“we’ve got some good vet­eran leadership returning and good freshmen coming in,” she said, the latter re­ferring to Kari bellville and alison snakard, the newest members of the irish squad. 
The irish have three october tournaments to wrap up their fall season – the schooner fall classic in oklahoma, the mercedes­benz championship in Tennessee and the landfall Tradition in north carolina. They will face strong oppo­nents in every tournament, which holt said she looks forward to but also recog­nizes as a major challenge. 
“i think we have a great opportunity with our sched­ule to play some of the top teams in the country,” she said. “we’re going to have to be ready to compete tourna­ment after tournament, and i think that will be the real challenge for us, for our play­ers to step up and respond.” 
notre dame returns to action in the spring with the westbrook spring invitational on feb. 22 and 
23. They will also com­pete in the clover cup, the lsu Tiger classic and the bryan national collegiate, all leading up to the acc championships april 17-19 and potentially the ncaa regional on may 7-9 and the ncaa championship on may 22-27. 
The irish host the ncaa regional at warren golf course this year, giving them extra incentive to perform well in the acc championships. 
“That’s certainly going to be our motivation to play well this year and qualify for that tournament,” holt said. “we’re excited to get started with the season, and we’re ready to go.” 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



w soccer conTinued from page 16  notre dame. “we just had to get in there  club teams. Their connection to bohaboy, as well as four  griffin conTinued from page 16  almost guaranteed to main­tain a high rank and qualify  
and work hard and bring en- other californians on the  for the ncaa championship  
was to work hard in practice  ergy to the game,” Kaitlin  squad, has made their tran­ finished second on the te am for the 22nd consecutive  
and to get more minutes in  said. “it’s paid off so far so  sition to college soccer much  with seven goals, four of  time.  
the games and then make an  we’re looking to keep on do- smoother,they said.  which came in the month  of The biggest potential ob- 
impact on the team,” Taylor  ing it.”  “everyone’s been so wel­ august. The irish still hav e stacle this year could be a  
said. “it really is a team ef­ playing off each other is  coming,” Taylor said. “all the  two more games in augus t challenging schedule. The  
fort. we were just in the right  nothing new for the fresh- seniors and upperclassmen  this year.  irish compete in a stacked  
place at the right time and  men, who competed together  have all been so kind, and  sophomore midfielder  acc in which they were  
were able to capitalize on our  for saint margarita catholic  they’re very funny.”  morgan andrews will like ly predicted to finish 6th in  
opportunities.”  high school and the so cal  “it’s really easy to get along  get her share of goals this  the coaches’ preseason poll.  
Klawunder is the first  blues club team. and when it  with them,” Kaitlin added.  season as well after being  in fact, the top eight teams  
freshman to accomplish this  came to selecting where they  “They’re not intimidating at  named the acc freshman  in the acc are all ranked  
feat since 2004. she did so  would play college soccer,  all, and they all want us to  of the year last year. she’s  in the top 25: florida state,  
as an early substitute, play- there was no doubt in either’s  come together to work hard  already made a difference  virginia, north carolina,  
ing more minutes than any  mind that they would contin­ as a team so we can play  on the field this season w ith virginia Tech, duke, the  
other replacement. against  ue to take the field with each  better.”  three assists in the first t wo irish, wake forest and  
oakland on sunday, she was  other.  and while the sisters may  games to lead the team.  boston college.  
promoted to the starting  “we were always set on  be happy with the way the  These crucial players  still, a surplus of talent  
lineup, where she recorded  going to the same school,”  season has started, they are  will certainly make the  and depth leaves the irish  
one shot on goal.  Taylor said. “This was actu­ not losing sight of the team’s  transition easier for coac h well-equipped to take on  
it was Kaitlin, however,  ally the only school we vis- overall goal, they said.  Theresa romagnolo, who  whatever the rest of the sea- 
who starred in the matchup  ited out-of-state, but once  “we just have to continue  arrives in south bend aft er son holds in store for them.  
with the golden grizzlies.  we came here, we fell in love  to work hard so we can help  a three-year stint as the  This year’s squad is fully  
coming in as a substitute, she  with it.”  these girls win that national  head coach for dartmout h capable of continuing the  
raced into position to collect  Taylor and Kaitlin were  championship,” Taylor said.  college in which she near ly consistent pattern of victory  
the ricochet off sophomore  part of the nation’s third- The Klawunders and  led the big green to their  that the notre dame pro- 
midfielder morgan andrews’s  rated recruiting class and in­ notre dame next take the  first ncaa Tournament  gram has established over  
shot off the crossbar and  dividually were both placed  field friday for the notre  berth since 2005.  the years.  
scored in the 27th minute.  among the top 75 players in  dame invitational at alumni  between a legion of tal- 
Klawunder would add anoth­ the country coming out of  stadium to play no. 16 Texas  ented veterans, a group of  Contact Renee Griffin at  
er shot in 37 minutes of play.  high school. Their decision to  Tech. Kickoff is scheduled for  freshmen ranked as the  rgriffi6@nd.edu  
with Kaitlin’s goal, the  attend notre dame reunited  7:30 p.m.  third-best recruiting class  The views expressed in  
twins became the first sis- them with senior forward  in the country and an eag er this column are those of the  
ter tandem to both record  lauren bohaboy, who played  Contact Greg Hadley at  new coach with a history  of author and not necessarily  
at least one career goal for  for the same high school and  ghadley@nd.edu  success, notre dame see ms those of The Observer.  

nd volleyball 

ND preps for season with ‘The Program’ 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
with only two weeks to prepare for a grueling fall schedule that features six teams ranked in the top 25 and the challenge of inte­grating six freshmen into the team, the irish were forced to hit the ground running in their 2014 fall campaign, instituting a series of prac­tices aimed at promoting both team and leadership development. 
“because there is such a very limited preseason prac­tice schedule, our primary focus as been to everyone to play as a team rather than hone individual skills,” head coach debbie brown said. 
Though the irish was given a summer condition program by strength and condition­ing coach caitlin sweeney, there was not much oppor­tunity to practice or play in a team setting. They were pri­marily tasked with showing up in shape when two-a-day practices began aug. 13. 
before formal practices be­gan, however, the team par­ticipated in “The program” on aug. 11 and 12, an annual team and leadership devel­opment camp. for two days, the irish participated in a series of intense workouts 
amplified  by the  summer  
heat.  
on  the  first  day,  notre  

dame did outside exercises on the lacrosse field, in­cluding circuit training and carrying teammates on their arms across the field. on the second day, the irish took to the pool at rockne memorial at 5:30 a.m., for a trying workout of treading water in sweatshirts and an hour of laps and exercises outside of the pool. 
“i think that ‘The program’ was a very effective way for our team to mesh and grow at an early stage so we can field the strongest team we can for the start of our sea­son,” brown said. 
The 2014 notre dame squad will consist of nine returning players; six se­niors, one junior and two sophomores, as well as the six freshmen. The fresh­man class, consisting of maddie dilfer, sam fry, natalie Johnson, Jo Kremer, sydney Kuhn and maddie plumlee, were ranked 16th as a recruiting class by prep volleyball. 
“for freshmen, the big­gest thing is adjusting to the speed of the collegiate game,” brown said. “everyone needs to adapt to having a shorter reaction time on the court, which will come naturally as the season continues. but so far i have definitely been pleased with the adaption of this class.” 
brown has not named any specific goals or captains for this year’s team and said she remains focused on pro­moting cohesion within the squad. 
“The main thing we have 
emphasized this season is 2014 campaign on the road, being great teammates,” facing no. 12 minnesota on brown said. “we are asking friday and no. 6 wisconsin for 100 percent effort 100 on saturday at the sports percent of the time; that is pavilion in minneapolis. the base goal for our team.” They will make their home notre dame will begin the debut next weekend with 


three games from sept. 5-7 against washington state, iupui and western michigan at the purcell pavilion. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhenryhilliard@gmail.com 

football 
conTinued from page 16 
and receiver TJ Jones were the 2013 captains. linebacker manti Te’o, defensive end Kapron lewis-moore, martin and tight end Tyler eifert cap­tained the squad in 2012. in 2011, safety harrison smith served as notre dame’s lone captain. notre dame used captains on a game-by-game basis during the 2010 sea­son, Kelly’s first year in south bend. 
collinsworth played in 13 games (making 11 starts) in 2013, following a lost 2012 season due to a shoulder in­jury suffered during spring practice. The fort Thomas, Ky., native logged time in all 26 games during his first two seasons in south bend. 
The lone junior of the cap­tains, day stepped into a starting role in 2013 but bat­tled an ankle injury, making eight starts. as a freshman, day played in all 13 games and tallied 23 tackles. 
nick martin started the first 11 games last season at center before missing the final two with a knee injury. his older brother, Zack martin, was one of 18 two-time captains in irish program history. 
mcdaniel led notre dame in carries (152) and rushing 
yards (705) last season and is expected to be part of a three-pronged attack along with sophomores greg bryant and 
Tarean folston.  
Change in alma policy Kelly confirmed  mater notre  

dame has changed its alma mater policy, saying the irish will remain on the field at notre dame stadium and sing regardless of the game’s outcome. 
“i brought it to the players just like i brought it to the players last year,” Kelly said. “we have a unity council. i addressed it to our players last year at the unity council. we decided as a team that that’s not what we wanted to do. This year we brought it back up to the unity council and they voted that that’s something that they wanted to do. 
“so i’m all for what my team wants to do. we’ll make that work.” 
last season, swarbrick wrote a letter to The observer explaining the football team only sings the alma mater after victories at home. swarbrick’s letter was writ­ten in response to the post-game confusion surrounding the policy after notre dame’s 35-21 loss to oklahoma on sept. 28. 
Injury updates 
senior linebacker Jarrett grace (leg) is out for saturday’s game, according to Kelly. 
“i think we’re making the kind of progress that we were hopeful for with Jarrett grace,” Kelly said. “i think it’s a little better every day.” 
sophomore receiver Torii hunter Jr. (groin) is “ahead of schedule,” Kelly said, though hunter Jr. will miss saturday’s game. hunter Jr. may do some running next week, in which case notre dame would evaluate where things stand during purdue week, per Kelly. 
with hunter Jr. out of the mix for the time being, fresh­man receiver Justin brent has ascended into the two-deep. Kelly praised brent’s physi­cal traits but said the rookie is likely just keeping the “seat warm” until hunter Jr. is fully healthy. 
sophomore receiver corey robinson had a pin placed in his fractured thumb friday and returned to practice monday, Kelly said. robinson is “a go” for saturday, per Kelly. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




CRosswoRd | will shorTZ 
hoRosCoPe | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: stick to facts and keep a detailed account of what you have and what you do. documentation will make the difference when asked about your plans for the future. if you have a well-thought-out strategy, you will get the help you require to turn your dream into a reality. honor your promises and fulfill commitments. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 20, 27, 31, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): let charm, honesty and good faith guide you. getting ahead should be your intent, and now is the time to present and promote what you have to offer. protect your ideas and plans or someone will try to take credit for your work. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): look for a way to grab attention. making personal changes won’t turn out as planned. focus more on professional goals and updating and improving the way you do things. a partnership will create confusion and lead to uncertainties. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): self-improvements will tempt you, but before you sign up for something radical, you are best to consider small, subtle changes. you’ll face opposition and disillusionment regarding various domestic and family matters. proceed with caution. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): open-mindedness will help you see your options more clearly and realize who is on your side and willing to help you out and who isn’t. gauge your position carefully and refrain from making an impulsive move you’ll regret. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): concentrate on getting ahead professionally and banking as much as you can. an investment may tempt you, but before you make a move, you are best to look for any flaws that may stand between you and the gains you expect to make. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your thoughts to yourself and your personal life a secret. not everyone will be in favor of what you say or do. protect against disputes that are based on bringing about change and could end up costing you financially or emotionally. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) changes in important relationships look positive and inviting. eliminate uncertainty by getting promises in writing. anger over a monetary issue will not resolve the problem. find a solution using peaceful but persuasive tactics. romance will improve your personal life. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put more energy into the job you do and the dialogue you have with people who can influence your future. an interesting change at home will allow you to create a unique sideline business that will help counter the growing cost of living. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t let things slide or complaints will start to filter through, putting you in a no-win situation. Take care of responsibilities so there will be absolutely no guilt to deal with when you want to spend time having fun. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): legal, medical and financial matters can be dealt with successfully if you look at the big picture and are realistic and practical in your assessment and strategy. an interesting change will influence your professional standing. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a simple exchange of ideas and plans will lead to an interesting partnership. make sure you get everything down on paper before you commit to contributing. Time is on your side and will save you from making a mistake. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you may feel that you are in the driver’s seat, but if things are moving too fast, you are best to put on the brakes and take a closer look at the posturing going on around you. don’t be fooled by emotional blackmail. 


Birthday Baby: you are precise, practical and strategic. you are curious, adaptable and progressive. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
WCIET  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
BRELE  

 
 
 
 
 

GREEDD  

 
 
 
 
 
 

GLNIFY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Answer:  
Yesterday’s  Jumbles: Answer:  (Answers tomorrow) THEFT DRILL THIRST CLASSY The Pennimans’ baby boy, born on 12-5-1932, would grow up to be — LITTLE RICHARD  


ACROSS 1 Verizon FiOS and EarthLink, 
briefly 5 Feet, in slang 9 Leadership 
positions 14 Face on a coin 
of A.D. 64 15 “Git!” 16 Online outlay 17 *Abrupt 
reversals of opinion 19 Get stuck (in) 20 Madagascar mammal 21 Grits, essentially 23 *Uninjured, after “in” 26 *Hoosegow 29 Card game for two 30 Red and white stoppers? 32 Doozy 33 Singer Julius of early TV 35 Styptic pencil targets 

36 *Scandal damage control 
39 *Across-the­board 
41 Les ___-Unis 
42 Overprivileged 6-year-old of children’s lit 
44 Ship records 

45 Virginia Woolf’s “___ of One’s Own” 
46 Play charades 

49 *Ghostly figures 
51 *Kind of insurance policy 
54 Blowouts 
56 What steam coming out of the ears may signify in a cartoon 
57 Lineup on a computer screen 

59 One packing up the answers to the seven starred clues, maybe 
62 Chop to bits 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


63 Sunbathe too long 
64 Language spoken around Loch Ness 
65 U.P.S. alternative 66 Whirl 67 Creepy look 
DOWN 1 Amount received, as of 
cash 2 Actress Gomez 3 First layer 
of furniture protection 4 Absorb 5 Web access inits. 6 Jolly exclamation 7 Tunneling rodents 8 Garnering a “meh,” say 9 Prefix with -tropic 10 Bygone Ford van 11 Figure invoked in casinos 12 E-mail or letter: Abbr. 
13 “Ain’t ___ Sweet” (song classic) 
18 It’s “Black” once a year: Abbr. 
22 Ed Sullivan and others, informally 
24 Beige-ish 25 Mini ___ 27 Hollywood’s 
Sommer 28 Sign of industrial decay 31 Explosion sound 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

PUZZLE BY JEAN O’CONOR 
33 1983 David 43 Make a mess of 52 Pep rally cry Bowie #1 hit 
45 Volcanic spew 53 NBC newsman 
34 Ovid’s “___ Richard
46 Losing side in a
Amatoria” 2000 Supreme 55 Recedes 
35 “Daughters” Court ruling 57 Global economic 
rapper 
oversight org. 36 Cartoon frames 
47 “Monty Python” 
comic John 58 Inc., in France 37 Texter’s “Then 
48 Roof worker, of 60 D-backs, onagain …” 
a sort scoreboards 38 Wayfarer 
50 County NE of 61 Home of “The 40 Arm or leg London Situation Room” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
sudoku | The mepham group 
Level: 


8/21/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | wednesday, august 27, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
football 
Readying for Rice 

Kelly discusses academic investigation, Alma Mater policy, injuries; captains announced on Twitter 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
Junior cornerback Keivarae russell, senior receiver davaris daniels, senior de­fensive end ishaq williams and graduate student line­backer Kendall moore are out for this weekend’s season opener against rice, irish head coach brian Kelly said Tuesday. 
Kelly, who held his week­ly press conference in the isban auditorium at the guglielmino athletics complex, said he has re­ceived “zero” updates on the university’s ongoing aca­demic investigation that has held the foursome out of practice and competition. 
“it really has not been an issue for a moment with our football team other than that they care about their team­mates,” Kelly said about the mindset of the rest of the team. 
Kelly said he has not felt “out of the loop” or “blind­sided” at any time during the investigation. 
“i think the information that was ascertained in this matter was pretty straight­forward,” Kelly said. “it was quick. once they were able to confirm the information, [notre dame director of athletics] Jack [swarbrick] let me know. at no time did i feel that.” 
if some or all of the play­ers were to be cleared in the midst of a game week — say, wednesday — Kelly said it would be tough to say if the players would be available to play just days later. 
“hypothetically i would say that’s a doable situation, but we’ll have to see,” he said. 
four captains named 
irish head coach brian Kelly announced notre dame’s 2014 captains Tuesday eve­ning via his Twitter account. 
irish graduate student safety austin collinsworth, junior defensive lineman sheldon day, senior center nick martin and senior run­ning back cam mcdaniel will 
serve as the team’s captains said the irish were still in this season. the process of deciding and during his weekly press would likely have it “wrapped conference Tuesday, Kelly up” within the next 24 hours. 


left tackle Zack martin, cornerback bennett Jackson 
see fooTball Page 14 
nd women’s soCCeR 
California goal rush 
By GREG HADLEY 

Renee Griffin 
associate sports editor sports writer 
it was a weekend of firsts for the no. 11 irish. 

no. 11 notre dame (2-0-0) There were the standard 
seems poised to continue its beginnings, like the start of a 
annual success this season, new season, new head coach, 
despite 11 freshmen and a first home game and first 
new head coach trying to shutout. but there were also 
make the transition to irish more unusual firsts, courtesy 
soccer. The team already of the freshman twin com-
had two strong wins against bination of forward Kaitlin 
illinois and oakland over its Klawunder and midfielder 
opening weekend. Taylor Klawunder. 
The team should get before 2014, notre dame (2­
strong leadership from its 0-0) had never featured a set 
more experienced players, of twins on its roster. now the 
especially from its three team has two, both freshman 
captains: junior midfielder/ pairs – the Klawunders along 
defender cari roccaro, with defender monica flores 
junior defender Katie and defender/midfielder 
naughton, and senior de­sabrina flores. 
fender sammy scofield. The coto de caza, calif., 
senior forward lauren natives made program history 
bohaboy also brings quite simply by both playing in the 
a bit of experience to the team’s opening match against 
notre dame offense as the illinois on friday. when Taylor 
active career leader in goals scored notre dame’s first goal 
at 20. The mission viejo, of the match to tie the irish 
calif., native has two goals up, she made even more by 
already in the regular sea-becoming just the fifth fresh-
son, as well as one goal in man in notre dame history to 
each of the two preseason score the opening goal of the 
games. bohaboy has a prov-season. 
en history of starting off “obviously, our first goal EMMET FARNAN | The Observer seasons fast. last year, she 
Irish senior forward Lauren Bohaboy looks to pass while dribbling downfield during Notre Dame’s 3-0 see w soccer Page 13 victory over Pittsburgh on Sept. 29. Bohaboy has scored twice in the 2014 season. see griffin Page 21 




