
the Independent 

to uncover newspaper servIng the truth notre dame and and report saInt mary’s It accurately 
volume 47, Issue 121 | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ROTC holds Pass in Review on South Quad 
Annual ceremony displays ROTC units’ skills for President and reviewing officer, honors student achievement 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
In the middle of the 20th cen­tury, notre dame’s south Quad was a military rallying point. university archive photos from the wwII era and the 1950s show notre dame’s rotc units and other military organizations marching up and down the quad in front of rockne memorial and a partially-constructed o’shaughnessy hall. 
wednesday evening show­cased that era, as the notre dame trimilitary organization 
– the navy, army and air force rotc units ¬– presented them­selves on south Quad for their re­viewing by naval commanding officer mike ryan, university president fr. John Jenkins and the general public at the annual pass in review, a symbolic dis­play of skill and precision. the ceremony included a benedic­tion by fr. peter rocca, the pre­sentation of student awards and a speech from Jenkins. 
“It’s a ceremonial thing, where in the field or in other military environments, they’ll do this as kind of a big show,” said senior, midshipman david murphy, who received an award at the pass in review. “there’s usually something attached to it, where we’ll do the pass in review, and it’s symbolic when [troops] come 
see rotc PAGE 5 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins and Lieutenant Colonel John Polhamus  awards senior Cadet Sean Kelly with the Patrick Dixon Award, one of two awards Kelly received during the ROTC Pass in Review. 



Atwood explores storytelling 


By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
acclaimed author, critic and poet margaret atwood delivered the 2014 yusko ward-phillips lec­ture “we are what we tell: stories as human” on wednesday eve­ning in mcKenna hall. 
the lecture was sponsored by the yusko endowment for excellence in english, the Institute for scholarship in the liberal arts, the provost’s distinguished women lecture series, the department of american studies, the ph.d. in literature program, the college of science’s minor in sustainability, the gender studies program and the english department. 
although always subject to the interpretation of the reader, writing is a transmission device that allows a voice to carry through time and space, atwood said. 
“the next time somebody asks you why you write, the short an­swer is, ‘Because I’m human,’” she said. “all humans are storytellers by nature. writers who write stories down are story transmitters as well as storytellers.” 
these stories can be a source of instruction or entertainment, atwood said. 
“do nothing but entertain, and it’s a one-time read, soon discard­ed at the beach,” she said. “But do nothing but instruct and you will annoy most readers very quickly.” 
atwood said stories are under­stood in two senses, in the 
see atwood PAGE 3 


coulter sparks controversy 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 

conservative political pun­dit ann coulter will address notre dame students tonight as part of the notre dame college republicans’ lincoln day dinner celebration in a public lecture that has sparked debate among several student groups. 
In the past, coulter has com­mented on issues relating to abor­tion, illegal immigration, terrorism and notre dame’s decision to invite president Barack obama to speak at the 2009 commencement cer­emony and give him an honorary degree. 
Junior mark gianfalla, presi­dent of college republicans, said he chose coulter to speak at the group’s largest event of the year because her views on political and social issues closely align with the points college republicans has advocated this year. (Editor’s Note: 
Gianfalla is a columnist for The Observer.) 
“we’re a chapter at a catholic university, and we think issues of abortion and gay marriage are just as important as a balanced budget 
see coulter PAGE 4 


Saint Mary’s alumna creates summer seminar for girls 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 

In response to the status of girls in Indiana report, saint mary’s alumna molly Bell, class of 1997, created the Bloom for girls semi­nar, an opportunity for mothers and daughters to celebrate the gift of womanhood in a fun, open environment. the event will take place on saint mary’s campus on sunday, July 13. 
Bell said she introduced the idea for Bloom for girls, aimed at young women between the ages of 10 and 19, in the summer of 2012 at a reunion weekend at saint mary’s. 
“I was invited to present a lec­ture on the inundation of ‘pink’ into the marketplace targeting girls,” Bell said. 
after discussing the effects of the messages and images to which girls are exposed daily, Bell said she suggested moms start discussing this issue with their daughters before they enter high school. 
“Bloom for girls workshops were 
see Bloom PAGE 3 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office Information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, In 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. Box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, In 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

If you could combine any two movies or TV shows what would they be? 


Ashley Knipp 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 
“lost and pushing daisies.” 
Beruchya Dao-Bai 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“saw and catching fire. very bloody.” 
Gracious Adegbite 
junior 
morrissey manor 

“doctor who and James Bond.” 
Kristen Collins 
junior 
off-campus 
“the office and game of thrones.” 
Maggie Barrett 
fifth-year 
off-campus 
“Indiana Jones + star trek = firefly.” 
Nicole Creehan 
fifth-year graduate student residences 
“how I met your mother and once upon a time. how I met your evil stepmother.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

emily mcconville mike ginocchio alex winegar Josh dulany 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
stef wulz Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

ZumbaThon “The Shirt” Unveiling Blue-Gold Spring Conference Cycling Meet with 
wei lin erin thomassen 
Rockne Memorial Hammes Notre Dame Football Festival Race representatives from 6 p.m.- 7:30 p.m. Bookstore Notre Dame Stadium South Bend area The Haitian Project Open to the 4 p.m.-6:15 p.m. All day 8:30 a.m.-2:15 p.m. Geddes Hall 
Corrections 

community. 25th Anniversary of Irish civil war. Kick-off Hosted by ND cycling 4 p.m. 
the observer regards itself as “The Shirt.” at 12:30 p.m. club. Seeking volunteers. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Bookish History Graduate Student Theater: Blood 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Flanner Hall Mass Wedding Mass in Spanish Talk by Weston Smith 
however, recognize that we will make 
4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing Dillon Hall Chapel Jordan Auditorium 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Lecture on Irish Heart Arts Center 1:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p,m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
romanticism and the 5:15p.m.-6:15p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Celebrated by Fr. Joe Former CEO of 
we can correct our error. 

culture of the copy. All students welcome. Lorca on lovers. Corpora. HealthSouth 


Theology professor to deliver Madeleva Lecture 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
the saint mary’s center for spirituality recently an­nounced that christine firer hinze will speak at the 29th annual madeleva lecture, which will occur april 24 in carroll auditorium. 
according to a press release from director of media rela­tions gwen o’Brien, hinze is a professor of theology and director of the francis and ann curran center for american catholic studies at fordham university. this lecture will address gender issues in relation to catholic social thought. 
the lecture, titled “glass ceilings and dirt floors: women, work, catholic social teaching and the global economy,” is meant to build on statistics regarding women’s market and house­hold work in order to argue that 21st-century economies must pursue sustainable sufficiency for every house­hold and the “world house,” o’Brien said. 
hinze’s interests focus on issues in christian social ethics that emphasize work, justice, women and families, o’Brien said. hinze earned her master’s degree in theology from the catholic university of america and a doctorate in christian social ethics from the university of chicago. 

the press release stated that hinze is the author of the books “comprehending power in christian social ethics” and “radical sufficiency: the legacy and future of the catholic living wage agenda.” her numerous scholarly es­says have also appeared in books and journals includ­ing “theological studies,” “the Journal of the society of christian ethics,” “the Journal of catholic social thought” and “studies in christian ethics.” 
director of the center for spirituality elizabeth groppe said she is pleased hinze accepted the invita­tion to speak at saint mary’s. 
“professor firer hinze’s work in the tradition of catholic social teaching gives special attention to the experience of women and families,” groppe said. “her lecture will bring this ex­perience and the wisdom of the tradition to bear on the challenging economic reali­ties of our time.” 
Junior amanda gilbert said she is looking forward to 
paId advertIsement 
the lecture, though she has not attended the madeleva lecture series in the past. 
“I think professor firer hinze will be a moving speaker with many interest­ing points about catholic social thought, which is a topic that really doesn’t get discussed outside of religious studies courses here,” gilbert said. “It’s al­ways a great opportunity for students to hear such an accomplished woman speak at saint mary’s, and I think there will be a great take-away for our entire community.” 
the madeleva lecture series is well-known both nationally and internation­ally. some of the most influ­ential female scholars of the past 25 years have visited as madeleva lecturers, o’Brien said. 
the madeleva lecture series is named after the leg­endary sr. madeleva wolff, president of saint mary’s college from 1934 to 1961, the press release stated. the series wishes to carry forth her inspiration as visionary, educator and woman of deep spiritual conviction. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

senate considers revising safewalk, news subscriptions 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
at wednesday night’s stu­dent senate meeting, members discussed ndsp’s safewalk program, as well as student read­ership programs. 
student body president lauren vidal co-authored and presented a resolution during the meeting. 
“student government would like to work with the notre dame security police to revitalize the current safewalk program in an effort to institutionalize safe, ef­ficient and expedient transporta­tion during the evening hours,” she said. 
revitalizing safewalk, which was a part of vidal and student body vice president matt devine’s campaign platform, includes the initiation of a program similar to those at several other universities around the country, including the university of florida (uf). 
the uf police department cur­rently uses a “student nighttime auxiliary patrol” (snap) to pro­vide students with vehicle trans­portation between locations. notre dame hopes to integrate this concept by adding golf carts to the present safewalk program in order to increase efficiency and accessibility to the student body. 
devine said in addition to the integration of golf carts, student government also hopes to make safewalk more popular among students, emphasizing safety. 
freshman cavanaugh hall senator ashley calvani suggested highlighting safewalk during freshman orientation. 
“I think it would be really im­portant … if you could get it in freshmen’s faces so that they would know exactly what it is and what its for,” she said. 
when taken to a vote, the reso­lution passed. 
at wednesday night’s meeting, 


Atwood 
contInued from page 1 
first sense as a true and factual account. 
“sense two – what huckleberry finn called a stretcher, what your mother may have meant when she warned you not to tell stories 
– that is, a tell that is more than somewhat decorated, which may extend all the way to the palpable non-truth,” she said. “the second kind of story comes in two forms, an outright whopper meant to de­ceive or a fiction labeled as such on the outside of the book, thus a license to lie.” 
readers understand that a work of fiction isn’t true, but they enter into the work anyway if the writer is skilled, atwood said. this is where novelists specialize. 
“there is a caveat,” she said. “In senate also discussed the student readership program. each year, student government purchases subscriptions to three news­papers — the new york times, usa today and the south Bend tribune — for the student body. the print copies of the papers are available in north and south dining halls, hesburgh library and lafortune student center. 
currently, student government is evaluating the program, ques­tioning if the three newspapers currently supplied are the best choices for students and if print newspapers are necessary if on-line access is supplied. 
freshman alumni hall sena­tor scott moore spoke in favor of maintaining a print subscription. 
“a lot of people still do like a print copy in their hand in the dining hall,” he said. 
although less well-known, on-line access is currently available for students through the student readership program, devine said. 
sophomore Keenan hall sena­tor ryan rizzuto expressed con­cern over the choice of newspaper subscriptions stating that im­provement could include the ad­dition of the wall street Journal. 
“In my finance class, my pro­fessor tells us that we should read the wall street Journal every sin­gle day, and it’s kind of frustrating that we don’t have access to it,” he said. 
vidal said to manage the high cost of the wall street Journal, the readership program would have to exclude another paper. she also said notre dame receives a discounted rate for the new york times through usa today’s colle­giate readership program. 
“If we scrap usa today, we’re looking at a higher price for the new york times,” she said. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
our ironic modern age, those writ­ing autobiographies and memoirs are routinely suspected of making things up, whereas novelists are thought to be telling scandalous truths about themselves or others disguised by fake names. 
“we are the stories we tell, we have told and have written. … and yes, the stories we write, write us in their turn,” she said. “and we are also the stories that are told about us, and eventually not much more. 
“But writing down a story is always a gesture of hope. why? Because you are assuming there will be someone alive who will be interested in it and who will read it later in time. that’s a truly hope­ful thing.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Coulter 
contInued from page 1 
so we’ve really been focusing on drawing attention to those aspects of conservatism that also don’t get as much attention on campus or from campus groups that are here,” gianfalla said. “… I think she brought the most attention to what our club is focusing on.” 
Junior tyler Bowen, vice presi­dent of notre dame college democrats, said coulter is “some­one who makes a career of … inciting controversy through in­flammatory opinions.”
 “It’s not that you don’t have the right to bring her here, but in bring­ing her here, we believe you’re bringing in someone that definitely does not represent what we view as catholic values, particularly per­taining to social justice and pov­erty issues,” Bowen said. 
gianfalla said he wanted to bring a speaker with a socially conserva­tive perspective also as a response to what he believes to be an increas­ingly liberal university administra­tion and student government. 
“you have other groups on cam­pus, this year in particular, with a somewhat liberal-leaning student government that has now passed on its reins, that focused on social liberal ideals,” he said. 
“you have the progressive student [alliance], prismnd push­ing gay rights and — not that we’re against gay rights, just against gay marriage — you had student gov­ernment supporting the decision to admit undocumented students … and a lot of groups came out in support of a lot of other leftist social ideals. 
“so to fairly combat that, we wanted to focus on a socially con­servative speaker, and ann, we thought, did a great job. she brings a lot of attention to that platform and a lot of energy as well.” 
sophomore and college democrats secretary michelle mccarthy said her opposition to coulter’s visit stems from coulter’s “vitriolic language” that offends many minority groups. 
“she engages in very hateful rhetoric that is offensive to a lot of people and groups, and I don’t think that she … is an expert on policy or really involved in actual governing,” mccarthy said. “she’s a political pundit who gets a lot of attention because she is very offen­sive and that creates media frenzy.”
 “our opposition to her isn’t par­tisan, it’s about human decency,” she said. 
wednesday, members of the national association for the advancement of colored people (ncaap) of notre dame and other student groups staged a silent dem­onstration outside of south dining hall to raise awareness for the ef­fects of coulter’s “hate speech,” ncaap of notre dame president and junior niciah petrovic said. 
“It’s in no way a protest and in no way are we opposed to her coming here and speaking,” she said. “we actually think this is a great oppor­tunity to engage in dialogue about this type of speech, how it affects us, what the motivations are … and what we can learn from it.” 
“I’m really thankful that she’s coming, honestly,” petrovic said. 
“I’m thankful for the free speaker policy because this gives us the op­portunity to engage ideas which may sound controversial. 
“this is a university. we’re sup­posed to be engaged in this kind of intellectual dialogue all the time. this is a great opportunity for us to do that.” 
petrovic said demonstrators passed out flyers with quotes from coulter with cited sources. she said the demonstration was silent and participants wore all black cloth­ing “because the quotes speak for themselves.” 
gianfalla said coulter’s opinions and her way of expressing them reflect her socially conservative views and ability to promote them effectively. 
“[coulter is] fun to listen to,” he said. “she definitely doesn’t care what’s politically correct. people find that as a problem, but in this day and age too much emphasis is put on being politically correct, and a lot of what she says is based on fact and experience.” 
“she’ll get negative attention be­cause people take it negatively, not because she means it negatively,” he said. “some of the things she said about abortion are contro­versial, these people think they’re inflammatory, but it’s just really creative ways of phrasing the con­servative stance on abortion.” 
Junior shaaya ellis, a mem­ber of college republicans, called coulter’s work “really, re­ally phenomenal” and said most of coulter’s critics have not read her writing. he said he did not always agree with coulter’s comments but respects her right to free speech. 
“everyone likes free speech until you use free speech,” he said. “free speech isn’t created to talk about how beautiful the sun is, it’s cre­ated to talk about controversial is­sues that some people don’t agree with. … free speech is giving peo­ple who aren’t going to agree with you the platform to speak.” 
Bowen said college democrats agreed coulter should be allowed to speak at notre dame, but he said the members’ complaints focused on coulter’s views and manner of expressing them. 
“I was uncomfortable with it being aimed at getting her to not speak because that is a move to­wards censoring her, [and] even though I don’t want her speak­ing, she also has the right to,” he said. “we acknowledge her right to speak here. we also, in doing so, want to vehemently disagree with her views and point out that she is totally unrepresentative of what we view the notre dame community as and the notre dame family as and how we think america should get along.” 
gianfalla said students and fac­ulty “should realize that having a socially conservative catholic should not, one, come as a sur­prise and, two, shouldn’t be seen as something that’s polarizing a largely catholic student body in a catholic university.” 
“she is someone that embod­ies the social conservative plat­form and can bring unmatched attention to that, and that is … something that should be in line with this university’s core on the social conservative issues that I’ve mentioned,” gianfalla said. “that’s why we’re bringing her, that’s what we’ll gain from it.” 
sophomore matthew wong, chair of the diversity council (dc), said dc recognizes coulter’s right to speak at notre dame under the university’s open speaker policy and hopes to use her visit as a way to engage students in dialogue. 
“diversity council does not ac­tively support ann coulter com­ing to speak at notre dame,” wong said. “although dc does represent people of diverse backgrounds whether it is culture, creed, sexual orientation or political affilia­tion, we realize that many of ann coulter’s comments ostracize and demean the clubs that form our council, our work, what we repre­sent and what we stand for.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

paId advertIsement 



ROTC 
contInued from page 1 
home from deployment or some­thing that shows discipline, that the uniforms are properly worn and things like that.” 
Junior public affairs officer and midshipman cassie gettinger said the ceremony in its current form, in which the troops perform exer­cises for the university president, dates back to the presidency of university president emeritus fr. theodore hesburgh. 
In recent years, the ceremony has taken place in arlotta stadium or the stepan center. Junior, event organizer and midshipman lizzie terino said the students wanted the pass in review to be a visible reminder of the military’s relation­ship with notre dame. 
“It’s kind of always been off to the side, not in a public area, but rotc’s always been a big program on campus,” terrino said. “the military has a long tradition with notre dame, with the navy using notre dame and keeping it open, so we wanted to make it public and for people to come out and see the ceremony. 
midshipman murphy lester, a senior and key organizer of the ceremony, said moving the event to south Quad was difficult logisti­cally but ultimately rewarding. 
“historically, you see all these pictures, the old wwII pictures of the whole formation out on south Quad,” lester said. “south Quad was built as a parade ground for events exactly like this. 
“I’m not sure why we got away from it for awhile, but as a senior, I knew for our class it would really mean a lot to parade back and forth in front of the golden dome.” 
In his remarks, Jenkins pointed to the university’s long relationship with the military, in particular the united states naval academy, con­necting it to notre dame’s identity as a catholic university and speak­ing of the importance of each to the other. 
“you can point to the past,” Jenkins said. “during wwII, the school was really kept in business by the presence of the naval com­munity. you can point to the ser­vice of generations of notre dame graduates in the military ... even those who made the ultimate sac­rifice for their nation.” 
Jenkins said the notre dame rotc program strives to train its cadets and midshipmen to show the highest level of moral integrity according to st. augustine’s con­cept of a just war. 
“It is a just peace that you cadets and midshipmen will serve. that is a noble cause. a clear and con­sistent understanding of that high moral calling is what distinguish­es everybody in the notre dame rotc program.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Bloom 
contInued from page 1 
the solution,” Bell said. 

saint mary’s contacted Bell six months after her discussion and asked if she would like to launch the program on campus, Bell said. 
“there could be no better fit to launch this program than a cam­pus that supports women and where I spent four years building and harnessing my own power and voice as a woman,” Bell said. 
Bell said after graduating with a degree in communication, she spent ten years working as an ad­vertising executive, an experience that showed her how companies market to young girls. 
“I became ingrained in the retail landscape for moms and tween girls when I worked with oshKosh B’gosh on their national adver­tising campaign to launch a sub-brand called genuine girl,” Bell said. 
Bell said after attending focus groups, listening to moms all over the country and completing in­tense research on competitive brands, she thought she under­stood the market . that is until she had her daughter six years later. 
“I began noticing aisles of pink toys, sexy dolls, purple legos themed with dog grooming and fashion shows and countless prin­cess images, toys and books,” Bell said. 
Bell said she researched this change in market landscape and justified her concerns with several books on the topic, in which she said she found terrifying statistics about self-esteem and depression rates in american girls. 
“according to a study by nyu child study center, the average american girl’s self-esteem peaks at age nine,” Bell said. “this was further reinforced by the status of girls in Indiana report compiled by saint mary’s college that showed Indiana girls have higher rates of depression and suicide attempts than boys.” 
although the Bloom program is not connected to the Indiana report, the event does promote a positive, action-oriented experi­ence to counteract the high rate of depression among young girls. 
“raising my daughter in an educated, upper-middle-class community, I naively thought my friends would be aware of these is­sues,” Bell said. “I quickly decided there was a need to start talking about some of the challenges our daughters are facing and to give our daughters the tools to maneu­ver through the pressures of tech­nology, body image, friendship, stereotyping, gender biases . and the list goes on.” 
Bell said through art projects, in­teractive activities, skits and journ­aling, girls and moms are given the tools and conversation starters to build self-esteem. 
“studies show that no matter how much extraneous ‘noise’ from the media peers and society sur­rounds our daughters with, it is within the family that a girl first develops a sense of who she is and who she wants to become,” Bell said. “a parent armed with knowl­edge can help her daughter reach her full potential.” 
Bell said the event starts with a few fun group activities that fo­cus on the goals of the seminar. participants also have the oppor­tunity to share personal experi­ences in the workshops. 
following the discussion, Bell said participants break for lunch and then participate in a workshop called “love your Body.” 
“this workshop will address media images of our bodies versus a healthy body, inner beauty rather than outer beauty, a mother’s in­fluence on a daughter’s body and our power over our own bodies,” Bell said. 
Bell said she hopes moms and daughters will leave the seminar with new knowledge and tools to spark conversation when friend­ship crises, bullying and other self-esteem challenges occur. 
“I’m thrilled to bring this pro­gram to my alma mater and to a place that offers countless empow­ering opportunities for women that extend far beyond Bloom for girls,” Bell said. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 



the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Breaking point 
Carolyn Hutyra 
news writer 

as the Bend thaws and students quicken their pace with the coming spring and last few weeks before finals, students glancing around their classrooms might not observe a few missing students, a few faces who have been absent for the past few weeks or even months. 
In a highly competitive academic envi­ronment, these young adults continuously attempt to keep pace with professors, exams and any and all activities that take up the space in between. 
a pressure cooker in its own right, the university — needless to say — causes specu­lation to run rampant as to who or what drives students to withdraw from notre dame either permanently or for a short time each year due to stress. 
with some form of competition around each corner, the question always seems to linger: “Is there more that I can do?” 
this race to publish, obtain research posi­tions, volunteer, lead and intern at the top companies and agencies on a global scale not only acts as a driving force, but also creates this ideal to strive for the formation of the perfect applicant. 
as one science advising professor put it to a group of medical school applicants: “what they’re looking for is god; what they get is you.” 
In this blame game, classes and teachers are always considered for their role in the stress load. Is it possible to decrease stress without compromising education? hard to find is the parent who is willing to pay the heavy price for a notre dame education that lacks challenge. 
any number of situations, from poor grades to family problems to relationship issues, may easily culminate and act as a driving force to the breaking point. 
In accepting the application stamped in blue and gold, high school students willingly and generally happily succumb to the inevi­table pressure, this formidable challenge the university offers. at some point, however, realization dawns that the point of “enough” has passed. perhaps, then, greater emphasis should be placed on intervention, on over­coming the stigma associated with seeking out help. 
the greatest challenge, once again, is over­coming the self. In this environment that strives for perfection, seeking out aid is often, although inaccurately, viewed as a weakness. In fact, those who defy the stigma hurdle the larger barrier of social judgment. 
It is they who deserve applause, commen­dation, respect. time and again, the help of others acts as a sustaining force and should not be underestimated. 
rather than pointing a finger of blame at paths that converge at the breaking point, the student body must tackle the challenge of supporting one another. the university must actively and consistently offer opportunities for assistance and the self must be aware of stressful challenges and be willing to respond wisely. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

There’s more to the GOP 
when I first arrived to notre dame in the fall of 2011, I could not wait to get involved. arriving on campus as a sophomore trans­fer, I knew becoming immersed in notre dame’s rich and diverse network of student organizations would be among my best opportunities to meet friends and make the most of my limited time here. having grown up with a deep interest in politics, I was especially excited to join political organizations here on campus. I signed up for notre dame college republicans on activities night during my first semester here. I didn’t stay long. 
I’ve been a republican for as long as I can remember. I grew up watching nightly political talk shows with my dad, and I campaigned outspokenly for republican mark newman in his campaign against former wisconsin senator russ feingold. unfortunately, it was 1998, and my political rhetoric was lost on the ears of my fellow second-grade classmates. Being a conser­vative is a part of who I am. It’s something I identify with. It’s a framework for how I feel us policy should be shaped because I feel it yields the best results for the greatest coun­try in the world. 
as proud as I am to be a republican and a conservative, I have found recently, espe­cially in my time here at notre dame, what it means to be a “republican” is something far different than what it was when I was criticizing feingold’s tax policy as an out­spoken seven-year-old. the nd college republican’s selection of ann coulter as their lincoln day dinner speaker speaks to this point. the party, once cham­pioned by leaders and innovators like lincoln, theodore roosevelt, reagan and goldwater, is now shaped by a collection of obnoxious, in-your-face pundits. 

I am a republican because on a most basic, fundamental level, I truly believe free-market economies are most efficient, and state and local governments govern best. coulter represents the new “voice” of the republican party that preaches negativity and exclusion. In fact, the only thing I would argue that coulter and I fundamentally agree on is our love of capi­talism; however, we love it for very different reasons. I love capitalism because it allows hard-working people to make their own luck and achieve prosperity for themselves and their families. coulter, on the other hand, is a capitalist in the worst way. she preaches a radical message to garner atten­tion and sell books. 
this is what it really comes down to . selling books. ann coulter, John Beck and numerous others have found a way to become filthy rich, and it involves mak­ing outrageous claims and remarks in the name of “conservatism.” the unfortunate byproduct of this whole situation is that, as pundits like coulter gain notoriety, their message becomes mistakenly construed as the message of the entire party. 
my point is this: coulter’s message is not who we are as republicans. we are the party of lower taxes and less government. we are not a party of hatred, exclusion and discrimination, as coulter would likely lead you to believe. the selection of coulter was just another in a series of my disappoint­ments with the nd college republicans. It pains me that some members of the club have taken hold to the radical messages of the talking heads they see on tv. 
these disappointments also include the comments of president mark gianfalla in a recent email I received, as I am still a part of the college republican listserve. In his email, mr. gianfalla referred to members of the naacp and Black student association as “racial rabble rousers,” before claiming, “we’re [the college republicans] always right.” I have never met mr. gianfalla, but I can only assume he was joking. however, it is this divisiveness and bravado that has been adopted by many “republicans,” and it has severely taken away from the cred­ibility of the party. 
I am and will always be proud to be a republican, yet I am wary of the direc­tion in which we are headed. my hope is that people will see these loud, obnoxious voices in the party for exactly what they are 
— loud, obnoxious voices. 
Jacob Kaminski senior off-campus 

what’s in a castle? 
Jameson Ondrof 
around europe in 120 days 
this past weekend found myself and four other colleagues from the london program in munich, germany, for what was actually my first trip since spring break. munich is located in the region of germany known as Bavaria, which is famous for its lederhosen (think goofy shorts and suspenders), hospi­tality and above all, beer. a guidebook that I had picked up beforehand alerted me to the fact that Bavarians tend to wear their lederhosen every time they go out and, with an average annual consumption of 170 liters per capita, the people of the region drink the most beer of any people in the world. needless to say, I wasn’t quite sure what I had signed up for when we landed at munich flughafen to begin our weekend. 
while munich may be known for its interesting sense of style and prodigious ability to consume vast amounts of alco­hol, it quickly became apparent that there was much more to the city than met the eye initially. highlights of our time there included seeing the glockenspiel on city hall come to life at noon, visiting Bavaria’s royal biergarten hofbrauhaus, meandering around the olympic park created for the 1972 games and visiting Bmw’s factory on the outskirts of the city. the city was charming, very accessible and helpful in facilitating tourism while still maintaining a sense of the city’s importance outside the tourist trade. 

however, the most striking and reward­ing experience of my weekend in germany came this past saturday, when our group of five ventured south into the Bavarian alps in order to see the fabled neuschwanstein castle. this side trip had only appeared on our radar thanks to some prior visitors who had informed our group that, despite the location, the castle was not to be missed. they could not have been more accurate. 
the journey to reach neuschwanstein is a story in its own right. the train from munich to a town called fussen takes two hours and, for an hour and 30 minutes of those two hours, runs across non-descript Bavarian plains. 
suddenly, the Bavarian alps rose from the ground like snow-covered sentinels as the train wound its way through them for the last half hour in order to reach fussen. from fussen, it’s a five kilometer walk or bus ride to the castle. we chose to walk, and were rewarded an hour later with tired legs and one more kilometer to go, yet nary a sight of the castle built by artist-king of Bavaria, ludwig II. 
when we rounded the umpteenth cor­ner of our walk, we were rewarded with a sight, which succeeded in stealing any breath which the thin alpine air hadn’t already taken. 
the castle itself perched precariously on a rock outcrop and looking every inch the inspiration for disney’s cinderella castle that it’s purported to be. It’s impossible to describe how picturesque the castle and surrounding area were, but I have, by a vast margin, more photographs of neuschwanstein castle than any other place I’ve been so far. 
however, the fairy tale setting has its own tragedy, as King ludwig II, the driving force behind its splendor and mind-boggling location, was regarded as a lunatic and was forced out of power before the castle was completed to his specifications. ludwig, an artist and romantic more than a practical ruler, spent vast amounts of money on the castle and amassed considerable debts, which led to his removal from the Bavarian throne via the results of a psychiatric test, and ultimately the failure to complete his masterpiece of gothic architecture. 
the castle that stands today, despite its unfinished character, is by far the most im­pressive engineering and architectural feat that I’ve ever seen. more than that though, it is a testament to the human imagination and the impact that one person’s dream is capable of achieving, from a remote corner of the Bavarian alps to influencing millions of tourists who walk down disney’s main street, u.s.a. 
Jameson Ondrof is a junior studying in the Mendoza College of Business. He is currently studying in London. He can be reached at jondrof@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

class speaks out against destructive speech 
we are writing this letter as members of the college seminar course minority experience in american education in re­sponse to mark gianfalla’s recent email to college republicans, dated tuesday. we come from different racial, religious and political backgrounds and would like to re­spond to some of mark’s previous writings. specifically, we believe the recent email let­ter to the notre dame college republicans contains hate speech. we want to empha­size that this addresses mark’s email, and we do not believe his views are representative of all college republicans, or the republican party in general. however, as the president of the club, his voice inevitably speaks for all the members and needs to be written with a level of respect and consideration for the individual dignity of each member of the notre dame community. 
the email to the college republicans referred to members of the naacp and Bsa as “racial rabble rousers” for their par­ticipation in the silent protest against ann coulter. It also stated the protest’s use of ann coulter quotes “will likely be doctored by some ‘reputable’ blog started by a welfare recipient in his step-mother’s basement who hasn’t seen the light of day since his trip to the 2008 polling station.” Both liberal and conservative sources consider ann coulter’s speech to be racist, demeaning and hate­ful. she targets african-americans, non­christians, liberals, the lgBtQ community, the disabled, immigrants and the poor. the e-mail also refers to the ndream event as an “illegal alien love fest,” words that are deeply hurtful. 

The 11 a.m.  eric anderson  Jessica davis  
Minority Experience in  junior  senior  
American Education class :  Katherine Benz  rose doerfler 
sophomore   junior  
paul Black  John fuller  
junior  junior  

as notre dame strives to foster a commu­nity of inclusion and diversity, the words in mark’s email directly contradict the mission and goals of the university. there is a stark and dangerous difference between hate speech and stating one’s political opinion. notre dame’s discriminatory harassment policy defines discriminatory harassment as, “offensive, unwelcome conduct or language that is based on an individual’s race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, veteran status or sexual orientation, and that cre­ates an offensive, demeaning, intimidating or hostile environment for that individual.” discriminatory harassment is prohibited for all students, faculty and staff. mark’s email to the college republicans implicitly attacks african-americans, democrats, the poor and immigrants, among others. while civil discourse on politics is always encour­aged at notre dame, this type of speech is malicious to both minorities on campus and the spirit of diversity and inclusion at notre dame. hate speech has no place here. we hope mark, as a representative of notre dame’s college republicans, would have been more conscious of the direct impact his words have on the student body as a whole. father sorin founded notre dame as “one of the most powerful means for do­ing good in this country.” we urge mark to consider how he can do good in this notre dame community and in this country. 
claire haney  matthew munhall  Katharine taylor  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
mcKenzie hightower  lauren pate  eric villalpando  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
megan mccuen  francesca simon  seung yoon  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  

Approach others with respect, trust 
while I disagree with much of mark gianfalla’s recent column, “the campus that cries wolf,” one line especially troubles me. It is, I suggest, indicative of a deeper problem with gianfella’s reasoning in general. ginafalla writes: “the ‘I, too, am notre dame’ photo blog, which accuses members of the notre dame student body of being racist (without proof that these racist statements ever took place) is a much more polarizing project . . . ” 
I call your attention to his parenthetical claim, the “without proof that these racist statements ever took place.” ginafalla is referring, as you likely remember, to ques­tions and statements notre dame students report hearing — things such as “no, where are you really from?” or “you talk white.” 
I am trying to be as charitable and generous as possible, understanding gianfalla’s intent in the best possible way. I am afraid, however, that I can construct no interpretation other than the following: gianfalla is suggesting the notre dame students pictured on the tumblr site — or, at least some of them — are either exag­gerating or outright lying when they report various micro-aggressions they have wit­nessed or been victims of on campus. 

this saddens me for several reasons. 
first, I believe we have no reason not to trust the students pictured. In fact, I recognize several familiar faces on the tumblr site, having had these students in class in recent years. I can vouch for their honesty, integrity and courage. I am con­fident the same is true in the other cases as well. second, for gianfalla to insinuate we should question the veracity of the students’ claims reveals, I believe, at least some degree of paranoia on his part, as if the students pictured somehow conspired to deceive other members of the notre dame community. I desperately hope that gianfalla’s skepticism is not racially moti­vated. It is, at best, a cheap shot. 
patrick clauss director first year writing and rhetoric 

only open, mature dialogue prevails 
notre dame’s mission statement states that “[w]hat the university asks of all its scholars and students […] is not a particu­lar creedal affiliation, but a respect for the objectives of notre dame and a willingness to enter into the conversation that gives it life and character. therefore, the university insists upon academic freedom that makes open discussion and inquiry possible.” In my opinion, the key phrase here is “willing­ness to enter into the conversation.” after reading multiple viewpoints on both sides regarding ann coulter’s upcoming visit to notre dame, it seems clear we are for­getting this key aspect of the university’s aspirations. regardless of political views, personal beliefs or any other factor affected by coulter’s visit, it is the individuals’ re­sponsibility to listen to views opposing their own if they desire to be productive partici­pants in the conversation of social conser­vatism. yes, we have a right to free speech, but is it really productive to insult opposite viewpoints with hurtful and biased re­sponses? personally, I believe not. 
notre dame’s mission statement also states that “the university seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings but also a disciplined sensibility to the pov­erty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many.” By bringing coulter to campus, the college republicans are participating in the discussion on the incor­poration of conservative values into politics. while coulter’s disrespectful comments in the past may not represent conservative ideals in the most positive light, it is the responsibility of all who oppose her views to accept the club’s right to host her on campus. 
the project, “I, too, am notre dame,” has recently caused controversy as well. these students also have a right to address the problem of racial prejudice on campus, a topic of equal importance that must be discussed too. again, those who feel that these students’ presentations paint the university’s student body in a negative light are allowed to hold their own personal beliefs, but they, too, must accept these students’ right to do so. 
In essence, both groups are attempting to accomplish the same thing: to gain per­spective on major issues that affect millions of people every day. while they might cause offense, the issues both of these groups bring to light are serious topics students on our campus deal with every day. preventing the open discussion of these topics only further inhibits productive dialogue. 

Instead of trying to lambast opposing viewpoints on how to address the issues that both the “I, too, am notre dame” project and the college republicans bring up, what we really need is to attempt to understand all sides of these discussions and why various groups hold certain views. By disregarding the legitimate concerns of groups whose views we do not fully under­stand, we prevent ourselves from develop­ing an informed belief and playing a role in determining how to address many of these issues.  addressing both the issues of racial prejudice and of the integration of christian beliefs into politics are complex tasks for our campus to tackle, but we will get nowhere unless we can discuss these problems with respect for and open-mindedness toward those who hold different beliefs than our own. no one group of people will be able to come up with a solution to the massive issues we all experience on a regular basis. only open, mature dialogue will be able to address the root of our concerns. 
here is my challenge for the students who are involved in the recent controversies on campus: Instead of demeaning the views of those with whom you disagree, take the time to understand why they hold their beliefs and why they choose to make their decisions. you may still disagree with them, but at least you will have a better under­standing of the issue you are debating and a greater respect for your opponent. 
Is that not the essence of our university’s ideals: to foster intellectual conversation on how to solve injustices in our society, all while growing to understand viewpoints that differ from our own? therefore, it is our duty not only as students at notre dame (and, in many cases, as christians), but as citizens of a country focused on creating equal opportunities for every citizen, to work with people of all backgrounds and beliefs to create a community that fosters the growth of all. 
If we all continue to defensively attack viewpoints we do not understand, we will get nowhere in solving the injustices we all must face each day. 
ashley murphy sophomore howard hall 

the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By MARISA IATI 
senior scene writer 

a struggling bar in new york city, its territorial middle-aged owner and two fe­male employees with contrasting person­alities set the stage for “the demise of the downtown Bar scene,” a student-run pro­duction opening today in the washington hall lab theatre. 
the primary action of the show re­volves around the relationships between the business’s owner and its young bar­tenders, co-writer and assistant director Katherine dudas said. 
“Between the three of them, there’s kind of an interesting dynamic going on, a kind of tension between the owner and the bartender who’s been there for a while 
— a very friendly, vivacious, flirtier wom­an,” dudas, a senior, said. “and then here comes, a month ago, this college dropout who definitely has a past. 
“her goals and her attitudes conflict a lot with the vivacious, been-there-for-a­while female bartender. the owner of the bar feels like he has a bit of ownership over the women’s bodies who work for him and attempts to use kind of their sexuality to lure in more customers.” 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
senior scene writer 

alabama-native rapper yelawolf takes the stage thursday at legends, bringing his wide range of talents as a rapid-fire mc to campus in advance of the release of his sophomore album, “love story,” next month. 
the rapper burst onto the hip-hop scene with his fourth mix-tape, “trunk muzik,” in 2010, which led to a label deal with eminem’s shady record. his sound is loud, rough . in a good way . and fast, and his lyrics often delve into the deprav­ity of a personal life that shows the hard road he took to get where he is. 
opening for yelawolf will be two mem­bers of the e.o.p. goon squad, a rap group originally from louisville but now cen­tered at notre dame. seniors damek mitchell and dylan “uno” sonnier, who go by the stage names slank and o.e. the King, respectively, will show off their 
through these three main characters, the show addresses issues related to alco­hol, sex, friendships and relationships, co-writer and director Joey doyle said. 
“this show is very much about what the lines are of the hook-up culture and when is someone being nice, when is someone asking for it, if that’s ever an applicable phrase,” he said. 
senior renée roden plays francine, the woman who has worked at the bar for sev­en years. roden said her character often faces questions about her intentions when she interacts with men. 
“those expectations, those percep­tions, those make up such a large part of our human interaction,” roden said. “I think the fact that they’re a part of our show are so true to real life. these are the sorts of communication struggles that we deal with all the time. 
“a lot of the main conflicts surrounding my character come from a disconnect be­tween how she sees her behavior and how other people see it. so they explore the comedy that can come out of those dis­connects and the more painful situations that can come out of those.” 
doyle, a junior, said “the demise of the downtown Bar scene” avoids becoming 
lyrical talents after winning a contest held by legends on feb. 21 for the opportunity. 
this represents the biggest stage so far for the group, who have been hard at work the last few years to produce independent hip-hop mix-tapes in south Bend. they talked about the dynamic they have de­veloped as collaborating artists since be­ginning to work with each other. 
“I come with that louisville, knowl­edge-of-self kind of thing,” mitchell said. “uno hits with that rough, rugged and raw, houston-born, ugK inspired sound. together it’s lyrical frictions.” 
mitchell has released a number of mix-tapes in four years in college, includ­ing one that features the single “lyrical friction” that he references in the above quote. sonnier has been featured more and more heavily lately, including on one of their most popular songs to date and the track that had the crowd at legends going wild last month, “goon squad dope.” 
their lyrics tend towards the irreverent, too heavy while raising questions about sexual assault and the line between friendship and flirtation. 

“as important as [the concept of friend­ship versus flirtation] is to the play and as much as we think it’s something worth discussing, it’s also a gold mine for com­edy because so much comedy is based off of misunderstandings and people taking things the wrong way,” doyle said. “we kind of realized that this was an awesome route into discussing some issues that we think are interesting and worth talking about but won’t be didactic.” 
the show runs for approximately two hours and moves fast, doyle said. 
“we really don’t want to give people the time to stop and think until after the play is done,” he said. “we want to just keep throwing new things at them, keep them laughing and interested, but allowing them to hit intermission and then think, ‘oh, all that stuff that just happened is kind of resonating in an interesting way.’ we’re not really trying to teach any les­sons during the show.” 
dudas said although the play highlights complex issues, it is ultimately about the characters. 
“sometimes plays can go too much 
referencing deep cuts anywhere from david duchovny in “the X-files” to Ignats, Zahm’s moose. the influences on their work come from a wide range of art­ists, including both popular and under­ground artists. 
“you know, freddy gibbs, slim thug, the rZa, Kanye, sweet petey,” mitchell said. “It’s a pretty good group.” 
their sound to this point has been courtesy of a fellow notre dame student, tom mealey, now graduated and in the air force, who goes by the stage name menace rodman. mealey’s beats sample from anywhere and everywhere, mix­ing deadmau5, the theme from the 1974 film “Boss n*****,” and even a humphrey Bogart quote from “the maltese falcon” on different songs. 
“we go especially for classic soul samples, old soul stuff,” mitchell said. “menace does a lot of chopping; he gives it a good 90s, boom-bap feel.” 
the two didn’t elaborate on any about philosophy and this is what my theme is,” she said. “so we tried very much to make it about the people and about the story, because first and foremost, it’s a story.” 
the show’s six unique and quirky char­acters shape its humor, as well as its sub­stance, roden said. 
“these characters are all just really phe­nomenal characters . so unique, so silly, so lovable,” she said. “definitely, the hook is the comedy, but also, there’s a real heart to this story, and there’s a real message, and they’re not afraid to make these charac­ters be going through things that are real.” 
the play has a distinct sense of time and place, doyle said. and, he added, it’s “Byoc: Bring your own coaster.” 
“the demise of the downtown Bar scene” is produced by the farley hall players. 
It opens today at 7:30 p.m. in the washington hall lab theatre. additional performances will be friday at 7:30 p.m. and saturday at 4 p.m. 
tickets are $4 and are available at the box office in the lafortune student center. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
long-term plans for their music, saying they just hope to keep working to get bet­ter and keep putting out more work. as for thursday’s show, they promised it would be better than the edm students can ex­pect to deafen their ears at club fever. with new music mixed in with some of their biggest hits to date, they expect the show to be a good time. 
“If you’re sick of hearing the wack stuff that’s on the radio, and you just want to hear some stuff that’s true to original hip-hip, come to the show,” sonnier said. 
“highly-concentrated lyrics,” mitchell added. 
check out some of the group’s songs on soundcloud.com/slank, especially the duo’s collaborations “ghosts n s***,” “where is the tree?” and “goon squad dope.” the free show starts at legends on thursday at 10 p.m. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: Yelawolf Where: Legends When: 10 p.m. How Much: Free 

he looks like a punk rocker, he raps with a southern edge and he’s backed by eminem. plus, the e.o.p. goon squad will bring the house down with their opening. 
FRIDAY 

What: “Her” Where: DBart 101 When: 8 and 10:30 p.m. How Much: $3 
renowned odd guy Joaquin phoenix stars as an odd guy who falls in love with his phone in an odd film directed by spike Jonze, an odd guy. should be good. sponsored by suB. 

SATURDAY 

What: “Lenny Cooke” Where: DPAC When: 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. How Much: $4 
this 2013 documentary follows the story of lenny cooke, once one of the most highly touted basketball prospects in america before seeing his dream of playing in the nBa slip away. the film portrays the life of a man who came so very close to his goal of superstardom, only to fall into obscurity. 
SUNDAY 

What: “Blood Wedding” Where: DPAC When: 2:30 p.m. How Much: $7 
In a production of the ground­breaking english translation, “Blood wedding” follows the path of lovers whose lives end in tragedy. sunday’s matinee is the last production of the show, with performances thursday at 7:30 p.m., friday at 7:30 p.m. and saturday at 2:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

even before the launch of the Bridge project, a move­ment organized by students and residents to connect notre dame and south Bend through the arts, I’ve seen some amazing, albeit very small, shows in the city. since the Bridge project’s formation, however, even more excellent live music has made its way onto campus and into south Bend at a delightfully accelerating pace, and my Brightest diamond’s upcoming show at the pool in south Bend is a perfect example of how great music is happening right in our own backyard. 
a supremely talented singer/songwriter, my Brightest diamond, also known as shara worden, has been per­forming her enchanting experimental pop music for the last seven years. she will be joined by a special guest opener, nashville-based harpist and singer timbre, who is no stranger to the pool, but looks to be the perfect pairing with my Brightest diamond to make for an eve­ning of women who will bring powerful voices and gor­geous musical arrangements to the south Bend stage. 
In addition to releasing four of her own albums, worden has collaborated with a variety of musicians, including david Byrne and Bryce dessner. she has toured with the decemberists and even took on the role of cheerleading captain in sufjan stevens’ Illinoisemakers, touring and singing in his eclectic show. playing venues including the house of Blues and sydney opera house, she has built an impressive re­sume during her diverse musical career. 
worden originally hails from arkansas but is now based in new york. after earning a degree in opera and studying composition, she pulls from her classical and opera roots to make music that somehow blends clas­sical, experimental electronic, pop and blues genres seamlessly in her work as my Brightest diamond. her songs call to mind an incredibly diverse array of art­ists, including st. vincent, dark dark dark, fiona apple, Imogen heap and andrew Bird, to name only a few, and creates an entirely unique sound in pairing her wide vo­cal range with multi-instrumental compositions. 
while on the way to open for the national, my Brightest diamond will be performing in the pool, a high school indoor swimming pool turned apartment, turned unique and undeniably charming venue. the concert is a product of the work of the Bridge project and especially of administrator of the pool, dena woods, who was responsible for booking the in-demand artist for the exclusive solo show, as well as a laudable lineup of musicians who have performed at the pool since 2011. 
also performing is timbre, the singer/songwriter and harpist who, along with touring internationally with acts including Jack white and mewithoutyou, has just been featured on aBc’s “nashville” for her folk rock stylings. having released three albums and performed in acts ranging from bands to orchestras, the solo per­formance from the harpist is an opportunity to see the skilled musician up close and personally. 
Between two such accomplished musicians and the intimate space of the pool, this is the time for live music in south Bend. you can see my Brightest diamond and timbre this thursday at 8 p.m. doors open at 7 p.m. at 330 w. colfax st., apartment 125. 
Because of limited space, tickets for the show are $20 and can be purchased at brownpapertickets.com. for more information about purchasing tickets, the pool and the performers, visit the Bridge project on facebook. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Baseball’s steroid problem persists 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
“@hasselbeck: every time I get tested for steroids reminds me of the elderly lady at the airport that tsa pulls out of line for a pat down.” 
yesterday, just before 10 a.m., we were graced with the lovely humor of the one and only matt hasselbeck, 38-year-old quarterback for the Indianapolis colts. when I saw this tweet, I thought back to the humorous tweet last fall by colts punter pat mcafee. after mcafee blew up giants receiver trindon holliday on a kickoff return, laying one of the biggest hits of week seven, mcafee received a request for a “random” steroid test. hence, his tweet: “guys… make one random tackle… and end up on a ‘random’ steroid list. must be my bod #upperBodyofanadolescent.” 
though mcafee’s test was likely just a coincidence, the humor is tasty. In both cases, the nfl almost seems silly, testing players who, physically, appear to be some of the least likely to be users. on the other hand, I think this is admirable. every week, ten players per team are randomly tested for performance enhancing drugs. that’s 320 players per week. 
as the mlB season starts to hit its stride, I figured this was something worth thinking about. In our time, baseball has experienced one of its all-time lows as a sport. Just a few years ago, a player could not have a strong season without the pundits wondering about steroid usage. now, this senti­ment is validated by big-name players testing positive. In the last year season, you’ve had alex rodriguez, miguel tejada and ryan Braun test positive. those are three former mvps. 
I’m often left wondering why these issues never arise to this extent in football or basket­ball. there has been an influx of adderall usage in the nfl, but for the most part, steroids are not an incredibly visible issue. Is this a consequence of lower usage? surely, 320 play­ers randomly tested a week is a high enough number to catch those using steroids at a frequent rate. I’m left won­dering why this isn’t an issue in other sports, especially football where strength is a bigger issue. maybe it’s the culture. maybe it’s the testing. regardless, it’s a better situ­ation. this is where I want to the mlB to go, but I struggle to think of how the league will get there. 
currently, the spotlight in major league Baseball shines on instant replay. the topic is debated and considered from every angle. you hear argu­ments that range from, “It’s un­believable that we wouldn’t use this with the technology we have,” to, “It undermines what the game is supposed to be.” 
let’s not forget that steroids started this trend. In any sport, if the playing field is inherently uneven because certain play­ers possess advantages by sim­ply exploiting the flexibility of the rules, it undermines what competition is. 
Instant replay has its own flaws and strengths. I have my own opinions on the subject, opinions I likewise feel the need to broadcast. But, I worry that instant replay is steal­ing the spotlight. steroids are still an issue in baseball. they are going to continue to be an issue. 
to some, instant replay might diminish the game. let’s not forget, we have debate over who is the true home run king. Baseball, a sport smothered in numbers, has allowed for ambiguity that supersedes numbers. so, before you be­gin cursing instant replay or talking about it night and day, consider where the drama in baseball began. 
let’s not lose sight of the fact that steroids still exist as a significant issue, undermin­ing the competitive nature of america’s game. let’s demand higher standards for player testing. let’s make sure to clearly and fairly articulate the damage steroid usage does, in an effort to diminish their presence in a beautiful game. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB | red soX 4, rangers 2 
Ortiz leads Red Sox to win 
Associated Press 

Boston — david ortiz hit a three-run homer high over the pesky pole in the eighth inning, helping the Boston red sox rally for a 4-2 victory over the texas rangers on wednesday. 
ortiz’s second homer was heading down the right-field line before it curled around the pole just 302 feet from home plate. ortiz remained in the batter’s box until first-base umpire Jerry meals signaled a home run. 
rangers manager ron washington came out af­ter ortiz crossed the plate to ask for a review. after 
44.1 seconds, the play was upheld. 
andrew miller (1-0) earned the victory despite allowing the rangers to score the go-ahead run in the top of the eighth. Koji uehara pitched the ninth for his second save. alexi ogando (0-1) allowed two runs in the loss. 
the red sox scored in the third inning on two walks and a swinging bunt single that was thrown away for an error by pitcher robbie ross. the rangers tied it in the seventh on mitch moreland’s homer and took a 2-1 lead in the eighth when elvis andrus scored on alex rios’ sacrifice fly. 
But ogando walked Jackie Bradley Jr. to lead off the bottom half, and then a.J. pierzynski blooped a popup down the right-field line that fell in for a single. one out later, ortiz lined a 1-1 pitch from neal cotts down the line and into the seats that jut out from the pole to the right-field corner. 
Because the ball sailed much higher than the pole that determines fair from foul, it was not clear — even to ortiz — whether the hom­er would count. meals sig­naled fair, and the rangers immediately looked to the dugout to see if washington would appeal. 
after a brief chat with home plate umpire Jordan Baker, the crew went to the visitors’ dugout and re­turned a short time later to confirm the original ruling. 
Boston starter Jake peavy earned another no-deci­sion, leaving in the seventh inning of a 1-1 game. miller pitched one inning for the win. 
ogando struck out four but was charged with two runs on one hit and a walk in two innings. 

MLB | rocKIes 10, whIte soX 4 
Rockies pound White Sox 
Associated Press 

denver — d.J. lemahieu’s two-run single broke a tie in a six-run eighth inning, send­ing the colorado rockies to a 10-4 win over the chicago white sox on wednesday. 
lemahieu finished with three hits, including an rBI double in the sixth that tied the game at 4. 
colorado broke open the game in the eighth with its biggest inning this season. Justin morneau started the rally with a single off scott downs (0-2). the rockies sent 10 batters to the plate, with lemahieu coming up with a big hit to center. pinch-hitter Josh rutledge and michael cuddyer added run-scoring singles, while carlos gonzalez hit a two-run double down the line. 
rex Brothers (1-0), who got two outs in the eighth as the rockies took two of three in the series from the white sox. 
chicago lost right field­er avisail garcia after he jammed his left shoulder diving for lemahieu’s low 

FOR RENT 

3 Bed house for rent $850, 574-302-5312 
FOOTBALL/COMMENCEMENT/ SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL. Great lo­cation - next to Eddy Street Commons. Call 574-360-6910 
liner in the sixth. the teams said X-rays were negative for a fracture or a separation. 
conor gillaspie had a two-run single for chicago in the fifth. tyler flowers and adam eaton also drove in runs with rBI singles. 
starter erik Johnson sur­rendered a run in each of the first three innings, but then settled into a groove. 
leading 4-3 in the sixth, Johnson found himself in trouble when morneau led off with a double and hus­tled to third after left fielder dayan viciedo bobbled the ball on the warning track. Johnson retired the next two hitters before lemahieu lined a ball at garcia. 
garcia briefly caught the sinking liner, but the ball appeared to pop out of his glove once he landed, allow­ing morneau to trot home. 
Juan nicasio struggled with his control, throwing 95 pitches in five innings while allowing four runs and eight hits. 
after struggling in the first two weeks of the sea­son, Jose abreu heated up at hitter-friendly coors field, where he almost wound up. 
abreu was 2 for 4 with a double on wednesday. he had four hits in the se­ries, including his first two homers of the season. the rockies made a strong push to obtain the cuban slugger in october before he signed a $68 million, six-year con­tract with chicago. 
rockies manager walt weiss said abreu was as good as advertised: “all the reports were this guy is a le­gitimate middle of the order bat. I think we saw that.” 
Before the game, the rockies recalled rutledge from triple-a colorado springs, giving the team a backup for shortstop troy tulowitzki, who has been bothered by tightness in his right quadriceps. weiss gave tulowitzki the day off just so he’s not “run into the ground this early.” 
to make room on the ros­ter, colorado optioned strug­gling right-handed reliever wilton lopez to colorado springs. lopez has an 11.37 era in four games. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Everybody, they think they got us. They think they know us, they think they’ve got us all figured out, waste their words just trying to tell us, how the typical, predict­able, young love turns out. Little do they know girl, we’ve got a fast car. James Dean spirit and a Norma Jean heart. This blank sheet of pavement, has been wait­ing forever. So baby just tell me where you wanna start. You and I can fall as hard as we want. Make a story of our own, and blow Shakespeare’s mind. It’s ours to write, it’s our love and it’s our life. Right or wrong, we’ll write our own Storyline. We can pack for Paris, plan for Tennessee, oceans, mountains, hey I don’t care as long as you’re with me. Storyline by Hunter Hayes 



SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary’s golf to tee off at Ohio Wesleyan Invitational 
first day of competition in best stroke average dur-
Observer Staff Report 
12th place as a team, with ju-ing the fall season and who 

after a poor showing last nior Janice heffernan and se-posted the second-best score weekend at the washington nior alexi Bown tied in 51st for saint mary’s at the smsu university st. louis place as the top-placed Belles. Invitational. Invitational, the Belles have a heffernan, who has been she struggled at the chance to rebound this week-one of the top players for the st. louis Invitational, end at the mill creek golf Belles in both of their spring especially in the first round, course in ostrander, ohio, tournaments this season, finishing in 63rd place. at the ohio wesleyan laura shot 165 over the two-round this will mark the first Bump Invitational. tournament, a significant time the Belles have played 
at the st. louis Invitational, improvement from the 179 at the ohio wesleyan the Belles competed she recorded at the smsu Invitational or at the mill against some of the top Invitational on march 14. creek golf course. the programs in division III golf leading the way for the forecast calls for temperatures and were out of the running Belles will be senior paige in the high 60s with overcast early on, as they ended the pollak, who posted the team’s skies and mild breezes. 

paId advertIsement 




SMC TENNIS | smc 4, alBIon 5 

smc falls to albion 5-4 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s fell from the ranks of teams undefeated in conference play wednesday as it dropped a road matchup against albion, 5-4. 
the Belles (6-5, 2-1 mIaa) picked up a doubles victory at the no. 3 spot — sophomores margaret faller and andrea fetters won the flight 8-2 — but ultimately that was not enough to make up for the early deficit the Belles fell into during the singles matches. 
the Britons (11-1, 5-0) held onto their lead in the singles matches, taking victories at the nos. 1, 2 and 3 positions to solidify their spot at the top of the conference standings. 
saint mary’s got a singles vic­tory from fetters at no. 5 singles in addition to victories from ju­niors shannon elliott and audrey Kiefer in the nos. 4 and 6 flights. 
albion remains at the top of the conference standings alongside Kalamazoo while saint mary’s is one of three schools with just one loss — trine, whom the Belles beat 8-1 in march, and hope. whom saint mary’s will play april 17. the top four teams in the standings at the end of the season make the conference tourna­ment, with an automatic bid to the ncaa championship at stake. 
the Belles are back in action today as they host michiana rival Bethel at 4 p.m. 
the pilots (11-7, 3-5 crossroads) come to saint mary’s on a two-game winning streak, recording victories over trine on saturday and against manchester yester­day. Bethel’s schedule was pri­marily based in the fall season, as their loss to Indiana tech on april 3 was their only other contest of the spring season. 
following today’s game against Bethel, saint mary’s hosts alma for senior day on saturday at 4 p.m. 


the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

SMC LACROSSE 

Belles look to add second win against Adrian 
advantage will hold some weight 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 

sports writer in saturday’s matchup, as the 
Belles seek their first conference 

with one win under its belt, win of the season. saint mary’s looks to pick up an-“It’s always nice to play at home other victory on home turf this in front of your home crowd,” saturday in its second conference long said. “we are also one of the game against adrian (5-5, 3-0 only schools in our conference mIaa). that plays on a grass field. that 
coming off a road loss to hope, could create an advantage for us the Belles (1-8, 0-2) know that they at the beginning of the game as need to make improvements on we are used to picking up ground both offense and defense, Belles balls on grass, which can be an ad-coach amy long said. justment for teams that are used 
“we plan to work on our tran-to picking them up on turf.” sitions throughout this week’s In addition te having home field practices,” she said. “we need to advantage, long said she expects remain composed when facing to see her defense step up this a double or triple in the midfield. weekend against a Bulldogs of-our players have great sticks fense that scores nearly 12 goals skills and have the ability to move per game. the ball upfield successfully, so “adrian is a very high-scoring we need to continue to practice team, and their offense will pres-with that added pressure to get ent the biggest challenge our de­them used to it and increase their fense will see all year,” long said. confidence.” “our defense works hard each 
home-field advantage will and every game, so I’m definitely “we will need to be ready to confident heading into the match-on the draws, I believe that we play a key role in this series for looking forward to seeing them move the ball quickly and effi-up as they enter the middle of will put up a strong fight against the Belles, whose only win this compete on saturday.” adrian’s ciently to avoid getting swarmed their conference schedule. adrian.” year came at home on april 5 highrpowered offenst features by defenders,h long said. “our de-“overall, the girls just need to the Belles take on the Bulldogs against Illinois tech, 16-4. the senior midfielr hannah early. fense and goalie will truly be test-protect the ball when we have it at 1 p.m. saturday at home. win marked the first in the history early racked ul nine goals for the ed by this very offensive team.” and make smart passes,” long of the program, which began this Bulldogs in last week’s 25-9 win-despite adrian’s offensive fire-said. “By hustling to ground balls Contact Rebecca Rogalski at season. long said she believes this tover Kalamazoo. power, long said the Belles are and continuing to execute well rrogalsk@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | smc 0, hope 3; smc 2, hope 9 
Belles offense struggles, drops series to hope college 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s had a rough trip to holland, mich., as hope swept the Belles (10-8, 2-2 mIaa) in wednesday’s doubleheader. the flying dutch (12-9, 6-0) took the first game, 3-0, before run­ning away with the second game in a 9-2 rout. 
In the first inning of the day’s twin bill, Belles sophomore right fielder moranda hegedus reached first on an error and sophomore third baseman Kayla chapman lined a single up the middle in the second at-bat of the game. 
that was all the of­fense saint mary’s would 
be able to muster.  they  
wou ld  w i nd  up  w it h  
zero  h its  over  t he  nex t  
seven innings.  

meanwhile, saint mary’s senior pitcher callie selner struggled through five in­nings, giving up three runs on nine hits, as her record on the season fell to 6 -4. 
hope started the scoring in the second inning as ju­nior designated hitter Julie sobieski hit a home run to lead off the inning. 
hope had rBI singles in both the fourth and fifth innings to stretch the lead to 3-0 and junior pitcher natalie hiser pitched the shutout for her eighth win of the season. 
In the second game, the flying dutch kept the mo­mentum from their first victory going with a strong start and never let up. two unearned runs crossed the plate before sobieski launched her second homer of the day to put the Belles in a 4-0 hole before they even got to the plate. 
saint mary’s junior center fielder victoria connelly’s rBI single in the second inning pushed the Belles’ first run of the night across the plate, but hope kept on scoring. after another run in the second, hope con­nected on three rBI singles in the sixth that stretched their lead to 9-1 and end­ed the day of saint mary’s sophomore pitcher sarah Burke. 
Burke went 5.2 innings, allowing eight runs and her record dropped to 4-4 on the season. 
Belles junior catcher cecily reyes concluded the day’s scoring with an rBI single in the bottom of the sixth, but hope sopho­more pitcher Kate laverty still improved her record to 4-6, as she scattered 12 hits across seven innings in earning the victory. 
the Belles will look to bounce back saturday against olivet, as they play their third consecutive mIaa doubleheader on the road. 
the comets (15-8, 3-5) have lost six of their last eight games. 
they are led by freshman pitchers morgan stratton and ashlynn grubb. grubb leads the team in batting average at .373 and has a 
1.46 era while stratton sports a 1.30 era to go with her 8-1 record in the circle. 
saint mary’s will pitch selner and Burke again. 
the Belles have also relied heavily on the offense of sophomore first base­man Jillian Busfield. she is hitting .408 on the season with 12 rBI, which are both team-leading marks. 
saint mary’s will be look­ing to improve on their 2-2 mIaa record when it faces olivet, their conference foe. the doubleheader will start saturday at 1 p.m. at olivet. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 


paId advertIsement 



CLUB SPORTS 

club sports wrap up around campus 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s Rugby 
the Jordan college of science partnered with the men’s rugby team for the 2nd annual parseghian cup, a rugby game dedicated to rais­ing money for niemann-pick type c research. the Irish squared off against arizona for the second straight year and fell, 32-14. arizona also won the cup last year. In ad­dition, the notre dame “B” squad played purdue earlier in the afternoon. 
Before the cup, an anon­ymous donor commit­ted to giving $25 to npc research for every fan in attendance, with an up­per limit of $25,000. more than 1,200 people attended the game, earning the en­tire 25,000-dollar donation for npc research. former Irish football coach ara parseghian also attended the match and took time af­
ter wards to take with the team.  pictures  
Cycling this weekend,  competi­ 

tive cycling will return to notre dame for the annual notre dame cycling classic. races are scheduled for both saturday and sunday, lasting all day, with some ranging 


from less than 10 miles up to  
71.5 miles and others based  sponsored by  usa  cycling  
on distance traveled in a set  and the midwest collegiate  
amount of time.  the races  cycling  conference.  the  
are open to the public and  course circles around notre  

paId advertIsement 

dame’s campus and down­town south Bend, finishing on napoleon street, just east of eddy street. 
Baseball 
contInued from page 16 
the wolverines (14-18-1, 4-5 Big ten) scored their only run of the night in the fourth, when Kerrigan hit the leadoff man, junior center fielder Jackson glines, then is­sued a walk to senior designated hitter cole martin. Both players advanced on a passed ball, and glines scored the unearned run when junior second baseman eric Jacobson grounded out to third. 
It was the only run given up by Kerrigan, who allowed three hits in five innings of work. 
“I thought scott was good; I don’t know that he had as good a start as he had last week or even in his pre­vious outing, but I thought he com­peted,” aoki said. “I thought he did a good job inside of the strike zone. he got some good double-play balls.” 
the Irish scored two more runs in the top of the fifth, courtesy of three michigan errors, and held onto the 6-1 lead through the bot­tom of the inning when Kutsulis make a great catch in left field. 
senior right-hander donnie hissa took over for Kerrigan in the bottom of the sixth after two bat­ters reached base, but hissa got three straight outs to get out of the inning. 
“those were a couple of big in­nings donnie pitched for us,” aoki said. “Between a walk and an error [in the sixth], I think they almost came back into the game, and for donnie to come in in relief of scott in that first-and-second situation and not give up a run, I thought that was very big.” 
hissa then loaded the bases in the seventh before glines struck out swinging to end the inning. 
“the inning where he walks the leadoff guy and we got the double play ball and then chuck it into right field, for him to not give up a run there was really good,” aoki said. “It kind of allowed everyone to take a deep breath and relax for the last couple of innings.” 
the Irish scored their final three runs in the eighth, sparked by a lead off single from Kutsulis. with two outs, sophomore shortstop lane richards doubled to left to score Kutsulis, and then scored when a michigan outfielder dropped a fly ball from junior ryan Bull, who was pinch-hitting in place of the pitcher. Bull scored the final Irish run when junior center fielder mac hudgins knocked a double down the left field line. 
sophomore righty michael hearne got the final six outs for the Irish, five of them by strikeouts. 
“michael pitched really well. he commanded his stuff much bet­ter than he has in his previous two outings. I thought that he came in and did a really good job – I thought his fastball command was really good tonight.” 
the Irish look to win their first conference series of three games or more as a member of the acc the weekend when they host Boston college at csu Baseball stadium in chicago. the three games are scheduled for 8:05 p.m. friday, 
3:05 p.m.  saturday and 2:05 p.m.sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

W Soccer the Irish reversed the “It’s more disappointing score from their first that I haven’t seen everyone 
contInued from page 16 

exhibition two weeks later healthy so that I could get a 
against the golden against michigan in ann great take on the team. so eagles, the Irish, who arbor, mich. we’ve had to move people averaged more than 19 shots rising senior forward around a lot and try to fig-per game in the fall, fell well lauren Bohaboy scored ure out what their best posi­below their recorded average in the 39th minute, pick-tions are while still making with only eight shots. the ing up where she left off in sure that we’ve got the defense, which allowed .873 the fall, when she tied for strongest 11 on the field.” goals per game last season, the team lead in goals with notre dame has certainly surrendered an 80th minute seven. that single strike been unafraid to challenge goal to freshman defender proved to be enough for itself this spring, also bat­lisa roman that proved to the Irish to take their first tling the chicago red stars be the decisive score of the victory of the spring season. of the national women’s 1-0 game. “lauren has done a great soccer league. the Irish 
“I think there’s a lot of job on the front line to cre-held the red stars scoreless potential … and a lot of ate opportunities for us,” in the first half but let up talent,” romagnolo said. romagnolo said. “[rising two goals in the second to “we’re still trying to figure senior defender] taylor fall 2-0 in alumni stadium. out how to get the girls in schneider has also done a despite the loss, the right position to get the very good job. she’s had to romagnolo said she is im­most out of that potential. play a couple different po-pressed with the high stan­there’s a great defensive sitions this spring but she’s dards to which her players core on the team and we re-gone from center back to hold themselves. turn a lot of the attackers as outside back and she’s done “I think it’s exciting to well. something I’ve talked a lot of quality defense and coach players whose ex-with them about already is shown the ability to build pectation is to make it to continuing to increase our out of the back.” the college cup,” she said. defensive pressure and in-switching positions has “It’s also an athletic depart-tensity and brining more been a common theme this ment where the standard for quality into the attacking spring for notre dame, as success is at the highest third.” the Irish have been plagued level, where nation-
on defense, notre dame by injuries up and down the al championships are is led by rising junior Katie roster and have been forced always the goal. It’s a great naughton, who was elected to fill in where they can. environment to be in.” by her teammates to serve rising junior midfielder the Irish have the next as a team captain in the fall. cari roccaro, who pulled two weeks off, before they 
single brought the Irish 

romagnolo said she has double duty in playing both return to action  april 23 in Softball within a single run in the 
already noticed the leader-defender and forward last an international matchup 
contInued from page 16 

ship role that naughton fills season, has continued to against the haitian nation­whidden smashed her sec-sixth inning before cassidy 
for the Irish. be a jack-of-all-trades for al team in alumni stadium. winter started again for ond home run of the game 
“Katie naughton has done romagnolo, playing center Kick-off is scheduled for 6 the Irish but the tar heels and third of the day to give 
a great job in the back line, midfielder, defensive mid-p.m. (21-18, 12-7 acc) were final-notre dame its first lead at 
just showing great leader-fielder and forward. ly able to gain some traction 7-6. 
ship and great possession “[the injuries] don’t con-Contact Greg Hadley at against her to the tune of “cassidy hit three home 
out of the back,” she said. cern me,” romagnolo said. ghadley@nd.edu solo home runs in each of the runs on three different first two innings by soph-pitches: in, out, and change,” paId advertIsement omore shortstop Kristen gumpf said. “that says how Brown and junior catcher well she is seeing the ball, amber parrish, respectively. and she’s worked hard to put 
whidden answered in the herself in a good place up to top of the third inning with bat.” another solo shot of her the Irish would add four own, but parrish smashed a insurance runs in the final two-run home run, her sec-frame to tally an 11-6 victo­ond of the night, over the ry, the fourth time they have wall in center field as north scored at least that many carolina took a 4-1 lead. runs in the past six games. 
the Irish would manage that six-game stretch coin-to battle back, but north cides with Karley wester’s carolina’s response was move to the top of the line-swift. notre dame pieced up. the freshman is leading together three runs in the the Irish with a .413 batting top of the fifth inning to average. knot the score at four, as “when I see a bunch of rBI singles by senior short-pitches, and [junior sec-stop chloe saganowich and ond baseman] Jenna simon freshman leftfielder Karley sees a bunch of pitches, wester sandwiched a sacri-and [Koerner] sees a bunch fice fly by sophomore right-of pitches, it lets the whole fielder casey africano. But team know what’s going to in the bottom half of the happen next,” wester said. inning, tar heels sopho-gumpf said that the fresh-more second baseman erin man’s success has been in­satterfield doubled and fectious for her team. scored on an rBI ground-“the way wester plays, out before Kristen Brown she lights a fire under us,” launched her second home gumpf said. “the team re­run of the night. sponds very well to her fire.” 
But the Irish would wind the Irish are back in ac-up owning the final two tion this weekend with a innings. pair of sunday home games 
“that second game was re-at melissa cook stadium ally tough because we got in against no. 7 florida state. a hole,” gumpf said. “I was the first pitch is scheduled really proud of the way our for noon on sunday, april 13. offense came out and just wouldn’t quit.” Contact Evan Anderson at 
a micaela arizmendi rBI eander11@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | wIll shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrIstopher BrucKer 
SUDOKU | the mepham group 


Level: 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hIllary mangIaforte 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

4/4/13 
HOROSCOPE | eugenIa last 
Happy Birthday: turn up the intensity. take action and be reluctant to back away from adversity. It’s your lack of control that will stand between you and your set goals. Keep your life simple so that you can direct your energy where it will bring you the results you crave the most. choose the change instead of having it forced upon you. your numbers are 3, 13, 19, 23, 34, 37, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take on whatever comes your way. your go-getter attitude and creative imagination will lead to an intriguing prospect. Interaction and greater involvement with upwardly mobile people will result in a worthwhile partnership. Knowledge equals power. file away what you hear and see. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stick to what you know and work diligently at your own speed. avoid emotional impasses with people only interested in controlling your situation. explore your options and you will find a way to expand your interests personally and professionally. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): explore what’s being offered. change can be good if it stimulates your mind and helps you head in a direction that promotes advancement. high energy and enthusiasm will grab attention and set you apart from any competition you face. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): let your mind wander and you’ll find a unique way to make extra cash. revamp a service you used to offer to friends or family and you’ll find a way to go public. you can be helpful and benefit from your good intentions. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): emotions will surface if you experience a change of heart. Insecurity will set off uncertainty or an inability to make a move. progressive action will bring good results. get moving and do not look back. don’t be afraid to do things differently. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look for ways to implement unique alternatives that will help improve the job you do, and you will receive recognition and consideration for your contribution. an impulsive purchase isn’t likely to please you once you test it out. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) put your heart into whatever you do, but don’t overreact if someone doesn’t agree with what you are doing. listen to advice, weigh the pros and cons, and continue to follow the path that makes you feel most comfortable. nurture important partnerships. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make positive changes at home and follow through with creative endeavors. expand your circle of friends to include those who share your interests. love is on the rise and a positive twist to the way you treat someone special will benefit you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a professional trip or mixing business with pleasure will help you discover if a project you want to pursue is feasible or not. share your concerns and be blunt about what you can bring to the table. don’t promise financial assistance. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your timing is questionable. you are caught between what needs to be done and what’s possible. take a back seat and watch how someone else handles matters. stepping in and cleaning up will be much easier and will reap rewards. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): take action and you will make progress. send out your resume or sign up for a course that will help you advance. money matters can be addressed and a joint venture will bring all sorts of benefits. sign contracts. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work quietly behind the scenes. focus on personal documentation and household needs. love and personal relationships will improve if you set time aside to spend with a friend, lover or family member. a creative outlet will help ease stress.  


Birthday Baby: you are adventuresome and strong-willed. you are confident and carefree. 
JUMBLE | davId hoyt and Jeff KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the oBserver | THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 2014 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 6, unc 0; nd 11, unc 6 
Strong hitting leads Irish to series sweep 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
no. 23 notre dame stormed to a series sweep of host north carolina on wednesday, its first sweep of the team’s inau­gural acc campaign. 
“they hit inside pitches, outside pitches, made things happen the entire day, and they are playing with a lot of confidence right now,” Irish coach deanna gumpf said of her team. “that is exactly where we want to be at this point in the season.” 
the main storyline in the first game of the doublehead­er was senior pitcher laura winter, who hurled her way to her 98th career victory, which leaves her just two shy of becoming the first pitcher in program history to win 100 games. winter (15-4) was at her sharpest wednesday as she yielded a single hit, a sec­ond-inning single to the tar heels sophomore first base­man Jenna Kelly, in a one-hit gem. the senior class award finalist was extraordinari­ly efficient, needing just 80 pitches to strike out seven tar heel hitters while issuing no walks. 
winter was backed by three rBI from junior cen­ter fielder emilee Koerner, who followed a first-inning sacrifice fly with a two-run home run in the fifth. 
the home run was her team-leading eighth of the season. 
sophomore first base­man micaela arizmendi chipped in three doubles to tie a program single-game record. junior catcher cassidy whidden joined in on the of­fensive outburst, goint 2-3 in the afternoon game with a season. Irish (24-8, 5-3 acc). solo shot in the sixth inning, the nightcap provided her fifth home run of the plenty more drama for the see softBall PAGE 14 


WOMEN’S SOCCER 

new coach looks to rebuild 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
a lot can happen in three weeks. 
It has been three weeks since theresa romagnolo was named notre dame’s head coach. In those 21 days, the Irish have 
opened  their  spring  
training  camp,  battled  
several  nagging  injuries  

and played four exhibition matches, most recently a 3-1 win against valparaiso on wednesday night on the men’s practice field of notre dame. 
“I’m finding that notre dame is an amazing place,” romagnolo said. “we have all the resources and the fa­cilities to be successful and I’m excited about getting immersed in the training and getting to know all the girls on the team, figuring out the best way to move forward and figuring out our strengths.” 
romagnolo, who comes to notre dame after three sea­sons as the head coach at dartmouth and three more 22 in milwaukee, wis., only as an assistant coach at a mere three days after she stanford, didn’t have much was formally introduced as time to adjust and was the new head coach of the immediately  thrown into the Irish. action, as the Irish would play marquette on march see w soccer PAGE 14 


BASEBALL | nd 9, um 1 

Irish end ann arbor losing streak 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
fifty years was long enough to wait. 
for the first time since 1964, the Irish defeated michigan in ann arbor, beating the wolverines, 9-1, on wednesday evening to stay unbeaten in mid-week games. 
“I thought we played much better,” Irish coach mik aoki said. “I thought the kids were far more engaged in the game than they were even last night. I wasn’t particu­larly happy with the way we went about that game last night, so tonight was good. we pitched well, I thought we swung the bats much bet­ter, I thought we got those timely hits.” 
the notre dame victo­ry featured four hits from sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsulis, five strike outs from sophomore left-hand­er michael hearne and six errors from the michigan defense. 
“obviously they created a couple of innings for us or extended some innings for us a little bit, but I think that you always need that timely hit in order to take advan­tage of that sort of thing,” aoki said. “we were able to do that tonight, so that was good for us.” 
freshman second base­man cavan Biggio scored the first Irish run in the sec­ond inning when junior right fielder robert youngdahl hit into a double play. the Irish (12-20, 1-14 acc) came out of the bottom of the second with a 1-0 lead when notre dame starter scott Kerrigan (2-1), a junior righty, in­duced a double play of his own, and in the top of the next inning Kutsulis cracked a long double to right field with the bases loaded to make the lead 4-0. 
see BaseBall PAGE 13 


SMC Tennis at Albion  L, 5-4  Men’s Tennis vs. Miami  Fri.  Baseball at Boston College  Fri.  
ND Softball at North Carolina  W, 6-0. 11-6  ND Women’s Tennis vs. Virginia Tech  Fri.  Track at Louisville  Fri.  
Baseball at Michigan  W, 9-1  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Duke  Fri.  Blue-Gold Game  Sat.  




