THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 

VOLUME 47, ISSUE 129 | MONDAY, APril 28, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Outside group protests gay marriage 
Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property assembles unauthorized at ND, students counter-protest 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
Editor-in-Chief 
A group from the American Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property (TFP) gathered outside DeBartolo Hall on Friday dressed formally in red and black to hand out flyers titled “10 Reasons why Homosexual ‘Marriage’ is Harmful and Must be Opposed” and talked to students about op­position to gay marriage. 
A counter-demonstration of students gathered next to the TFP group with a sign taped on a recycle bin reading “ND stu­dents support equal rights for all people.” 
Around 12:30 p.m., Notre Dame Security Police officers asked the TFP group to leave because their assembly violated Notre Dame video and photog­raphy policy, University spokes­person Dennis Brown said. 
“The Orestes Brownson Council student group received permission to distribute infor­mation on campus this week. Our policies explicitly state that only members of the University community may organize or lead such events on campus,” Brown said. “When University officials learned that, contrary to our policies, the student group made this request on behalf of an outside organization, we asked that they leave.” 
Brown said the group also failed to get permission to shoot video footage on campus and recorded videos and took photos of people without 
see TFP PAGE 5 




Community commemorates anniversary of genocide 
By JACK ROONEY 
Associate News Editor 
Members of the South Bend Rwandan community gathered in McKenna Hall on Saturday afternoon to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the genocide against the Tutsi people as part of the worldwide commemora­tion called “kwibuka 20.” 
The kwibuka 20 commemoration movement focuses on the themes of re­membrance, unification and re­newal. Kwibuka translates from Kinyarwanda, the language of Rwanda, as “remember.” 
The keynote speaker for the event, Dr. James Waller, the Cohen Chair of the Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Keene State College in Keene, N.H., constructed his address around these three themes, both in Rwanda and in the world. 
Waller said he struggles to con­ceive of the pain felt by children who survived the genocide, the vast majority of whom witnessed the violence firsthand, and how they have been able to build a new generation on the founda­tion of peace. 
see RWANDA PAGE 5 


Bulletin board vandalized 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
News Writer 
An Africana Studies de­partment bulletin board dis­playing quotes by political commentator Ann Coulter was defaced with red paint over Easter weekend. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) was investigating the incident as an act of 
see VANDALISM PAGE 5 


Popes John Paul II, John XXIII canonized 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
Editor-in-Chief 
On Sunday, the legacies of four popes combined in St. Peter’s Square when John XXIII and John Paul II were canon­ized by Pope Francis in a Mass attended by Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI. 
Vatican Radio estimated that around 800,000 people flocked to the St. Peter’s Square area Sunday, making it the largest event in Vatican City since Pope Francis’s 2013 election. 
Timothy O’Malley, direc­tor of the Notre Dame Center for Liturgy, said because the canonization of popes is a rare occassion, the celebration of two in a single ceremony was unique. 
“There’s a special joy in this ceremony of John Paul II being canonized, because he canon­ized the greatest number of saints by far, more than anyone else before him,” O’Malley said. 
“He had a very deep commit­ment to the lives of the saints, and so it’s fitting that he’ll be canonized now and join their ranks.” 
O’Malley said John XXIII’s canonization was prompted by the whole Church asking for him to be recognized as a saint and to celebrate his feast day. 
“John XXIII has been Blessed for a long time … but when you’re beatified, you’re not put automatically on the univer­sal calendar of the Church,” he said. “Dioceses asked to cel­ebrate his feast, showing that John XXIII has become univer­sally important, and thus his canonization is a recognition that the whole Church already perceives him as a saint.” 
The dual papal canonization took place on Divine Mercy Sunday, a feast day very im­portant to John Paul II’s spiri­tuality — but while the Polish 
see POPES PAGE 5 


FISHER REGATTA PAGE 4 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 GOO GOO DOLLS PAGE 9 MEN’S LACROSSE PAGE 16 BOOKSTOREBASKETBALL PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian Hartnett  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 

News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: Gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: Mary Green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’Mara Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
When is next Wednesday? 

Madeline Chandra 
sophomore 
Welsh Family Hall 
“The one that is coming up.” 
Ryan Gurbatri 
freshman 
Keenan Hall 
“This Wednesday.” 
Bethany Pacheco 
freshman 
Pangborn Hall 
“The next one [May 2].” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Steven Fisher 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
“Ten days from now.” 
Stephen DiScenna 
freshman 
Alumni Hall 
“Ten days from now.” 
Leo Alaniz 
freshman 
Alumni Hall 
“I agree with Stephen.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Meg Handelman Mary Green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Emily McConville A.J. Godeaux Kayla Mullen Zach Klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Maria Massa Caelin Miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Classical Concert Four:7 Fellowship AAA Grotto Trip Frankenstein of 1790 Scholars Conference 
Jodi Lo Erin Thomassen 
Geddes Hall Cavanaugh Hall Bond Hall Hesburgh Library Hesburgh Library 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 10 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Concert of Indian Catholic worship Open to all. One Book, One Undergraduate 
Corrections 

classical music. service. Michiana Lecture. scholars conference. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

My Imagination is in Women’s Softball Outside Sports King Lear Climate Seminar 
strives for the highest standards 
My Tox Box Melissa Cook Stadium Festival DeBartolo Performing Galvin Life Sciences 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
O’Shaughnessy Hall 6 p.m. South Quad Arts Center Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. The Irish take on 12 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Lecture by famous Western Michigan. Display of outdoor National Theatre Live Discussion of climate 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
author, Daniel Picouly. sports on campus. event. change in US national 
we can correct our error. 
parks. 



Madeleva lecturer discusses global economy 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
News Writer 
Thursday, the Saint Mary’s Center for Spirituality present­ed the 29th Madeleva Lecture. Christine Firer Hinze spoke at the lecture, titled “Glass Ceilings and Dirt Floors: Women, Work, Catholic Social Teaching and the Global Economy.” 
Elizabeth Groppe, director of the Center for Spirituality, said that Hinze is a theology professor and director of the Francis and Ann Curran Center for American Catholic Studies at Fordham University. She is the author of two books and numerous scholarly es­says in books and journals. 
Saint Mary’s College President Carol Ann Mooney said the lecture is a highlight of the academic year. 
“Our mission statement talks about instilling in our students a life of intellectual vigor,” Mooney said. “This lecture is a wonder­ful example of the intellectual life which exists here on campus.” 
Hinze said she plans to focus on the possibility for a renewed ap­proach to the economies within we work and live today. 
“I will look at economy from the other end of the usual telescope: regarding market economy from the perspective of the non-market work and activities performed very locally, in households, espe­cially the households of non-elites and the working poor,” Hinze said. 

“And while taking this stand­point may seem humble, more ‘dirt floorish’ than ‘glass celingish’, we will find that it connects us di­rectly to the most significant, prac­tical ‘ground-floor’ economic and ecological issues facing us today.” 
Hinze began by talking about household economy. She said household economy’s job is to as­sure its members’ provisioning through the work of producing, acquiring, distributing and stew­arding its resources. 
“What do people seek to gain by participating in these local and household economies?” Hinze said. “... We might say we seek livelihood. … Catholic social thinker John A. Ryan summarized the elements of economic livelihood nicely as suffi­ciency, security and status.” 
“These words can help us imag­ine what God’s economy provides and enables us, in turn, to provide for ourselves and others,” Hinze said. “God’s great household en­velops, grounds and surpasses all the other households and econo­mies in which we dwell.” 
Secondly, Hinze spoke about modern market economies and the shifts in livelihood that have impacted the households and people economies are meant to provide for. 
“First, with the rise of modern market economies, productive 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

work became separated from its traditional location within or near familial households … Second, to manage this new dependency on an impersonal, wage economy, there arose a new, gendered divi­sion of labor,” Hinze said. 
“In a third major shift, econom­ic sufficiency becomes dislodged from fixed or stable measurement … [having] ‘enough’ becomes an ever-receding goal that is rede­fined as more, better, newer than now and threatens to lose all meaning.” 
Hinze also said feminism has recently brought married women and mothers of young children into the waged workplace. 
To conclude the lecture, Hinze spoke about how we need to move toward modern oikos econom­ics, coming from the Greek word Oikonomia, management of households. She said prior to the modern era, economy and house­hold were similes. 
“Oikos economics will thus cultivate open and fair markets whose boundaries, rules of en­gagement [and] activities are carefully regulated in light of the dignity and wellbeing of the real people and the interrelated, hu­man and natural economies they serve, affect and depend upon,” Hinze said. 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 
Seniors reflect, give advice at panel 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
News Writer 
On Friday in South Dining Hall’s Oak Room, AnnaLee Rice, a Tocqueville Fellow and se­nior political science major who will work at Red Edge Digital Advocacy, organized and moder­ated a “Seniors for Lunch” panel to give seniors a chance to look back and share advice on the un­dergraduate experience. 
The four seniors comprising the panel - Sarah McGough, a senior anthropology major who will be going to Harvard University for a Masters in Public Health, Will Miller, a senior political science major who will work at Bain & Company, Tori Roeck, a senior classics major who will be going to the University of Oxford for a 
M.S. in Migration Studies, and Luke Pardue, a senior economics and philosophy major who will work at the Federal Reserve in Washington — have “navigated the tumultuous weather of under­graduate life,” Rice said. Editor’s note: Roeck is a senior news writer for The Observer. 
Rice asked, “What advice have you been given at Notre Dame that you have listened to or ignored worked out for the positive?” 
McGough said not listening to her advisors on following set crite­ria in a given major was beneficial. 
“I didn’t listen to that because I didn’t want to check all the boxes off to graduate with X, y or Z,” she said. “It’s tricky because obviously you have to graduate with things, but it’s gratifying because I orga­nized my choices to build a cohe­sive narrative. Don’t check boxes; build a framework.” 
Miller said she benefitted from learning outside the classroom as well as inside of it. 
“Oftentimes we let ourselves be constrained by what’s available in classes or clubs. That can be as inhibiting as it can be freeing,” Miller said. 
Roeck said a mentality or pres­sure exists which makes kids feel like they have to do everything and overextend themselves. 
“I came in being too ambi­tious and zealous,” Roeck said. “If you’re biting off more than you can chew, you’re not going to be successful. Don’t let people push you to do too much.” 
Pardue said she recommends for students to take classes they are interested in, not just be­cause they fit inside a major requirement. 
“I came in being interested in all these different subjects and thinking that the only way I could engage these interests is taking the major or minor,” Pardue said. 
Rice specifically addressed Pardue and Miller who will be pursuing business interests af­ter graduating. He asked, “Can you be Arts & Letters and still be successful in business? And if so, how?” 
Pardue said, “People want to see you’re well rounded and have analytical skills. you can get [business] skills outside the class­room. The idea is to focus on you to take the initiative.” 
Miller said, “I think it’s a shame that people feel forced to go to business right away. If you’re Arts & Letters and want to go into busi­ness and consulting, make sure you supplement your experiences in the classroom with clubs and organizations that train those skills.” 
Rice asked McGough and Roeck about the benefits of study­ing abroad. 
McGough said her experience abroad allowed her to engage with the community and culture they studied on campus. 
Rice asked, “Has there ever been a moment where you didn’t think you were going to make it? How did you deal with it?” 
Pardue said failure is inevitable at some point at the University. 
“Everyone has those moments. In high school, we all did well. you have this moment when you fail a test at Notre Dame and you’re like, ‘they found me out, I’m a fraud’,” Pardue said. “Take a deep breath. In the grand scheme of things, it doesn’t matter. you will come back from that.” 
Rice asked how the seniors jus­tified fitting in social lives. 
Roeck said balancing produc­tivity with some unproductive fun would make you better at your work.
 “They’re sanity breaks.” McGough said. “We overextend ourselves in every area.” 
Rice asked, “What is the best advice you have been given?” 
Roeck said, “David O’Connor in the philosophy department … gave us his version of a com­mencement address. He said, ‘If you’re spending more than half your life on things you hate, then you’re doing something wrong.’” 
Miller said, “This isn’t exactly from a professor so I’m breaking the rules. Put work on the x-axis and success on the y-axis and you’ll see your success. We have a lot of agency and control on how we do.” 
McGough said she once jok­ingly worried about having a typo in her senior thesis to her the­sis advisor, Carolyn Nordstrom. McGough said Nordstrom looked at her and said, ‘Sarah, do you know what happens when there’s a typo? you look at it and go ‘oh, isn’t that cute. It means I’m human.’” 
McGough said, “Letting those tiny shortcomings consume you is a waste of energy.” 
Pardue said, “Steven Reifenberg said, ‘you should do one thing in college that takes you out of your comfort zone.’ So many kids get caught up in what they want to do. Take a leap and do something that will push you.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwit­zigm@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APril 28, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students build, race, sink boats in Fisher Regatta 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
News Writer 
Barbeque smoke, dance music and shouts from capsizing vessels filled the skies around St. Mary’s Lake for Fisher Hall’s annual Fisher Regatta on Saturday. 
Fisher Hall’s president Erik Siegler said the Hall’s signature event not only provides the cam­pus with a viewing spectacle and complimentary burgers but also helps to fund charity. 
“The food is free, but there is an entry cost of $40 per boat. The mon­ey raised during this event goes to the Andre House of Hospitality in Phoenix,” Siegler said. 
Junior Phillip Gayoso, who served as a commissioner for the Regatta, said some 30 makeshift boats, rafts and not quite sea-wor­thy vessels participated in the 1-on­1 races, broken up into a men’s and a women’s bracket. 
The Pangborn team, consisting of Ellen Mather, Katie Brinkman, Anna Busse, Brooke Justus, Tiffani McCormick and Mariel Cuellar, rowed to victory in the women’s bracket. Cuellar said the final race ended in a comeback win. 
“Both our first and second races went really well but the start of the final race was a little rough. We were definitely worried but we re­ally came together as a team so it was a great feeling when we made a big comeback to win,” Cuellar said. 
As far as strategy, Cuellar said the Hall’s bright green canoe, named “Fisher? I Barely Know Her!” has a history of winning. 
“Our boat is a Pangborn family boat that was built a few years ago and has been passed down. It has won in the past so we were really proud that we could carry on the tradition.” 
Knott Hall’s “Knacht yott” took first place in the men’s bracket.  Zac Adams, Andrew Weiler, Michael McLean, Michael Hull, Hugo Muñoz Rios and Dan Falkenberg manned the winning vessel. 

“We’re glad to have won the race this year, since this boat has won several times in past years, most re­cently in 2012,” Adams said. 
A team of engineering students entered a LEGO themed concrete canoe into the race. Sophomore Mike Matasci said the canoe had no trouble floating despite its weight. 
“Getting the canoe in and out of the water was tough, but it moved through the water really well. We put in a solid effort but came up short in our second race,” Matasci said. 
Michael Lindt, one of Fisher Hall’s three vice presidents, said the signature event turned out well.
 “Overall, the Regatta was once again a major success,” Lindt said. “The weather seemed to cooper­ate with us for the most part. It was a little chilly, but definitely warm enough for most people to bring out the bro tanks. 
“The turnout was also pretty great. We had a lot of people around for the duration of the event.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

Students, kids play at Hannah and Friends carnival 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
News Writer 
Hannah and Friends’ Carnival brought student volunteers and handicapped children together to play sports, eat festival food and to go on hayrides Saturday. 
Meagan Hartman, presi­dent-elect and community ser­vice chair for the Saint Mary’s College Alumnae Club of South Bend, created the carnival event. 
“I wanted to give back to the South Bend community in ways that connected to current stu­dents and local alum,” Hartman said. 
Hartman said that she had several ideas for fundraisers but had to narrow it down to a few. She wanted the Community Carnival to be one of the club’s big events of the year. 
Hannah and Friends is a na­tional organization that works to improve the lives of children and adults with special needs. Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students visit the residen­tial estate, owned by Hannah and Friends to volunteer with the special needs residents regularly. 
The second annual Hannah and Friend’s carnival was held at its 30-acre farm in South Bend Saturday and many Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students attended. 
Student coordinator Emily Hazen, a Saint Mary’s junior, wanted to get others involved in the carnival and to spread the word about the fun involved in participating in this carnival event. 
“We’re just working to help spread [Hannah and Friends] message of awareness and com­passion on SMC and ND’s cam­puses,” Hazen said. “It is a fun opportunity to get involved, get outside and to lose yourself in the atmosphere at Hannah and Friends’ Carnival, before exams drain us.” 
“The best part is the atmo­sphere,” Kelsey Hutchinson, a junior at Notre Dame and ROTC volunteer, said. 

Hutchinson said the Notre Dame’s ROTC program is com­mitted to their community service involvement and this carnival was a great opportu­nity for them to reach out. 
“I was excited to simply, come and help the needs of this spe­cial community,” Hutchinson said. 
Hannah Olsen, a senior at Saint Mary’s College, first got involved with Hannah and Friends last summer while working at the camp. 
“I worked with Hannah and Friends, when I was a stu­dent at Saint Mary’s College” said Maureen Parsons, a 2013 graduate of Saint Mary’s. “I now coordinate day activi­ties at Hannah and Friends in tandem with evens like these. … So, after graduation, I decided to come back to The Bend to work with the best program that I have ever been a part of.” 
The Hannah and Friends’ Carnival also recognized Special Olympics of Saint Joseph County, Notre Dame’s club for the Special Olympics, the Logan foundation and the Mosaic Foundation. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

300 run Fr. Ted’s 10K 
South Bend, and equality of educa-
By EMMA BORNE 

News Writer tion is important to me, so the cause 
really resonates,” Fernandes said. 

More than 300 students, faculty Lindley said University President and South Bend citizens laced up Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh their tennis shoes and stretched brought TRiO programs to Notre their legs yesterday morning in Dame in the 1960s as a part of his preparation for the seventh annual fight against poverty. She said he Fr. Ted’s 10K. used to come speak at the event, but 
Melissa Lindley, the race direc-as years have passed he now tapes a tor, said the TRiO Upward Bound video for the participants. She said Program put on the race. TRiO is a the race was, however, still well at-scholarship program at Notre Dame tended and enjoyed. for low-income and first-generation Fernandes said despite bad college-bound youth. According to weather, the race turned out well. the TRiO website, participants could “The trail consists of two three-run a 5K or 10K, decide to do the mile laps around campus. The best family fun walk or “fitness” walk. All part of the race is by far the support-donations from the race supported ers all along the way,” Fernandes TRiO’s students, Lindley said. said. “It was quite windy, but the 
“Fr. Ted’s 10K is more than just a high school students’ enthusiasm run … it is an investment in our com-rocked. Their inspirational signs got munity,” Lindley said.  “I think it’s me going, and the bagpipes player unique as well because our students was legit. Hard not to smile at all the are involved in the event, so the run-support.” ners can see who they are there sup-“We were very satisfied with this porting. Most of us call Notre Dame year’s event … with 300 pre-regis­and South Bend home, and this race tered participants and some great funds scholarships for South Bend personal and corporate sponsor-youth to go to college. These kids are ships, we will be able to fund our the future of our community.” student scholarships, and that is the 
Sophomore Olivia Fernandes number one priority,” Lindley said. said she ran the race for the second “A big thank you to Notre Dame time this year because she loves the students who consistently come out cause. and support Fr. Ted’s 10K.” 
“The proceeds go to TRiO Upward Bound in South Bend … I volunteer Contact Emma Borne at at a local elementary school here in eborne@nd.edu 



TFP 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
their permission. 
TFP, based in 
Pennsylvania, has more 
than 120,000 members na­
tionwide, according to 
the group’s website. John 
Ritchie, TFP’s student ac­
tion director, said their visit 
to Notre Dame fit within a 
larger tour. 
“We fight for moral val­ues in society, and our stu­dent outreach decided to visit Notre Dame because we’re doing a tour through the whole state of Indiana defending the traditional marriage definition, which is the union of one man and one woman,” Ritchie said. 
He said he had no 

Vandalism 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
vandalism. 
The bulletin board, which 
remains outside the of­
fice on the third floor of 
O’Shaughnessey Hall, con­
tains several of Coulter’s 
comments on issues such as 
race, gender and religion, 
displayed under the head­
ing “Freedom of Speech, 
Freedom to Hate: There is a 
difference.” Gayle Wilson, 
the administrative assis­
tant and office coordinator 
for the Africana Studies de­
partment, said an unknown 
person painted messages re­
sponding to specific pieces of 
the board and painting mes­
sages such as “What exactly 
is PC?” and “Don’t be bullied 
by the ‘Happy Police.’” 
Wilson said the board, 
which two student office em­
ployees made, was put up the 
day before Coulter’s April 10 
talk. She said the deface­
ment occurred by the time a 
coworker walked by the dis­
play April 21. Wilson learned 
rwanda 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
“One of the first times I went 
to Rwanda just a few years af­
ter the genocide, a good friend 
there … told me by his best 
estimate … 97 percent of the 
children who survived the 
genocide in 1994 saw mur­
der,” he said. “They didn’t hear 
about, they didn’t read about 
it, they didn’t see it on televi­
sion. Ninety-seven percent 
of children who survived the 
genocide saw someone killed 
in front of their eyes. The per­
son they saw killed was most 
likely a family member, very 
probably a mother or father, 
very probably put to death by 
machete.” 
Waller said the world must 
remember the events of 1994 
in Rwanda as a collective fail­
ure because the international 
community failed to intervene 
in the slaughter of nearly an 
entire people. 
“In the U.S. what we have to comment on the student counter-protest. 

Freshman Nick Lindstrom said he brought out a trash can with the sign on it be­cause he wanted to show the protestors that not all students at a Catholic uni­versity “conform to that tra­ditional stereotype.” 
“I’m not affiliated with any group, I just saw [the TFP protestors], and I fig­ured something needed to be done,” Lindstrom said. “I brought a couple friends with me, and a bunch of people just joined in. … It was just so great to see that other Notre Dame students are willing to hold this po­sition with me.” 
Sophomore Caroline Clark said she spoke to 
of the vandalism the follow­ing day and called NDSP. 
In a statement to The Observer, Rev. Hugh Page, chair of the Africana Studies department, said he was “deeply saddened” by the incident. 
“Such action is clearly in­consistent with the values we espouse as a community of faith and learning,” he said. “I want to congratu­late the students and staff whose creative energies are reflected in the board, which seeks to raise awareness. … Their work is resonant with a long and honored tradition of social engagement among Africana artists.” 
Africana Studies Club president Alex Rice said she was disappointed with the perpetrator’s unwillingness to participate in reasoned dialogue about the issues the bulletin board raised. 
“I wasn’t angry, I would say. I was more disappointed than anything because the Africana Studies department really prides itself on trying 
remember is that we watched while this happened,” Waller said. “It was a collective failure on the part of the international community as we all watched this unfold. 
“It wasn’t like the Holocaust where we couldn’t see it on television, and it took months to get estimates or data on number of lives lost, years to tell the story after it hap­pened. We watched Rwanda unfold on our televisions, … and we did nothing. We stood by, and we watched it happen again. Our government in the 
U.S. even was afraid to refer to what happened in Rwanda as genocide because to call it genocide might mean that we have some obligation, as we did, to actually do something about it.” 
As a global community, Waller said the aim for unifica­tion should be to make the oft-quoted phrase “never again” a reality for atrocities such as genocide. 
the TFP group on campus Thursday, but returned Friday to learn more about what they were doing. 
“I initially came out be­cause I saw their signs [Thursday], and I was per­sonally offended,” she said. “I came back here today just to chat with them a bit, learn more about their message. 
“I was just very curi­ous about their message and wanted to learn more about their goals and objec­tives and why Notre Dame was a place that needed to hear what they are teaching [and] spreading. So we were both very calm, collected.” 
Sophomore Chris Rhyne said he talked to the group to question their stance and 
to start dialogue,” Rice said. “What happened — an ob­vious act of vandalism 
— it wasn’t trying to start di­alogue or hear the other side. 
“It was really, we don’t agree with you; we’re going to say so in a very disrespect­ful manner.” 
Alex Coccia, student body president emeritus and Africana Studies major, said the discipline is “an inher­ently socially and politically active experience.” 
“Given this reality with­in Africana Studies, it is unfortunate that the dis­play was vandalized,” he said. “We have to be will­ing to see the world as it was, because our current environment is a product of that world. We cannot ignore these facts when we engage in discussions about rhetoric and how it utilizes historically vola­tile connotations. 
“Speaking more loudly than other voices, the ver­bal equivalent of painting over the Africana Studies 
“The world, when it thinks about unification, has to think about do we unite as a world to make sure that ‘never again’ actually has some meaning to it,” he said. 
Waller said the path to re­newal, both for Rwanda and the world, must include recon­ciliation as well as reconstruc­tion. He said this is something Rwandans have done in an ad­mirable way. 
“Reconciliation has begun, but I think what’s important for us to understand is that reconciliation is a journey without end,” he said. 
“… I think what’s most striking today in this com­memoration is how much loss is in this room, but how little you’ve talked about the other as the enemy, how much you understand that the other is a human being and the im­portance of facing that and recognizing that in terms of reconciliation.” 
Waller said the road to then posted on Facebook inviting other students to join him in the counter-protest. Sophomores Nora Williamson and Emer Middleton arrived as the TFP group was leaving, with a handmade sign reading “equality” in capital letters. 

Lindstrom said he was concerned about the pro­spective student groups in the area who witnessed “this unfortunate protest” while passing on a tour and wanted to demonstrate to them and to the TFP group that not all students on campus oppose gay marriage. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
display, does nothing to fur­ther constructive dialogue,” Coccia said. “There is noth­ing wrong with engaging in a heated debate, in fact, heated debates are more powerful than cold, calculated analyt­ics, because they evoke the passions of a community. … But even in disagreement, we cannot disparage or disrespect.” 
Rice said the incident was a topic at this month’s Finally Friday, a monthly discussion series hosted by the Africana Studies Club. 
She said the group, which included students and fac­ulty, discussed ways to im­prove the quality of dialogue about race and speech on campus and increase the amount of discussions with people on multiple sides of an issue. She said the con­sensus among the attendees was that the board should remain on display until the end of the year. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
making “never again” a reality starts now and gains excellent insight and motivation from American tennis star and AIDS victim Arthur Ashe, who said, “Start where you are, use what you have, do what you can.” 
“you start where you are,” Waller said. “you don’t have to have a certain degree. you don’t have to have certain ex­perience. you don’t have to move somewhere else. you start where you are. you use what you have because each of you has some incredible gifts and points of leverage that can make a difference. And then finally, you do whatever you can. 
“When I think about re­membrance, about unifica­tion and renewal, I can think of no better blace to start than to heed Arthur Ashe’s words. Start where we are, use what we have and do what we can.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Popes 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
pontiff had more connections to the specific date, O’Malley said the decision to canonize the two together is significant. 
“John XXIII was some­one who set forth the Second Vatican Council, and John Paul II had such a force on imple­menting it in the way that he did,” O’Malley said. “There’s a way in which both popes are taken up into this [date].” 
John XXIII led the Church from 1958-1963, succeeded by Paul VI and John Paul I. John Paul II was pope from 1978-2005, then Benedict XVI led from 2005 until February 2013, and Francis was installed March 13, 2013. 
O’Malley said all four popes were interested in the relation­ship of the Church to the mod­ern world and sought particular ways to deal with that. 
“you can see John XXIII’s calling of the Second Vatican Council as a promulgation of the Church’s openness to the world,” he said. “And with Pope John Paul II, in some ways he was responsible for the fall of communism in Poland. When he went to Poland in the earliest days of his papacy, it changed the world.” 
He said as a scholar, Benedict has used his writing and expla­nations of the faith “to engage seriously with the world,” even writing a letter “as a very seri­ous response … in a spirit of love and charity” to an athe­ist who critiqued his book “Introduction to Christianity.” O’Malley said Francis also has sought to actively engage the world with Catholicism. 
“I think you can say that they all have different understand­ings of the world … but all of them are serious about the Church’s engagement in the world,” he said. 
O’Malley said he had no doubt that the legacies of John XXIII and John Paul II have shaped Notre Dame and its mission. 
“John XXIII called the Second Vatican Council, and perhaps nothing has done more to shape the University’s mission and identity than its understanding of its relationship to the world,” he said. “As far as John Paul II goes … it’s a remarkable thing to think that basically from the late 70s to the year 2005, every student who came to Notre Dame knew John Paul II as Pope, the only Pope they’d had. 
“So that means a great deal of religious life, religious philoso­phy, the things that we study in the classroom, Catholic Social Teaching — it was shaped by John Paul II. Which means that a great deal of the religious in­tellectual life here on campus has been formed by that pope. 
“Notre Dame is different be­cause these two popes existed, just as the whole Church is.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Arts, crafts and passion 

iNsiDE COluMN 

A friendship that needs to be shut down 
Erin Rice 
Graphic Designer 

you know that friend that seems to know everything and every­one, but doesn’t seem to know anything about you? I’m having problems with a friend like this, but I can’t seem to shut him off. He once was the apple of my eye, but now I feel disconnected from him. Let me tell you a little bit about my relationship with this friend. I see him everyday and I feel like I rely on him too much. Even though I really appreciate always having him back me up, I think it would be really beneficial for me to get away from him for a while because I feel like he moni­tors everything I do. 
It took a lot for me to realize that we have an unhealthy relation­ship, but I think recognition is a healthy step towards dealing with the problem. I realized that he is literally always there for me, yet I tend to ignore his basic needs and complain when he does anything wrong. 
I rely on him heavily for home­work help, but we typically just end up on Facebook or Pinterest, and then I just blame him when I realize I’m behind. I can’t com­plain though; he’s my social out­let, my go-to for homework help and my comfort when I’m bored. 
He’s one of those friends who is well-informed and well-connect­ed, but he literally has no filter. Almost every night he interrupts my work to warn me I use him too much and he’s running out of en­ergy to keep up with me. One time he even told me too much of my life is pouring into his space. 
It makes me feel so isolated when I spend hours alone with him and we don’t actually get anything done. Word is, I’m not the only one who complains about how slow he can get. Despite his tendency to lag behind, he’s al­ways eager to be kept up to date. I know I’m not giving him enough credit for what he’s worth. When we’re together we do plenty of fun things: iMessage, iChat, iWeb, iPhoto, iMovie, iBook, iPad, iPod, but for goodness sake Mac, in order to save this relationship, I think its time we unplug. 
Contact Erin Rice at erice4@nd.edu 
Brenna Gautum 
Guest Columnist 

The graduate with a science degree asks, “Why does it work?” The graduate with an engineering degree asks, “How does it work?” The graduate with an ac­counting degree asks, “How much will it cost?” The graduate with a liberal arts de­gree asks, “Do you want fries with that?” 
Majoring in Arts and Crafts. The College of Farts and Letters. I could write an entire comedy sketch based on the number of jokes I’ve heard aimed at my chosen field of study over the past four years. My sketch wouldn’t receive much applause because all the jokes are flat and repetitive, more inane than clever. My material would be rather stale, con­sisting of attacks on future employment prospects and predictable one-liners alluding to levels of classroom difficulty. I would likely leave the stage without having drawn a single laugh from my audience. I might even face some thrown tomatoes and have to duck browning heads of lettuce. So instead of comedy, I decided to write my very first Viewpoint rant: “Arts, crafts and passion.” 
I’ve spent a large part of my undergrad­uate experience railing — both internally and vocally — against the negative pre­conceptions that liberal arts students face on a sadly regular basis. Regretfully, the silly jokes I referenced at the begin­ning of this article are only a small part of why I’ve experienced deeper, uglier feel­ings over the past three years. Friends, family members, coworkers and strang­ers alike have all made me feel naive and foolish at times for preferring history to accounting. I’ve felt my face burn with embarrassment when I’m told, with a condescending smile, that liberal arts will provide me with no tangible skill set to present to employers. I’ve even been told this by a cynical liberal arts profes­sor. Worse than the crushing superiority is the actual anger many harbor towards young people who, like myself, prefer so­cial sciences to natural sciences. To them we are selfish and privileged, embody­ing a colossal flaw in society. To them, we have chosen the easy path when our country needs more students to invest in mathematics and science. We have thrown our money at degrees that will not only fail us in our personal financial lives, but will also fail American society at large. To them, our society needs doctors and engineers. It doesn’t need linguists and anthropologists. 
These kinds of repeated criticisms, whether they are thinly veiled or not, have made me become defensive. When I introduce myself and my fields of study to strangers, I often have the follow-up answer prepared well before they have even asked the question: “History? Peace studies? Really? What on earth are you planning to do with that?” I rush to change their opinions the moment they have been voiced. 
Please believe I am not an overly greedy or selfish human. I am not trying to ruin America, waste my youth dallying in the arts and then fail to strengthen the economy after graduation. Surprisingly enough, I didn’t choose the College of Arts and Letters because I wanted a high­er GPA or more free weekends of reck­less partying or even because I couldn’t decide on a major freshman year. The formal answer to why I am pursuing my degrees is: “I believe the combination of military history and conflict resolution studies, in addition to my work experi­ences derived from research and intern­ships, will best help me attain my career goal to work on nuclear weapons policy and help form international law regard­ing emerging weaponry.” 
The real answer is much longer and more complicated; it contains an admit­tedly idealistic quote I learned at a sum­mer camp and an explanation of what makes me passionate. 
People are afraid of the word passion. I read an article addressing the matter four days ago on a professional network­ing site. The author warned against using “passion” in business résumés and cover letters; he explained that, aside from being laughably overused, the term was hollow and meaningless, a two-syllable cliché devoid of deeper meaning and used as a filler by lazy interviewees. 
Maybe the reason everyone references his or her passions is because everyone is passionate. Everyone. About something. Not just at Notre Dame, a haven of type-A personalities and chronic overachievers, but everywhere. 
I don’t just mean in the liberal arts ei­ther. This semester, I was lucky enough to meet and befriend two incredibly smart, talented and kind finance majors. Both have explained to me, independently, the reasons behind their chosen field of study. I’ve watched both of their faces light up as they’ve found an opportunity to explain a simple economic theory to me in class, and I’ve listened in awe as they explained the complexities involved in the Eurozone crisis. Both are adamant that they would not intern with presti­gious banking firms in New york this summer if they did not love the work they do. In short, both of them are passion­ate about finance. They apply it to their everyday lives outside of the classroom, and they want to commit themselves to it not solely for personal gain, but also to benefit others. 
And, just like me, they have their own slew of negative stereotypes to combat, those suggesting Wall Street is full of heartless, cold and entirely self-interest­ed entrepeneurs. At the same time, the business school is rumored to be a school for slackers and the classes at Mendoza something of a joke. 
The same goes for each college at Notre Dame and each major within those col­leges. Each has certain stereotypes to face, yet each is brimming with poten­tial and (yes, I’m going to say it again) passion. 
What bothers me is this mentality that one person’s passion can be weighed, measured and found to be more valu­able than another’s. It’s the idea that one student’s commitment to Shakespearean literature is less worthy of admiration than another’s commitment to aero­space engineering. At the end of the day, it’s all the same, whether we analyze market trends or iambic pentameter. Passion motivates us to perform even when morning classes are hellish and exams seem impossible. Passion brings us joy when we perform well. 
I’m proud to be a part of the College of Arts and Letters for so many reasons. It has given me new insight into and un­derstanding of the world and my place in it. It has provided me with opportunities to learn from incredible mentors and alongside incredible peers. It has both broadened and refined my academic and career interests. 
I’m not proud because I believe my college is superior to the other colleges at my university. It is different, but not superior. It is equally important, just for a different kind of person. 
We are all young and have many years ahead of us. We’ve grown up in a world of mixed signals, with parents and teachers reminding us that anything is possible while job market statistics and economic recessions have told us otherwise. I can’t speak for my entire generation, but this environment of mixed signals has led me to be oddly and cautiousy hopeful, abid­ing by a mantra of “work hard in a field you love; opportunities are endless but you must be wise and seize them.” It’s brought me here, to majors I adore and to formerly mercurial career goals that seem to materialize, becoming more and more real every day. It’s brought me to a liberal arts degree, but it’s brought others to science, business and architecture. All are different, but all are valuable. 
Originally, I wanted to lay out very specific points of validation in this arti­cle, explaining in a structured argument why the liberal arts is more important than other fields of study, and far more important than they are given credit for. But in the process of writing and think­ing, I guess my conclusion is actually much more about the importance of mutual respect in academics and, later, in that infamous post-graduate “real world.” It’s more about my idealistic world-view that goes something like this: we only have one chance at life on this earth, and the best way to live it is by gaining experiences and knowledge that will help us excel at the things we are passionate about. In return, we can use our knowledge, experience and passions to help others excel and achieve their goals. 
It’s about that beautiful Howard Thurman quote I heard at summer camp one July in high school: “Don’t ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive, and go do it. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive.” 
Brenna Gautum is a  junior studying history and peace studies. She can be reached at bgautum@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



It’s about the people 
Matt Miklavic 
The Maine Idea 
Let’s talk about dating. 

Now that I have your attention, let’s talk about something I might know about. 
Of course, the problem here is that I don’t know a whole lot. In the three years I’ve spent so far at Notre Dame, I’ve learned about hegemonies, bond pricing and Aristotle. I even remember a little Chinese from freshman year. I’ve learned a thing or two about hip-hop night, rules and breaking them. But if I had to sum up the most impor­tant thing Notre Dame or any college gives us, it’s not facts, lessons or analy­ses. It’s not methods or models. It’s people. 
It’s the people you fail with, try again with and succeed with. It’s the people you meet via friends, collisions in DeBartolo, a trip to LaFortune in just your boxers or a freshman theology class. It’s the people you meet at dorm mass, the dining hall, studying abroad or even Domerfest. It’s the people you meet at the swim test — at least until Main Building cancels it. 
It’s the people in the dorm and section you get randomly assigned to who become your family. It’s the people you occupy the library until 5 a.m. with, road trip with or who randomly appear to crash on your couch. When my time here eventually comes to an end, it won’t be the things I did or stud­ied or ended up on a Saturday night at that I will most remember or cherish. It will be the people. 
Life here is great because of football, Stepan and, of course, South Bend. But more than anything else, it’s the people with whom we get to experience it all. To that end, I owe so much to so many. But as the calendar ticks away, I know I owe a particularly big thank you to the guys from my section graduating this year. They welcomed us and those af­ter us to Notre Dame, their rooms and their house. I may still not know much, but I know what they’ve taught me and those around me. 
They taught us how not to punch a window and that a party can start at a moment’s notice. They taught us Steak ’n Shake makes all nights better, pants should always be optional and class should not get in the way of our educa­tion. They taught us neither the time, the day, nor a supposedly mandatory meeting should get in the way of having a good time. 
They taught us a white t-shirt and a friendly smile are all you need, though a guitar never hurt. They taught us hard work pays off in the end, but to remember to have fun along the way. They taught us Tostitos bags explode when punted. 
They taught us many a thing about Rhesus monkeys and our anthropo­logical roots. They taught us ridicu­lousness is to be embraced rather than evaded. They taught us the incredible­ness that is NFL RedZone and the vaunted octobox. They taught us a little 9 a.m. DMX on a Sunday never hurt anyone. 
They taught us the best dancing hap­pens on a couch. We learned there are apparently multiple pronunciations of “pool.” They taught us penguin stuffed animals were a thing. I guess we’re rolling with it. 
Betta, Cody, Connors, Deuce, Eddie, Harby, Jack, Johnny, Oz, Scooter, Tom, Zeese: you taught us to enjoy all of our, uh, “phenomenal” decisions and the next morning’s shame. you taught us to rally to do it all over. Circling back, you even tried to teach us about dating. Clearly, I forgot to take notes. 
you showed us extremism is no vice when it’s for one another. you gave us an idea of how to best live our lives, even while letting us find some things out ourselves. you gave us guys to look up to and people we wanted to be. Ultimately, you taught us what it means to be a human being, friend and brother. 
We come here for school, but we get much, much more. We get people who are brilliant, sure, but more important­ly, people who care. We get people who show us so many ways to better our­selves. And as time moves on, summer arrives, and some must leave, we re­member those people for all they have given us. So thank you, all of you, for what you’ve given us while you’re here. Thanks for the memories, the times we will have, the advice, the fights, the nights and the friendship. Get back here soon. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine, studying political science and finance. He’s always confused by the “skills” portion of job applications. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lETTEr TO ThE EDiTOr 

Involve students in rector selection 
To the Office of Residence Life: 

My name is Brian Israel. Next year, I will be a second-year law student and a first-year Assistant Rector (AR) in Knott Hall. I write this open letter in hopes you will reconsider student involvement in your method for hiring rectors. 
Throughout the vetting process for Assistant Rectors, I had the pleasure of meeting with a number of rectors at vari­ous residence halls. At the end of the pro­cess, I was given the task of ranking the residence halls in which I hoped to work. During the entire process, I was constantly reminded selection as an AR was a “two­way street,” so to speak. The hall needed to want me to be an AR, and I needed to want to be an AR in that hall. This process, to me, ensured ARs could work in an environ­ment they were comfortable with, with a rector who has a strategy that fits that of the prospective AR. 
Upon hearing that Brother Jerome Meyer (a man whom I greatly respect, despite the short opportunity I have had to know him) was retiring at the end of the year, I was filled with sadness that I would not be able to work with the man who hired me. While I am sure such a circumstance is not un­usual in the world outside of Notre Dame, I nonetheless grew concerned about the hall that I will soon happily call home. 
In speaking with alumni of Notre Dame, it is easy to see hall unity is one of the things that resonates in the heart of each Notre Dame graduate well after they leave this special place. Generally, when I ask an individual what hall they lived in as an un­dergraduate, they say their hall name and mascot with unconcealable enthusiasm. Calling residence life important at Notre Dame is an understatement. Surely I don’t need to tell you that. 
I believe the reason every individual I speak with holds his or her dorm in such high esteem is because each dorm has its own personality. For that reason, my first act as the incoming Assistant Rector of Knott Hall is writing you this letter, in hopes I can help preserve the personality of the dorm that approximately 250 stu­dents today call home. 
It is my understanding that the current hiring process for rectors involves a panel of current students speaking with rector candidates, though these students are not necessarily residents of the halls success­ful candidates are destined to inhabit. I understand successful rector candidates are chosen, pooled together and then as­signed to a residence hall. Thus, they do not interview for specific dorm positions. I feel, though, this is the equivalent of hav­ing the board of one university hire the professors of an entirely different univer­sity. Though the two entities are similar in that they both are institutions of higher education, they still have different mis­sion statements, beliefs and dispositions at their core. Each student on this campus is incredibly well-accomplished, and I am sure each individual who meets with prospective rectors will be an incredible representation of Notre Dame. My fear is they will not accurately represent the spirit and culture of the individualized residence halls that we have on campus, particularly Knott Hall. 
I am particularly aware of two main reasons hall specific residents may seem unnecessary in the selection process of the next rector. First, departing rectors can describe the spirit and culture of the residence hall and provide it to you for your consideration. Second, almost all of the hall’s residents change every four years. 
I accept both of these points are not only valid, but also strong. For a thorough and well-rounded analysis of an individualistic residence hall, however, residents should be asked for their input as well. The job description of a rector goes well beyond the position of a manager; rectors use inter­personal and relatable skills. An outgoing rector can describe the spirit of the hall to the potential new hire, but students who live the spirit of the hall day to day know how to recognize it in others.
 As for the point that there is frequent student turnover, it is essential to note that even such turnover should not preclude in­put from current residents. These students may just have as good an understanding of their dorm’s spirit and character as a rector who has been living in the residence hall for four or fewer years. The incoming rector will not only be having daily inter­actions with many of these students for the next four years, which is not a trivial amount of time, but will also have to act as a bridge from 2014 onward. Though students frequently leave, the dorm’s spirit never does because there has always been one constant to ensure the consistency of the dorm’s personality. For many years, that constant has been Brother Jerome. Now that Brother Jerome is leaving, the men of Knott Hall must attempt to do the seemingly impossible: fill his shoes. It seems they just have some say in choosing the individual who will guide them in this journey. 
Either way, one thing is certain: Knott Hall is a family. Unfortunately, however, this family is losing a vital member. Like a true family, Knott will be sure to support any new rector with the familial love that is characteristic of Knott. It is indisputable, however, that if Knott Hall residents spoke with him during the vetting process, it would be easier for them to authentically and genuinely support him. This would make the transition inevitably smoother both for the rector and for the students. 
It is for these reasons I respectfully re­quest that students of Knott Hall, chosen at your discretion, are given some say in the selection process of our next rector. While I understand the concern that exists in granting such power to students, I also understand Notre Dame prides itself in the responsibility, maturity and brilliance of these students. It seems odd to cut off their responsibility here, at a point that will immediately impact them. Additionally, I am not asking that the residents of Knott have the ultimate say, nor am I asking for some sort of confirmation hearing before the residents of Knott. I am simply asking that residents of Knott Hall be given an opportunity to ensure the dorm they hold near and dear to their heart is not stripped of its personality. 
This University is famous for listening to its students. I can safely say few universi­ties strive to accommodate their students in the way that Notre Dame does, and that is part of what makes living here so special. In fact, it is part of why, even as a graduate student, I am proud to call myself a Domer. Therefore, I urge you to at the very least consider my request. I will not pretend to know all the answers, and I acknowledge there are steps involved in this process that I do not know or understand. I do, however, hope we can have an amiable discourse. 
Respectfully, Brian M. Israel Law Student Class of 2016 April 22, 2014 


Emilie Kefalas 
Scene Writer 

To bring my more-musical-than-usual weekend full circle (which is difficult to pull off), I attended Sunday’s matinee of “The Coronation of Poppea.” This was more or less a last minute impromptu improviso, my excuse as to why I huffed and puffed my way across campus, arriving at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center fash­ionably late, missing the opening remarks (oh bother), but just in time for the opera itself (snaps!). Catching my breath in the back row, I was surprised to find myself losing it once more at the first note, because I realized this French student didn’t know much Italian beyond “grazie.” Mercifully, the theatre took this into account, and I shortly discovered subtitles projected above the stage. 
However, let’s not talk about my precious breath when the lungs and respiratory systems of those onstage were a marvel to witness. I lost my breath as quickly as I re­gained it once my ears took in the subliminal simple composition counterbalanced with the complexity of the lyrics, beautifully sung by a cast of 11, all of whom are students, with an ensemble of 20. 
Due to the show’s length and run, two casts shared the main roles, one set performing Thursday and Saturday and the other on Friday and Sunday. A handful of brave souls did all four performances. Talk about stealthy vocal chords. Despite the cast size, the stage never ap­peared overcrowded with extra bodies. Stage director Mark Beudert was flawlessly able to transition what historically took place in ancient Rome to a 1940s/1950s 
Matt McMahon 
Scene Writer 

It’s no coincidence that a lot of my favorite movies feature my favorite movie soundtracks.  Music can play a huge part in setting the mood for a particular scene or even go so far as to help the filmmaker explain themes and emotion across an entire movie.  Directors achieve this through curating material that fits their subject matter just right or by working with artists to create original music to match their vision.  Here are a hand­ful of my favorite soundtracks and scores that perfectly align with their movies. 
“The social Network” — Director David Fincher 
David Fincher recruited Trent Reznor, of Nine Inch Nails and composer/producer Atticus Ross to score his 2010 film adaptation of “The Accidental Billionaires,” a story detailing the founding of Facebook.  Reznor and Ross accent each scene with modern undertones of industrial-electronic beats and songs surrounding pivotal courtroom proceedings, bouts of coding and revelations. 
“Drive” — Director Nicolas Winding refn 
The film features a combination of tracks Winding Refn selected from mixer Johnny Jewel’s catalog and original compositions by one-time Red Hot Chili Pepper drummer and often Steven Soderbergh-collaborator MARIA MASSA | The Observer era in this interpretation of Poppea. 
The opera was composed by Claudio Monteverdi with the libretto by Giovanni Francesco Busenello. I had to dig through the stacked layers of music lessons from years past to recall a familiar tune or idea of Poppea. On my brisk walk over, I did a last minute Google search. This being my first opera experience at Notre Dame, however, I decided to surrender my quest for reason to the virtue of the art itself. After all, Monteverdi’s audi­ences didn’t have search engines to cheat them out of plot lines, so why should I deny myself an authentic participation? 
What made “The Coronation of Poppea” so appeal­ing, besides its phenomenal cast, was its revelation, the way each word and element of the plot exposed itself in secrecy, in public or to no one but the audience. The imagery here could be credited to the sultry style of the libretto or to costume designer Lynn Holbrook for capturing Emperor Nero’s burning desire and use for Poppea in a breathtakingly red wardrobe. All the dapper attire and props fit this historical drama surprising well, as did the content. 
A noble lord named Ottone returns home to discover that his wife, Poppea, has entangled herself (literally) in an affair with the emperor of Rome, Nero, who is not at all covert about the whole thing as they make public appearances together, fully intending to be married as soon as possible. Sounds like wishful thinking, right? It’s not as rosy as it looks. Nero is secretly using Poppea for his own coup. 
Wait! There’s more. Poppea is also using Nero as a ladder to increase her power, ultimately climbing up to the level of empress and overthrowing Nero’s poor wife 
Cliff Martinez.  The mix of ambient and retro synth pop plays an important part in dictating the movie’s slick style immediately and never relents. 
“Kill Bill Vol. 1 & 2” — Director Quentin Tarantino 
Along with The RZA’s composition, Quentin Tarantino compiled a mix of his favorite music from other film soundtracks to score his epic two-part movie “Kill Bill.”  Volume One shows off the director’s obsession with martial arts and samurai movies and the soundtrack accurately follows with a very Eastern influence. 
Meanwhile, Volume Two plays out like a classic Spaghetti Western and incorporates country and Western scores.  In both, though, Tarantino has a knack for finding the exact song to complement his action. 
“Donnie Darko (Director’s Cut)” — Director richard Kelly 
Set in suburban 1980s, Richard Kelly’s mind-bending drama “Donnie Darko” features a blend of the time’s New Wave and Post-Punk music.  Both genres’ combi­nation of synthetic, glimmering pop with dark tones and lyrics accentuates the film’s similar mood. 
Movie composer Michael Andrew’s reworking of Tears for Fears’ “Mad World,” shows just how simultaneously grim and beautiful the soundtrack is. 
Ottavia. Gasp! Why all this crazed drama? Blame the gods! No, seriously. Three divine spirits, Fortune, Virtue, and Love, incarnate themselves as humans to mingle amongst the characters. 
Bad morals are typically the aspects of many forms of entertainment from which audiences learn lessons of some sort, but usually the good morals are the ones that win out in the end. Not in Nero’s Rome. This is a territory in which virtue is punished and greed is rewarded, but that’s what makes this opera so alluring. 
Thematic elements aside, this story is timeless, be­cause it exemplifies for humanity the strange and unfair terms by which this world is governed. There is no fai­rytale ending, because in reality there wasn’t one. What was satisfactory for Nero and his palate of power at one time contented neither him nor Rome for too long. 
That being said, I am glad I went into this Rome “blind,” and did subsequent research following. It made for a much more enticing spectacle. Tingling the audi­ence’s fancy for soap-opera (pun-intended, though this is far superior) love triangles and political loopholes, “The Coronation of Poppea” is a fine and fiercely accu­rate portrait of what measures people of power will take for their own selfishness, nothing more, nothing less. 
The production’s last heartbeat captured this perfect­ly. Poppea is the last one onstage with a single spotlight on her adding a final touch of vibrancy in her success. And that is all. The spotlight shrinks. It closes, caging her. She is empress. She is alone. Now what? 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“her” — Director spike Jonze 
Indie band Arcade Fire and violinist Owen Pallett composed the score to Spike Jonze’s futuristic love story. The light, minimalistic sound the group created helps immensely to establish the near-future Los Angeles of the movie and swells in all the right places to emphasize the film’s winding pathos. 
“lost in Translation” — Director sofia Coppola 
Sofia Coppola’s beautifully aesthetic love affair with Tokyo is primarily set to Dream Pop and Shoegaze mu­sic, with a few contributions from My Bloody Valentine’s Kevin Shields.  Like the city itself, the soundtrack is airy and bright, but also has moments of deep longing, characterized in the exploration of the movie’s central relationship. 
“Almost Famous” — Director Cameron Crowe 
Not to leave out a film centered on music itself, nor leave out a film with diegetic performances incorporat­ed in the plot, Cameron Crowe’s semi-autobiographical film follows the band “Stillwater” and includes a full-fledged song from the fictional group.  The rest of the soundtrack covers some of the best ‘60s and ‘70s Classic Rock, setting the tone for a wild tour. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 
In spite of this department’s pre­concert hesitancy, the Goo Goo Dolls rocked the Stepan Center on Saturday. The crowd was excited, the stage set and the band did not disappoint. 
The concert was part of the Goo Goo Dolls’ promotional tour for the recently released album “Magnetic” and features a new drummer, af­ter the recent resignation of Mike Malinin after almost ten years with the band. 
When I first heard that the Goo Goo Dolls would head the SUB con­cert this year, I was ambivalent to say the least. “The Goo Goo Dolls are a dad band, why would SUB choose them?” After going to the concert, however, it is safe to say that this was an excellent choice. 
The show opened up with Run River North, an indie-oriental-folk band based out of Los Angeles. The young six-member band was in­credibly talented, rocking a great harmony and a wide diversity of in­struments ranging from violins to melodicas. Their set was solid, and ended with a fun, laid-back cover of The Killers’ “Mr. Brightside.” 
After a relatively short intermis­sion, the Goo Goo Dolls burst onto stage with a thundering bang and an explosion of lights. The audi­ence went wild and lead singer John Rzeznik won everyone over with his awesome voice. Rzeznik still has all the power and swagger in his sing­ing that he had back when the band started in 1987. More impressively, however, he played the entire con­cert with gum in his mouth. 
It became apparent almost imme­diately that the Goo Goo Dolls know how to entertain, and that they could back it up with superior arena rock music, even in a relatively small set­ting like the Stepan Center. Rzeznik and the rest of the band dominated the site and the crowd. The atmo­sphere was intense and positive, and the Goo Goo Dolls made sure every­one had a great time. 
The lack of dads in the concert venue may not have been optimal, but that young and hip crowd still buzzed with excitement during all of the band’s biggest hits (except for that kid with the Mohawk, what were you doing there?). The group played everything from the classic “Slide” to newer hits from “Magnetic” such as “Come to Me” and “Rebel Beats.” 
The hour and a half show went by incredibly quickly, as the band was fired up with energy and only stopped between songs to switch out instruments. The group dynamics were outstanding, as every member gave off the same positive vibes, from drummer Chris McIntyre, whose joyful facial expressions were an un­anticipated feature, to keyboardist Korel Tunador, who whipped out a saxophone in the middle of the show for an E-Street Band-esque solo. 
After they finished their set, the horde of ecstatic students roared for an encore, and the Goo Goo Dolls delivered with “Name,” their first big radio hit. 
As with all the other big songs, the whole crowd was singing, dancing and fist pumping through the whole track. 
The highlight of the evening was definitely “Iris.” Every single mem­ber of the audience was singing along (except for that couple vicious­
ly making out), and it was a fantastic, emotional experience. The Goo Goo Dolls have probably played that song a thousand times, but Rzeznik and the group treated it like it was the first time. 
They gave Notre Dame a version of the song filled with a passionate en­ergy, of which everyone’s dads would have been jealous. The Goo Goo Dolls provided a wonderfully enter­taining night filled with an energy that the crowd excitedly reciprocat­ed and showed Notre Dame that they have perfected the art of arena rock. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene Editor 

It feels like South Quad has never been so musical. 
It started with late-night performances from musicians earlier this month at the “Sleepless for Syria” event, hosted by the Solidarity of Syria Coalition. Then early last week, student musicians took the South Quad stage with environmental undergradu­ate club We Are 9 to celebrate Earth Day. Finally, to top off an exceptionally-musical April, a group of local acts performed at “Concert on the Quad” last Friday, hosted by Morrissey Hall and The Bridge Project as a part of the week’s AnTostal festival. 
A concert in which South Bend musicians bring their acts to Notre Dame has been fairly rare in the past, but “Concert on the Quad” was a valuable opportunity for stu­dents who usually stay close to campus to get a taste of the South Bend music scene. That connection between South Bend music and Notre Dame students, of course, is the aim of The Bridge Project, a collaborative movement started by students and South Bend residents. 
Attendees of the outdoor concert were greeted with a scenic sunset and the musical style of four local acts. Opening with songwriter Nathan K., students sat and danced out on the quad to celebrate South Bend’s musical talent. The lineup included StarHeart, a folky, bluesy collaboration between musicians Jake Borowski and Jess Lucille. Following StarHeart was Dena Woods, otherwise known as Dena Dena Dena, a singer-songwriter with a hypnotizing, powerful voice and a central organizer in The Bridge Project as well as countless concerts and South Bend music events. 
The night closed with Anival Fausto Band, led by singer and guitarist Anival Fausto and backed by bandmates Librado Aleman, Ryan Taylor and Vicenzo Carrasco. The band closed out the night with a set of psychedelic rock hits and, in the Notre Dame spirit, a collective cheer of the “Victory March,” led by Carrasco, a Notre Dame alumnus himself. 
The concert marked an important time in the growing interest in local music on our own campus and one of the rare opportunities to hear free, local music outside our own windows. But the event was also just a small sample of upcoming South Bend music events, including South by South Bend, the city’s very own music festival happening May 8-11 this year. On-campus events and groups and the work of The Bridge Project have done a commendable job in bringing live music to students this spring, and after seeing the enthusiastic and diverse group of musicians, students and organizers, a mu­sic festival here in South Bend should be a worthwhile way to kick off the summer. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


sPOrTs AuThOriTY 

Discrimination: know the line 

Greg Hadley 
Associate Sports Editor 
This has been a weekend of the bizarre. 
To start, there are the aw­ful and nauseatingly ignorant comments allegedly spoken by Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling. Remarks like these are so beyond the realm of reason, there is absolutely nothing to discuss. If those words could indeed be attribut­ed to him, then I think Sterling should not own an NBA team. It’s that simple. There is no jus­tification or legitimate debate. NBA commissioner Adam Silver needs to address this as quickly as possible. 
On a significantly less impor­tant note, a 49ers fan sued the NFL for $50 million Sunday af­ter he was unable to buy a ticket for the 49ers-Seahawks NFC championship game, which was held in Seattle. Seahawks management limited sales of tickets to pro-Seattle markets in order to ensure that their home-field advantage was as large as possible. 
So why $50 million? Well, this disgruntled fan, John E. Williams III, wanted to buy four tickets, so he feels that $10 mil­lion in punitive damages, along with $40 million in real dam­ages, is a worthwhile settle­ment. Because many stadiums are built with the advantage of public subsidies, Williams argues, NFL franchises should be subject federal restrictions and he, as the victim of eco­nomic discrimination, deserves retribution. 
First of all, $50 million? Really? Does Williams really think that going to the NFC championship game, which the 49ers lost, by the way, was really worth $50 million? Was the trauma of not attending a game where he would have been mocked and jeered by Seahawks fans really that bad? Does he think that, had he been there, the 49ers would have played any better? 
But all of those criticisms are, to be fair, beside the point. Instead, let’s talk about the fact that Williams lives in Las Vegas and filed his suit there. It wasn’t his tax dollars that built CenturyLink Field. The people of Seattle and Washington paid, alongside team owner Paul Allen. If the 49ers had home-field advantage and decided not to sell tickets to Seahawks fans, would Williams have protested? Why have no Seahawks fans from California sued the NFL? 
In a sport like football, where crowd noise can sometimes be a legitimate distraction on the field, home-field advantage matters a great deal. If this lawsuit succeeds, that home-field advantage can be com­promised. So it is no surprise that the Seahawks are not the first team to limit sales to local fans. In a league as competi­tive and as intense as the NFL, why would a team not do all in its power to give its team every advantage possible, within the rules? Certainly the way that the Seahawks went about this was imperfect. But they did not break federal law. 
The main point to take away from this is the difference be­tween “economic discrimina­tion,” as Williams calls it, and actual discrimination, like the kind Donald Sterling allegedly talks about. The juxtaposi­tion of the two is striking and puts Williams’s suit in proper perspective. Sterling’s dis­crimination is the kind that is bigger than sport and reflects a disordered mindset. Williams’s “discrimination” is only about sports. 
I don’t know if Williams will win his lawsuit or how much money he actually hopes to make from it. I am certain that he is simply frustrated that he could not be there to support his team, not stinging from “economic discrimination.” I know I would be, too. But he has not been degraded as a human being by not being able to at­tend. The Seahawks’ decision does not even enter the same level as Sterling’s comments. 
Besides, if he was so desper­ate to attend the game, why did he not call a friend, a fam­ily member or even a stranger in Washington (or one of the other five or so states where tickets were sold) and offer to reimburse them if they bought him a ticket? I guarantee that wouldn’t have cost $50 million. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Nhl | CHICAGO 5, ST. LOUIS 1 
Blackhawks oust Blues 
Associated Press 

First, it was Jonathan Toews on a power play, and then Patrick Sharp got loose on a breakaway. Andrew Shaw tipped one home, and it was all over. 
One dazzling stretch for the Chicago Blackhawks put an end to their tight first-round se­ries against the St. Louis Blues. 
Duncan Keith had a goal and three assists, and the Blackhawks used a four-goal third period to finish off the Blues with a 5-1 victory in Game 6 on Sunday. 
“It feels good to contribute in a big game,” Keith said, “and I think just the main thing for me is just being able to move on and get a couple days to re­lax and just regroup and focus on the next round.” 
Chicago won four in a row after a slow start in St. Louis. The defending Stanley Cup champions will play the winner of the Minnesota-Colorado se­ries in the Western Conference semifinals. The Avalanche lead the Wild 3-2 heading into Game 6 in Minnesota on Monday night. 
Toews, Sharp and Shaw scored in the first 7½ min­utes of the third and Keith closed out the scoring as the Blackhawks improved to 14-2 in home playoff games over the past two seasons. 
Bryan Bickell scored in the first and Corey Crawford made 35 saves, keeping Chicago in a tie game when St. Louis con­trolled the second period. 
“They were dominating the first 40 minutes here and we came back with maybe the best period of the year,” coach Joel Quenneville said. 
T.J. Oshie scored for the Blues, who outshot the Blackhawks 36-27. Ryan Miller finished with 22 saves. 
St. Louis went 0 for 6 in 10 minutes of power-play time over the first two periods, wast­ing a chance to take the lead. The Blues went 2 for 29 with the man advantage for the series. 
“I think both the PK and (Crawford) won the game and the series ultimately,” Quenneville said. “I think that was the big factor in us getting through.” 
The Blackhawks also strug­gled on the power play, but they scored when it mattered most. 
With Jay Bouwmeester in the box for tripping, Keith made a nice stop to keep the puck in the St. Louis zone, and then sent a pass over to Toews. The captain beat Miller over his right shoulder for a 2-1 lead just 44 seconds into the third. 
It was Toews’ third game-win­ning goal of the series. He also scored on a breakaway in over­time of Friday night’s 3-2 win. 

NBA | WARRIORS 118, CLIPPERS 97 
Warriors pull even in series 
Associated Press 

Stephen Curry made a career playoff-high seven 3-pointers and scored 33 points, leading the Golden State Warriors past the Los Angeles 118-97 on Sunday to even a first-round series that has been pulled into a race-related scandal involving the Clippers’ owner. 
Clippers players made a silent protest against Donald Sterling by shedding their warm-up jer­seys and going through pregame routine with their red shirts on inside out. They also wore black bands on their wrists or arms and black socks in a show of solidarity. 
Curry and the Warriors made another kind of statement. 
The All-Star guard made his first five 3s to give Golden State a 20-point lead in the first quar­ter that held up most of the way. Curry shot 10 for 20 from the floor, including 7 of 14 from be­yond the arc, and had seven as­sists and seven rebounds to help the Warriors snap a two-game skid. 
Golden State outshot Los Angeles 55.4 to 42.9 percent. The Clippers had 19 turnovers, while the Warriors had a series-low 15 turnovers. 

WANTED 

PERFECT SUMMER JOB Child care provider for two boys for the sum­mer. Crafts, sports and other activities required. Flex. hours, FT or PT, com­petitive wage. Call 574-271-0747 
Game 5 is Tuesday night in Los Angeles. 
Andre Iguodala added 22 points and nine assists, and David Lee, Klay Thompson and Harrison Barnes each scored 15 as the Warriors regained their shooting touch in front of a roar­ing, gold-shirt wearing sellout crowd of 19,596 that stood after every swish. 
Jamal Crawford scored 26 points, and Blake Griffin had 21 points and six rebounds for a Clippers team wrapped up in the most talked-about topic in sports. 
The game almost became an afterthought — until tipoff any­way — after an audio recording surfaced Saturday on TMZ pur­portedly of Sterling making com­ments urging a woman to not bring black people to his team’s games. The alleged comments, which are under investigation by the NBA, have set off reac­tions of anger and calls for action through the league. 
New NBA Commissioner Adam Silver attended the game 
and  met  privately  with  for­ 
mer  All-Star  guard  and  cur­ 
rent  Sacramento  Mayor  Kevin  

Johnson, who is advising the players union on the Sterling situation. Johnson even held a news conference during half­time that spilled well into the fourth quarter. 
Silver has said he hopes for a quick resolution after the league investigates, and that Sterling has already agreed not to attend Game 5. 
Once the ball was thrown up and the crowd roared, the Warriors quickly put the Clippers in a hole they could never recover from. 
Curry’s five 3-pointers in the first quarter tied a fran­chise-playoff record for a quar­ter, matching a mark he and Thompson set last year. Golden State led by 20 in the first quarter, 23 in the second quarter and 66­48 at the half. 
Warriors coach Mark Jackson used more smaller lineups — with power forward David Lee playing center for long stretches 
— to spread the floor than he had at any point in the series, which big man Andrew Bogut has sat out for with a fractured right rib. 
The Clippers never closed within single digits at any point in the second half, even after Thompson fouled out with 6:13 remaining in the fourth. 
Curry kept on shooting — and kept on hitting — to send the se­ries back to Los Angeles tied. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ND alumni seeking an energetic, “Notre Dame du Lac was given to us organized and experienced student by the bishop only on condition that we to provide full-time childcare to 2 boys establish here a college at the earliest op-ages 10 &amp; 12 from mid June to portunity ... Before long, it will develop on mid August. Personal transportation a large scale .... It will be one of the most required and experience swimmer pre-powerful means for good in this country ferred. Please contact Emily Neufeld ... At least, that is my deep convinction.” at 574.532.7295 for more information. -Father Edward Sorin, Dec. 5, 1842 


TrACK AND FiElD 

Irish turn in strong weekend 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame continued to build off its top-three finish at the ACC outdoor championships by putting together a strong week­end at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa, and the Hillsdale Gina Relays in Hillsdale, Mich. 
At the Drake Relays, the men finished in ninth place overall, picking up seven points, while the No. 22 women notched eighth place with 10 points. 
Junior hurdler Jade Barber again stood out with impressive performances for the Irish. At the ACC championships April 19, Barber helped lead the Irish women to a second-place fin­ish by winning the 100-meter hurdles with a then-season-best time of 12.98 seconds. That vic­tory made Barber Notre Dame’s first-ever gold-medal winner at the ACC outdoor champion­ships. Barber followed up that distinction by setting a new per­sonal best (12.97) in the prelimi­nary round of the same event Friday at the Drake Relays. While she was not able to top that time Saturday, she was still pulled out a photo-finish victory over Texas-El Paso senior hurdler Janice Jackson. Barber finished the 100-meter hurdles in 13.284 seconds, just .006 seconds faster than the second-place Jackson. 
Elsewhere at the Drake Relays, the men’s 4x400-meter relay had mixed results over the week­end. On Friday, sprinters junior Chris Giesting, senior Pat Feeney, freshman Harvey Smith and se­nior Jarrod Buchanon started strong in the preliminary race, qualifying for the finals with a season-best 3:05.94 finish. They were not able to overcome the strong competition from top-25 programs Arkansas, Georgia, Baylor and Nebraska in the fi­nals, however, falling to sixth place (3:06.43). 

The Irish found more success in the women’s 4x200-meter relay on Friday, as junior Kaila Barber, sophomore Margaret Bamgbose, senior Michelle Brown and se­nior Aijah Urssery pulled out a victory in 1:34.54. It was another close race, as Kansas’s relay came within a 12 hundredths of a sec­ond of unseating the Irish. 
At the Hillsdale Gina Relays, senior John Lundy earned two first-place finishes in the men’s 100- and 200-meter dashes. Also finishing in the top-three po­sitions were sophomore Nick Hauser in the hammer throw, freshman Emily Carson in the long jump, sophomore Lena Madison in the shot put and freshman Conner Stapleton in the 400-meter hurdles. 
The Irish will return to action next weekend at the Billy Hayes Invitational in Bloomington, Ind. 
MEN’s TENNis | VIRGINIA 4 ND 0 
ND falls to UVA in semis 
Observer Staff Report 
No. 13 Notre Dame fell, 4-0, to No. 4 Virginia in the semifinals of its inaugural ACC champion­ships, held in Cary, N.C. 
After a first-round bye and a 4-2 victory against No. 16 Clemson on Friday, the fourth-seeded Irish (19-9, 7-4 ACC) fell to the top-seeded Cavaliers (22­2, 11-0 ACC) on Saturday. 
Notre Dame found itself in an early hole in both matches, dropping the doubles point in both of its matches. Against the Tigers (20-8, 7-5 ACC), the duos of sophomores Alex Lawson and Quentin Monaghan and senior Matt Dooley and sophomore Eric Schnurrenberger lost their doubles matches. Freshman Josh Hagar and senior Greg Andrews won their match, 8-3. On Saturday afternoon, how­ever, no doubles teams claimed victory. 
Despite several weather de­lays during the Clemson match, the Irish secured a come-from­behind victory via their singles play. Andrews, ranked 23rd in the country, was the first off the court after a quick win of 6-0, 6-2 in the top slot. 
Hagar, freshman Eddy Covalschi and Schnurrenberger claimed victories in the third, fourth and fifth slots, respec­tively, securing a Notre Dame victory for the afternoon. Junior Wyatt McCoy’s sixth slot 

NBA | HOUSTON 123, PORTLAND 120 (OT) 

match went unfinished, and Monaghan lost his match in the second slot. 
The team had no such luck in singles play against the Cavaliers. Andrews, Covalschi and Schnurrenberger lost in the first, fifth and sixth slots, all in straight sets. Monaghan, Hagar and senior Ryan Bandy saw their matches go un­finished as the 4-0 loss was already guaranteed to the Cavaliers, the eventual tour­nament champions. Virginia has won the conference cham­pionship in nine of the past 10 seasons. 
This weekend was Notre Dame’s second match against both opponents with the same results in each. The Irish lost to Virginia, 6-1, and beat Clemson, 5-2, on March 2 and March 21, respectively. Both matches were held on the road. 
The Irish now have two weeks to prepare for the NCAA first and second rounds, held May 9-11 on campus sites. 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Houston takes OT thriller 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND — LaMarcus Aldridge had 29 points and 10 rebounds and the Portland Trail Blazers beat the Houston Rockets 123-120 in overtime Sunday to take a 3-1 advantage in their first-round playoff series. 
Nicolas Batum added 25 points in the first win for the home team in the series, which moves to Houston for Game 5 on Wednesday. It was the third overtime game of the series. 
James Harden had 28 points and Dwight Howard added 25 points and 14 rebounds for the Rockets. 
Portland trailed by as many as 11 points, but rallied in the fourth quarter. Mo Williams’ 3-pointer put the Blazers in front 105-104 with 18.9 seconds left. Dorell Wright missed the first of two free throws making it 106­104 with 8.3 seconds to go. 
Howard dunked off a feed from Harden with 3.6 seconds left to tie it again and Williams missed a 3 at the buzzer to send the game into overtime at 106-all. 
Chandler Parsons was hit with a flagrant foul on Aldridge, who made both free throws to give the Blazers the lead to start off OT. Nicolas Batum scooped up a layup before adding a 3-pointer to put Portland ahead 115-110 with 2:34 left and Damian Lillard added a layup. 

After Aldridge made a long jumper, Houston rookie Troy Daniels nailed a 3 and Harden landed a jumper to narrow it to 119-117, but Lillard made free throws to extend the lead to four points with 17 seconds left. 
Aldridge missed a pair of free throws and Troy Daniels was fouled on a 3-point attempt and made all three shots to narrow it to 121-120 with 8.9 seconds left. After a Portland timeout, Mo Williams made free throws for the final margin. 
Aldridge opened Portland’s re­turn to the playoffs with a fran­chise postseason-best 46 points in the Blazers’ 122-120 overtime victory in Game 1, then followed it up with 43 points in the 112-105 win. The Rockets won the third, 121-116 in overtime on Friday night at the Moda Center. 
Houston coach Kevin McHale again started Omer Asik in place of Terrence Jones. Asik had suc­cess against Aldridge in Game 3, helping to hold Portland’s All-Star to 23 points. 
The two teams played closely for most of the first quarter, but the Rockets took a 29-22 lead after an 11-4 run highlighted by two straight 3-pointers from Daniels. 
Daniels, who spent time in the D-League this season and only made his NBA debut on March. 5, was the unlikely hero of Game 3 when he drained a 3 with 11.9 seconds to go in OT that proved to be the winner. 
Houston led 61-51 at the half, led by Parsons with 19 points. The Rockets maintained the lead through the third quarter and Harden’s jumper from the top of the key stretched it to 92-84 with 
8:31 left. 
Portland got to within 94-91 on Batum’s layup with 6:35 left. Lillard’s 3-pointer tied it at 94, but Harden answered with his own 3 for the Rockets. 
Aldridge made a layup to put Portland up 102-97, but Howard made three of four free throws to narrow it before making two big blocks. Harden hit free throws to tie it at 102 with 1:11 left. Aldridge missed a layup and Harden hit another two foul shots to give the Rockets back the lead. 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APril 28, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’s GOlF 
rOWiNG 

ND takes Dale 
Grahek, Platt pace Irish to 
England Cup 
seventh place at ACCs 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished seventh in their inaugural ACC cham­pionship tournament Sunday at Old North State Club in New London, N.C. 
The Irish posted a weekend team total of 872 (294-287­
291) to claim seventh. No. 5 Georgia Tech took home the ACC championship team ti­tle with a 15-under-par score of 273 Sunday to finish the weekend with a total score of 839 (288-278-273, -25). 
“Overall, we did fairly well,” senior tri-captain Niall Platt said. “Our goal was to win, and we weren’t able to do that, but we competed closely with some of the best teams in the country. We worked hard to be our best at the ACC championship. We still didn’t play our best, but it was one of our best tournaments of the season.” 
The Irish were tied for ninth place with No. 8 Virginia after the opening day of the tour­nament. Senior tri-captain Andrew Lane led the Irish in the first round with a one-un­der-par score of 71. He made the turn 4-under-par with a score of 32 and finished tied for sixth place. Lane shot 6-over in both the second and third rounds and closed out his collegiate career tied for 56th place (71-78-78-227). 
Freshman Matt Rushton and junior Patrick Grahek helped the Irish move up to fifth place after the second round with scores of 2-un­der-par 70 and one-under 71, respectively. With a total of four birdies, Rushton led all Irish players in the round and tied for 25th place. He fin­ished the third round with a 4-over-par score of 76 to tie for 35th place overall at 222 (76-70-76). 
Grahek finished the tournament with a combined 7-under and tied for ninth place overall (75-71-67-213). Grahek’s third round, 5-un­der-par score of 67 marked his career-low score. 


“I was so proud of myself for staying committed to my game plan the whole week­end,” Grahek said. “I strug­gled in the first round, but did a fantastic job of staying confident and playing to my potential to give myself my best finish of my career.” 
Platt finished his Notre Dame career with a 23rd­place finish at 217 (72-72-73). He opened the tournament with an even-par score of 72, 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
wrapped up the Irish lineup with a total score of 225 (76­74-75) for 47th place. He fin­ished the first round tied with Rushton in 43rd place. After birdying three of the last sev­en holes in the second round, Sciupider managed a 2-over­par score of 74 to land himself tied in 44th place on the sec­ond day. 
With their inaugural season in the ACC now behind them, the Irish are ready to move forward, and even though Platt will not be part of the Irish squad next season, he said he has high hopes for Notre Dame in conference competition. 
“[This weekend] we showed that we have a chance to be a competitor in the ACC moving forward,” Platt said. “We weren’t as good as these teams this particular week, but we have the ability to be as good.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
which included nine bird­ies. Platt continued to play steadily in the second round and secured another even-par finish. In his last round, Platt finished one-over-par with a birdie on the par-5 18th hole. 
“[The team and I] were able to avoid really high scores, which plagued us all season, this weekend,” Platt said. 
Sophomore Cory Sciupider 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 
No. 10 Notre Dame rebounded from up-and-down recent per­formances with convincing times en route to repeating as Dale England Cup champions on Lake Lemon in Bloomington, Ind., last weekend. 
The Irish, who were in second place with 37 points after Friday’s races, finished the weekend with 117 points to best No. 13 Indiana (103 points). Rounding out the field were Rhode Island (80 points) and Alabama (60 points). 
“[This weekend] was important to prepare us for the ACC cham­pionships, but also it puts us in a better position nationally for an at-large if we’re unable to win the ACC,” Irish coach Martin Stone said. “Indiana was very strong and had some great performances over the last two weeks. We felt that we definitely needed to beat them amongst the NCAA boats to boost our confidence and positioning.” 
Notre Dame had to deal with tough conditions on its first day, as a strong tailwind resulted in unusually rough water. The Irish bounced back Saturday in bet­ter conditions, sweeping their morning session with Alabama and following up by winning four races against Rhode Island in the afternoon. 
“We worked very hard on our race plan, and on Friday, condi­tions we raced in were a little different than we would have wanted,” Stone said. “But Saturday morning, we again had some plans and goals in mind and ex­ecuted and rode it aggressively. We thought they could go a little faster after Saturday morning, and they raced very hard. After two weeks of hard racing, we were pretty wiped when we came into it. But we got it done.” 
The Irish were especially domi­nant against Alabama, consis­tently besting the Crimson Tide by around 30 seconds. Notre Dame’s first varsity eight posted a time of 
6:26.60 compared to Alabama’s 6:58.10, while its second varsity eight handled the Crimson Tide, 6:35.70-7:04.90. Notre Dame’s first varsity four took a 7:26.30­
7:58.20 victory, while the novice eight/third varsity eight clocked in at 6:57.50 to best Alabama’s 
7:29.30. In its final race against the Crimson Tide, the second varsity four, Notre Dame had three boats in the water. They were timed at 7:44.10, 7:47.20 and 8:10.40 while Alabama’s boat came in at 8:08.50. 
“It was a complete team effort from every boat being supportive,” Stone said. “There were points where our team rallied around our boats and we could hear the ‘Here come the Irish’ chant. On and off the water, it was a championship effort.” 
Stone also said the Friday-night­into-Saturday setup will benefit his team because that is the same format as the ACC championship, compared to typical Saturday-Sunday regattas this season. 
“Indiana has a great race to row on — it gives us a good idea of how we want to race for the ACCs,” Stone said. 
The Irish have some extended time off before they return to the water for their first-ever ACC championship May 16-17 on Lake Hartwell in Clemson, S.C. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu. 




ND WOMEN’s TENNis | MIAMI 4 ND 2 
Irish fall in ACC quarterfinals 
Observer Staff Report 
Despite putting forth a strong effort in singles play, Notre Dame came up short during the ACC champion­ship, falling in the quarterfi­nals matchup against Miami (Fla.) on Friday in Cary, N.C. 
The Irish (16-9, 8-6 ACC) fell to the Hurricanes (19-5, 15-3) by a score of 4-2, in a match that was prolonged due to two weather delays. 
Miami built its victory on the back of its successful doubles play. The Hurricanes duo of junior Monique Albuquerque and sophomore Clementina Riobueno, ranked No. 11 in the nation, came out on top against Irish sophomore Quinn Gleason and senior Britney Sanders, who are ranked No. 15 in the nation, winning by a score of 8-2 at the No. 1 doubles spot. In addition, Miami soph­omore Stephanie Wagner and junior Lina Lileikite toppled the Irish No. 3 doubles team of junior Molly O’Koniewski and freshman Mary Closs. 

However, the Irish did not go down quietly, as evi­denced by a pair of victories in singles play. After thun­derstorms in the area forced play to be relocated to indoor facilities, Gleason defeated Hurricanes sophomore Kelsey Laurente by a count of 7-6, 7-6. Elsewhere, Irish freshmen Monica Robinson defeated Riobueno by a score of 1-6, 6-4, 6-4. However, the Hurricanes clinched the match when Wagner defeated Sanders in singles play by a score of 6-2, 7-6, with Irish senior Jennifer Kellner’s match against Lileikite left unfinished. 
With the conclusion of con­ference tournament play, the Irish next play in the NCAA championship matches begin­ning May 9 at campus sites. 
NBA 

Obama criticizes Sterling’s words 
Associated Press 
KUALA LUMPUR — President Barack Obama said Sunday that comments reportedly made by the owner of a U.S. pro basket­ball team are “incredibly offen­sive racist statements,” before casting them as part of a con­tinuing legacy of slavery and segregation that Americans must confront. 
“When ignorant folks want to advertise their ignorance, you don’t really have to do anything, you just let them talk,” Obama said when asked to respond to the reported comments from Los Angeles Clippers’ owner Donald Sterling. 
Obama’s description of the controversy as part of a larger historical context is the latest example of his continuing will­ingness to expound on matters of race in his second term. 
After avoiding much men­tion of race relations during his campaign to become the first black president and in his first term, the president last summer offered a personal reflection in response to the shooting of black teenager Trayvon Martin. And now Obama has spoken out against an audio recording of a man identified as Sterling telling his girlfriend not to bring black people to games. 
Obama cast the comments through a broader prism of rac­ism in America, adding that “we constantly have to be on guard on racial attitudes that divide us rather than embracing our di­versity as a strength.” 

“The United States contin­ues to wrestle with the legacy of race and slavery and segre­gation, that’s still there, the ves­tiges of discrimination,” Obama said during a news conference in Malaysia, where he was traveling. 
“We’ve made enormous strides, but you’re going to con­tinue to see this percolate up every so often,” he added. “And I think that we just have to be clear and steady in denouncing it, teaching our children differ­ently, but also remaining hope­ful that part of why statements like this stand out some much is because there has been this shift in how we view ourselves.” 
In the recording attributed to Sterling recording and posted on the website TMZ, a male voice questions his girlfriend’s asso­ciation with minorities. TMZ re­ported the woman, V. Stiviano, is of black and Mexican descent. 
The man asks Stiviano not to broadcast her association with black people or bring black people to games. The man spe­cifically mentions Lakers Hall of Famer Magic Johnson on the recording, saying, “Don’t bring him to my games, OK?” 
Obama said he’s confident NBA Commissioner Adam Silver will address the matter. 
softball 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
inning, though Haus would knock in an RBI to tie up the score at 1-1 in the bottom of the inning. Both teams trad­ed runs back and forth until the score sat at 5-3 in the fifth inning, favoring Maryland. 
In the bottom of the fifth in­ning, Irish junior centerfield­er Emilee Koerner reached base on an error, Haus sin­gled, and Arizmendi walked to load up the bases. Winter then cleared them with an RBI single to tie the game at 
5. Winter scored on an RBI single from Saganowich to make the score 6-5, which ul­timately proved to be enough even though the Irish added two more runs to make the final score 8-5. 
The Irish close the series against Maryland on Monday at Melissa Cook Stadium. First pitch is scheduled for 7 p.m. 


Nhl | ANAHEIM 5 DALLAS 4 (OT) 
Ducks clinch series with dramatic win over Stars 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Anaheim Ducks coach Bruce Boudreau was cer­tainly trying to remain opti­mistic, even if he didn’t expect such a dramatic comeback. 
“I wasn’t confident at all,” Boudreau admitted. “you’re always hopeful. ... But deep down, you don’t really think it’s going to happen.” 
Well, it did. And the Ducks are moving on in the playoffs. 
The Ducks scored twice in the final 2:10 of regulation, and then Nick Bonino scored in overtime for a 5-4 series-clinch­ing victory over the Dallas Stars in Game 6 on Sunday night. 
“It’s still hard to believe. I’ve got butterflies in my stomach,” said Bonino, who also scored one of those late regulation goals. “Scoring the winning goal in a playoff series is some­thing you play in your driveway when you’re a kid.” 
Bonino got the game-winner on a wrist shot from in front of the net 2:47 into overtime af­ter getting a pass from Andrew Cogliano, and made sure the Ducks didn’t need a Game 7 to advance in the playoffs for only the second time since winning their lone Stanley Cup title sev­en years ago. 
“We’ve done it all year. We had games when we clawed back, especially in the third period,” Cogliano said. “That’s what the playoffs are all about, to keep clawing.” 
The home team won in each of the first five games, but the Ducks wanted to take advan­tage of the first opportunity they had to end the series. 
Anaheim also led its opening-round series 3-2 last year. But the Ducks then lost twice to Detroit, including Game 7 at home. 

Trevor Daley scored twice on breakaways for the Stars, , the first goal coming after he got the puck charging out of the penalty box. 
Daley, who also had an as­sist, is the only current player that was also on their last play­off team in 2008 for the Stars, who came so close to a deciding Game 7 in their first season un­der coach Lindy Ruff. 
“Sometimes hockey’s cruel,” Ruff said. “It was cruel, really cruel, to a group of guys that worked as hard as they possibly could tonight. There wasn’t one guy that was a passenger.” 
Bonino skated around the from behind the net and got a puck over Kari Lehtonen’s left shoulder to get the Ducks within 4-3 with 2:10 left in regulation. 
“After they got the first one, we were just kind of on our heels too much,” Stars forward Ryan Garbutt said. 
Anaheim got the overtime-forcing goal with 24 seconds left after a wild scramble in front of the net with an extra skater and Lehtonen without his stick. When the puck trickled free, Devante Smith-Pelly pushed into the open gap for his second goal of the game for a 4-4 tie. 
“I was just standing outside the net, and guys were whack­ing at it,” Smith-Pelly said. “you do what you’ve got to do to score. Not every goal is going to be tic-tac-toe.” 
Corey Perry had the primary assists on both third-period goals for the Ducks, who will have to wait to see if they play San Jose or Los Angeles in the second round. Teemu Selanne assisted on the first two Anaheim goals, by Smith-Pelly and Ben Lovejoy. 
Ducks veteran goalie Jonas Hiller stopped all 12 shots he faced after replacing rookie Frederik Andersen midway through the second period after Daley’s second breakaway put Dallas up 4-2. He stopped only eight shots. 
“This was a little more special for me. It was a great feeling,” said Hiller, who won 29 games during Anaheim’s best regular season ever. “I thought I had a couple of good stops right when I came in, and that gave me confidence. When you get the chance, you get so much adren­aline going.” 
Cody Eakin had a goal and an assist for Dallas, while Lehtonen stopped 25 shots. 
Dallas went ahead only 5 minutes into the game when Daley came out of the pen­alty box and skated toward the Anaheim net. After having to get around a referee to get to the puck pushed ahead by Shawn Horcoff, Daley scored. 
Eakin scored a power-play goal five minutes later, a one-timer on a pass from Tyler Seguin to make it 2-0. 
Smith-Pelly had a power-play goal with about 2 minutes left in the first period. But Garbutt scored a minute later. 
Garbutt got a major penalty for spearing Perry and a game misconduct midway through the first period of the Ducks’ 6-2 win in Game 5 on Friday night. He was fined by the NHL but not suspended. 



M lacrosse 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
defeating No. 7 Maryland, 6-5, on a last-second goal by sophomore attackman Matt Kavanagh, less than a week after losing to the Terrapins (10-3, 4-1). The Irish also lost to Syracuse on March 29, 11­10, after a final rally came up short. 
This time, the Irish of­fense was in full swing, scor­ing above its season average 
(11.08) and going up, 3-1, early in the first quarter. After con­ceding the lead and falling be­hind in a fast-paced game that featured more than 30 shots from both teams, the Irish ral­lied to enter the half in a 7-7 tie. 
In a decisive third quarter, Notre Dame scored six unan­swered goals while holding the Orange scoreless for almost 14 minutes. In the final period, the Irish defense surrendered the final four goals but held on for the win. 
“At times, we were terrific [on defense],” Corrigan said. “I know we went [about 14 min­utes] without giving up a goal and that allowed us to get out in front of them and get some separation. … But I would say it was a mixed bag defensively. Early on, they got to us with the things we thought they shouldn’t be able to get, and then we made an adjustment, and they made an adjustment, so it was a little bit of back­and-forth there.” 
In Notre Dame’s regular-sea­son game against the Orange, 


NBA | TORONTO 87 BROOKLyN 79 
Kavanagh failed to record a point, but he scored four goals Sunday and chipped in two as­sists to go with his game-win­ning score against Maryland. He was named tournament MVP. 
“Here’s the great thing about Matt: He wasn’t able to prac­tice all week,” Corrigan said. “He was a little banged up from the previous game, so for him to come out and to play as hard and as tough and as well as he did, it really says a lot about what a great competitor he is.” 
Kavanagh was joined on the all-tournament team by ju­nior attackman Conor Doyle, senior defenseman Stephen O’Hara and junior goalkeeper Conor Kelly. Kelly made 21 saves combined during the weekend, including a season-high 12 against Maryland. In the final seconds against Syracuse, Kelly made a high­light-reel stop on a last-ditch shot by junior attackman Kevin Rice to preserve the win. Kelly had started just one reg­ular season game for the Irish since March 1. 
“He did a great job of con­tinuing to work hard when he wasn’t in goal and preparing himself for the opportunity to come back in and then earn­ing that opportunity, through what he did in practice every day,” Corrigan said. “I couldn’t be more proud of him and the way he’s handled this whole year. It hasn’t been an easy year for him, but it’s great to see him peaking and playing his best lacrosse right now.” 
The Irish play one final regular-season game at home against No. 14 Army on May 3 at noon before they advance to the NCAA tournament for the ninth consecutive year. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

Lowry leads Raptors to win 
Associated Press 
NEW yORK — The most pres­sure-packed moments of play­off basketball, when the legs get heavy and the palms sweaty, seem to suit those young Toronto Raptors just fine. 
Instead, it’s the veteran Brooklyn Nets who are fizzling at the finish. 
DeMar DeRozan scored 24 points, Kyle Lowry added 22, and the Raptors beat the Nets 87-79 on Sunday night to even their Eastern Conference first-round series at two games apiece. 
When a fourth-quarter rally fell just short in Game 3, the Raptors just shook it off and handled the final period even better this time. 
“That’s just us, man,” DeRozan said. “We’re definitely resilient. We’re never going to give up until the game’s over.” 
Amir Johnson had 17 points for the Raptors, who started fast, gave up all of a 17-point lead, then shut the Nets down over the final 5 minutes to snap a 13-game road losing streak in the playoffs that went back 13 years. 
Game 5 is Wednesday night in Toronto, with the series now guaranteed a return to Brooklyn on Friday for Game 6. 
Paul Pierce scored 22 points for the Nets, who were 3 for 17 in the fourth quarter and didn’t have a field goal after Pierce’s basket with 
6:13 left gave them a 77-73 lead. 
It was baffling for a team that assembled a star-studded ros­ter that will cost more than $180 million in salaries and taxes for a shot at a title, and now faces a huge fight just to get out of the first round. 
“you get in a playoff situation, one guy, or two or three guys, wants to do it on their own in­stead of just running our offense, executing. And I think we got caught up into that,” said Pierce, adding that the Nets were rushing and pressing. 
Kevin Garnett had 10 points for the Nets, but Joe Johnson and Deron Williams were mostly non-factors in getting outplayed by Toronto’s backcourt. Johnson had only seven points on seven shots after averaging 23.7 points in the first three games, and Williams was 4 of 12 for his 10. 
Pierce nearly carried the Nets without them, but Toronto put it together down the stretch to pull it out. 
Garnett gave the Nets their last lead with two free throws with 4:58 left, but DeRozan made two free throws before Greivis Vasquez made a 3-pointer for an 83-79 advantage. The Nets had a series of offensive fouls along with their missed shots, and Lowry made a high-arching basket over Garnett with 1:13 to go before closing it out with a pair of free throws. 
Bookstore 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
at halftime, as McIntyre and junior Tommy Waytula com­bined to scored 10 of the team’s 11 points to set the pace. The Touchdown 3s re­lied on a balanced scoring ef­fort to grab an early lead and to hang around in the second half. Seniors Jeremy Riche and Chris Cali led the team with five points apiece, but each of the five players had at least two baskets apiece in a hard fought, well-played sec­ond half. 
“It was getting a little heat­ed toward the end,” Riche said. “Everyone was just playing basketball, trying to be competitive, and it turned out to be a good game.” 
Each of Holy Cross’s five players accounted for one of the team’s first five buck­ets of the second half, and at 17-13, Holy Cross seemed in 
Baseball 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
Huskies. 
Northeastern senior right-handed pitcher Chris Carmain pitched seven innings, allowing only two earned runs and strik­ing out four Notre Dame hitters. Freshman right-handed pitcher Ryan Civale finished the game for Northeastern, shutting out the Irish offense for two frames. 
On Sunday, the Notre Dame offense was quieted for all nine frames as Northeastern won the rubber match, 4-0. 
Freshman right-handed pitcher Dustin Hunt claimed his fourth win, as the Andover, Mass., product remains unde­feated on the season. Hunt fin­ished seven frames, allowing only seven hits and one walk while striking out eight. In all four of Hunt’s wins this season, the freshman has collected at least seven strikeouts, including nine in seven shutout innings against Niagara on March 16. Notre Dame junior right-handed command. 
However, Touchdown 3s junior captain Kevin Gates scored two consecutive put-backs and sophomore Garrett Dempsey hit a spinning float­er to cut the lead down to one and even out the momentum. 
Down the stretch, McIntyre and Bauer were just too much to overcome as Holy Cross continued to attack the bas­ket. They earned tough lay-ins, got to the free-throw line and ultimately banked in the tournament winner. 
“I’m just proud of the way we competed,” McIntyre said. “We were down early, but we stayed strong and to­gether. We knew they were going to play tough defense, so we had to just keep attack­ing. We played great defense, got the rebounds we needed, and it was just a good team effort.” 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
pitcher Pat Connaughton pitched six-and-two-thirds in­nings for the Irish, taking home the loss and allowing all four of Northeastern’s runs. 
Again, Lyons led Northeastern as the senior finished with three hits and one run. For Notre Dame, eight different players got a hit, though no player collected more than one in the game. 
Against Notre Dame, Lyons picked up eight hits in 14 strike­out-free at bats over the week­end. This season, the senior is hitting .357 and is in the midst of a six-game hitting streak. Over the last six games, Lyons is 15-for­27, including two doubles and a triple. 
Currently, Lezynski leads Notre Dame at the plate, as the first baseman is hitting .325 on the season. The junior leads the Irish in hits, slugging percentage, on-base percentage, RBIs and doubles. 
Notre Dame returns to the field Wednesday as the Irish host Western Michigan at Four Winds Field in South Bend. The first pitch will be at 5:35 p.m. 



CrOssWOrD | WILL SHORTZ 


hiGhlY PuNliKElY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 
suDOKu | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

Level: 


CONTrOllED ChAOs | HILLARy MANGIAFORTE 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2013 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


4/22/13 
hOrOsCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: on’t sit idle when getting out and sharing what you know with others will help you advance. Travel, learning, and participating in community events will help give you a say in the way things are done. More involvement will also lead you toward a leadership position. Work hard to form solid alliances with influential people. your numbers are 4, 7, 13, 20, 27, 33, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do your best to get things done. Arguments will be a waste of time. Good fortune will find you if you offer a helping hand to someone in need. A humble and gracious attitude will lead to advancement, popularity and victory. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Find out all you can before you make a move. Offering your services to an organization that you feel you have something worthwhile to contribute to will result in new prospects and a diverse way of putting your talents to work. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emotional deception and disillusionment will surface when dealing with peers and those who do not wish to see you advance. Look out for your interests and try to present and promote what you have to offer succinctly. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Network, nurture relationships and form alliances that will help you put your best foot forward. Don’t let what’s going on at home or in your personal life stifle your chance to reach your dreams, hopes and professional wishes. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Re-evaluate your motives before making promises. Ask questions and get the lowdown on what everyone around you wants and is willing to contribute. Change is good, but it has to be for the right reason. Financial confusion is apparent. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don’t stop until you are satisfied with the results you get. you can get ahead, but only if you are willing to take the extra step and make things happen. Put your ideas into play and you’ll impress someone you love or admire. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Complaints, demands and trouble will plague you when dealing with business or personal partners. Get out and do something that will benefit you. Personal gratification will help ease stress and give you a better perspective regarding your relationships. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t let tension slow you down. Get the ball rolling and don’t stop until you reach your destination. What you accomplish will be recognized and rewarded. Leave time for romance late in the day. Love is on the rise. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make changes at home that add to your comfort, but don’t go over budget or you will fall short financially at the end of the month. An aggressive act at work will grab attention and raise consideration for what you have to offer. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be careful not to jump into something without checking the fine print. Loss is likely if you show impatience. Anger will mount when dealing with those who oppose your plans. Stick close to home and focus on self-improvement, not trying to change others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Clarity coupled with a genuine offer will help you make positive changes. An unusual investment or financial deal can change your standard of living. Don’t give up on your ideas, just keep reworking them until you find the perfect fit. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ake a bit of a break. Enjoy life and share good times with someone special. Catching up with an old friend will spark vim and vigor in your life. Love is in the stars, and romance will enhance your life. 


Birthday Baby: you are energetic, willful and stubborn. you are a leader and a doer. 
JuMBlE | DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 



Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  

 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information   Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an  Name  
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  Address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
City  State  Zip  


MEN’s lACrOssE | ND 15, SyRACUSE 14 
Irish crowned ACC champs 
By GREG HADLEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
No. 9 Notre Dame took things to the very brink not once, but twice, this weekend at the ACC championships and came out on the other side with the conference title after a thrilling, 15-14 win over No. 4 Syracuse on Sunday at PPL Park in Chester, Pa. 
“It’s all about where you are at this moment,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “And at this moment we should have a lot of confidence. We came into the end of the year need­ing to play our best and did play our best.” 
With the win, the Irish se­cure an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, which be­gins May 10 in Baltimore. 
Before the Irish (8-5, 2-3 ACC) even faced the Orange (10-4, 2-3), they went down to the wire in the semifinals, 
see M LACROSSE PAGE 14 


ND sOFTBAll | ND 9, MARyLAND 0; ND 8, MARyLAND 5 
Notre Dame takes down Terps 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame opened up the fourth annual Strike Out Cancer series this weekend against Maryland at Melissa Cook Stadium, setting a strong tone for the rest of the series with a convincing doubleheader sweep. 
The Irish (33-10, 12-5 ACC) grabbed their fourth ACC se­ries victory by defeating the Terrapins (8-34, 4-15) and, with the victories, move into second place in the confer­ence standings. 
In the five-inning first game Saturday, senior start­ing pitcher Laura Winter (22-4) went the distance, allowing only four hits and struck out seven Maryland batters in a shutout 9-0 vic­tory. In the second game, Winter pitched two-and­two-thirds innings of relief to record the victory. 
Offensively, several Irish players came up big through­out the day. Irish freshman leftfielder Karley Wester con­tinued her hot streak at the plate, going 4-for-5 on the day with a triple, double, two RBIs and three runs scored. Senior captain and shortstop Chloe Saganowich added three RBIs, coming off two hits that included a home run and the game-winning hit of game two. Junior third base­man Katey Haus and sopho­more first baseman Micaela Arizmendi each chipped in three RBIs on the day. 
After a relatively easy vic­tory in the first game of the doubleheader, the Irish ran into stiff resistance during the nightcap. Maryland took an early lead in the first 
see SOFTBALL PAGE 13 

BAsEBAll | ND 8, NORTHEASTERN 4; NE 6, ND 2; NE 4, ND 0 
ND drops series to Northeastern 
Observer Staff Report 
In its first series against Northeastern, Notre Dame cap­tured Friday’s victory but dropped the Saturday and Sunday contests to give the Huskies the series win at U. S. Steel yard in Gary, Ind. 
As the probable starter for Friday’s game, senior right-hand­ed pitcher Sean Fitzgerald was a last minute scratch due to a sore forearm. Normally Saturday’s starter, sophomore left-handed pitcher Michael Hearne was bumped up in Fitzgerald’s place. Hearne (4-4) pitched eight-and­two-thirds innings to earn the 8-4 win for the Irish (17-26, 4-17 ACC). Senior right-handed pitcher Donnie Hissa closed the game and earned his second save on the season. 
As a team, the Irish collect 12 hits, scoring all eight of their runs in the first four innings. 
Though the Huskies (18-22, 4-8 CAA) opened the first inning with two runs on three extra-base hits, Notre Dame quickly responded in the bottom of inning, scoring four runs thanks to two Northeastern errors and three hits off junior starter Nick Berger (1-4). 
Junior first baseman Blaise Lezynski led the offensive effort with three singles and two RBIs for the Irish, while senior outfielder Connor Lyons led Northeastern, scoring two runs and picking up three of the team’s ten hits. 
On Saturday, the Irish allowed five unearned runs as the Huskies evened the series at one with a 6-2 victory. Though Notre Dame outhit Northeastern, as the teams managed nine and eight hits re­spectively, Notre Dame’s three er­rors proved costly in comparison to an error-free game for the 
see BASEBALL PAGE 14 

BOOKsTOrE BAsKETBAll 
Juniors capture third title 
By JOSH DULANY 
Sports Writer 

Fourth-seeded Holy Cross Juniors held off a rally from sixth-seeded Touchdown 3s to capture its third straight Bookstore Basketball cham­pionship at the bookstore courts Sunday, 21-19. 
Leading 20-19, the ball was in Holy Cross junior cap­tain Zoe Bauer’s hands, and he went to a shot he said he throws up in practice all the time. With his back to the basket, he tossed up a wild hook shot that hit the back­board and banked in for the championship. 
“I knew I had to get it on the backboard,” Bauer said. “I do it all the time in practice and everyone kind of knew it was coming. I was pretty confi­dent doing it.” 
The winning basket was only Bauer’s second bucket of the game, but his teammate, junior Darrell McIntyre, said there was little doubt about what Bauer would do. 
“That’s my teammate,” McIntyre said. “I’ve seen him do that a bunch of times, and that’s just the kind of guy he is.” 


For his part, McIntyre scored nine points, including two late free throws that kept Holy Cross in front. 
Holy Cross led by three 
see BOOKSTORE PAGE 14 


Baseball vs. Miami  L 6-3  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Syracuse  W 15-14  Softball vs. Western Michigan                  Tuesday, 6 p.m.  
Baseball vs. Miami  W 7-4  Softball vs. Maryland  W 8-0  Baseball vs. Northwestern  Wednesday, 5:35  
Baseball vs. Miami  L 3-2  Softball vs. Maryland  W 12-1  Baseball vs. Maryland  Friday, 6:30  
ND W Tennis vs. Syracuse  W 4-3  Men’s Tennis vs. Boston College  W 7-0  Track at Billy Hayes Invitational  Fri.-Sat.  
Men’s Lacrosse vs. Army  Saturday, noon  






