

The observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTARY 

Talk can be quieted with Week one win 


Isaac Lorton 
Assistant managing editor 
much has been said about the Irish in the offseason. now it is time to let their play speak. 
The chatter has been recent, as four Irish players — three project­ed starters — are being held out of practices and games while the University investigates suspected academic dishonesty. 
senior receiver davaris daniels, senior defensive lineman Ishaq Williams, junior cornerback Keivarae russell and gradu­ate student linebacker Kendall moore are the four who will miss saturday’s game as part of the ongoing academic investigation. 
The Irish had to replace the former three immediately. russell was a spectacular shutdown cor­ner and almost a shoe-in captain. Williams was a solid presence on the line and would have been formidable alongside junior sheldon day. daniels was notre dame’s veteran pass-catcher with the most receptions and receiving yards on the team. 
Their absences have had far-reaching implications on both sides of the ball, as they’ve had to be replaced with young, inex­perienced players. The defense especially will be tested, early and often. rice has a “creative” offense, as Irish head coach brian Kelly said, and it won’t be easy for a realigned defense to respond on the fly early in the season. 
Under head coach brian Kelly, notre dame has emphasized a “next-man-in” mentality. sophomore defensive lineman Isaac rochell had to step up for Williams, with a combination of players, including graduate student cornerback cody riggs, sophomore cornerback cole Luke, sophomore safety max redfield and senior defensive back matthias Farley, all contributing to fill in for russell. now only their play will show how their practice has paid off and if they are ready to tackle their new roles. 
much has been said of senior quarterback everett Golson’s return in the spring and how he has progressed as a player and a leader. There is a lot on Golson’s shoulders. After the nearly-undefeated season in 2012, some are expecting him to repeat that success. however, Golson has not been in a game since the national championship against Alabama 
— 600 days ago. he has trained with quarterback guru George Whitfield Jr. and been through spring camp, but despite all of the training, can Golson pick up where he left off? only Golson will be able to answer that with how he plays starting saturday. 
much has been said of notre dame’s young team taking on one of the toughest schedules in the country. Will the inexpe­rienced players have it in them to overcome opponents in away games at Florida state, Usc and Arizona state, and home games against stanford and michigan? 
The senior class is the smallest Kelly has coached in his tenure here. A large contingent of juniors and sophomores makes up the bulk of the Irish roster. 
The captains were just named Tuesday night and are from three different classes. Graduate stu­dent Austin collinsworth, seniors cam mcdaniel and nick martin and junior sheldon day will be leading the Irish. With the deci­sion to appoint captains taking so long, is there a strong enough group of leaders or senior pres­ence to stabilize the inexperience of a young team? 
much has been said in the off­season, but not much has been said of rice. none of the specula­tion on the part of the fans and press means anything until evi­dence can be seen in the regular-season games, and those begin with rice. 
The owls are no pushovers, coming off a 10-win season and a conference UsA title. despite this fact, most of the talk has been about everything but rice, which might concern a notre dame fan. nonetheless, the talk all disap­pears on the field, where it is up to the notre dame players to worry more about the game than all of the side conversations swarming around it. 
The Irish need an emphatic win to start their season to put all of this talk to rest. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

RECRUITING 


Irish enter regular season with 17 commitments 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 

When notre dame takes the field saturday for its season open­er against rice, the program will already be off and running in the recruiting world. 
The Irish have already landed 17 commitments in the class of 2015, with all pledging to notre dame by July 2. There’s still room to add more bodies, as Irish re­cruiting analyst Tom Loy said he expects the class to finish with 23 members. 
As for the current 17-player con­tingent, Loy pointed to the offen­sive line and the receivers as the strengths of notre dame’s class of 2015. 
“I love what they’ve done across the offensive line,” said Loy, who covers notre dame recruiting for blue and Gold Illustrated, part of the 247sports network. 
offensive lineman Jerry Tillery, who hails from shreveport, La., became notre dame’s first mem­ber in the class of 2015 when he committed to the Irish on June 22, 2013. The 6-foot-5.5, 315-pounder is the no. 12 offensive tackle in the nation, according to 247sports. 
“Getting him out of LsU coun­try … that’s big time,” Loy said. “he’s one of the best tackles in the country. he’s got to mold his body a little bit better. he’s got kind of a softness to his body right now. so when he gets in the weight room and starts working with [director of football strength and condi­tioning] coach [Paul] Longo and then getting with [offensive line] coach [harry] hiestand, the sky is the limit for that kid.” 
center Tristen hoge joined Tillery by the end of the 2013 calen­dar year. The 6-foot-5, 292-pound hoge, whom Loy referred to as a “brick,” ranks as the top center in the nation and the no. 92 player overall, per 247sports. 
“he’ll be a multi-year starter and a guy you look down the road as a captain, at least in the discussion,” Loy said. 
Three-star guard Trevor ruhland rounds out the current crop of offensive lineman com­mits. Loy described ruhland as a “blue-collar, hard-nosed, old-school kind of throwback player that just wants to punch you in the mouth.” 
“he’s the perfect complement to what they got in hoge and Tillery,” Loy said. 
The receivers sit three strong right now, as well, with miles boykin, c.J. sanders and Jalen Guyton. The lengthy boykin could profile as a tight end, Loy said, but the 6-foot-4, 220-pounder has underrated speed. sanders, meanwhile, brings high-end ath­leticism, and Loy tabbed him as a polished receiver. Guyton, a three-star prospect from Allen, Texas, is becoming a more versatile receiv­er after a strong run in the state playoffs last season, according to Loy. 
notre dame’s overall class may be large in numbers, but the Irish don’t have a 2015 quarterback pledge after former commitment blake barnett decommitted and later gave his verbal to Alabama. The seven quarterbacks among 247sports’ top 100 prospects in the class of 2015 have all commit­ted elsewhere. Loy said it’s look­ing as if notre dame will pass on a quarterback in the 2015 recruiting cycle. 
“If there’s a guy that emerges, they won’t shy away from it,” Loy said. “It does happen, those kids that come out of nowhere during their senior seasons and go on to have great college careers, pick up offers.” 
In turn, the 2015 quarterback void can serve as a selling point for the Irish, Loy explained, as they target top 2016 signal-callers such as malik henry, shea Patterson and Jawon Pass, all of whom rank among the top 58 players in the country, according to 247sports. 
“There’s not going to be a kid right in front of you,” Loy said of the possible recruiting pitch. “That’s a huge selling point.” 
Loy said he really likes where notre dame stands with Patterson, the no. 25 player in the 2016 class, per 247sports. As for henry, cur­rently slotted as the no. 3 overall prospect in the class, Loy said he has been told notre dame is run­ning second behind Florida state. As it stands now, henry is sched­uled to visit when the Irish battle michigan on sept. 6, Loy said. 
michigan and stanford are ex­pected to be the two major home weekends for recruiting visits, Loy said. on saturday, the Irish will host a small group of commit­ments, including boykin and de­fensive tackle brandon Tiassum, according to Loy. 
“That’s just as important as recruiting the guys that are not committed,” Loy said. “You’ve got to keep those guys happy. Just because they’re committed, obvi­ously you know they’re not signed. You can’t just stop recruiting these kids.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 2014 | The observer 




University for poor aca-“spotty” in attendance we don’t have as many It’s a big step from In 2012, everett Golson had a 

By MARY GREEN 

sports editor demic judgement. and occasionally late for guys — all those seniors Golson’s game in 2012, 131.0 quarterback rating. “It was extremely diffi-meetings. that are now gone,” he said when he tended to rely on he averaged more than 200 “Am I having too much cult,” Golson said. “A lot of In his first year seeing Aug. 19. “I look up now, and his mobility rather than a yards through the air each game. fun?” the times, just me being the playing time for notre I’m the senior, so I have to thorough knowledge of the but according to his coach, he 
everett Golson can’t help guy I am, I kind of put that dame, Golson was the be the leader of this team.” playbook to pick up first wasn’t as good of a quarterback as but laugh as photo after on myself immediately.” starting quarterback on Kelly said Golson downs. he is now. photo is snapped of him. This saturday against the depth chart. but he had emerged as a leader for day said that dedica-“he’s definitely made some strapping up his helmet, rice, Golson will take the that privilege taken away other reasons. tion is now part of Golson’s strides,” Kelly said march 3 after tugging on the faceguard, starting snaps and put in a game against miami “he said it, he didn’t demeanor, both on the Golson’s first practice back from staring into the lens like on that familiar gold hel-on oct. 6, 2012, for being want the suspension to field, where he’s most vis-his suspension. “I think there must he’s focusing on a receiver met again — this time for late to practice. define who he was,” Kelly ible, and in the classroom, have been some real good teach-on 3rd-and-long — and 80,000 fans, not just for the “he wasn’t doing the said. “he wanted this op-where his original mistake ing there that has allowed him that then Golson even wants camera. things leaders do,” Kelly portunity to show that he occurred. opportunity to come in here and a few pictures for himself, A lot has improved said at the team’s media was much more than that, “he’s committed to ev-have a better sense of everything.” smiling the whole time. for him in the span of a day Aug. 19. and I think he’s going to get erything,” day said. “he’s That teaching came at the 
It’s clear a career in mod-year. And even more has In Golson’s defense, the that opportunity.” always putting his heart hands of George Whitfield Jr., the eling — at least one that changed for him from his 2012 squad wasn’t lack-Irish junior defensive into everything he does “quarterback guru” who made requires keeping a straight breakout season two years ing leadership, with lead-lineman sheldon day, one now, so if it’s school, he’s sure Golson stayed sharp in his face — might not be in ago. ers that included heisman of Golson’s best friends on focused on school; if it’s absence. the cards for the senior ***** Trophy runner-up manti the team, said he has seen football, he’s putting his Whitfield has worked with quarterback. In 2012, everett Golson Te’o and two-time captain Golson take a more proac-all into football.” some of the nFL’s finest quarter-
but this everett Golson was the starting quarter-Zack martin. tive approach to his game. With his tardiness and backs, such as ben roethlisberger 
— the one who is try-back for a team whose “I think 2012 was a little “his ability to study film irresponsibility in the and Andrew Luck, and with him, ing to stifle a chuckle but first loss of the season different,” Golson said. “I and to see where he made past, Golson said he now Golson was able to fine-tune his can’t help it — is leaps and came in the bcs national was a redshirt freshman. his mistakes to make sure sees the value of the game skills out in california. bounds from the one he championship Game. We had manti; we had he doesn’t make them he loves. That’s allowed him to take on a was a year ago. Golson was as impor-Zack; we had guys that again,” day said of what “I think it means a lot more complex offense this season, 
That Golson spent tant to the offense as the were in that leadership makes Golson so hard to more now,” he said. “I’ve which will utilize his speed and saturdays on the couch, team’s other no. 5 was to role.” stop. “he’s always asking had time to evaluate. I’ve that of his receivers. watching his teammates the defense. This year, the quarter-us, ‘What did you do here, had time to see different “It’s tremendously fast,” Golson struggle at times from afar but he wasn’t a leader. back said he saw a hole and what did you do there?’ to things, being away from said. “Two years ago, we didn’t run while he was suspended Irish head coach brian decided to fill it. make sure he doesn’t make the game.” at as near a fast pace. It was more from the team and the Kelly said Golson was “For the simple fact that them again.” And he readily shares conservative, in a sense — slow the 
his appreciation to learn ball down, run the ball, that type PAId AdverTIsemenT 
and compete at notre of thing. now, we want to be really dame once more. aggressive on the offensive side.” 
— a few videos of him working out with Whitfield, footage from this past spring and his 2012 stats — Golson has found himself on the watch lists for the maxwell, davey o’brien and Walter camp awards this season. on saturday, Golson’s teammates, coaches and Irish fans will get their first chance to see if his much-anticipated return 
***** shows that through his vocal skills and his playing,” day said. With a small and select resume 
“I’m so grateful for just That improvement has helped the opportunity to be the Irish as a whole, day said. back here because it could have been another way,” “he definitely took over the role as a leader on the offense and built he said. them to be a better unit, and he
and much-discussed im­provement will live up to the hype. As for Golson himself? he’ll be living in the moment that he’s waited for so long to happen. 
“It’s going to be crazy for sure,” he said. “Things like that, they last for maybe 30 seconds to a min­ute and then you have to dial in on what’s the task at hand. That’s what I’m trying to prepare myself for most is just understanding that the crowd is there but also dialing myself in and performing my task at hand.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 





CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 


OWLS PASSING 
rice must replace quarterback Taylor mchargue, who threw for all but 150 of the owls’ nearly 2,500 passing yards a sea­son ago. enter redshirt junior signal-caller driphus Jackson, who has played in 21 career games but has made only one start during his three seasons with the owls. 
Jackson has completed just 51.8 percent of his career pass attempts (44-for-85), and the cedar hill, Texas, native could be without his top target in preseason all-conference receiver Jordan Taylor, who is battling a sore foot. Taylor, who brian Kelly praised this week as a strong route-runner, has made 24 career starts and has racked up 112 total re­ceptions in the last two seasons combined. 
on top of that, rice finished 2013 with the 103rd-ranked passing offense, averaging 
178.2 yards per game. Will the owls go to the air more in 2014? 
notre dame’s pass defense certainly takes a hit without junior cornerback Keivarae russell, but the Irish are still deep in the sec­ondary. cody riggs and cole Luke shouldn’t have too much trouble holding down the perimeter, and devin butler and matthias Farley can be successful on the interior.
 EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

OWLS RUSHING 
The owls rumbled their way to the 17th­best rushing offense in the country last sea­son, averaging a whopping 227.4 yards per game on the ground. 
but rice loses 63 percent of that rushing production with the departures of running back charles ross (1,280 yards in 2013), mchargue (464) and running back Turner Peterson (262). 
sophomore Jowan davis and redshirt sophomore darik dillard are listed as the co-starters at running back, and both will be called on to continue rice’s rushing success. 
The owls will go up against an inexperi­enced notre dame front seven. The owls could find holes to exploit among a group that features five new starters. The Irish are undersized with linebackers Joe schmidt and James onwualu, but if they can hold up at the point of attack, rice won’t be able to run completely rampant.


 EDGE: EVEN 

OWLS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
There’s new coordinators all around this game, as rice lost then-offensive coordi­nator John reagan toward the end of last season. Kelly praised rice’s offense for its creativity and innovation in 2013, so the logical question is how much of that car­ries over in 2014 without reagan steering the ship. 
Quarterbacks coach Larry edmondson and receivers coach billy Lynch are the co-offensive coordinators, and they’ll be tasked with producing a consistent unit despite new pieces at quarterback and run­ning back, to name a few. 
Irish defensive coordinator brian vanGorder is expected to be aggressive, and if he dials up pressure and exotic looks for Jackson, the inexperienced signal-call­er could be forced into poor decisions.
 EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
OWLS SPECIAL TEAMS
 Punter James Farrimond earned a spot on the ray Gay Award preseason watch list and was a third-team preseason All-conference UsA selection, according to Athlon. 
rice added kicker James hairston from LsU, where hairston handled kickoff du­ties for three seasons, blasting 88 career touchbacks. hairston’s leg could help rice control some of the field position battle. 
The loss of chris boswell, an All-conference UsA second-team choice in 2013, leaves a void in the field-goal game. 
EDGE: RICE 
OWLS SCHEDULE (0-0) 
Aug. 30 @ Notre Dame sept. 13 @ Texas A&M sept. 20 Old Dominion sept. 27 @ Southern Miss. 

oct. 4 oct. 11 oct. 25 nov. 1 nov. 8 nov. 15 nov. 21 nov. 29 

Hawaii 
@ Army 
North Texas 
@ Florida International UTSA 
@ Marshall 
UTEP 

Louisiana Tech 



HEAD TO 
3:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
RICE 


(So.) Jowan Davis 
(r-so.) darik dillard 

(R-Jr.) Driphus Jackson
(r-so.) Tyler stehling 
(R-Sr.) Jordan Taylor
 (r-so.) Zach Wright 
(So.) Robby Wells
(r-Fr.) cole hunt 
(R-Sr.) Ian Gray
(r-so.) brandon dawkins 

(R-Sr.) Nico Carlson
RB
32 (r-Fr.) Kenneth Thompson 

(R-Sr.) Matt Simonette
QB
10 (r-so.) spencer stanley 
(R-Jr.) Andrew Reue 
(r-Fr.) Peter Godber 
(R-Jr.) Caleb Williams 
(r-Jr.) John Poehlmann 
(Jr.) Dennis Parks 
(Fr.) James mayden 
(R-Sr.) Mario Hull 
(r-so.) darrion Pollard 




79 

70 

52 

51 

55 

2 

8 
(Sr.) Malcolm Hill 


LCB
(r-so.) michael Warren 12 
(Sr.) Jaylon Finner 

13 
KAT 

(R-Sr.) Gabe Baker 

SS
(Jr.) Zach espinosa 6 
(R-So.) Alex Lyons
(r-Jr.) nick elder 
(R-Sr.) James Radcliffe 
(r-Fr.) nick Uretsky 

(Sr.) Julius White 

FS
(Jr.) Garrett Fuhrman 11 

(Sr.) James Hairston 

PK
(r-Fr.) Taylor Knopf 7 

(R-Jr.) James Farrimond

P
(Jr.) Luke Turner 35 

(R-Sr.) Bryce Callahan

PR
(r-sr.) mario hull 1 
(Fr.) destri White 
(R-Jr.) Brian Nordstrom 

(Fr.) Graysen schantz 
SLB
46 (R-Jr.) Ross Winship
(r-so.) cody henessee 

(R-Jr.) Christian Covington
(sr.) dylan Klare 
21 
WLB 
(R-Sr.) Zach Patt 
(r-Fr.) brian Womac 


94 
LE 


58 
NT 


96 
DT 


44 
RE 
(R-Sr.) Bryce Callahan


RCB
(Fr.) Jorian clark 20 
(R-Jr.) James Farrimond 
(r-so.) Zach Wright 
(Sr.) Malcolm Hill 
(r-sr.) mario hull 
(R-Sr.) Tanyan Farley
(r-Fr.) Ty carter 


9 
H 


1 
KR 


64 
LS 


Mike Monaco 
senior sports Writer 
There hasn’t been much rice chatter of late since news broke of notre dame’s ongoing academic investigation. 
heck, it took until around the 27-minute mark for brian Kelly to field a question about the owls during his Tuesday teleconference. 
That’s not to say the Irish are sleeping on rice. The owls won 10 games last season and claimed their first-ever conference UsA crown. 
but notre dame has too much talent across the board. everett Golson and the offense may need a moment to get going, and the defense likely will give up its share of big plays. however, the owls could be without 6-foot-5 receiver Jordan Taylor. 
The Irish will roll to a 1-0 start. 
FINAL SCORE : notre dame 31, rice 17 


Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
notre dame hasn’t dominated a true home opener since it shut out a nevada team led by colin Kaepernick in 2009. 
since then, the Irish have had three unremark­able home-opener wins, two over Purdue and one over Temple, and an ugly loss to south Florida. 
expect this home opener to be similar to last year’s against Temple, and not just because rice is also nick­named the owls. 
on offense, the Irish will show flashes of brilliance and moments of ineptitude. It’s to be expected from a team whose quarterback hasn’t played in 600 days. 
The Irish defense will show some vulnerability and re­veal its lack of depth, but it should handily hold off a rice team trying to find its identity. FINAL SCORE : notre dame 27, rice 10 



Samantha Zuba 
Assistant managing editor 
expect an Irish win, but rice will hang tough. 
rice has an experienced coach in david bailiff, who starts his eighth season with the owls. continuity in leadership should help the owls settle down early and challenge a notre dame team dealing with a large turnover in starters.
 It could take the Irish a little longer to find a rhythm in this game, particularly on offense, with everett Golson seeing his first regular-season ac­tion in well more than a year.
 The Irish defense will find a consistent stride first, but don’t be surprised when the offense makes some eye-popping plays even though the game overall may look inconsistent. 
FINAL SCORE : notre dame 28, rice 14 
WR 
TE LT LG C RG RT 
WR WR 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 2014 | The observer 




TO HEAD 

ON NBC 

Cody Riggs (Gr.) 
CB 
19 nick Watkins (Fr.) 

Jaylon Smith (So.) 
WLB 
48 Greer martini (Fr.) 


Andrew Trumbetti (Fr.) 
DE 
45 romeo okwara (Jr.) 


Austin Collinsworth (Gr.) 
S 


41 matthias Farley (sr.) 
Sheldon Day (Jr.) 

DT 
53 Justin Utupo (Gr.) 

Joe Schmidt (Sr.) 


ILB 
5 nyles morgan (Fr.) 
Jarron Jones (Jr.) 

DT 
75 daniel cage (Fr.) 

Max Redfield (So.) 


S 
22 elijah shumate (Jr.) 
Isaac Rochell (So.) 

DE 
92 Grant blankenship (Fr.) 

James Onwualu (So.) 
SLB 
31 John Turner (Jr.) 


Cole Luke (So.) 
CB 
12 devin butler (so.) 

Chris Brown (Jr.) 

WR 
7 Will Fuller (so.) 

Amir Carlisle (Sr.) 

WR 
20 c.J. Prosise (Jr.) 

Steve Elmer (So.) 

RT 
70 hunter bivin (so.) 


Cam
 McDaniel (Sr.) 

Christian
 Lombard (Gr.) RB 


25 Tarean Folston (so.) 

RG 
65 conor hanratty (sr.) 1 Greg bryant (so.) 


Everett
 Golson (Sr.) 

Nick
 Martin (Sr.) 


QB

C 
75 mark harrell(Jr.) 8 malik Zaire (so.) 

Matt Hegarty (Sr.) 

LG 
75 mark harrell (Jr.) 

Ronnie Stanley (Jr.) 

LT 
68 mike mcGlinchey (so.) 

Ben Koyack (Sr.) 

TE 
80 durham smythe (so.) 

Corey Robinson (So.) 

WR 
11 Justin brent (Fr.) 


Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 

Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 

KO 
PK 
85 Tyler newsome (Fr.) 
Amir Carlisle (Sr.) 

Kyle Brindza (Sr.) 

KR 
P
33 cam mcdaniel (sr.) 85 Tyler newsome (Fr.) 


Cody
 Riggs (Gr.) 

Scott
 Daly (Jr.) 



LS 
PR 

1 Greg bryant (so.) 


Notre Dame vs. Temple 





MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING 
This would be much closer to a landslide if the Irish had the services of senior re­ceiver davaris daniels on saturday. 
but they don’t. 
That means notre dame’s active leading receiver will be junior chris brown, he of the 17 career receptions. between brown, sophomores corey robinson and Will Fuller, senior Amir carlisle and junior c.J. Prosise, senior quarterback everett Golson will have plenty of options. 
The most reliable, at times, could be se­nior tight end ben Koyack and the running backs. 
but Golson, who will be making his first game appearance in 600 days, must face an experienced and talented rice sec­ondary. Kelly praised redshirt cornerback bryce callahan, who ranks third among returning Fbs players with 11 career inter­ceptions. In trusting callahan, the owls have the ability to play some man coverage on the perimeter. 
rice’s defense has been improving in recent years under defensive coordinator chris Thurmond. between callahan and fellow defensive backs Julius White, Gabe baker and malcolm hill, the owls start four seniors with significant prior experi­ence. They won’t be fooled easily by the Irish.
     EDGE: EVEN 
IRISH RUSHING
       The owls finished in the middle of the pack defensively last season against the run, allowing 161.4 yards per contest. 
notre dame must really zero in on con­taining owls defensive tackle christian covington, who led the team with 11.5 tackles for loss last year as a sophomore. covington is a preseason third-team All-American, according to Phil steele, and a consensus preseason all-conference choice. Kelly said covington will be one of the better players notre dame faces all season long and praised his physicality and constant activity. 
but notre dame’s running backs are more than a one-man band. In fact, they form a three-headed monster. expect se­nior cam mcdaniel and sophomores Greg bryant and Tarean Folston all to make 
MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
plays in the season opener. It will be inter­esting to see how the rotation shakes out and if Kelly and Irish offensive coordinator mike denbrock elect to ride the hot hands at certain times.
     EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
denbrock is in his first season as the team’s offensive coordinator, but Kelly will be the one calling the plays saturday. The Irish are looking to play faster offensively, and Kelly has personnel that fits his ideal. 
much of notre dame’s offensive success will come down to its performance in the red zone. The Irish have struggled there in recent years, but notre dame thinks it has found some answers. 
don’t look past Thurmond defensive­ly. The fourth-year coordinator has had the owls causing turnovers and limiting points, as rice finished with the no. 42 scoring defense in the country in 2013.
   EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS
     It’d be difficult for notre dame’s special teams to be worse in 2014, especially as it relates to kick coverage and punt returns. 
    Kelly thinks the Irish have found some answers in both those areas, but until they become apparent, there’s ample reason to doubt the Irish on special teams.
     Keep an eye, however, on new return men cody riggs and Greg bryant (punts) and Amir carlisle (kicks). They could add needed life.
      EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
IRISH SCHEDULE (0-0) 
Aug. 30 Rice sept. 6 Michigan sept. 13 vs. Purdue sept. 27 Syracuse 

oct. 4  Stanford  
oct. 11  North Carolina  
oct. 18  @ Florida State  
nov. 1  vs. Navy  
nov. 8  @ Arizona State  
nov. 15  Northwestern  
nov. 22  Louisville  
nov. 29  @ USC  



Isaac Lorton 
Assistant managing editor 
     There are a lot of question marks concerning notre dame, but none of them will be large enough to garner a rice victory.
     The Irish are inexperienced on defense, which could be worrisome against rice’s creative offense, but this defensive group is probably the fastest and most ath­letic south bend has seen in years.
     The offense is fine. brian Kelly will be calling the shots and finally has the personnel to run the system he came here to implement. With a solid line and tal­ented backfield and receiving corps, the offense will produce. The Irish will give up some points to rice due to the learning curve, but the offense will out-produce that of the owls. 
FINAL SCORE : notre dame 34, rice 24 



Mary Green 
sports editor 
rice had more wins than notre dame last season. rice won its conference for the first time in program history last season. but when rice comes to notre dame stadium on saturday to open this season, the on­the-rise program won’t walk away with a win. 
That’s not to say the owls won’t hang with the Irish — this is a squad that bested its opponents by an average of two touchdowns per game in 2013. It’ll take a series or two for the notre dame offense to get into rhythm, so the first quarter won’t be the blowout Irish faithful expect. 
but once everett Golson finds his groove and the trio of running backs picks up a few big gains, notre dame will be rocking like it’s 2012. 
FINAL SCORE : notre dame 34, rice 20 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 
PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 2014 | The observer 






Linebackers look to build on legacy 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
Two seasons ago, notre dame’s linebacker corps featured a heisman-trophy runner-up in manti Te’o, an aggressive pass rusher in Prince shembo, a ver­satile defender in danny spond and a platoon of experienced se­niors in carlo calabrese and dan Fox. 
now, the Irish linebacker posi­tion two-deep encompasses the team’s most highly-touted soph­omore, a former walk-on, a duo of former secondary players and two true freshmen. 
If that change is not enough, the Irish linebackers also have picked up a new defensive scheme in the offseason, switch­ing primarily from a 3-4 to a 4-3 defense under new defensive co­ordinator brian vanGorder. 
While such changes may seem daunting, Irish senior linebacker Joe schmidt said they’ve put him and his fellow position players in a position to succeed. 
“You could put any player in [the new defense],” schmidt said. “It provides excellent opportuni­ties for player X. Whatever player we put in that situation is going to be successful, I think.” 
schmidt is the former walk-on of the group, having earned a scholarship after his sopho­more season. he appeared in all 13 games last year and after being described by head coach brian Kelly as “the leader on our defense” in the spring, is expect­ed to start at inside linebacker against rice on saturday. 
schmidt said he relishes his role as the so-called leader of the linebackers. 
“It’s just kind of my personal­ity to drive,” he said. “For me, it’s always been just natural, that, ‘hey, this is what I’m seeing,’ and I just help direct traffic out there. I’m always screaming — I’ve got a really loud voice — and I’m al­ways telling people what I see.” 
Although schmidt has re­ceived accolades from his coach­es, much of the outside praise has gone to sophomore Jaylon smith, who recorded 67 tackles and started every game at out­side linebacker in his freshman season. smith has been named to five national award watch lists, including the bednarik Award, presented to the best defensive college football player in the country. 
“[smith] has very good foot­ball intellect, and he’s a very natural player,” outside lineback­ers coach bob elliott said at the team’s media day Aug. 19. “one thing that’s interesting about Jaylon is that he’s so flexible and athletic that he can get his body into a bad position and still get out of it and make a very good play.” 


expected to play alongside schmidt and smith is sophomore James onwualu, who made stops at receiver and safety before transitioning to the linebacker position. onwualu’s projected backup is another convert, junior John Turner, who entered notre dame as a safety. 
“They’re willing to do any­thing,” schmidt said of onwualu and Turner. “They switched 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
positions, which is a humbling experience. … It was pretty cool seeing the growth and the mat­uration process for both those players, and they’re guys who are going to have a great impact this year.” 
Freshmen nyles morgan and Greer martini are also listed on the linebacker two-deep chart. other potential starters at the position include seniors Jarrett Grace, who continues to recover from a broken leg suffered last season, and ben councell. 
schmidt conceded that it will be tough to replace the leadership lost at the linebacker position. but he admitted that he and his teammates are ready to make their own impact. 
“Those guys in the past built an awesome foundation for us,” schmidt said. “Those guys who were there with them, … we grew up in that system with those old­er guys, so we’re building on that and putting our own twist on it. It’s not replacing anything. It’s building everything on top of the foundation, a very solid rock.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



