The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 110 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Sophomore Class Council hosts ‘Jeopardy!’ battle 
Students are tested on an array of facts to prove who is the master of trivia at Notre Dame 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
The sophomore class council (scc) is hosting a three-day Jeopardy! tournament this week, and so far sophomore class president Jake grefenstette said the competition has been tough. 
“we were really impressed by the competitors’ knowledge of ridiculous facts during the first round,” grefenstette said. 
sophomore brittany sanok, a member of the scc education committee, said the scc decid­ed the host the event because of the committee’s dedication to fostering academic involvement on campus. 
“Two of scc’s most important goals are to engage students in notre dame’s academic and artistic culture and to foster conversation between students and professors,” sanok said. “as a team, scc and the education committee decided to host a Jeopardy! tournament because it is a fun event that stimulates the mind and showcases some of the amazing intellectual tal­ent of notre dame students.” 
sanok said the semi-finals took place Tuesday, and the fi­nal rounds would take place wednesday. 
“we had a preliminary exam on march 5 and over 100 stu­dents showed up to take the exam,” sanok said. “our plan was to take one person from each dorm [however, three 
see Jeopardy PAGE 5 




smc engages foreign speakers 
beginner to advanced levels. 
she said while the program mainly focuses on preparing students for higher education and life in the u.s., it also sup­ports students who come for more personal goals. 
“some  students  want  to  
work  on  gaining confidence  
in  their  speaking,  reading  

and writing skills,” cowham said. “we have had many stu­dents whose spouses come for work, and they need a pro­gram that will help them gain 
see language PAGE 5 


Panel marries careerism and family 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
shades of ebony hosted the sister Jean roundtable on “different paths: The intersection of career and Family,” on Tuesday as part of women’s week. 
The group invited iris outlaw, alyssia coates and christine caron­gebhardt to speak about their experiences balanc­ing career and family life as females.  
caron-gebhardt, direc­tor of the gender relations center, said there was one question that always scared her. 
“i remember the one ques­tion that always came up was, ‘can a woman have it all? can you have it all?’” caron-gebhardt said. 

outlaw, director of the office of multicultural student programs and services, said at the begin­ning of her career, she was working a full-time job, go­ing to school and trying to maintain her home, which was busy with a husband and two kids. she said it was hard, but she pursued what she felt was right in her heart. 
coates, who is the direc­tor of office of admissions outreach and engagement recruiting, said sacrifices will have to be made, but that should not discourage women from pursuing all they want. 
“you are going to make sac­rifices. i can’t say to you the choices that i’ve made aren’t 
see paThs PAGE 4 




Court rules on prof’s case 

Observer Staff Report 
The court of appeals of indiana ruled Friday that notre dame law professor stephen smith will not face a felony charge of domes­tic battery because the state failed to compile its case in time, according to a court memorandum and a march 25 article in the south bend Tribune. 
however, smith will stand trial for a charge of misde­meanor battery and still fac­es two misdemeanor charges of violating a protective or­der, the report stated. 
both battery charges stemmed from the same 2011 incident in which smith al­legedly battered his wife and allegedly assaulted his adult son. 
see reporT PAGE 4 



By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
The english language school at saint mary’s dem­onstrates the college’s mis­sion for student diversity by working to help students reach their educational goals for to english language learn­ing or proficiency. 
Terra cowham, assistant di­rector of the english language school, said the program provides intensive english language-instruction to non­native speakers, ranging from 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s lacrosse PAGE 16 FooTball PAGE 16 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could domesticate any animal for a pet, what would you choose? 

Ben Loerisen 
sophomore o’neill hall 
“Tiger.” 

Camilla Tassi 
junior ryan hall 
“wolf.” 

Elizabeth Owers 
senior walsh hall 
“dolphin.” 


Joe Salvi 
sophomore dillon hall 
“narwhal.” 


Johanna Thil 

sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“Kangaroo.” 


Trevor Hurley 
junior alumni hall 
“penguin.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

Kelly Konya mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen Kit loughran margaret hynds brian plamondon 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Keri o’mara miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

“The Death of God & “Travails of the Irish ND Relay for Life Women’s Basketball Women’s Tennis 
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 
the War on Terror” Language” Compton Family Ice Regional Finals Eck Tennis Pavilion Eck Visitors Center Hesburgh Library Arena Purcell Pavilion 9 a.m.-11 a.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 6 p.m.-10 a.m. 12 p.m.-4 :30 p.m. The Irish take on Wake 


Corrections 

Lecture by Terry Lecture on history of Fundraiser for cancer The Irish host the Forest 
on issues of The observer published Eagleton. the Irish language. research. NCAA regional finals. between march 18-25, the volume number was incorrectly published 
Wellness Wednesday Zen Meditation Men’s Tennis Hawai’i Club Lu’au: Sunday Vespers 
as volume 48. The volume number  
St. Liam Hall Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion He Mele No Concert 
has been corrected to volume 47. The 
3:30p.m.-4:30 p.m. Center 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Stepan Center Basilica of the Sacred 
observer regrets this error. 

Tai Chi and Chai Tea. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 5 p.m.-8 p.m. Heart Open to all students Duke Blue Devils. $10 students, $15 non-7:15 p.m. and staff. students University Folk Choir 




SMC nutritionist provides health advice 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
nutritionist anna wasierski has worked with students and their daily nu­trition habits for more than 18 years at saint mary’s and notre dame. during appoint­ments, students consistently ask about how to eat in the dining hall, wasierski said. 
“They’re used to coming from mom and dad doing the majority of their cook­ing, [and] they’re also com­ing from a full kitchen where they could eat when they want, how they want. … Trying to come in to navigate the dining hall is a big chal­lenge,” wasierski said. 
in response, wasierski said she looks at the student’s schedule and personal pref­erences to develop a plan that fits the student’s unique situation. 
“a student walks in the door and they’re completely dif­ferent from the student who was in before … everyone has goals, whether that’s weight gain, weight loss, weight maintenance … there’s so many different factors that go into that, so i treat every student as an individual,” wasierski said. 
when it comes to navigat­ing the dining hall, wasierski said she believes having a routine is ideal. 
“i think it’s really impor­tant for students to know your body thrives on routine,” she said. “[your body] needs you eating routinely throughout the day so that you’re not like a gas tank out of gas and your car won’t go. you do need something. will your body keep moving [if you don’t eat routinely]? absolutely. will it move efficiently? probably not.” 
This routine includes the three main meals of the day, as well as snacks. it’s normal and healthy for a college stu­dent to snack at night within 

“It’s not that you have to eat twigs and branches. Your food is supposed to taste good, it’s supposed to be a pleasurable activity.” 
Anna Wasierski 
nutritionist 
a time frame, wasierski said. 
”i tell students [to] have a time frame of when you want to have snack … have a game plan going into it,” she said. “i know a lot of students try not to keep any food in their room just because they don’t want to struggle, they don’t want to have so many choic­es, but sometimes then they won’t make the effort to go and get something, or they make the effort and it isn’t the best choice.” 
while sugary cake and cookies may be a quick pick­me-up, wasierski said they are merely quick fixes that could be replaced with better options. she said she encour­ages students to have healthy snack options available in their rooms. 
“i always recommend that students have a well-stocked refrigerator as well as oth­er items available. and in the refrigerator i encourage some protein-rich choices,” she said. “cheese sticks, yo­gurt … deli meats are some great choices. outside of the refrigerator having different kinds of whole grains, differ­ent kinds of granola bars or cereals or crackers are great choices. 
“it’s not that you have to eat twigs and branches. your food is supposed to taste good, it’s supposed to be a pleasurable activity … when your food tastes good, not only do you get physically satisfied from that, you get mentally satisfied from that.” 
she said by developing healthy eating habits as well as sleeping enough and drinking water students can take on the following day with a steady mind and han­dle stress better. 
“what you put in your body fuels everything else in your life,” she said. 
students can contact nu­tritionists from saint mary’s and notre dame with any questions they may have con­cerning nutrition. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



psychologist debunks myths of hypnosis 
By SARAH McCARTHY 
news writer 
world-renowned clini­cal psychologist dr. david watson presented a lecture Tuesday about the history of hypnosis and the common characteristics of the hyp­notic state. 
watson’s lecture, spon­sored by the notre dame psychology club, began with a detailed definition of what hypnosis is and what it is not. 
“a lot of [hypnosis] is shrouded in mystery and controversy,” watson said. “There are a lot of miscon­ceptions about hypnosis.” 
according to the society for psychological hypnosis, hypnosis typically involves an introduction to the proce­dure during which the sub­ject is told that suggestions for imaginative experiences will be presented, watson said. 
suggestion is at the core of hypnosis and is used by hypnotists to encourage and evaluate responses from sub­jects, he said. 
“when using hypnosis, one person, the subject, is guid­ed by another, the hypnotist, to respond to suggestions for changes in subjective experience, alterations in perception, sensation, emo­tion, thought, or behavior,” watson said. “if the subject 


“A lot of [hypnosis] is shrouded in mystery and controvery. There are a lot of misconceptions about hypnosis.” 
Dr. David Watson                           
clinical psychologist 
responds to hypnotic sugges­tions, it is generally inferred that hypnosis has been induced.” 
watson said hypnosis also involves the processes of conformity and social influence. 
“it’s sort of a social interac­tion, a very structured situa­tion, that is based on some sort of altered fantasy-based form of consciousness,” he said. 
watson deflated sever­al popular myths regard­ing hypnosis and its effect on subjects. he said a per­son cannot be hypnotized against his or her will, nor can hypnosis be used to improve memory or per­manently forget things or people. 
“These misconceptions all have a common theme, which is that hypnosis is seen as an incredibly power­ful thing,” he said. “it is pow­erful [but] it’s probably not incredibly powerful.” 
watson also offered in­sight into what he called the “weird, somewhat tortured history of hypnosis.” 
hypnosis originated in the middle ages, where it stemmed from hysteria in people who were thought to be possessed by demons, 


“It’s sort of a social interaction, a very structured situation, that is based on some sort of altered fantasy-based form of consciousness.” 
Dr. David Watson 
clinical psychologist 
watson said. in the 18th century, german physician Franz anton mesmer studied these instances of demonic possession and the subse­quent exorcisms. mesmer de­veloped his own theory that was eventually debunked 
by  a  commission  led  by  
benjamin Franklin,  watson  
said.  

in the mid-19th century, scottish scientist James braid, who used hypnosis in therapy, coined the term “neuro-hypnotism” to de­scribe his method. 
“The original application of hypnosis in medicine was for use in surgery,” watson said. “This is still in our cur­rent day the most common use of hypnosis … [for] the relief of pain.” 
Today, hypnosis can be used similar to meditation to give subjects a heightened, intense sensory experience and focused attention, he said. 
watson emphasized that the significance of hypnosis lies in the person who is be­ing hypnotized. 
“people think of hypno­sis … as somebody control­ling somebody else,” he said. “it’s important to keep in mind the hypnotic subject is more important than the hypnotist.” 

Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



professor discusses gender inequality in business 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
notre dame psychology pro­fessor anre venter broached the issue of gender inequality in investment careers during a talk Tuesday in the mendoza college of business. The talk was sponsored by the smart women securities nd chapter, a new club modeled after an orga­nization at harvard that aims to develop skills in financing and investing. 
venter began his talk with an overview of his experience in the business world, which he said included nine years in hu­man resources and manage­ment without much focus on investment banking. 
“i have to begin with an in­tellectually honest statement. i know almost nothing about behavioral economics and even less about the psychology of in­vesting,” venter said. “however, growing up as a white south 
Report 
conTinued From page 1 
“The state has alleged that smith battered his wife on the evening in question while two of their sons were in the home,” a court memo­randum stated. “one of their sons was 10 years old, which elevated the charge to a d felony. 
“The other son, stephen, was an adult home from col­lege for the summer. stephen intervened when his mother was knocked to the ground and then smith allegedly assaulted stephen before stephen, his mother and the child were able to escape to a neighbor’s house and call police.” 
The state first filed the class d felony charge June 25, 2011. The trial was originally scheduled for Jan. 3, 2012 but rescheduled for april 27, 2012 “due to court congestion,” the memorandum stated. 
The trial was rescheduled two more times when st. Joseph superior court Judge Jerome Frese recused him­self from the case and later when smith’s son stephen, a material witness for the state, did not arrive for african in an extremely conser­vative and sexist society, i know a lot about sexism.” 
acknowledging the degrees of institutionalized sexism in the workplace, venter analyzed career prospects for women in business. 
“as a social psychologist, i find that environments influence be­havior even more than our own personalities do,” venter said. “women have to be aware that the work environment is a male-dominated, patriarchal world where men are used to making the decisions.” 
in the field of investment banking, only 25 percent of po­sitions are held by women, with about 11 percent in manage­ment and a mere 3 percent in the role of ceo. discrepancies in pay are also prevalent, and venter said women earn less di­rectly after finishing mba pro­grams than equally-qualified men — as little as 79 cents to every dollar. 
the trial, according to the memorandum. 
The state filed the addi­tional charge of misdemean­or battery against smith on sept. 12, 2012, for the alleged assault of his son, the memo­randum stated. 
smith sought the dismissal and discharge of both counts dec. 21, 2012, under criminal rule 4(c), which “places an affirmative duty on the state to bring a defendant to tri­al within one year of being charged or arrested,” accord­ing to the memorandum. 
The indiana court of appeals ruled that the state’s time had expired for the bat­tery charge but not the mis­demeanor charge, which was filed later, the memorandum stated. smith’s trial for vio­lating the protective order is scheduled in may, according to the south bend Tribune. 
smith has no prior crimi­nal history, according to stan wruble, smith’s attorney for the protective order cases, the south bend Tribune stated. 
The observer was not able to reach smith or dan myers, vice president and associate provost for faculty affairs, for comment. 
To make sense of this inequal­ity, venter cited 15 studies in which participants were given money to invest in testing peo­ples’ aversions to risky and am­biguous investments. 
“Testosterone levels are linked to irrational levels of exuberance in trading. When men lose, they lose big.” 
Anre Venter                                
professor of psychology 
“in the most extreme case, men invested 80 percent of what they were given while women invested 48 percent,” he said. “The tendency holds up across the board: men took greater risks and women were more risk-averse. women dealt with ambiguity better than men and invested more in uncertain stocks.” 
despite the differences in risk-taking, venter said women investors outperform their male counterparts by 2 to 3 percent, and the reason involves biology. 
“Testosterone levels are linked to irrational levels of exuber­ance in trading,” he said. “when men lose, they lose big. 
“with only 10 percent of the testosterone of men, women are less emotionally attached to their trades and less likely to hold onto bad stocks. They tend to make less on the way up, but lose less on the way down.” 
venter said this data could suggest a need for more women in the field of investing, even though fewer women are enter­ing the sectors of finance and investment banking. 
The male-domination of the field, venter said, may have to do with men being favored in the performance review pro­cess that determines raises and promotions. 
“The tendency of male re­viewers to provide other men with more help, guidance and mentoring creates an ‘old boy’s club’ in which woman have a more difficult time advancing,” he said. “women in advising roles just tend to be in less pow­erful positions than men.” 
venter said women enter­ing into careers in investment banking may be able to cre­ate change, but not without difficulties. 
“when you’re a junior analyst, [you’re] thinking you’re going to change the system when you enter. but, five years down the road, once you’ve been social­ized into it, affecting change will be that much harder,” he said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at          cducey@nd.edu 


Paths 
conTinued From page 1 

sacrifices,” coates said. “but you have to balance it with what’s important to you. 
“what is it that you re­ally want to do and how do you want to express the call in your life to the rest of the world?” 
caron-gebhardt said some of those sacrifices relate to her kids, because she is not always able to be as present as she wants to be, which 
“when you’re the first to do something … it’s very hard because there’s nobody else in your group that can help foster what you need to know … so it’s the people that come around you, the other wom­en, … that speak words of wisdom to you,” coates said. 
Contact Emma Borne at                     eborne@nd.edu 

can lead to feelings of guilt. however, this journey re­quires women to be con­scious of their hearts. 
“you have to be compas­sionate with yourself because you’re going to mess up,” caron-gebhardt said. “but if you are compassionate with yourself and those around you, it can be a journey that is going to be happy.” 
outlaw said women can balance feelings of guilt by realizing that they do not have to compartmentalize each part of their lives. 
each of the women said they always try to involve their kids in their work life. 
The panel agreed that the relationships women are sur­rounded by are of ultimate importance in achieving in­tegration and balance. 
“i needed to seek those re­lationships that were going to allow me to be who i was,” caron-gebhardt said.  “i have a sisterhood of women that are invaluable to me … i’ve journeyed with these women, and these women have jour­neyed with me.” 
coates said it’s important to remember when pioneer­ing personal experiences that there are women who have gone through similar experiences. 
paid adverTisemenT 




Professor affirms effects of Indian mascots 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
stephanie Fryberg, a visiting professor of psychology at the university of washington, pre­sented her research Tuesday on the psychological effects of american indian sports mas­cots, which affirmed these types of social representations depress the self-esteem of american indian students. 
Fryberg’s lecture, ti­tled “From stereotyping to invisibility: The psychological consequences of using american indian mascots,” highlighted several studies she and her colleagues have performed. 
in the studies, Fryberg asked questions to american indian high school and college stu­dents based on several popu­lar representations of native americans, including disney’s pocahontas and chief wahoo, the mascot of the cleveland indians. 
Fryberg said the research did not begin with an exami­nation of mascots, but the final product did reflect this focus. 

Language 
conTinued From page 1 
social language so that they can engage with the community around them.” 
cowham said in spring 2013, the school’s calendar changed from semester-long courses to four-week sessions, which are offered in the fall, spring and summer. This allows the pro­gram to have start dates every month as opposed to only in the fall or spring. 
“having four-week sessions also allows students to come for as many sessions as they would like,” she said. “They could stay for a few months if they did not want to study the whole semester.” 
cowham said the program now offers a more specialized summer program, with three sessions beginning may 12. 
“we have continued to grow and help students along their educational journey,” she said. “we have grown in our extra­curricular activities and have added new elective classes.” 
cowham said the current 
“The first two studies, the question we asked was what is the impact of american indian social representations on the self-esteem and community efficacy of american indians,” she said. “you notice, the ques­tion was not what is the effect of american indian mascots, though that is how this work has commonly been used and by the time we got to the third or fourth study, it is how we then framed the research pa­per because it became much more central to the social issue.” 
after a close study of me­dia portrayals of american indians, Fryberg said repre­sentations were rare and large­ly negative in connotation. 
“in a content analysis of na­tional newspapers in 1997 and major films from 1999 to 2000, relatively few, 0.2 percent, of representations of american indians were found,” she said. “The representations that were there were largely stereotypic and negative, and american indians were seldom present­ed as contemporary people or in contemporary domains.” 
To Fryberg and her col­leagues’ surprise, she said the study showed a greater likeli­hood of american indians to approve of native american mascots. 
“surprisingly for us, we found that those who agree with the use of indians as mascots actually have less community worth,” Fryberg said. “and this was particu­larly interesting to us because you’d like to think that if you agree with it, you must think it’s good, but actually follow­ing the psychology literature, it turns out that when you disagree with the stereotype, there are psychological re­sources that buffer you from the effects of that image.” 
Fryberg said she and her team altered the study when they brought it to haskell indian nations university. 
“going forward, we started to show this data and one of the issues that came up as we were showing the data is that chief wahoo is a caricature, and so maybe it would be dif­ferent if we used a mascot that wasn’t a caricature,” she said. 


“we have students who are studying here for their college program, some study here be­fore their entrance into higher education, some are wives and mothers, and we have students who come for just a few class­es,” she said. “our teachers care about each student as an individual. 
“we welcome anyone who wants language support on their educational journey.” 
cowham said because the program is small, the teachers are able to offer a great deal of individualized attention. 
“we can work directly with student needs as well as offer a close-knit community of learn­ing,” she said. 
in addition to benefitting students, cowham said there are many ways the students’ families in the school find ful­fillment in the programs as well. with little to no english­speaking experience, the indi­viduals who participate in the program gain a confidence in their english environments. cowham said the program organizes cultural and extracurricular activities for the participants, which is vi­tal to learning a language and to building relationships with other students. 
director of the center for women’s intercultural leadership elaine meyer-lee said the program is working to develop an opportunity for community members to host students coming from other countries. 
“we now have a partnership with a women’s college in Japan that was started by a saint marys’ alumna called st. agnes university,” meyer-lee said. 
meyer-lee said living with a family for the summer could be a beneficial opportunity for intercultural learning for both the international students and host families. 
For more informa­tion about the english language school or to vol­unteer to host a student, visit cwil.saintmarys.edu/els or call 574-284-4212. 
Contact Roni Darling at vdarli01@saintmarys.edu 
Jeopardy 
conTinued From page 1 
dorms did not send represen­tatives] and we had three wild card spots. 
“so, [monday] for our first round of matches we had 30 contestants, [Tuesday in the semi-finals] we [had] nine con­testants and on wednesday [the finals] we will have three contestants.” 
The finalists are senior brendan moran of duncan hall, junior rose doerfler of classes offered are speaking and listening, reading, grammar, cultural exploration and service learning, along with other intensive academic preparatory courses. 
“Full-time students typi­cally take five classes a day. The classes are approximately one-hour long, which equates 
cavanaugh hall and junior michael Temple of sorin college. 
sanok said she expects a greater turnout in the audience for the finals than the other two rounds. she said she is excited to witness the climax of the com­petition and see all of the scc’s hard work come to fruition. 
doerfler said there were many hard questions in the semi­finals Tuesday, and there is an element of luck in getting every question correct. 
“i didn’t know the names of old rock and roll band members, but i knew the facts about the “and so for the last study, we were able to ask a number of questions because we went to the only four-year univer­sity that is a predominantly american indian university, and it turns out they have an indian mascot.” 
all of the studies, though, concluded that essentially any american indian mascot rep­resentations harmed the self-esteem of american indian students, Fryberg said. 
“consistent with the past two studies, it turns out that being exposed to any one of these mascots decreased achievement-related possible selves,” she said. “so what it means is if they saw the indian mascot, then any pos­sible selves they had related to achievement in school were depressed.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
to five instructional hours per class per week,” cowham said. “classes are offered from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. monday through Thursday and 9 a.m. to12 p.m. on Friday,” cowham said. 
she said the program attracts students of all ages from all over the world. 
hoover dam,” doerfler said. “it’s a challenge because you never know what’s going to come up. 
“in the first round, we had a lot of geography questions, and in the semifinals, there wasn’t any geography, but a whole cat­egory about James bond actors.” 
moran said he thinks the fi­nals will be a highly contested match-up against one another. 
“i’m hoping for really obscure categories, because i think it would be fun,” moran said. “i also want to do a true daily double. we’ll see if i get the chance. all in all, i’m looking forward to it.” 
banok said sophomore Kyle witzigman played a crucial role in the event’s success. (editor’s note: witzigman writes for the news section of The observer). 
“The real mastermind be­hind the whole event is Kyle witzigman. he has dedicated an enormous amount of time and effort to this event and it would not be even close to pos­sible without his expert guid­ance and meticulous agendas,” sanok said. 
grefenstette said the scc has overall been impressed with the number of people that have at­tended the tournament and al­ready considers the tournament a success. 
“an enormous amount of peo­ple signed up online for prelims, and we had some crowds during last night’s round,” grefenstette said. “some supporters even showed up with decorated signs.” 
grefenstette, who will moder­ate the finals , said he looks for­ward to fulfilling his duties. 
Contact Katie McCarty at      kmccar16@nd.edu 

notre dame, inc. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

behind a scar 

Stephanie Wulz 
senior graphic designer 

during the winter in 7th grade gym, we had a rotational program. we would switch between various indoor activities like volleyball, basketball or badminton. There were always the random events like circus skills where we pretended to be good at juggling and cup stacking, or yoga where every­one just laid on the ground until the bell rang to head back into the locker room. 
The most desired sport of the entire rotation was archery. lucky for me, i got it that year. 
class would begin by inspecting the bows to make sure they were in good shape and then selecting arrows for shooting. our instructor was like a bro­ken record when he would explain how if the arrow were damaged, it would not fly correctly, but heck, we didn’t care. we just wanted to spend the next 40 minutes acting like robin hood. 
one day, i grabbed all my equipment and went to my spot. The targets were lined up against the far end of the gym. Kevin, my oh-so-dreamy 7th-grade crush, was in the line next to me. 
he shot — almost a bullseye. we all complimented him on his form. 
i got up to shoot and wanted to make an impression. naturally, i quickly grabbed a bow and got situated. as i was preparing to shoot, Kevin looked over to add in his 7th-grade archery expertise. 
“make sure you pull it back as much as you can. you’ll need the speed. do this and then make sure to do that immediately…” 
i pulled back the bowstring to the most of my ability. my tremor was set­ting in and the arrow was shaking in my grasp with nerves. and then i let go. 
black. 

needless to say, i did not make the shot. it didn’t even make it to the target. 
The arrow i chose to shoot was bro­ken and had snapped in half when i shot it. amidst snapping, the front sec­tion hit my in the head and knocked me down. The back section stabbed me in the left hand between my thumb and pointer finger. 
now, if that’s not how you make an impression, then i don’t know what is. 
when i opened my eyes, i yanked the arrow out of my hand in panic and ran off to the nurse. she cleaned me up and i sat out of archery for a while. 
i still have a nice little white scar on my left hand that i laugh at when i see. it’s a little reminder of my 7th­grade self that i get to laugh at here and there. and better yet, it is only one story of a scar among the many. 
what’s the story behind yours? 
Mark Gianfalla 

pledging gamma omicron pi 
a large amount of recent attention has been devoted to the comparison of universities to businesses, and the realigning of many universities’ mission statements towards that of for-profit companies. 
notre dame is a truly unique place where faith and academia meet to blossom into our home under the dome. having heard Fr. Jenkins speak on many occasions, i believe he definitely appreciates how special a role notre dame plays in defining academic and religious standards on a global scale. 
This being true, notre dame of­ten shows signs of a Fortune 500 company with corporate speech replacing university jargon and bureaucracy reaching the height of religious hierarchy. at times, the golden dome seems like a christmas present from some larger-than-life benefactor with the amount of red tape surrounding it, and the sao­student affairs relationship would confuse even veteran politicians. 
i read an article this week that compared students to customers, and teaching to customer service, but the problem this article at­tempted to point out with this phi­losophy actually missed the point that i think is often too present at universities like notre dame. a multi-million dollar operation like notre dame is sure to attract some corporate types, but unlike most businesses, our university, like any university, relies on the presence of students. 
unlike replaceable “price-takers” that perfectly competitive markets are known for, students at a univer­sity undergo a rigorous selection process, and after being accepted and choosing to attend, i would beg to argue we deserve something in return for our efforts in class and the community. unfortunately, i and others like me, have noticed many members of the administra­tion and university departments refuse to even meet with students, and are more concerned with their bottom line than the line of diligent students that walk to class every morning and keep the university alive and thriving. 
as the president of both a club and a residence hall, i have been denied meetings with senior university employees and have be­gun to accept that emails just won’t be returned if the recipient is on the payroll and doesn’t have me on their class roster or rolodex. 
as a “student leader” who is in­vited to fancy dinners every semes­ter and events like Teamnd, i and other club officers and campus life leaders contribute hours on end to the notre dame community, striv­ing to leave it better than how we found it. i would say it is reasonable to expect the extensions of common courtesies such as meetings or even the return of emails. 
Those involved in campus programming can attest to how difficult it is to get approval for events because of the layers of ap­proval and more frequently, disap­proval, that lie in the way. 
one of the major benefits notre dame possesses is its brand of a world-class education, a dedica­tion to the catholic faith and a desire to be leaders in research. That brand, however, does not have to suffer at the expense of student empowerment. 
some of the world’s premier uni­versities such as princeton and oxford have extremely independent student bodies that are given the ability to organize and program with little or no oversight. i’m not suggesting this completely libertar­ian form for notre dame, but i am advocating a more valued approach to the students that make notre dame a thriving, branded univer­sity, and not a research laboratory. 
a university cannot exist with­out its students; our brand would strengthen with an increased ac­ceptance of that mindset across all offices of the university. 
i will, however, commend the ef­forts of those university adminis­trators who hold office hours and are very accessible to students. That is how higher education thrives. 
Mark Gianfalla is a junior studying finance and a resident of Morrissey Manor. He can be reached at mgianfal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Stephanie Wulz at swulz@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


a reflection on academic freedom 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to a Farce 

a recent crimson column by harvard senior sandra Korn has stirred national controversy. ms. Korn argues that universities should aban­don academic freedom for a standard of academic justice. she concludes that “if we give up our obsessive reli­ance on the doctrine of academic freedom, we can consider more thoughtfully what is just.” i disagree with ms. Korn’s claim and think ms. Korn’s standard of academic justice actually debilitates a university’s abil­ity to understand justice. 
in order to ever arrive at an objec­tively valuable understanding of right and wrong in academia, this under­standing must be subject to an array of disagreement and objection. in this way, the argumentative strength and reasoning of its conclusion can be tested and countered. any conception of justice that can maintain its integ­rity following such scrutiny thus gains validity. 
yet, even if such a standard is met, this conception of justice still must be reconsidered with the discovery of new information or inquiry. in this way, a university functions as a con­stantly evolving exchange of ideas. strong arguments that appear to move toward a more profound understand­ing of true knowledge are embraced and those that do not are discarded. 
This relationship between a univer­sity and justice reveals that in order to best pursue justice, a university must cultivate an environment of constant reevaluation and consideration of even fundamental understandings of right and wrong. in order to estab­lish such an environment, there must be a standard of academic freedom. all ideas and arguments must be al­lowed and recognized. without such freedom of exchange, erroneous ideas can exist without challenge and thus provide the basis for inappropriate conclusions. Further, it can prevent the genesis of reasonable ideas. 
before continuing, it is important to qualify that academic freedom can be open to constraint. restrictions to academic freedom, like restrictions on free speech, are occasionally nec­essary to secure a safe and effective academic environment but should be, in the words of Fr. Jenkins, “reluctant and restrained.” 
academic justice, as described by ms. Korn, seeks to restrict and suf­focate the academic pursuit of justice and can even lead to a gross misun­derstanding of what is truly right and wrong. when a university refuses to recognize ideas that fall outside of a standard of cultural norms or a sub­jective interpretation of justice, the totalitarian, 1984-esque implications of such a system are obvious. 
J. K. galbraith, a famed harvard economist, said “the conventional view serves to protect us from the painful job of thinking.” i would invite ms. Korn to reflect on this and con­sider the detriments of her standard of academic justice. disregarding or even disallowing dissenting ideas or arguments at an academic institution on the grounds of political correct­ness, popular opinion or misalign­ment with a subjective conception of justice has the ability to significantly debilitate a university’s capacity to understand justice because it does not subject conventional thinking to proper scrutiny and argument. 
while i think it is easy to disagree with ms. Korn in theory, i think it is valuable to reflect on our own indi­vidual commitment to the objective of academic freedom. in other words, does the way in which we engage in intellectual study reflect scrutiny and reevaluation in order to arrive at true knowledge? i think it is important to consider the basis of our own ideol­ogy and how it then relates to our own conception of justice. 
To what length do we question our individual beliefs? do we frame our support of such beliefs from objec­tive study and consideration? or do we seek information to support a previously assumed conclusion? do these arguments come from internal consideration or are they replicas of external perspectives? do we seek to understand and reflect on disagreeing viewpoints or do we rely on second hand analysis of such arguments? 
while we might externally scorn the dangers of academic study by some subjective set of ideals, how different­ly does this reflect the way by which we form our own beliefs? in theory we may disagree, but how is this dis­agreement manifest in our practice? 
environmental and even genetic factors play an almost insurmount­able role in determining our beliefs and views. it is literally in our nature to accept a certain ideology without proper consideration or justification. while it is easy to critique ms. Korn’s perspective, it is much more difficult to consider our tendency to shape our own views from a standard similar to “academic justice.” as the heirs to the intellectual future, we have a responsibility to work against these pervasive tendencies and force our­selves to challenge and properly form our beliefs. To answer and address the challenges our generation will face, we must constantly question, by a standard of reason and evidential support, the status quo of cultural and academic thought to discover truly just solutions. 
JC Sullivan is a sophomore living in Keenan Hall. He can be contacted at     jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Jerusalem: something old, something new 
Jameson Ondrof 
around europe in 120 days 

once again, the annual rite of sec­ond semester has come and gone, and by all the photos on Facebook and sto­ries i’ve heard, spring break 2014 was one for the books on both sides of the atlantic. mine was too, but for slightly different reasons. 
like most of the london pro­gram students, i headed to the mediterranean, but with a slightly different destination in mind than spain or italy. i hopped on a flight to Tel aviv in order to visit what is quick­ly becoming one of my favorite places in the world: Jerusalem. 
last summer, i was privileged to be a part of the Jerusalem summer program, in which a group of 17 notre dame students studied theology and the palestinian-israeli conflict while traveling around the holy land for six weeks. i initially signed up just to get my second theology requirement out of the way and had a bit of trepidation about the program and the area, but looking back on it eight months later, i realize i couldn’t imagine my college experience without that trip. 
at the end of six weeks, our group came back with inside jokes, pseu­do-memorials, nights full of great memories and a ridiculous amount of pictures. but above all, we returned home with a connection to this place which is so full of natural beauty and incredible history, yet torn by contin­ual violence and social strife. over the rest of the summer and the fall semes­ter, i found myself wanting to return, to be able to dig deeper into the holy land, in order to better understand a part of the world which, while inspir­ing, continues to baffle me overall. 
Thus, while looking into spring break plans from london, i asked our program leader from the sum­mer about getting to Jerusalem from london, and two months later found myself on an easyJet flight to Tel aviv. 
words can hardly do justice to Jerusalem; indeed, books and volumes have been written on the subject, making it impossible for me to add to what has been written on King david’s city in this space. however, there are three aspects that continue to stick out in my mind as to why Jerusalem is a unique place well worth exploring. 
First, Jerusalem is truly a meeting point of the east and west. in west Jerusalem, there are brand new shop­ping malls, gourmet restaurants and a nightlife scene that rival that of the best european cities. however, ven­ture into the old city and one is im­mediately immersed in the bustle of the souks and a maze of streets that would confuse marco polo. it’s in­credible that these two diverse envi­ronments can coexist in the same city, yet they do, and the result is a cross­roads where a visitor can truly choose the sort of experience he or she wants. 
second is the religious aspect of Jerusalem, for no where else in the world is a city the focal point of three religions which account for the belief systems of half of humanity. perhaps the best evidence of the religios­ity of the place is the church of the holy sepulchre, where Jesus’s site of crucifixion and tomb are tradition­ally placed and where six different christian denominations claim par­tial control of the church. This natu­rally leads to chaos, with multiple services going on at all hours, and a strict status quo which has lead to frequent brawls among the priests of the different sects. Tensions run high between the three faiths as well, the result being a city that feels as if it’s on a knife-edge between the three abrahamic religions. 
Finally, there is the social aspect of Jerusalem, revolving around the palestinian-israeli conflict. many of my friends in london have made the trip to see the berlin wall which divided communist from capitalist during the cold war. well, i see their defunct barrier, and raise them an active wall, which effectively relegates an entire people to a second class status and existence. The presence of deep, mutual hatred in the so-called “holy land” is surreal and the conflict it sprang from is as politically loaded and corrosive as any the world has ever known. 
so Jerusalem at its core is a cross­roads, and a place of religious and social conflict. all of which may make you wonder why i am so attracted to the place i’ve been twice in a year. The answer is simple: Jerusalem has taught me to be critical, think for myself and use conflicting evidence to draw my own conclusions. yes, Jerusalem is a divisive place, but it forces the visitor to have an opinion on a variety of different subjects and have a reason for that opinion. The city makes the visitor open his or her eyes and engage with the world around him or her in a way i never had before and still can’t adequately explain. 
despite my two crazy and exhilarat­ing, yet confusing, trips to Jerusalem, i do know one thing for certain. 
Thanks Jerusalem, and Jsp 2013, for changing me and making me a bet­ter thinker, person and citizen of the world. 
Jameson Ondrof is a junior studying in the Mendoza College of Business. He is currently studying in London. He can be reached at jondrof@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

Think of a whole decade back to 2004, the year of the infamous Janet Jackson super bowl halftime, the year you couldn’t even look up that infamous mo­ment on youTube — because youTube didn’t exist yet. one decade ago not only brought us that halftime show, but also the cheetah girls, “mean girls,” “lost” and — i’m almost positive — the best year of music in the 2000s. it’s hard to say why 2004 proved to be such a mag­nificent year, but new artists releasing incredible debut albums, music videos not yet ruined by vevo and interesting projects like ceelo and danger mouse’s “The grey album” taking off through web virility might have had something to do with it. here are a just few exam­ples of why 2004 was such a fantastic year for audiophiles. 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

Tokyo police club smashed into the canadian indie alternative post punk scene in 2006 with “a lesson in crime,” a brief but excellent 16 minutes and 23 sec­onds of tight, harmonious indie rock that was incredibly fun and better put-together than albums from bands decades old. 
since this breakout ep, the rockers have continued down their powerful track, with 2008’s awesome debut full-length “elephant shell” and 2010’s above-average “champ.” 
“Forcefield,” released Tuesday, is bursting with a different sort of energy. in the four years since “champ,” many trends have come and gone in the music scene. most notably, there has been a large shift toward an embracement of electronic sound, syn­thesizers and other quirky sounds. Tokyo police club, however, has stayed the course with this album, producing a noticeably more mature sound while retaining the rock elements that made them special. 
The album opens up with the excellent “argentina i, ii, iii,” a song suite just over 
First off, two bands released debut al­bums that took their genres by storm. in pop rock, 2004 saw the debut of The Killers with “hot Fuss,” named by rolling stone as one of the best debut albums of all time. The lp saw both crit­ical and popular success, all while kick-starting a career for the las vegas-based group that would lead them to selling out stadiums and collaborating with Tim burton in just a few years. 
indie-rock (that was still an okay thing to say in 2004) got another one of the greatest debut albums of all with arcade Fire’s “Funeral” in 2004. The album took the indie world by storm, and though arcade Fire is now headlining music festivals and taking over snl, they have never made (and likely will never make, with their steady decline apparent with each successive release) an album as good as “Funeral.” 
in the hip-hop world, two incredible 
eight-and-a-half minutes long with three interlocking parts that shows off everything the band has to offer, from lighthearted, bouncy pop riffs to slower, melodic fallouts. it’s also the first song the band has ever done that is more than four minutes long, and on its own is almost 30 percent of the whole album. on its own, this track is an in­credibly special piece that shows off every­thing great about Tokyo police club — from the wonderful lyrics such as “if i was a light­house / i would look all over the place / if i was an ––– / Thank you for keeping a smile on your face,” to the rocking weezer-esque riffs and lead singer david monks’ rarefied vocals. more importantly, the concept and daring of such a varied and unique song shows how far Tokyo police club has come in such a short time. 
The problem with such an explosive, ex­citing opening song, however, is that in the context of the album as a whole, from here there is nowhere to go but down. as enter­taining as everything else is, the band strug­gles to recapture the diversity and frenzied energy of such a masterpiece. “miserable,” for instance, is a playful, energetic ditty that contrasts with the gloomy title, though debut albums also blessed us with their release in 2004. “madvilliany,” the first album by madvillian (mF doom and madlib) was released in march, and while it received disappointingly little attention on the charts, was praised by critics and remains an incredible collab­orative album in hip-hop. Fortunately, both artists are still making music, in­cluding madlib’s unbelievably good col­laboration with Freddie gibbs, “piñata.” 
also making waves in hip-hop in 2004 was a young Kanye west with his debut album “college dropout.” The album went triple platinum, got a remarkable 10 grammy nominations and skyrock­eted Kanye into fame and now, appar­ently, infamy. after six albums, Kanye has a wife, a baby and now 21 grammys under his belt. it’s clear that Kanye won the last 10 years.  
Joanna newsom, indie queen, talented harpist and now-wife of andy samberg 
most of the song feels like wasted space as a prep for the chorus. a song really should not seem this way, especially when it only hov­ers around the three minute mark. 
maybe i’m just judging everything rela­tive to “argentina i, ii, iii” though. There are still some solid tracks on this album. For instance, the lead single “hot Tonight” is a charming summer anthem that only a band like Tokyo police club could get away with. if some corporate squeaky-clean boy band threw this song at you, you would hate it and that would totally be fine. 
“argentina i, ii, iii” set up “Forcefield” to be an amazing breakthrough album for Tokyo police club that would thrust them deep into the limelight, but it turned out to be an exception rather than a new rule for the group. while this is somewhat disap­pointing, “Forcefield” is still a fun album. as more and more indie bands “revolution­ize” the music scene with some shoddy synthesized beats, Tokyo police club has stayed true to the rock basis that made them special, which is a breath of fresh air for 2014. The question still remains, how­ever, if there is still a place for indie rock bands like Tokyo police club down the road (who would have thought 10 years ago?) also released her debut studio album in 2004. “The milk-eyed mender” stunned, appalled then won over audiences with newsom’s shrill vocals, harp arrange­ments and folky sound. she has released two more impressive and totally unique albums since, but none that quite matches the wildly successful “The milk-eyed mender.”  
These are just a handful of the artists who put out albums in 2004, and only the debuts at that. without even men­tioning impressive sophomore attempts that took the year by storm, like Tv on the radio, iron & wine or Feist, it’s evi­dent that something was in the water 10 years ago that made 2004 so musically privileged. whatever it was one decade ago, i’m thankful. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at                                  atollaks@nd.edu 
with the recent trend toward electric noise. Truthfully, i don’t know the answer to this. “Forcefield” is fun right now, but anything could happen that changes the way we view music, especially with the continual rise of bands through the internet. 
however, i do know that “Forcefield” is overall a genuinely good album that fans of Tokyo police club should definitely buy if only for “argentina i, ii, iii.”. even if you are not a fan, i definitely recommend stream­ing the album at some point — even if sim­ply for the sake of fun. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                               jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Forcefield” 
Tokyo Police Club Label: Mom + Pop Tracks: “Argentina I, II, III” If you like: Two Door Cinema 
Club, Passion Pit 



KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

The internet exploded Friday afternoon with equal parts controversy and excite­ment when vogue released its april cover, featuring tabloid fixtures Kim Kardashian and Kanye west. The annie leibovitz­shot cover depicts the reality star in a stunning gray lanvin wedding dress, lovingly embraced by the rapper, who is wearing a yves saint laurent blazer. The cringe-worthy hashtag on the cover — #worldsmostTalkedaboutcouple — was affirmed by the online reception to the cover, as commenters decried vogue’s decision and vowed to cancel their subscriptions. 
The couple has long lusted after a vogue cover, with west defending his then-fi­ancé in an interview with ryan seacrest in october 2013: “There’s no way Kim Kardashian shouldn’t be on the cover of vogue right now. she’s like the most in­triguing woman right now.” in the past, vogue editor-in-chief anna wintour 
By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

it’s 40 degrees outside, and you know what that means: it’s time to trade your snuggie in for a swimsuit. during the winter, everyone dreams about basking in the summer sun. it seems so far away, though, that we don’t worry about down­ing that extra mug of hot chocolate.
 so maybe we’ve pulled a polar bear and packed on a few pounds during the win­ter. it’s okay – we needed those bites of la­sagna to insulate us from the biting wind. now that the sun has come out, though, it’s time to shed our layers and winter weight. 
some students find it challenging to eat healthy dinners in the unlimited din­ing hall. For them, the sun is not just a source of vitamin d; it is also a source of anxiety. however, students need not fear the warmer months and shorter shorts. There are plenty of healthy and delicious options at the dining hall just waiting to had allegedly refused to ever feature Kardashian in the magazine and famously banned her from the 2012 met ball. yet in her editor’s letter, wintour defended the decision to feature west and Kardashian, explaining: “part of the pleasure of edit­ing vogue, one that lies in a long tradition of this magazine, is being able to feature those who define the culture at any given moment, who stir things up, whose pres­ence in the world shapes the way it looks and influences the way we see it.” 
while detractors rush to decry west and Kardashian as “undeserving” of a vogue cover, it’s not a question of whether or not the couple is deserving. at the end of the day a magazine cover is a business deci­sion, driving sales at a time when print media is on the decline. wintour has cer­tainly proven herself as a savvy business­woman in her time at the helm of vogue, and regardless of your personal feel­ings about the couple, their influence on american mass culture in the year 2014 is undeniable. 
more importantly, the vogue cover is 
be discovered. 

Option No. 1: the grilled chicken quesadilla. 
instead of using a taco shell, find a whole-wheat wrap or pita pocket at the deli station. Then, salsa over to the salsa at the mexican station and fill your pocket with grilled chicken, lettuce and chopped tomatoes. next, sprinkle some shredded mozzarella or cheddar on your creation before you stick it in the panini press for a few minutes. when it’s done, squeeze the juice from a lemon or lime slice over your freshly finished quesadilla to add a zesty zing. Option No. 2: chicken parm. 
even though the chicken from the grilled meat section is slightly overcooked, covering it with tomato sauce from the pasta section will mask and moisten the dryness. To balance out your meal, add one scoop of wheat pasta, a few heads of broccoli and a sprinkle of parmesan. if you want something sweet on the side, opt for a bowl of apple slices; the natural symbolic. west has spent the better part of the past year giving interviews railing against the classist and elitist mechanisms he has faced in the fashion industry. There still exists a tendency to cling to antiquat­ed notions of what is considered “high art.” The truth is that rap music and reality tele­vision are legitimate forms of entertain­ment that have dominated the cultural conversation of the 21st century. west and Kardashian use their platform to obliter­ate these divisions between high and low culture. “it’s really interesting that we’re on the front lines of a few different con­cepts at the same time,” he explained in the cover story. “you’ve got the interracial thing; you have mega-media and mega-art crash; you have, you know, the vogue-and­reality show combination.” 
Furthermore, west and Kardashian reg­ularly receive a disproportionately unwar­ranted amount of hate. it’s unfortunate that even in 2014, an interracial couple on the cover of vogue is still such a big deal, but the couple is met with the rampant racism that persists in the fashion world. so much 
sugar will contrast well with the saltiness of the cheese. 
Option No. 3: the rice, veggie and bean bowl. 
This is a great option for vegetarians or those looking to limit their meat con­sumption. First, snag a blue bowl from the stir-fry line and head to the home-style section for brown rice. if today is your un­lucky day, they may not be serving brown rice, and you may need to use rice from the asian section. if they are only serving white rice, feel free to use quinoa from the pasta line instead. Then, head to the salad bar and scoop some red, black or brown beans into your bowl. lastly, add as many steamed or salad-bar veggies as you’d like. it’s the one food group that you are en­couraged to overdo. 
These three meals are healthy and fill­ing because they have a balance of com­plex carbohydrates, lean protein, and vegetables. if you aren’t eating yogurt or adding milk to your cereal in the morn­ing, you may want to have a glass of skim of the contempt directed at Kardashian is slut-shaming stemming from a sex tape created more than a decade ago, even though she has built a multimillion-dollar empire in the years since. it is also rare to see a woman with curves represented in high fashion, and Kardashian’s image stands as a contrast to the impossibly thin standard usually showcased in vogue. 
west and Kardashian’s vogue cover recognizes the importance of their un­apologetic confidence. as writer ayesha siddiqi perfectly tweeted, “no two pop culture figures expose our cultural anxiet­ies about women, black men and who we allow self esteem & to what degree, [more] than Kimye.” it is an affirmation of their relevance to art, fashion and mass media, despite the elitist criticism they constantly receive. while a single vogue cover does not solve all of high fashion’s representa­tion issues, it is a refreshing and necessary start. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at                  mmunhall@nd.edu 
milk with your dinner. if you tend to get hungry in the evenings, feel free to bring a piece of fruit out of the dining hall to snack on later. 
one final note: even if you are trying to slim down for the summer, do not dras­tically limit your eating or cut out food groups entirely. eating less than 1,200 calories a day can have a long-term det­rimental effect on your metabolism and can cause you to binge eat. cutting out food groups may stop your body from get­ting adequate amounts of protein, carbo­hydrates or healthy fat, which you need to be a full and functional human being. 
you do not need to go on a dining de­tox to get ready for the summer. it is not a natural or enjoyable way to fuel your body and brain. you will be healthier and hap­pier if you use these three meals to guide you when you create your own balanced dinners at the dining hall. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Truth behind Cuban’s comments 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
dallas mavericks owner mark cuban likes to talk about a lot of things, and most re­cently he was talking about pigs. 
according to espn.com, cuban likened the nFl to greedy hogs during a pregame conference with reporters sunday. 
“i think the nFl is 10 years away from an implosion,” cuban said. “i’m just tell­ing you, pigs get fat, hogs get slaughtered. and they’re get­ting hoggy. Just watch. pigs get fat, hogs get slaughtered. when you try to take it too far, people turn the other way.” 
looking at the nFl empire as it stands today makes cuban’s scenario hard to imagine. For the nFl to implode, americans would have to stop watching, and there are few things that seem more unlikely. 
The 2014 super bowl was the most-watched television event in u.s. history, with 111.5 million viewers, and a single 30-second ad spot during the game cost around four million dollars. 
americans watch football, and they seem poised to keep watching. so what exactly could turn people away? 
according to cuban, the nFl will run into problems beginning with the league’s new television deals. The nFl expanded its agreements with cbs and the nFl network in February to continue broad­casting games on Thursday nights, and to cuban, the deci­sion was poor from a business standpoint, no matter how much money it will rake in. 
cuban questioned the de­cision, telling reporters and espn.com, “They’re trying to take over every night of Tv.” with that kind of strategy, cuban argued, the nFl will stretch itself too thin and start to lose viewership to other big-time events: “it’s all football. at some point, the people get sick of it.” 
cuban might be on to some­thing here. although the nFl’s broadcasting expansion prob­ably won’t cause too many americans to stop watching football altogether, it might not be that good for the nFl. 
one of the big draws of football for americans is the compactness of the season. a person — even an extraordi­narily busy person — could conceivably watch every single one of his or her favorite team’s games. That is pretty near im­possible for a person to achieve during a 162-game baseball season, and even basketball and hockey make it difficult for fans to watch every game for their hometown teams. 
Football achieves high rat­ings in large part because viewership is concentrated to a few days out of the week. some people devote their en­tire sundays to watching nFl games, and that kind of couch potato behavior is o.K. — be­cause it’s one day out of the week. 
something that happens so rarely is a special event, and that is part of why people tune in. with football, you can’t say, “i’ll just watch tomorrow’s games when i’m less busy” because, most days, there are no games the next day. 
and it should stay that way. whether or not cuban’s predic­tions are far-fetched or a real foreshadowing of things to come, the nFl should not ex­pand past broadcasting three days a week. returning to the two-day model might not even be a bad idea, especially since many teams dislike how the Thursday games disrupt their schedules. 
The nFl might not be on the verge of collapse, but empires can and do fall, and cuban’s business acumen is difficult to ignore. at the very least, the nFl should exercise caution in its business dealings and remember that it is not an in­vincible organization. 
as cuban told reporters, greed does not always pay: “i’m just telling you, when you’ve got a good thing and you get greedy, it always, always, al­ways, always, always turns on you. That’s rule number one of business.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TRACK & FIELD 
pistorius expected to testify at own trial 
Associated Press 
oscar pistorius will probably testify at his trial later this week, a defense attorney said Tuesday after prosecutors rested their case against the double-amputee runner who is accused of murder in his girlfriend’s death. 
in a rare public comment, pistorius said he was going through “a tough time” as the case advanced. 
“we’ve got a lot ahead of us,” he told reporters after the court adjourned. 
defense lawyer brian webber said pistorius is “likely” to take the stand to open the defense case. 
“i don’t think we have a choice. it’s a question of when,” webber said of pistorius’ testimony, which legal experts describe as critical because the judge will have a chance to assess first­hand whether he is credible. The case will be decided by Judge Thokozile masipa with help from two assessors. south african courts do not have a jury system. 
after the prosecution rested, defense lawyer barry roux asked for time to consult some of the 107 state witnesses who had not testi­fied against pistorius, who ad­mits shooting reeva steenkamp through the closed door of a toilet cubicle last year. 
masipa adjourned the trial until Friday so roux could pre­pare his arguments that pistorius killed the 29-year-old model by accident, thinking she was an in­truder in his home. 
pistorius has sometimes re­acted emotionally in the court­room. he shed tears this week during testimony about text mes­sages that he and steenkamp ex­changed in the weeks before her death on Feb. 14, 2013. in earlier testimony, he retched and vom­ited at a pathologist’s description of steenkamp’s gunshot wounds. at other times, he has appeared calm, taking notes during tes­timony and conferring with his lawyers during breaks. 
The 27-year-old olympian once basked in global public­ity stemming from his achieve­ments on the track but became an almost silent, somewhat cryptic figure after steenkamp’s death, his account only outlined in legal statements that were carefully tailored by his high-powered legal team. 
earlier Tuesday, roux sought to show that pistorius had a loving relationship with his girlfriend, referring to telephone messages in which they exchanged warm compliments and said they missed each other. 
The testimony contrasted with several messages read in court a day earlier in which pistorius and steenkamp argued, part of the prosecution’s effort to dem­onstrate that the athlete killed his girlfriend after an intense dis­agreement. in those messages, steenkamp told the runner that she was sometimes scared by his behavior, which included jealous outbursts in front of other people. 
roux noted that the tense mes­sages amounted to a tiny fraction of the roughly 1,700 texts that police capt. Francois moller, a cellphone expert, extracted from the couple’s mobile devices. roux noted a Jan. 19 exchange in which reeva sent pistorius a photo of herself in a hoodie and making a kissing face and asked, “you like it?” 
“i love it,” pistorius said, ac­cording to the message. 
“so warm,” steenkamp responded. 
roux was also granted permis­sion to show video broadcast by sky news that showed pistorius and steenkamp kissing in a con­venience store. 
chief prosecutor gerrie nel questioned the relevance of the store video, saying he could ask for a courtroom viewing of an­other video, also broadcast by sky news, which shows pistorius at a gun range, firing a shotgun and using a pistol to shoot a water­melon, which bursts on impact. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
connecticut women roll 
Associated Press 
Kaleena mosqueda-lewis had the third triple-double in uconn history as the huskies moved into their 21st straight ncaa regional semifinal with a 91-52 rout of saint Joseph’s on Tuesday night. 
mosqueda-lewis had 20 points, 10 re­bounds and 10 assists, to lead five players in double figures for the top-ranked huskies (36-0), who won their 42nd straight game. 
breanna stewart added 21 points and 11 rebounds, and bria hartley also chipped in 20 points for the defending national cham­pions, who are trying to win a record ninth ncaa tournament. 
erin shields and sarah Fairbanks each had 12 points to lead saint Joseph’s which finished the year at 23-10. natasha cloud had 10 and six assists for the hawks. 
uconn will face 12th-seeded byu in lincoln, nebraska on saturday. The cougars upset nebraska in the second round, spar­ing the huskies a date with the cornhuskers on their home court. 
mosqueda-lewis connected on eight of her 14 shots, and was 3 of 5 from 3-point range. 
stefanie dolson added 17 points and six re­bounds. she had uconn’s other triple-dou­ble this season, scoring 26 points, grabbing 13 rebounds and dishing out 11 assists in a win over oregon in november. 
dolson scored off the opening tip and uconn never trailed. a pair of 3-pointers from Jefferson and mosqueda-lewis made it 8-0 and forced coach cindy griffin to use her first timeout less than two minutes into the game. 
Fairbanks ended the opening 10-0 uconn run with a layup to get the hawks on the board. 
The huskies hit five of their first six shots from behind the arc. moriah Jefferson gave the huskies their first 20-point lead at 36­16 with an old-fashioned 3-point play on a drive to the basket. 
The huskies led 5-26 at halftime, and mosqueda-lewis (13), dolson (11) and stewart (11) were already in double figures. 
hartley jointed them less than two min­utes into the second half, hitting a 3-pointer that was part of a 10-0 uconn run. Jefferson finished with 11. 
The huskies shot 56 percent from the floor, and held saint Joe’s to 35 percent. 
it was the ninth time this season that uconn has put five players into double figures. 
it was the 12th time stewart has reached double figures in points and rebounds. she also recorded her 100th block of the season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



MLB 

Sizemore hits two-run homer, Boston beats Rays 
Associated Press 
porT charloTTe, Fla.  — grady sizemore bolstered his bid to become boston’s new starting center fielder, hitting a two-run homer as the red sox defeated the Tampa bay rays 4-2 on Tuesday. 
sizemore signed a one-year, $750,000 contract loaded with incentives during the offsea­son. despite injuries that have kept him from playing in the majors since sept. 22, 2011, sizemore has had an excellent spring, batting .303 in 33 at-bats and scoring five runs. 
“honestly, i’m just looking at the next day and not looking too far ahead — you can’t get too far ahead,” the 31-year-old sizemore said. 
“i’m happy with how every­thing has gone ... and didn’t expect to feel this good or com­fortable so soon. i’m happy with that aspect,” the three-time all-star with cleveland said. 
“we’re all perfectionists, so i want to play better each day like everyone else,” he said. 
sizemore is competing for the starter role with top pros­pect Jackie bradley, Jr., who has struggled this spring, batting just .173 with five rbis and 16 strikeouts. bradley was 0 for 4 Tuesday batting ninth and play­ing right field. 
red sox manager John Farrell said he expects to take the rest of the week to have internal discussions and make the call between bradley and sizemore. Farrell adds that the team is un­likely to carry both sizemore and bradley. 
“There’s still a lot of dis­cussion on who our starting center fielder will be,” Farrell said. “we’re looking at these next three days as a physical test. grady has responded to the plan we put forth, but we still have much to discuss.” 
bradley, a 23-year-old rook­ie, was considered the front-runner entering camp. but sizemore, who hasn’t played in more than 100 games since 2009, has had an excellent camp and put him ahead despite du­rability questions. 
sizemore’s workload has in­creased in the past week, with the red sox having him play in five of their last six games. 
“everything’s been positive that i’ve done so far — body’s felt good, just keep building off that and put consecutive days together,” sizemore said. “still need to swing at good balls be­cause i’m going out of the zone still, but i do feel like i can start the regular season.” 
will middlebrooks also hit a solo homer as the defending world series champions won for just the ninth time in 24 games this spring. 
wil myers and Jose molina both drove in runs for the rays, who are still a grapefruit league best 15-6-3. 
Starting Time 
rays: in his first outing since being chosen the team’s fifth starting pitcher, Jake odorizzi gave up three earned runs on four hits, including a home run, walked two and struck out five over five-plus innings. he threw 92 pitches, 58 for strikes. 
red sox: clay buchholz gave up two runs in six innings, al­lowing three hits, two walks and striking out five over 84 pitches. 
“it was good up until the sixth inning,” he said. “i’m comfort­able with the pitches because there’s more movement on them, especially the two-seam­er. you’ve got to let the ball work for you.” 
Bedard Released 
Tampa bay released veteran pitcher erik bedard, just days after he lost out in a three-way competition for the rays’ fifth starter spot with odorizzi and cesar ramos. Tampa bay will use ramos for long relief. 
bedard had a 6.88 era over 17 innings with 13 strikeouts and two walks this spring. he had an opt-out clause in his minor league deal, and can now sign with any team. 
“That does not preclude the potential for him to come back to us at some point,” rays man­ager Joe maddon said. “i would like to believe that if it doesn’t work out, based on our rela­tionship that we built, that he would want to come back to us, because we would really like to have him back.” 
“i’m hoping he gets another job on the major league level, but if not, that he would come back to us would be great,” he said. 
Roster Moves 
rays: maddon announced outfielder brandon guyer made the opening day roster. The bullpen has not been finalized, with Josh lueke and brandon gomes still in the mix. prior to the game, maddon told pitch­er mark lowe and infielders Jayson nix and wilson betemit they did not make the team. 
series in each of the past two postseasons, this prob­ably won’t seem like just an­other regular-season game. 
“everybody’s getting what they want,” bosh said. 
neither team is exactly rolling into this matchup. both teams have lost sev­en of their last 12 games, meaning the heat have missed plenty of chances to grab the no. 1 spot, and the pacers have missed plen­ty of chances to wrap up home-court throughout the east playoffs. 
“we’re just not clicking,” pacers center roy hibbert said after his team lost at chicago on monday night. “and we should be clicking.” 
The heat beat portland on monday — squandering a 17-point lead in the fourth quarter before doing so — but that snapped a highly befuddling streak of missed miami opportunities. 
before monday, the pacers had lost six games in march. and every time, the heat either lost on the same night or in their next game, meaning a half-dozen chances to tighten up the east race were squandered. 
“as many chances as we had, we kept playing with it, we were struggling, they were struggling, we had our chances,” bosh said. “we still have our chance 
w ith  two  showdowns  with  
t hem.”  
True,  wednesday’s  isn’t  

even the last heat-pacers meeting of this regular sea­son. The teams square off in miami on april 11. 


paid adverTisemenT 
NBA 
heat set sights on indianapolis 
Associated Press 
miami — heat forward chris bosh has a confession: games at this time of year simply mean more to him than games in december. 
not exactly shocking, of course. 
but when so much hub­bub surrounded the last game between miami and indiana way back on dec. 18, bosh wasn’t necessarily buying into the supposed significance. after all, he figured, the season was ba­sically only one-third over at that point. 
The heat and pacers finally play again on wednesday. and this time, bosh knows the buzz is real. 
“i know everybody’s try­ing to make the games im­portant back in december,” bosh said. “well, now they’re important.” 
The eastern conference race won’t be decided on wednesday night, but the pendulum is either going to swing toward indiana moving considerably closer to the no. 1 seed or back toward the heat and a cha­otic, potentially down-to­the-wire finish. if the pacers 
— who have been alone atop the east standings since nov. 4 — win, they would move three games clear of miami in the east race. if the heat prevail, the teams will be tied in the loss column. 
and given that these teams don’t like each other, plus have faced each other in extremely hard-fought 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish take home court against Golden Eagles 
Observer Staff Report 
coming off of a week­end that featured losses to two top-10 teams in no. 6 virginia and no. 10 north carolina, no. 22 notre dame looks to bounce back in wednesday’s match against marquette at eck Tennis pavilion. 
This is the first time the irish (8-8, 2-6 acc) and the golden eagles (8-6, 0-0 big east) meet this season, as the eagles look to extend their two-match winning streak and the irish look to snap their two-match losing streak. 
The golden eagles have won both of their previ­ous matches against iupui and illinois state on Friday by convincing scores of 7-0 each, in no small part thanks to the performance of several strong doubles teams. 
senior rocio diaz and sophomore erin gebes, the golden eagles’ no. 1 dou­bles team, picked up an 8-1 victory Friday against iupui’s abbey neff and Julie brockman, while fel­low golden eagle pairing of junior ana pimienta and sophomore aina hernandez soler posted an 8-3 victory as the no. 2 doubles team. 
elsewhere in singles com­petition, a multitude of strong performances bol­stered the golden eagles over the weekend. 
Junior ana pimienta won both of her singles matches over the weekend by a count of 6-2, 2-6, 10-6 in the first match followed by an easier second match of 6-0, 6-2. gebes also performed well in singles over the weekend, winning 6-0, 6-0 in her first match followed by a victory of 6-1, 6-1 in the second. 
For the irish, sophomore Quinn gleason was the only player to come away with a singles victory against the Tar heels on sunday. gleason won her match against freshman hayley carter, a top-10-ranked sin­gles player, in straight sets by a count of 6-4, 6-4. 
elsewhere, irish se­nior Jennifer Kellner took her match against north carolina junior caroline price to the limit, dropping in straight sets by a count of 7-6, 7-6 (7-5). Fellow irish senior britney sanders also performed well in a losing effort, battling against Tar heel freshman Jamie loeb, no. 1-ranked singles player in the country, by a score of 6-3, 7-5. 
The irish take on the golden eagles on wednesday at eck Tennis pavilion. match time is set to begin at 3:30 p.m. 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles look for seventh straight win 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
riding a six-game win streak, the belles head to manchester on wednesday looking to stay hot against a spartans squad that comes in having dropped four straight contests. 
belles coach Kelli Zache attributes her team’s suc­cessful run to increased mental toughness. 
“our composure has re­ally gotten better,” Zache said. “over spring break, i think we got in some tough spots, and we folded, but we’ve gotten much more confident, and our compo­sure has really improved.” 
on the field, Zache said she hopes senior pitch­er callie selner’s stellar season continues against manchester (3-9, 0-0 hcac). selner earned her fifth win of the season over the week­end and boasts a 1.98 season era to go along with her 51 strikeouts. 
selner has found success at the plate this season, as well. her .448 batting av­erage leads the team, and she had four hits in a dou­bleheader sunday against dominican, three of which were doubles. 
Zache said the belles (8-4, 0-0 miaa) also expect con­tinued production from the sophomore duo of second baseman angela dainelli and first baseman Jillian busfield. dainelli collected three hits, scored two runs and tallied one rbi in the doubleheader. meanwhile, busfield is one of just three players to start every single game for the belles, and her eight rbi lead the team. 
away from the batter’s box, Zache said she empha­sizes a fundamental ap­proach to help saint mary’s stay on-track during its winning streak. 
“we’ve just got to keep working on basics, partic­ularly on defense,” Zache said. “we’ve got a really young defense — we’re starting a freshman short­stop [caitlyn migawa], and our team is full of sophomores.” 
in the opposing dugout, the spartans will play at home for the first time this season. They enter the matchup on a skid that has seen them allow 33 runs in just four games. 
manchester will send out junior pitcher ashlea nash, who carries a 7.88 era and a 2-6 record. 
even though the spartans are struggling, Zache in­sists her team will be focused. 
“we just have to come in like we did sunday and not take anyone lightly,” Zache said. “we have to work hard and, every at bat, make ad­justments and just try to make a solid connection. if we do that, we’ll compete very well.” 
The belles and spartans hit the diamond wednesday at the manchester softball field in north manchester, ind., with first pitch at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 




Football 
conTinued From page 16 
a knowledge of what’s going on. … it’s really useful, and i definitely got a lot better from it.” 
with his ipad, Zaire can zip through mental reps, some­thing he learned the impor­tance of during his redshirt year as a freshman. but it took time for Zaire to un­derstand the significance of these mental reps after en­rolling early for the spring semester in 2013, turning in a strong performance in the spring game yet still not see­ing the field when the season rolled around. 
“it was definitely a difficult experience in terms of matu­rity,” Zaire said of his redshirt year. “i wasn’t expecting to just come in and just be the guy from day one in terms of taking all the reps and every­thing. and being in a position i was where i didn’t really know until late into the sea­son how it was going to play out — whether i was going to redshirt or not. 
“i wasn’t able to understand how i should go through practices each and every day when i’m sitting here not do­ing scout team because they want me on the first team but not practicing with the first team because i’m not the one or two guys, because there’s not enough reps at the end of the day.” 
Kelly admitted at the end of January that they “lost” Zaire’s concentration for about four or five games last season. once they got it back, Kelly said, it was obvious he still had a strong knowledge base. 
The physical practice reps weren’t plentiful, but Zaire said he soon realized the ben­efit to watching from the side. 
“you always talk about the mental reps are important —, well, i didn’t really get it be­cause i was kind of frustrated because i didn’t know where my place was on the team,” Zaire said. “i had to get bet­ter through just strictly just watching in a sense. it defi­nitely brought me to a whole other level of maturity and understanding.” 
Fast-forward to this spring, and Kelly says, in the big pic­ture, Zaire is doing well. 
“one of the things with malik, he gives you a 10-sec­ond answer for a two-second question,” Kelly said. “he’s getting better at that. he’s much more concise in every­thing that he does. his whole demeanor has to be that way. and i like that. and we’re shaping that to the level that we need to because that’s what you have to be to be the starter here at notre dame.” 
and that’s Zaire’s intent 
— to be the starting quarter­back. he admitted it’s a long race and said he’s focusing on the technique and consisten­cy necessary to get the start­ing nod. 
“i think that’s important moving forward because you can’t think of the finish without going through the process,” Zaire said. 
he’s been working on his stride, noting he was over-striding slightly, getting too long with his motion and not following through as much. new quarterbacks coach matt laFleur has made a few other adjustments, too, but Zaire smiled slyly and declined to disclose the “good secrets.” 
Zaire explained that for­mer offensive coordinator chuck martin, who was also in charge of the quarterbacks and is now the head coach at miami (ohio), “had a lot more on his plate” when it came to orchestrating the entire offense. 

“[i could] ask [martin] a couple questions, but he’s working on 100 different things, while coach laFleur is there for us,” Zaire said. “so i think that’s more accessible for me to be able to go in there and really key in on the little things that i need to get bet­ter on.” 
Zaire says he’s focused on the little things, not the big­ger things, like, say, beating out the quarterback who, as a redshirt freshman, led notre dame to the bcs national championship game. 
“i’m not looking at it as [no.] 5 and [no.] 8,” Zaire said. “i’m looking at it as 8 against whoever else is trying to be the best quarterback.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
TRACK 

Irish kick off outdoor season in Texas 

and 29th place, respectively, at the ncaa meet, but they also had 12 athletes honored as ncaa all-americans for their performances. 
one pair in particular stood out for the irish — senior sprinter patrick Feeney and junior sprinter chris giesting, both of whom earned all­american status in multiple events. Feeney was rewarded for the distance medley re­lay, 400-meter dash and the 4x400-meter relay, while giesting placed in the latter two events as well. 
For the irish women, junior hurdler Jade barber added a fifth all-american citation to her career accolades. 
The irish had a 10-day break after the ncaas, but with this week’s trip down to Texas, the outdoor season officially starts. irish coach Joe piane said his team was only motivated by, not satis­fied with, its indoor success and that it believes it can im­prove on its performance this June at the ncaa outdoor championships, particularly with the additions of some fa­vorable events. 
“one way we’re going to improve the overall team is that we’re going to gain some events,” piane said. “we’re go­ing to lose the men’s weight, but we’re significantly better at men’s hammer and discus. Those events don’t exist in­doors. i think we’re going to be a better track team outdoors.” 
The irish return a pleth­ora of experienced throw­ers including seniors Jordan stumph, peter Kristiansen and andrew brock, but piane said he also expects the addi­tion of discus to allow one of the irish freshmen to shine. 
“anthony shivers was one of the top discus throwers in the country last year as a senior in high school,” piane said. “so he’s clearly, clearly going to be a benefit to us. he’s one young man that could poten­tially make it to the ncaas next year.” 
The transition to an out­door track will not be the only change for the irish when they travel to Texas, as sev­eral runners will compete in new races during the outdoor season. piane said he looks forward to see which athletes can adjust and possibly take the next step this week. 
“i think you’ll see freshman Jacob dumford run well,” piane “he’s transitioning from middle distance to the steeplechase. i’m anxious to see how he does there. i think you’re going find [senior mid­dle-distance runner] alexa aragon moving to the stee­plechase as well — that will help her a great deal. i think we’re going to see a lot of new faces.” 
notre dame faces long trips to houston and austin, but with both cities’ forecasts calling for sunny, 70-degree weather, piane said the irish are not complaining. 
“it’ll be great,” piane said. “it’ll be wonderful to run in the sun. we’re really looking forward to it.” 
The Texas sun will wel­come the irish for their first outdoor competition of 2014 wednesday, as irish athletes participate at both the victor lopez invitational in houston and the Texas relays in austin. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu. 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
after a earning a pair of top­30 finishes march 15 at the ncaa indoor championships, notre dame returns to the track wednesday, kicking off its outdoor season with the Texas relays in austin, Texas, and the victor lopez invitational in houston. 
The irish are currently rid­ing a wave of momentum, as not only did the men’s and women’s teams finish in 17th 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
liam o’connor, rounded out the scoring for the irish. 
“we’re a significantly bet­ter team than we were three weeks ago,” corrigan said. “we’re starting to realize what options two, three and four are when people take away your best. we have a lot of interesting pieces. when you get to the end of the year, you need them all when you want to win that last game.” 
aside from Kavanagh, o’connor produced anoth­er strong outing for notre dame as he won 15 of his 24 faceoffs to put him third in national faceoff winning percentage on the season. o’connor was also a recent addition to the watch list for the Tewaaraton award, the trophy given annually to the most outstanding american college lacrosse player. he joins Kavanagh and senior defender stephen o’hara on the list. 
“he’s probably the best all-around lacrosse player of the top faceoff guys in the coun­try,” corrigan said. “he’s the 
M Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
Finishing second for the irish was junior patrick grahek, whose 220 was good for a tie for 30th place. grahek was notre dame’s most consistent golfer, shooting a 72 in each of the first two rounds and a 76 Tuesday. That three-day mean, 73.33, is also better than grahek’s average of antithesis of the Fogo [fa­ceoff, get off]. That’s a huge advantage to us.” 
on the opposite end of the field, freshman goalie shane doss had another strong out­ing. in his third-consecutive start, doss was not tested too often by the buckeye of­fense. Just 12 of its 22 shots were on goal, giving doss five saves on the day. 
The win was an ugly win for the irish, who did so in ugly weather that dumped a few inches of snow onto the field before the game at Jesse owens memorial stadium. They commit­ted 20 turnovers, which corrigan attributed to the conditions. 
“we just did what we needed to do to win,” corrigan said. “it’s hard to look at what we did today as a huge step forward, but we won a tough game in tough circumstances.” 
notre dame will return to acc action this saturday, when it travels to syracuse, n.y., to battle the no. 10 orange at 12 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
74.67 through his first 16 rounds this season. 
also competing were freshman matt rushton and senior andrew carreon, who shot a 227 and 238, respectively. rushton and carreon both took a step back Tuesday, adding six and four strokes each in the invitational’s final day. 
The irish next travel to Kannapolis, n.c., on april 5 for the irish creek golf club’s irish creek collegiate. 




paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hilary mangiaForTe 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: strategy will be required if you plan to get ahead this year. preparation and organization must override any lack of confidence you feel. Keep life simple and your plans reasonable. protect your health, wealth and emotional well-being. haste will make waste and lead to mistakes and poor choices. use your brain, not your brawn. your numbers are 4, 13, 18, 23, 32, 36, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do your own thing and extend others the same courtesy. make choices that best suit your needs, but be mindful of what is going on around you. a situation that can influence your living arrangements should be handled with care. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): avoid stress, which could lead to unwanted consequences. partnerships may leave you feeling vulnerable or used. Focus on your needs and reach out to those who share your interests and concerns. Follow your gut and put learning and experience first. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): participating in fundraising events or organizational functions will bring you in contact with someone who shows interest in your ideas and plans. weigh the pros and cons of an opportunity that is presented. adaptability and equality should help you make a final decision. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll be caught between two possibilities that lead in different directions. Follow your intuition and you will gain greater stability and happiness once you pass the initial stage of change that makes you uncomfortable. don’t procrastinate. size up and start moving. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): be a leader. make changes that will secure your advancement. Focus on important partnerships and do your best to improve your love life by adding a little romance to the mix. The more versatile you are, the better you will do. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): honesty will keep you out of trouble. share your feelings, but protect your heart, your assets and your reputation. a function you attend will promote new friendships. you can enjoy social activities without being subject to overspending. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) you’ll get the backing you need if you are upfront regarding your motives. a personal relationship will get a boost if you make a couple of changes that are sure to please. home improvements will make your life easier. Focus on romance. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Question what everyone else is doing, but follow your dreams. a creative plan will help you out both at home and when dealing with friends, relatives and your peers. protect your health and emotional wellness. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t forget to pay people back. The offers you get may be generous, but know that you will have to earn whatever’s being proposed. a relationship with someone unusual will be questioned. be ready to present your reasoning and your intentions. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ultimatums and demands will stand between you and what you want. whether it’s you or someone else calling the shots, it isn’t likely that you will come to a workable agreement. look for something unusual you can offer as incentive. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can flirt with the past, but don’t make promises. getting together with an old friend will cost you emotionally. don’t bend to someone trying to take advantage of you or what you have. choose the people you associate with wisely. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ask questions and find out what’s expected of you before you become too enthusiastic about an overrated idea. invest in yourself and your ideas, not what someone else has to offer. Trust in your talent, skills and experience. 

Birthday Baby: you are energetic and imaginative. you are innovative and strive to excel. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 13, ohio sTaTe 7 


Kavanagh leads Notre Dame past Buckeyes 
Sophomore attackman Matt Kavanagh ties school record with seven goals 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after a half-hour delay due to snow, matt Kavanagh’s of­fensive fireworks propelled the no. 7 irish to their first win streak of the season and a 13-7 victory against a struggling ohio state squad Tuesday in columbus, ohio. 
The win was the notre dame’s 12th-straight against ohio state (2-6, 1-0 ecac), its oldest rival, giving notre dame (4-2, 2-0 acc) a 30-9 advantage in the all-time varsity series. 
The sophomore attackman Kavanagh tied a single-game school record with seven goals, adding an assist along the way. Kavanagh now has 20 goals on the season, and his 3.33 goals per game is good for fifth in the nation. he led a second quarter charge, scoring three of his goals in 4:38 to help notre dame take a 5-2 advantage into halftime. 
“Today, [Kavanagh] was re­ally opportunistic in the way he scored,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “he had three goals that were really out of unsettled situations that he took advantage of. when we run good offense it’s hard for a defense to slide to him. when they can’t slide to him, somebody’s in trouble.” 
The irish scored in bunch­es, using a 5-0 run in the sec­ond quarter and then a 5-0 run to close the game and shut the door on a possible ohio state comeback. Two goals from junior attack-man conor doyle, as well as one apiece from the midfield quartet of senior Jim marlatt, freshman sergio perkovic, junior Jack near and senior 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 


MEN’S GOLF | 13Th, 302-284-300 
Irish take 13th at Lone Star Invite 
Observer Staff Report 
Following their strongest round of the spring, the irish failed to carry their momentum into Tuesday, coming in 13th place at the lone star invitational at the briggs ranch golf club in san antonio. 
The event took place sunday to Tuesday and concluded with the irish shooting a three-day score of 886. 
sixteen strokes off monday’s 284, notre dame’s third-round score of 300 was the day’s 12th-best in a field of 15 teams. additionally, the irish were just five strokes away from 10th-placed uT arlington in a competitive tourna­ment. in fact, only the invi­tational’s champion, no. 19 new mexico, finished every round under par. 
For the irish, senior cap­tain niall platt led the way with team-best rounds both monday and Tuesday. during the three days, platt shot a 2-under-par 214 to finish in a tie for 12th place individually. his round av­erage of 71.33 was just bet­ter than his season average of 72. 
besides platt, freshman liam cox also contributed a strong effort by rebound­ing after a 79 in his sunday round. improving signifi­cantly in the meet’s final two days, cox shot a 71 and 75 monday and Tuesday, respectively, to finish with a 225 over the three days. both scores were lower than his season average of 
76.00 per round. 
see m golF PAGE 14 
FOOTBALL 
Zaire looks to start 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
it’s Friday afternoon, and malik Zaire walks into the guglielmino athletics complex. 
The irish had practice that morning, and the sophomore quarterback is back at the gug for interviews with the media. 
he walks in clutching an ipad with a black protective case on it, the same ipad with which Zaire is sometimes seen walk­ing around campus. he sits down about halfway up the au­ditorium, tucking the ipad un­derneath his chair. 
he holds court with reporters for nearly 20 minutes. The su­per-confident signal-caller, en­tering his second spring at notre dame, says he expects to be the starting quarterback when the irish open the season aug. 30 against rice. irish head coach brian Kelly, after all, stressed at the end of January that Zaire would have an opportunity to compete for the job. 
when he’s through answering questions, he scoops up the ipad and heads out. 

Zaire calls the ipad his “foot­ball bible,” and it’s an entry­way into analyzing the path the Kettering, ohio, native has taken from the no. 6 dual-threat quarterback in his high-school class (according to espn) to hopeful notre dame starter. 
“it definitely helped me,” Zaire said of his ipad, which irish players received late last season. “i can go to my room and dive deep in it before i go to practice the next day. so i have 
see FooTball PAGE 13 


Men’s Golf at Lone Star Invitational  13th  ND Women’s Tennis at Marquette  3:30 p.m.  Men’s Lacrosse at Syracuse  Sat., noon  
Men’ Lacrosse vs. Ohio State  W 13-7  Track at Victor Lopez Invitational  All day  Men’s Hockey vs. St. Cloud St.  Sat., 9 p.m.  
SMC Softball  3:30 p.m.  ND Women’s Basketball vs. Oklahoma St.  Sat., 2:30 p.m  
ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Stanford  Sat., noon  





