The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 81 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘To believe amidst the unbelievable’ 
Theology professor visits Rwanda to explore a family’s search for God from the 1994 genocide 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
Editor’s note: This is the first installment in a three-part se­ries discussing the Rutagengwa family’s search for God from the 1994 Rwandan genocide in light of their trip back to Rwanda in December. To remain true to their experience, this piece con­tains graphic content. 
To mark the 20th anniversary of the 1994 rwandan genocide, in which 1 million people were killed in 100 days, a group in­cluding theology professors Fr. dan groody and Fr. virgil elizondo and project coordina­tor for the institute of latino studies colleen cross accom­panied survivors Jean bosco rutagengwa and christine rutagengwa to their home country in december to ex­plore the search for god during genocide. 
groody, who organized the trip, said its goal was to bring together a “community of friends” to address the issue of finding god in seemingly hope­less situations. 
“we wanted more than to just see a pious band-aid over a very painful, difficult reality,” groody said. “we wanted to see how people really helped re­build their lives after such vio­lence … and how you begin to think about that theologically.” 
groody, whose primary 
see rwanda PAGE 4 




Judicial Council hosts election debate 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The candidates for student body president and vice president squared off in a debate monday night ahead of wednesday’s elec­tions. The debate, which took place in the laFortune student center basement, was organized by the Judicial council’s election committee. 
after an opening statement, the three tickets — junior olivia lamagna and sophomore rohan andresen, freshmen george mccabe and sean campbell, and juniors lauren vidal and matt devine — each answered five ques­tions from the election committee. 
andresen, who currently serves as siegfried hall’s senator, described several of his and lamagna’s initia­tives, including opening classes in certain departments to students who are not majors and instituting a student advocate during student activities office planning. 
devine, who served as director of the gender issues department last year, described his and vidal’s plat­form as “personalizing the notre 
see debaTe PAGE 5 



week highlights alumnae memories 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond installment in a three-part series exploring the unique characteristics of Saint Mary’s alumnae, leaders and places on campus in honor of the College’s annual Heritage Week. 
linda kawecki, member of the class of 1979 and the alumnae board of directors, said saint mary’s heritage week celebrates the college’s history by highlighting the stories of its alumnae. 

kawecki said one of the most important traditions for her during her time at the college was a special gift-exchange be­tween her and her hall mates. This tradition has persisted for 38 years, she said. 
“my favorite memory is from my freshman year ... 1975,” she said. “i was in a quint in holy cross and the five of us (plus a friend who lived down the hall) became quite close our first se­mester. we wanted to celebrate a special ‘family’ christmas before leaving campus for the holidays. 
“The night before we depart­ed, we ate dinner together in the dining hall and then went back to our room where there were 30 gifts around our little two-foot tall christmas tree. we had agreed to buy each other gifts that cost less than one dollar. This was before ‘dollar stores’ or the internet or even decent merchandise in our campus bookstore which literally had books and was in the basement of le mans.” 
you had to put a lot of thought into a gift that only cost a dollar, most creative and thoughtful i’ve ever given or received for christmas. it was such a special time to celebrate our friend­ships that are still strong 38 years later.” 
lynn nelson, a nursing ma­jor and a graduate of the class of 1982, said she remembers the connections she made her freshman year while living in regina hall, which was once a first-years only dorm. 
“Freshman year was very stressful,” she said. “being away 
and those gifts were some of the see heriTage PAGE 4 


smoke forces students out of building 
Observer Staff Report 
a fire alarm forced students to evacuate debartolo hall briefly monday morning. 
The alarm went off at 11:10 a.m. and students and faculty were al­lowed back into the building at 
11:23 a.m. after fire fighters sig­naled the area was clear. classes resumed normally after students returned to the building. 
bruce harrison, notre dame Fire department fire chief, said the call was smoke-related, due to smoke in the ventilation sys­tem of the building. There was no fire, harrison said. 
harrison said maintenance work on the heating and air conditioning system caused the smoke. 
students began to smell smoke in their classrooms shortly before the alarm went off. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s Tennis PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you could win a gold medal in an Olympic sport, which sport would it be? 

Amanda Leung 


Niall Cochrane 
junior 

senior 
lyons hall 

off campus 
“rhythmic gymnastics.” 

“swimming 400 im.” 
Mark Ambrose 


Kevin Leuck 
senior 

junior 
Zahm house 

dillon hall 
“curling.” 

“luge or bobsled.” 

Jeff Marino 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“i wanna be ping-pong champion.” 


Rex Shannon 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“200-meter dash.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori roeck aaron sant-miller Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

katie mccarty michael ginocchio henry gens victoria Jacobson 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
erin rice gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Human Rights Lecture Career and Love Languages Hospitality Lunch Met Opera: “Rusalka” 
kevin song austin Taliaferro 
Hesburgh Center for Internship Fair Coleman-Morse Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing International Studies Joyce Center Center 11:45 a.m.-1 p.m. Arts Center 
12:30p.m.-2 p.m. 4 p.m.-8 p.m. 12 p.m.- 1 p.m. $5 donation benefits 1 p.m.- 3 p.m. 
Corrections 

With Dr. Christopher Professional dress Which of five love St. Margaret’s House. Dvorak’s opera about 
The observer regards itself as McCrudden. recommended. languages fits you? Lasagna will be served. mermaids, live in HD. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Lecture: Don Play: “As You Like It” Concert: Piano Meyo Invitational Film: “The Act of 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Drakeman Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Loftus Sports Center, Killing” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Innovation Park 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center Meyo Field DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.-7 p.m. Shakespeare’s famous 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
On new medicines and comedy with London Bach, Schubert with Track and Field, 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

biotech companies. Stage actors. Daniel Schlosberg. continues on Saturday. A chilling piece. 


saint mary’s students dialogue about propoganda, hate speech in chicago 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
last weekend, 10 saint mary’s students attended the what you do matters (wydm) summit at the Field museum in chicago. 
students from chicago area universities and saint mary’s engaged in dialogue about the holocaust, pro­paganda and hate speech, while inspiring students to recognize the way con­temporary society is still dealing with the aftermath, first-year molly Franklin said. 
Franklin said based on her application for the summit organizers con­tacted her prior to the con­ference about speaking on a student panel saturday, the first day of the conference. 
her youngest brother was diagnosed with autism when he was two years old, and Franklin said she began her advocacy for the special needs community when she was in middle school. 

“i imagined a situation where someone would say [‘retarded’] to my brother, and he would understand it and be hurt by it,” Franklin said. 
when Franklin applied for the wydm summit she had not expected to be con­tacted to speak, but it was because of that request she said she learned how im­portant her work for the special needs community is. 
“i never really thought about what i was doing as work,” Franklin said. “but i realize that there are whole communities dealing with hate speech.” 
Franklin said she spoke on a panel of three other students who had faced and worked for varying causes on their campuses includ­ing lgbTQ issues and holocaust denial. 
The wydm summit cov­ered a variety of issues and propelled students to thinking about what action 
“Propaganda is still a huge issue. People are afraid of what they don’t understand and the special needs community needs more understanding.” 
Molly Franklin 
first-year 
needs to be taken on their own campuses with a clos­ing session creating action plans, she said. 
Franklin said she learned about the issue of contem­porary propaganda and how to engage in effective dialogue. during the con­ference, dialogue was defined as a process of gen­uine interaction through which human beings listen to each other deeply enough to be changed by what they learn, she said. 
“it is important that we talk about dialogue be­cause it’s not something that we utilize enough,” Franklin said. 
at the end of the con­ference Franklin said she took away valuable lessons and hopes to be able to apply them to her experi­ence in the special needs community. 
“propaganda is still a huge issue,” Franklin said. “people are afraid of what they don’t under­stand and the special needs community needs more understanding.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

students celebrate chinese new year with performances, traditional food 
By WEI LIN 
news writer 
professors and students showcased their talents during the chinese program’s annual chinese new year celebration on Friday in the laFortune student center, including sto­ry telling, performances and games. 
visiting assistant profes­sional specialist in the east asian languages and culture department wei wang, who helped to plan the event, said the goal of the celebration was to commemorate the most im­portant chinese festival and cultivate students’ cultural awareness of the holiday, the tra­dition and the history behind it. 
“[The event was] an oppor­tunity for our students to show their talent in chinese, ignite their peers’ interest, meet and make friends with other chinese students and communicate with 

“It’s hard being away from home during Lunar New Year’s. This celebration reminded me somewhat of home and it’s comforting” 
Lucy Du 
sophomore 

instructors outside the class­room,” she said. 
another purpose for the cel­ebration was to allow students from higher-level chinese 
paid adverTisemenT 

courses to be role models for the beginners, wang said. 
“The overarching theme was to unify the students and in­structors, which will further improve cooperation and team spirit for the instructors,” she said. 
The opening video was a com­pilation of professors and stu­dents giving their best wishes for the lunar new year, followed by duets, dances and comedic skits. seniors eric brumleve and diana Xu told the story of the lunar new year and the ori­gins of the traditions. Freshman kelia li and sophomore nathan Troscinski sang the mandarin chinese adaptation of the song “let it go” from the disney mov­ie “Frozen.” 
Three level-based choruses performed throughout the cel­ebration, consisting of chinese language students of various levels. 
wang said almost all of the students learning chinese ac­tively participated in the event, whether singing in the choruses or participating in the games such as chinese charades and ping-pong relay. ho ping house provided catering services for the entrees and oriental market provided the chinese snacks, wang said. 
sophomore lucy du does not take chinese but she said she has a chinese background. 
“i’m really happy they planned this,” du said. “it’s hard being away from home during lunar new year’s. This celebration re­minded me somewhat of home and it’s comforting.” 
Contact Wei Lin at          wlin4@nd.edu. 

SMC explores faith and law 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
Faculty and students gath­ered for the first lecture in the spirituality monday series, spon­sored by the saint mary’s center for spirituality, to hear justice ed­ucation professor adrienne lyles chockley share insights on the relationship between spirituality and law in the student center. 
lyles chockley said she defines her personal spirituality as an “internal life directed by con­fident faith, passion, transcen­dence and revelation of god.” 
This notion of spirituality in­fluences her legal career, she said. 
“spirituality guides power in a very healthy way,” she said. 
lyles chockley said she acted as an advocate for rape victims while living in california. sexual assault is an issue that “men and women address together,” she said. 
lyles chockley said during her time as a legal advocate for needy clients, she witnessed callings that told her where she needed to be and guided her to help people. some of these callings directed her to attend notre dame over a free alternative institution, to start her own legal practice and to start a social justice initiative in benton harbor, mich., she said. 
although her goal was set on obtaining her legal degree, lyles chockley said she strongly sup­ports the idea of being an equal to the people she serves. she also said she believes being a power­ful lawyer entails more spiritual ability. 
“ex-offenders lack a connec­tion to something greater to themselves,” she said. 
“spirituality can make at­torneys better practitioners of the law.” lyles chockley said she wants to be more than an attorney. 
“what can we do as a com­munity to make sure everyone’s fundamental human rights are enforced and not just the rights that you have on paper or the rights you have on agreement with another party,” she said. 
The next talk in the series features biology professor Tom Fogle discussing the connections of spirituality to biology, to take place Thursday, Feb. 13, and the final installment features chair of the social work department Frances kominkiewicz discuss­ing the relationship between spirituality and social work monday, Feb. 17. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Rwanda 
conTinued From page 1 
research area is migration theol­ogy, said christine rutagengwa reached out to him two years ago after he gave a talk about rwandan refugees. she intro­duced groody to her husband, Jean bosco rutagengwa, who wanted to write a book about the search for god from his per­
“As I started hearing people’s stories, I became more and more quiet, and then once you start hearing these things, you’re just speechless. And by the end you’re crying.” 
Fr. Dan Groody 
Theology professor 
sonal experience seeking refuge in the hotel mille collines, also known as the hotel rwanda. 
“i said, ‘where was god for you during that time?’” groody said. “and [Jean bosco] says, ‘well, i remember one instance in particular where they cut off all the water sources and we had started to drink out of the swimming pool. and at one point there was no water left, but amidst our desperation that we thought we were going to run dry, it then started to rain. god for me was in the rain.’” 
The rutagengwas, whose daughter Fiona rutagengwa is a freshman at notre dame, spent 40 days in the hotel mille collines, the inspiration for the movie “hotel rwanda,” where more than a thousand Tutsi ref­ugees sought shelter during the genocide, groody said. 
during the trip, the group stayed at the hotel — the rutagengwas’ first visit there since they fled 19 years ago — and visited important memori­als for genocide victims, groody said. 
“when you go out to these memorials, they had all kinds of different models,” he said. “one would [display] the skulls and the bones, and you can just pick them up. They’re right there. and then there were oth­ers where they would say, ‘here are the vaults,’ and there are 200,000 people in this vault, 200,000 people in that vault. … it wasn’t as graphic as the first model. 
“The third, which was really disturbing … [showed] how they died, and then they took this lime and they basically pre­served the bones, some of which still had hair on them. The most disturbing one was i think the rape. you’d see this woman who had been raped and kind of thrown into this pit.” 
The group also visited christine rutagengwa’s child­hood parish, the site of a brutal killing spree, groody said. 
“it’s a church that is a memo­rial for the genocide, and in the back it’s just skulls and bones,” he said. “[christine] said, ‘This is where i went to sunday school. This is where they rounded up my mother and my sisters, and they macheted and threw gre­nades and they macheted 5,000 people in a couple of hours.’ 
“some French brigade group trained the killers how to kill 1,000 people in 20 minutes.” 
groody said churches were popular targets for those carry­ing out the genocide. 
“There were previous geno­cides in rwanda, but in those previous times, people fled to the churches for refuge, literally for protection,” he said. “but this time, the killers knew they were going to do that, so then they targeted the churches, then rounded them up there and threw grenades in there and hacked them to death or took their kids, their babies, and smashed their heads against the wall. The numbers were just astronomical.” 
groody said he held mass at many of the memorials, includ­ing the place where Jean bosco rutagengwa’s mother was buried. 
along the way, groody said the group met people who proved that new life had emerged in rwanda, including a nun who had harbored 22 refugees in her house during the genocide. despite her best efforts, the kill­ers found them and murdered them, even burying one person alive, he said. 
“This dog they had was a very mean dog, but the dog one day 
—
 after they had killed [the ref­ugee] and put him in this grave 

—
 the dog kept whimpering and crying, and he kept going back and forth between the grave and the house,” groody said. 


“what he was trying to say is there’s somebody still alive there. and [the nun’s] comment was that in many ways, this dog showed more humanity than the people, which is interesting for my work because when i ask migrants what is the hardest part about being a migrant, one of them said it’s being treated like you’re a dog. 
“but in this case, it even takes that further that sometimes a dog can be even more human than people or show more hu­manity than human beings do.” 
groody said even though the nun suffered terrible losses, she also said she had a responsibil­ity to cultivate goodness. 
“she said, when we asked ‘what is the message of rwanda for the world?’ ‘rwanda de­scended lower than anyone could possibly go. as a human community, we went lower than anybody could possibly go,’” groody said. “‘neighbor turned against neighbor. people in the same church started kill­ing each other, parents against children. we went so low that you couldn’t get any lower.’ 
“but it was from that point that she realized that her mis­sion was to be a messenger of light and hope and to put goodness back on its throne.” 
groody said he also met a priest named Fr. Jerome who sought to rebuild his commu­nity after the genocide. 
“[Fr. Jerome] realized that he had to do more than keep say­ing mass for people,” groody said. “he started a support group, and they came in and started telling their story. he says the stories were all the same. ‘They killed X, y and Z. why did god let this happen?’ because it’s very hard for people to get beyond their own pain and suffering. 
“but he said at one point he asked them, ‘was there any­thing good that happened at any time during the genocide? did you experience anybody do a good act for you or anything that you feel grateful for?’ and he says that kind of opened a door and it just changed the perspective and people began talking about where god was in the midst of that.” 
groody said hearing these survivors’ stories changed the way he approaches finding god in hopeless places. 
“before i left, i had a lot of questions,” he said. “when we got there and started talking to people, i began analyzing it. we got further into the questions to try to understand things. 
“as i started hearing peo­ple’s stories, i became more and more quiet, and then once you start hearing these things, you’re just speechless. and by the end you’re crying. you just don’t have words that even be­gin to touch this. you really kind of have to shift your theology in a way from just saying, ‘where was god?’ to ‘where were we?’” 
Jean bosco rutagengwa wrote a book about his search for god, framed around life, death and resurrection, to be published later this year, and groody said the group is working to release 
“There are living witnesses that bear testimony to a God of life in midst of death” 
Fr. Dan Groody 
Theology professor 
a documentary about their trip to be released around the 20th anniversary of the genocide in april. 
“The greatest takeaway for me is that there are living wit­nesses that bear testimony to a god of life in midst of death, and whose own ability to be­lieve amidst the unbelievable is a compelling narrative of how god is with us, even amidst the most challenging situations we face,” he said. “it’s one thing if we say this from places like [notre dame], and it’s another thing when you’re with peo­ple who say it from places like [rwanda].” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
Heritage 
conTinued From page 1 

from home, trying to meet new friends  — only one other girl from my high school attended my year and we were only ac­quaintances — [was difficult]. regina was the ‘freshman dorm,’ so most of us were in singles. This actually worked well since most of us left our doors open to meet oth­ers.”1982 saint mary’s alumna mary Jane klein said she rel­ished her time in the regina singles as a first-year. 
“Freshman year was so full of new adventures, some fun-filled and some groan-in­ducing,” she said. “living in a single in regina hall was defi­nitely a fun-filled adventure. you got to know everyone on your floor, because when you were in your room doors were left open to encourage anyone and everyone to stop in and say hello. 
“every student had their own phone in their room with a cord long enough to just be able to pull the phone into the hall. without cordless phones, we developed our own version of voice mail. when you were out of your room, you left your phone on the floor in the hall so if it rang, any girl within ear­shot would answer it and write the message on your door’s message board.” 
mary lederer, also a mem­ber of the class of 1982, said she cherishes the time in which she strengthened her faith in the company of her classmates during weekday massed. 
“i remember slipping into the lemans chapel at noon on weekdays for daily mass,” she said. “Fr. murphy would be the celebrant, and i would find a number of my saint mary’s friends already there. i remember how great it was to have the opportunity to take a few minutes during the day to pray and refocus on what was important. my friends who were there were great inspira­tions to me as they were women of strong faith and character. i think attending those masses in lemans helped to influence my faith life for many years to come.” 
klein said of the most vivid memories of her years at saint mary’s includes an unforget­table encounter with a notre dame legend. 
“my boyfriend and i had fin­ished studying at notre dame’s library late one night and were walking through the middle of campus on our way to the grotto for a quick prayer,” she said. “it was a clear, cold win­ter evening and there was no one else walking about. as we strolled toward the adminis­tration building, my boyfriend was telling me how it was said that [university president emeritus] Fr. [Theodore] hesburgh (then, president of notre dame) often worked in his office until late at night and if you looked hard, you could see the light on in his office. 
“as we got nearer to the building, we stopped talking abruptly, and looking up to the front steps of the admin building saw a tall figure, all in black, descend. before we knew it, we were face to face with Fr. hesburgh. he stopped to greet us and shook our hands as we recovered from our shock and introduced ourselves. after some brief words, he went on his way, leaving wondering how it happened that we were walking that path at the same [time] he should come out of his office. 
“The darkness of that night, the lateness of the hour, and the honor of meeting such a notre dame legend without another soul around makes it a saint mary’s memory that will forever stay with me.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at      ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Debate conTinued From page 1  increase interaction with the com­munity by bringing farmer’s mar-kets and other businesses to “quad  about these things.” also on the ballot were mccabe and campbell, whose platform  Syrian regime  
dame experience,” using existing structures to institute new policies and to continue those that work.  markets” on campus. vidal said they would also increase service opportunities, including creating a  consisted of making class regis­tration more complicated, creat­ing a study abroad program in  escalates airstrikes  
“our platform stems from look- “29 for 29” program in which each  Zahm house for saint. mary’s stu­ 
ing at what the individual student  dorm would “adopt” a local under- dents, asking belmont beverages  blood. Further down the street, Associated Press  
experience is, looking at the clubs  privileged family.  to accept flex point, and making  the facades of buildings have  
and organizations and how stu­ “There are hundreds of fami­ wrangler Jeans the athletic appar- beiruT — The syrian govern-been torn off by the bomb.  
dent government can facilitate  lies who are both in and out of the  el sponsor. each of their initiatives  ment extended its intense aerial in a second video, two men  
that and expanding it into the  center for the homeless specifi­ was met with cheers from Zahm  campaign against rebel-held ar­place the shredded remains of  
world too,” devine said.  cally who would really love help  house residents.  eas of the northern city of aleppo a body onto a carpet. another  
lamagna, who is currently the  from students like us, as simple  “obviously we’re more con- on monday, conducting a series body covered in a blanket lies in  
junior class president, said she  as getting a christmas tree and  cerned about our own needs than  of airstrikes that killed at least 18 a pool of blood on dusty pave- 
and andresen would improve stu­ decorating it, getting donations  your needs, so let’s just get that out  people, including five children, ment. nearby, two women rock  
dent government by working to be  and presents and making them a  of the way,” mccabe, who wore an  activists said. back and forth as they wail over  
accessible and instituting some  meal,” vidal said.  easter bunny costume to the de­ president bashar assad’s air a third body.  
reforms, including changing the  lamagna said she and andresen  bate, said.  force has pounded opposition ar-The videos appeared genu­ 
transition procedures for student  would continue the current sexual  kathryn peruski, the Judicial  eas of the divided city since mid­ine and corresponded to other  
government positions.  assault prevention initiatives by  council’s vice president of  december, reducing apartment associated press reporting of the  
“we want to make sure that kids  focusing on prevention, including  elections, said she was pleased  blocks to rubble and overwhelm-events depicted.  
are poised so that they can suc­ creating a mid-semester presen­ with the student turnout.  ing already strapped hospitals The syrian government has not  
ceed from the second they get into  tation for freshmen and naming  “There were a lot of people  and medical clinics with the relented in its bombardment of  
office and finish out their term and  male-female co-chairs on the  there, which is always nice that  wounded. on sunday, govern­rebel-held areas of aleppo since  
be able to plan all the way through  gender issues department.  people came out. … i was really  ment aircraft also targeted areas launching what appeared to be a  
the semester,” lamagna said.  “gender issues and sexual as- impressed,” peruski said. “The  of east aleppo under rebel con-concerted aerial campaign there  
vidal, who served as student  sault is not a one-way discussion,”  candidates obviously had great  trol, killing nearly 40 people. late last year. over a two-week  
union parliamentarian last  lamagna said. “is shouldn’t be  answers for what we were looking  monday’s air raids hit the dis-stretch in december alone, ac- 
year, said she and devine would  weighed by women who think that  for, and i’m hoping that the stu­ tricts of hanano, Qadi askar tivists say airstrikes killed more  
improve student government  it’s their issue or men who think  dents who came to listen got a lot of  and mouwasalat, the britain­than 500 people.  
through “policy and program- that it’s their thing to fight. we  information from them. it was also  based syrian observatory for syria’s opposition has pointed  
ming,” including incorporating  need to make sure the conversa­ publicity for the election, which is  human rights said. The group, to the air raids as evidence that  
medical amnesty into du lac.  tion is two-sided. we want to make  the ultimate goal, to get people to  which monitors the conflict assad has little interest in peace  
devine said he and vidal also plan  sure that everybody feels like it is  come vote.”  through a network of activists despite sending a delegation to  
to increase transparency within  theie issue because it’s everyone’s  Freshman olivia Till said the  on the ground, said helicopters switzerland last week for u.n.­ 
student government.  issue.”  debate showed her next year’s stu­ dropped crude bombs — barrels sponsored negotiations aimed  
lamagna said she and andresen  devine, citing his experience in  dent government would be in good  packed with explosives, fuel and at ending the nearly three-year  
would improve student-commu­ the gender issues department and  hands.  scraps of metal — on the neigh-uprising. The first round of talks  
nity relations by increasing aware- the committee for sexual assault  “i thought that it was pretty ob­ borhoods, causing immense failed to secure any meaningful  
ness of downtown events and  prevention, said he and vidal  vious which candidates were here  damage. agreement other than to meet  
businesses and working with other  would continue the current ad- to be serious and which were here  amateur videos posted on-again later this month for more  
student organizations such as The  ministration’s programs, working  to be comic relief,” Till said. “i really  line provided a window on the talks.  
bridge project.  with the university and students  appreciated the people that took a  carnage. since it began with largely  
“There’s an extremely culturally  to raise awareness.  lot of time on their platform, and  in one clip from hanano, resi­peaceful protests in march 2011,  
rich community that’s so close to  “we really love the grassroots ef­ i think that we’re really lucky that  dents frantically dig through the syrian conflict has killed  
our campus, and by interacting  fort that [student body president]  we have student leaders that have  the shattered blocks of concrete more than 130,000 people, forced  
with them in a more regular and  alex [coccia] has made with the  such a clear vision for what they  and twisted metal strewn across almost a third of the country’s  
normal way, i think that everybody  prayer services, which is an initia­ want to do on campus.”  the street in search of survivors. prewar population of 23 million  
can have a better notre dame ex- tive of the student government, but  a man stumbles as he carries a from their homes, and inflamed  
perience,” lamagna said.  also the bystander training. we  Contact Emily McConville at  wounded boy wrapped in a blan­sectarian tensions that have jolt­ 
devine said he and vidal would  think that’s essential when talking  emcconv1@nd.edu  ket, his arm and face covered in ed the entire middle east.  

east coast responds to extreme winter storm 
Associated Press  temperatures in the 50s. The  as 7 inches by 3 p.m.  was canceled.  “a lot of people must have called  
storm began moving out of the re- government  offices,  courts  “it was so congested we couldn’t  in sick after the super bowl,” he  
philadelphia  — a  winter  gion monday afternoon, making  and  schools  closed  in  parts  get out of new Jersey, even though  said. “it’s not cleaned up as well as  
storm dumped several inches of  way for another system expected  of  connecticut,  delaware,  we left early because our team  usual.”  
wet, heavy snow on parts of the  to sweep in from the plains with  maryland,  new  Jersey,  ohio,  lost,” said louderback, a hotel  in philadelphia, the airport ex- 
eastern united states on monday,  ice and snow late Tuesday and  pennsylvania and west virginia,  executive.  perienced weather delays as long  
snarling commutes and  super  early wednesday.  and scattered power outages were  arizona gov. Jan brewer was  as four hours monday morning.  
bowl fans’ trips home, closing  The national weather service  reported throughout the region.  among the stranded travelers af­ but the flight home for seahawks  
schools and government offices  reported about 8 inches of snow  speed limits were reduced on  ter her return flight to phoenix  fan george shiley, of snohomish,  
and cutting power.  near Frostburg, md., while parts of  many major highways.  was canceled monday, a spokes- wash., remained on schedule at  
Fat flakes fell in philadelphia  southern ohio and west virginia  in  new  Jersey,  gov.  chris  man said. brewer attended the big  midday.  
and  new  york, creating slushy  got about 10 inches. Totals in the  christie declared a state of emer­ game as part of the ceremonial  shiley, a seattle season ticket  
sidewalks and streets and all but  philadelphia area ranged from 3  gency with travel conditions haz­ handoff of hosting duties;  next  holder, had won a lottery for super  
erasing all memory of sunday’s  to 9 inches; new york saw as much  ardous. nonessential government  year’s super bowl is in glendale,  bowl tickets. he and his buddy  
employees were dismissed early.  ariz.  stayed  in  philadelphia,  about  
paid adverTisemenT  by late afternoon, the flight- Francois  emond,  of  alma,  85 miles southwest of the east  
tracking website Flightaware re- Quebec,  arrived  at  newark  rutherford, n.J., stadium.  
ported more than 4,300 delayed  airport at 6 a.m. monday to find  “it’s been a great trip. i joked that  
flights and 1,900 canceled flights  his flight home had been  can­ ‘it’s always sunny in philadelphia’  
nationwide in cities including  celed. wearing a seattle seahawks  — and it was, until today,” said  
philadelphia, newark, n.J., and  championship hat and an ear-to­ shiley, referring to the FX sitcom.  
new  york.  inbound flights to  ear smile, he said he didn’t care  at least two deaths and one  
those airports were delayed one  about the cancellation or the  serious injury were blamed on  
to three hours because of snow  weather in light of seattle’s victo­ the storm. in western kentucky,  
and ice.  ry. he planned to spend an extra  where the snow began falling  
russ  louderback, of Fishers,  night at his hotel in new york.  sunday, a man died that night  
ind.,  and  his  11-year-old  son  “The night will be very short,”  when his car skidded into a snow- 
mason had gone to new Jersey to  emond said. “when you win a  plow. on monday, a new york city  
see the super bowl but suffered a  super bowl for the first time, the  man was fatally struck by a back- 
triple whammy of bad luck: Their  night is very, very short.”  hoe that was moving snow.  
beloved denver broncos lost, they  in connecticut, architect Frank  a 10-year-old girl was in serious  
got stuck in an hours-long traffic  emery  described  messy  condi­ condition after she was impaled  
jam leaving the stadium and their  tions outside as he stopped at a  by a metal rod while sledding  
monday  afternoon  flight  home  coffee shop in new haven.  north of baltimore.  

The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

support for pregnancy at nd 

INSIDE COLUMN 

BuzzFeed lessons 
Allison D’Ambrosia 
photographer 

i’m not a fan of buzzFeed articles — or the mock lists like buzzFeed. my least favorite one was the list of the “23 Things To do instead of getting engaged before you’re 23.” however, i was recently enthralled by one that “5 other friends have posted” on Facebook called “14 Things i wish i knew before college” by hannah Flom. 
while i enjoyed and agreed (most­ly) with the list Flom assembled, there is one thing i wish she had in­cluded — someone else is probably thinking the same thing. if i were to add a 15th item to the list (i’m not sure why she didn’t since 15 is a more round number, i’m the type of person who has the Tv volume on intervals of five at all times), i would add: even if people don’t express it, they are probably thinking the same thing you are. 
is this really that hard of a con­cept to grasp? people in college seem so put together most of the time. however, behind the perfectly curled hair, the Tie Tuesdays and the big group of friends you eat with ev­eryday — if you are not content, not satisfied or feeling lost — chances are someone else is too. or vice-versa. if you’re really happy, you love your friends and you’ve finally found your niche, then express that and share it. 
i was sitting at brunch sunday with people from each class. The freshman was recounting her cur­rent problem separating herself from her domerfest group of friends. The sophomore was wondering how to tell her friends she will be gone all of next year studying abroad. The junior recounted his hardships in switching friend groups in solidar­ity and comfort for the freshman and the senior described his plans for obtaining a high paying job after graduation in order to buy the din­ning hall “knives that actually cut.” 
at the end of fall semester my freshman year, a certain professor told me i needed to get my act to­gether and figure out what i wanted to do with my life. but — no! no i didn’t and no i do not have to figure it all out right now. 
what i do need to do and what we all need to do more often is to express what we are thinking and feeling. chances are someone else is thinking the same thing and talking through challenges together helps give you perspective. 
it helps you solve them quicker and perhaps even better than if you tried doing it all on your own. 
Contact Allison D’Ambrosia at adambr01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Angela Bermudez 
guest columnist 
in “pro-life talk but not a pro-life ethic” (Jan. 29), elizabeth pfenson correctly stresses that a commitment to being pro-life encompasses support for those women and men who find themselves facing an unexpected pregnancy. while, as she men­tioned in her article, funding for pregnant graduate students may be insufficient, the university offers wonderful resources for undergraduate pregnant and parenting students. 
notre dame’s division of student affairs website says “keeping with its mission as a catholic university, notre dame is com­mitted to offering students resources that support the choice of life.” notre dame’s right to life, in striving to promote the dig­nity of all life, recognizes the need to sup­port students when they find themselves in vulnerable situations. 
discussions of pregnancy resources on campus are often enveloped in a sea of myths. students assume that preg­nant students will be kicked out of notre dame, lose their athletic scholarships or face penalties for their violation of dulac. recognizing the importance of promot­ing pregnancy resources, nd right to life founded the parenting resources commis­sion. since its conception, the commission has collaborated with student affairs, life initiatives and other offices on cam­pus that deal with pregnancy resources to increase awareness of the available resources. 
in the hopes of debunking these inac­curate notions, last semester, notre dame’s right to life and student government sponsored a pregnancy resource panel to discuss resources that are available for pregnant, fathers-to-be and parenting students on campus. The panel featured karen kennedy and ann whitall from student affairs as well as Judy madden from campus ministry. 
all three work closely with students who find themselves pregnant or whose significant other is pregnant, to offer loving support and help them explore their op­tions. during the presentation, student affairs screened a video that features the personal testimonies of past notre dame undergraduates who faced an unexpected pregnancy while attending notre dame. These former students revealed their ini­tial anxiety about the pregnancy and fear of being ostracized, which in some cases led them to contemplate abortion, if only briefly. 
once they reached out to the university and their peers, they were surprised by the outpouring of support they received solidifying and affirming their decision to chose life. They were able to successfully raise their child and finish their education; despite the inherent obstacles this situation presents, the support of the university pro­vided them with the necessary resources to overcome the challenges. 
The message of the video is clear: notre dame is fully committed to helping stu­dents who find themselves facing an un­expected pregnancy and the university is blessed with an abundance of resources for these students. unfortunately, if these re­sources are not communicated, students, in their vulnerable state, may feel alone and opt for a seemingly “quick solution” by choosing abortion. 
in order to saves lives, both of the un­born and their parents, it is important to promote pregnancy resources and clarify some of the myths. notre dame does not kick out or penalize students who find themselves pregnant, but is committed to ensuring that they complete their educa­tion and will help arrange the necessary accommodations this entails. From help­ing students adjust their schedules, provid­ing financial support if that is necessary and ensuring that the student’s spiritual, emotion and physical needs (and that of her/ his baby) are met. students are al­lowed to remain in their dorms during the pregnancy and, once the baby is born, they have access to graduate student family houses, where they live amidst a support­ive community of other parenting stu­dents. Free pregnancy tests are available at st. liam’s and the ucc, as well as campus ministry’s Judy madden and ed mack offer counseling support for expecting students and their significant others. 

another valuable resource for students, particularly if they feel more comfort­able going off campus for support, is the women’s care center, which offers loving, non-judgmental support and free counsel­ing, free pregnancy tests, free ultrasounds and other pregnancy services and re­sources. For more information visit www. womenscarecenter.org. 
if we call ourselves pro-life, we must be committed to not only speaking about the value of life but also acknowledging it through our actions and support. as a notre dame family, we must be com­mitted to supporting our peers who are pregnant or parenting. staying informed of the resources on campus equips us to help our friends when they feel most vulnerable. we must also resist apathy. our perception that pregnancy does not happen on cam­pus or will not happen to us, does not mean that is the reality. often, this perception perpetuates the isolation that a pregnant student feels. we need to create a commu­nity where a student who finds themselves facing an unplanned pregnancy does not feel alienated or ostracized, but knows that people care. 
notre dame right to life hopes to continue this discussion with a series of workshops on issues related to pregnancy and post-abortive resources, as well as supporting similar initiatives promulgated by other organizations on-campus. we also seek to expand the ways in which the graduate student population is supported. The resources are available, but often inadequately promoted. student affairs’ website lists the resources available for pregnant students as well as contact infor­mation for those seeking support. For more information on pregnancy resources visit pregnancysupport.nd.edu. 
Angela Bermudez is a senior. She can be reached at abermud1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



My Grammy conundrum 
Michael Fliotsos 
viewpoint columnist 

one of the first things that people understand when they really get to know me is that i am a popular mu­sic snob. 
don’t get me wrong — i am fully aware that the pop music scene is a shallow, flashy and contrived vortex of “singing,” twerking and attention-grabbing onstage antics. nevertheless, there’s something about the ridiculousness of it all that i find extraordinarily intrigu­ing and entertaining to watch, sati­rize and, believe it or not, actually enjoy. 
so it naturally goes without say­ing that the grammy awards are one of my most anticipated events of the musical year. billed as “music’s biggest night,” this show has hosted iconic musical moments from lady eggga hatching onstage, elton John singing with eminem and many others. i looked forward to this year’s ceremony like i had many others. after all the performances, awards and “controversy”, however, i found myself atypically disap­pointed by the night’s events. 
First, the performances. granted, i know that most pop musicians have the (earned) reputation of not being able to sing live to save their lives, but usually they up the ante when it comes to performing on the single most prestigious awards show the industry has to offer. To this end, i was sorely mistaken. 
when lorde — one of the only breaths of fresh air the industry ex­perienced this year — wasn’t stand­ing in place with unusually breathy and strained vocals, she was spasti­cally “dancing” as if she were trying to swat away a swarm of flies. katy perry, who for some reason always seems to be unable to perform live on television (something that con­founds me after attending a concert where her vocals were on-point for two hours) made this night no exception as she performed in an outfit that looked like it was from spencer’s or hot Topic with a sup­posedly-controversial red led cross emblazoned across her chest and the performance ending with her being burned at the stake (i think). even beyoncé, Queen b, deliverer of spectacular performances no matter what, struggled to make her performance engaging to the level we are expected to receive from her (thankfully, however, her vocals were spot on). 
second, the awards. i know that these awards aren’t always about quality (and by “aren’t always” i mean “seldom are”), but you know something’ just wrong when katy perry’s innovation-less, cliché-filled “roar” is even nominated in the first place. macklemore and ryan lewis swept all the rap categories they were nominated for, beating out kendrick lamar in several cat­egories, leaving the latter grammy­less despite seven nominations (tying the record for most grammy noms without a win). even though i think that the contrived instagram post of the text macklemore sent to kendrick after the show about him being unfairly snubbed of best rap album was contrived beyond belief, there was a kernel of truth to it. you know something’s up when the art­ist himself — the one who invested blood, sweat and tears into making his vision a reality — doesn’t even believe his own award was fairly won. Thankfully, lorde walked away with some awards and kacey musgraves — the country songstress who shook things up this year with genre-defying lyrics and subject matter — won two. 
Third, the macklemore/ryan lewis/mary lambert/madonna/ Queen latifa/Trombone shorty/34 newlywed couples spectacular. you would have to be rather isolated from any sort of news outlet this week if you didn’t hear about the duo’s performance of “same love” medley-ed with madonna’s “open your heart” and the officiated wed­ding ceremony of 34 straight, gay, old and young couples by the power invested in Queen latifah by the state of california. 
The fact that madonna looked and sounded as if she was on the verge of death the entire time (and was literally holding a cane) wasn’t the part i found objectionable. neither was the fact that the couples were finding happiness in their new com­panionship. it’s the fact that, when you re-watched the performance and determined the amount of airtime allocated to the supposed “point” of the event (i.e., the same love), you’ll find that that actually wasn’t the focus. rather, the camera was fixed upon the musicians, the band, the backup chorus and the ce­lebrities reacting in the crowd. The performance was over-the-top to a fault — coming off as a self-righ­teous affirmation of hollywood’s awesomeness as opposed to a genu­ine statement of equality. 

Fortunately, the whole evening wasn’t a bust for me personally — some of my favorite underdogs won some awards; chicago brought some melody to the event, miley wasn’t there to “perform” and Taylor swift nailed her hair flips and her vocals. 
hopefully next year will involve less self-righteousness, fewer eye­rollable moments and a lot more good singing. 
Michael Fliotsos is a sophomore Science-Business major residing in Duncan Hall. Contact Michael at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

a sweet tooth for candy crush 
Shahrukh H. Khan 
The harvard crimson 

honestly, i have never played candy crush. 
i hdn’t even heard of it until a few weeks ago. it’s weird: currently one of the most popular games in the world, and i did not know it existed. it is like not knowing Facebook exists until ev­eryone else has made one. nevertheless, the phenomenon known as candy crush is one thing that poked at my conscience this winter break. my ex­perience with the game, though not through actually playing it, has been entirely coincidental and strange. 
i came across an article in Time mag­azine about it. and by the time i fin­ished reading the article, candy crush was one of the most brilliantly cruel business ideas i had ever come across. The creators of candy crush beautifully exploited human psychology in order to engineer a highly addictive product— but one that that will nonetheless go the way of all fads. 
The game was actually released two years ago, but it really gained momentum in 2013. by november, it had been downloaded some 500 mil­lion times. candy crush’s maker, king, a london-based software company, designed the game almost like a highly addictive drug. 
The objective of the game is to line up three candies of the same color, swipe, and repeat. players are initially given five lives to solve each puzzle. and once the player runs out of lives, they have to wait 30 minutes before they are given another life. 
but here is the killer: for those players who are a bit edgy and do not want to wait the half hour, they can pay $0.99 and buy another life. it is the perfect time and the perfect way to poke at your wallet. 
a player is on the edge of success and he/she loses his last life. There is no way they can hit the sleep button without given it one more shot; i mean it is only $0.99 right? and it is a never-ending game because the developers add more levels every other week. 
These facts explain my experience, and bewilderment, with candy crush. it all began when i was taking the e train into manhattan last month. For those of you who have not been on the new york city subway during rush hour, you should. every time i take it, i see all kinds of people: the crazy and the bored, the beggars and the millionaires, the kind and the intimidating. and peo­ple are doing one of four things: staring into space, sleeping, pounding on their phones, or speaking about how they were sent from god to save mankind. 
but exactly what are they doing on their phone if there is no internet or phone service? as i saw it, nine out of 10 times, they were swiping a bunch of willy wonka nerd-looking things on their screens into the unknown. 
of course, i knew it was a game, but the most peculiar thing was that the people i saw playing it were not kids or teenagers or 30-year-old men who look like they are still living with their parents. 
They say you shouldn’t judge a book by its cover, but sometimes your eyes do not deceive. in fact, they can make you wonder. 
i saw professionally dressed, sophis­ticated adults with briefcases. They flaunted success, education, and urban­ity; they looked like people who worked on wall street or sixth avenue law firms. and they played candy crush. my eyes saw, and i wondered. 

but candy crush is almost like Temple run or the harlem shake or even the Jonas brothers. it is a fad, and it is bound to slump at some point, but that all depends on when the sugar rush ends, when people decide to move on to another craze. 
i suppose this is an unfortunate as­pect of technology and pop-culture these days; the fast-pace of life makes prominence shorter-lived, even to the point where the trend lasts for merely a month or two. For one thing, more candy crush-like marvels are probably on their way. The question is, will they bewilder and take hold of people’s lives the way candy crush has? 
i have yet to download the game. and maybe by the time i do, another game will have dethroned it. 
The Harvard Crimson is the independent student newspaper serving Harvard University 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

nothing gets me more jazzed up than fashion. 
oh man, fashion? To me that’s just like a … thing that i know a bunch about. i don’t want to brag, but i pretty much made double-sided belts happen. you don’t need to thank me, america, for saving you from ever having to go with the dreaded brown shoes and black belt combo that has felled any number of great men over the years. but you’re welcome anyways. 
socks and sandals? i rarely do that more than once a week in public. 
and guess who bought a new shirt over christmas break for himself all by himself without any help or mom or anything? This guy. it was a dark gray, cotton tee with strokes of blue that spell out “royals” on the front, with “hosmer” and “35” etched onto the back. it’s very swanky, and i’m very proud. 
all this is suffice to say, i’m basically a fashion aficio­nado — which is why my gears flipped the switch from “smooth operator” to “grindin’ like paul bunyon’s axe” in a new york second the other day when i saw the de­signs for two new shirts on campus. 
i saw the shirts, one blueish, the other greenish, (i’m also a color-differentiating superstar) with a cute little shamrock on the front and “notre dame” across the back shoulders, with a subtle “est. 1842” slipped under­neath to let people know we’re legit. 
my first thought was, “i didn’t know we had sororities at notre dame! but they still won’t allow fraternities? This sounds like a job for an observer columnist to dis­cuss gender problems at notre dame!” i immediately donned my superhero cape and mask (they’re both fashion fabulous, i assure you), swished on down to The observer’s secret “lair of most hated opinions” and began typing. 
but wait! pow! bam! Zap! no, i was informed by my oldest and most trusted assistant/butler — some kids i overheard talking in the dining hall while i was eat­ing by myself — these weren’t sorority shirts after all! They were instead the traditional spirit jerseys for the graduating class of seniors at notre dame, available for purchase any and all seniors. 
or, in past years, if you had a crush on the football player whose number correspondents with the graduat­ing year, you could buy a shirt and pretend it’s for your special guy, sort of. sorry, luke massa, no no. 14 t-shirts this year. it’s a real shame, too. Think of all the money you could have made through notre dame licensing your likeness on merchandise for profit! 
now, when i heard that notre dame was, in fact, not explicitly endorsing sororities, but instead simply al­lowing the senior class to celebrate its senior class-ness through clever apparel, i felt excitement bubbling up inside of me. oh, wow, if the spirit jerseys for girls looked like that, i could only imagine what the male version might look like — a sleeveless tee with a witty neon slogan along the lines of “nd 2014 4eva,” perhaps. or maybe it would just be a sponsored chest tattoo that would let us proclaim our school pride forever and ever at pools, job interviews, weddings, you name it. 
but again, alas, my hopes were dashed. as it turns out, there would be no male version — the sorority shirts would be it. needless to say, i was disappointed. as a fashion expert, i find it hard to get behind a t-shirt design that exploded in popularity thanks to girls in sororities looking for something that made it look like they borrowed a shirt from their boyfriend. This trend, of course, is something of an oxymoron — since girls weren’t actually borrowing these shirts from male friends, it meant that the fashion trend became popular almost exclusively among women, making this an al­most exclusively feminine t-shirt design. 
now, if i’m being honest, this doesn’t bother me pretty much at all (also since i’m being honest — i’m not a fash­ion expert, and i sincerely apologize for misleading you). more than anything, i probably wasn’t going to buy one of these shirts anyways, because i already bought my one new shirt for the decade (see: royals shirt, men­tioned above), so the design of the shirt wasn’t going to draw much water with me no matter what it was. 
i was, however, taken aback by the price of the shirts 
— $45 a pop. now i know that there’s a spectacular deal in place for buying in bulk, with two shirts costing $80, but that nearly buy-one-get-one-free discount aside, $45 is absurdly high for a t-shirt. so i thought to myself, “kevin, why don’t you make one yourself, just for fun.” 

i did just that. and i wrote a 1,000-plus-word column about it to justify the shamefully long time i spent (up­wards of eight minutes) designing a fake t-shirt that would never go into production. 
now, i understand there are a number of problems with my design here. it’s not good, for one (quick re­sponse to that complaint is that i don’t care and i would wear the heck out of this). it says the words “notre dame,” for another, an expensive trademark that must be protected lest people all over the world begin using two French words together in a way that doesn’t im­mediately reflect the concept of “mind, body, spirit.” Finally, i don’t know a) how many seniors there are ex­actly, or b) what each of their sizes is. 
well, i guessed there’d be about 2,000 seniors, and i guessed medium and large would be the most popular sizes, but still mock-ordered a good number of small and extra-large to meet that demand as well as a few of the XXl and XXXl shirts to make sure nobody got left out. 
i don’t want to claim to be a math expert (even sar­castically i don’t deserve to be called a math expert), but with my order, the per-shirt price to order, courtesy of customink.com, was $8.69. Quick comparison — $45 a shirt now, $9 a shirt from me. let’s get wild and try to make a profit and charge $15 a shirt, and that’s still, what, $30 cheaper? i still almost definitely wouldn’t buy that shirt, but even i can see a good deal. 
The senior class council has done good work this year, i’m sure — i haven’t been on their email list all year, despite being a senior, but i bear them no ill will for that. i don’t want to heap undue criticism on them when i, in fact, couldn’t name any of them off the top of my head. but if it were up to you, wouldn’t you rather wear a shirt that declares your coolness loudly and proudly instead of a sorority knockoff? 
we r nd, we r cool and we want better t-shirts. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Lauren Vidal - Matt Devine 
     Who are they: student body presidential candidate lauren vidal brings experience to the table from her time in Fuel as a freshman and her service as stu­dent body parliamentarian dur­ing her sophomore year. a junior management and consulting ma­jor with a minor in public policy, vidal hails from miami. 
devine, a cincinnati native, studies pre-medicine and eco­nomics with a minor in peace studies. he chaired the depart­ment of gender issues in student government last year. 
both studied abroad last semes­ter — vidal in washington, d.c., and devine in london. 
First priority: if elected, their first goal would be to work within the existing structure of student government and seek to foster a close-knit community among members of that group. vidal said they will look for a broad array of passionate people to lead the de­partments and then work to get each department on board with their goals from the beginning. 
she said the restructured plat­form they composed, structured around the divisions of each department, reflects and rein­forces the underlying importance of each department in student government. 
Top priority: The team’s big­gest goal is serving their peers and the broader notre dame commu­nity as best they can, devine said. he said they will do this by both serving the student body through their leadership and then provid­ing opportunities for them to be of service to the greater south bend area. 
“we really have this idea of ser­vice, and although we understand that’s a broad term, we really [pri­oritize] service to our peers and to our community as a whole,” vidal said. “For our peers, we work on specific, tangible projects.” 
Best idea: devine said the two hope to continue many of the current administration’s agenda items, including a push for medi­cal amnesty for students. he said he contacted members of the office of student affairs to discuss whether “du lac” would be up for revision during the year ahead, and he said he talked extensively with current student body presi­dent alex coccia about coccia’s work toward that goal. 
devine clearly did his home­work on the matter and gathered the necessary information to make the platform item ground­ed in real possibility. he said he hopes to change the tone of that conversation to center around keeping students safe and ac­countable, not enabling them to behave irresponsibly. 
Worst idea: vidal said while interning in d.c., she worked with a press secretary and hopes to find someone to replicate that role in student government. she said the press secretary would be a chan­nel of communication between the cabinet and the student body and could help coordinate media coverage of initiatives. 
while increased communica­tion is generally a positive thing for any administration, in this form, it would likely remove vidal and devine from the student body. Face-to-face communication and a visible, personal presence on campus would better serve stu­dents’ needs. 
Most feasible:  Their “29 for 29” initiative would pair each resi­dence hall with an underprivileged south bend family, linking stu­dents to the surrounding area and fostering a deeper understand­ing of the notre dame family. both vidal and devine said they have worked at the south bend homeless shelter and have the contacts to organize and execute this plan. 
Least feasible: The plat­form contained plans for student nighttime auxiliary patrol (snap) to supplement the exist­ing safewalk system. The patrol would essentially consist of teams of two trained students on call to pick up students in distress on golf carts with the goal of providing other options besides walking and protecting students from inclem­ent weather. 
because the service would run only from 8:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., though, its hours overlap directly with safewalk’s current availabil­ity. a better option would be to run the service from 2:30 a.m. to 5 a.m. in order to provide 24-hour options. however, even this is not necessary because an after-hours call to safewalk will connect a stu­dent to ndsp, who will provide a ride to their destination. 
Notable quote: “one of the main things we’re pushing is continuity. ... a lot of our policy initiatives are extensions of what already exists.” — devine 
Fun Fact: vidal comes from a “loud, proud cuban family” and said she loves to cook with her par­ents and grandparents. devine has a twin sister at ohio state university. 
Bottom line:vidal and devine both cited extensive, diverse friend groups at the university that they hope to draw upon for ideas and involvement if elected to office. Their plans to maximize ef­ficiency and collaboration within the student government offices will help them to execute the wide array of initiatives outlined in their platform, but they might do so from a skewed vantage point of the student body’s actual needs if they view campus life mostly through the lenses of their friends and co-workers. Their compre­hensive platform speaks to their familiarity with many aspects of student life, and their previous ex­perience in student government makes them well-prepared to lead in the year ahead. 


Olivia LaMagna - Rohan Andresen 
Who are they: presidential candidate olivia lamagna is a junior from Farley hall studying political science and business eco­nomics. she hails from carmel, ind., and currently serves as the junior class president. her run­ning mate, rohan andresen, is a sophomore from siegfried hall studying business and political science. The phoenix native, is the senator from siegfried hall and a member of student govern­ment’s department of national engagement and outreach. 
lamagna and andresen said the overarching theme of their campaign is maximizing each student’s experience at notre dame, focusing on the question “how do you nd?” 
“i feel that there’s one story you’re told as a freshman about what your experience at notre dame is going to be, but there’s a huge range of opportunities to ex­plore on this campus,” lamagna said. 
First priority: review stu­dent government procedures and come up with best practices for or­ganizing a cabinet and a planning timeline for initiatives. lamagna said her experience on Junior class council with andresen’s background as a hall senator will give each a unique but comple­mentary view on how student gov­ernment operates and how they can maximize its efficiency. 
Top priority: Focus on every individual member of the student body and enable each to meet his or her full potential, in what­ever way he or she wants. This overarching campaign strategy provides a focal point for their aca­demic, community engagement and programming initiatives. 
“we want to get rid of the red tape and barriers that hold stu­dents back,” andresen said. “when each student is seen as their own unique person and when that uniqueness is recog­nized, that’s when you have a di­verse campus.” 
Best idea: lamagna and andresen hope to create a more collaborative relationship be­tween notre dame and south bend, and lamagna said she wants students to understand that south bend is much more than a convenient location in which to do service work. 
“There’s not enough respect for what residents of south bend can bring to undergraduates at the university of notre dame,” lamagna said. “we want to in­crease accessibility to the city of south bend.” 
her experience with planning and executing major events as junior class president has given her insight into how to navigate the “administrative red tape” for project planning and especially approving new vendors and sites, lamagna said. 
Worst idea: Their plan to or­ganize a group of undergradu­ate and graduate students who could teach one-credit specialized classes in areas such as computer programming seems impossible. while the goal of helping students broaden their technical skill sets and branch out beyond the classes required for their majors is good, it would be very difficult to get off the ground. perhaps organizing a set of independent workshops or lectures on such topics would be more doable, instead of orches­trating it within the class registra­tion and darT systems. 
Most feasible: appoint two students, one male and one fe­male, to serve as co-chairs of the gender relations department of student government. 
“we want to start bringing a diversity of perspectives into that [conversation] because we don’t want it to be … a one-sided discus­sion,” lamagna said. “we want ev­eryone to feel like gender relations is something that matters to them, because if you’re a person on this campus, it affects you.” 
Least feasible: The two hope to break barriers between the dif­ferent colleges and academic de­partments by allowing students to register for classes outside of their declared majors. 
“right now, students can’t take classes outside of their colleges once they’ve declared,” andresen said. “we want to be able to open up classes for students outside of their major.” 
They propose that a time limit be set on the darT system so that first, students who need a par­ticular class for their majors are guaranteed seats. after official darTing has ended, lamagna and andresen hope to open up registration to students outside the college under which the class is listed. 
although this plan would offer students more academic freedom, it does not seem feasible given the labyrinth of prerequisite and co-requisite courses often listed. while perhaps general elective courses could be opened up, de­partment chairs would likely resist open enrollment in more advanced, major-specific courses. 
Notable quote: “This is proba­bly about 10 percent of all the ideas we’ve come up with. That other 90 percent have just been scrapped because of conversations with people, whether that be students or administrators. … These ideas that we have in the platform have had a lot of thought and a lot of dis­cussion.” — andresen 
Fun Fact: lamagna said she is an extremely organized person with “spreadsheets that terrify people,” but her dorm room is in­credibly messy. andresen, on the other hand, keeps an impeccable room and “can barely leave with­out dusting something.” 
Bottom line: Their platform reflects a comprehensive exami­nation of real student desires, and the two leverage their energy and enthusiasm to come up with new, bold ideas. Their student govern­ment experience prepares them for success in future roles, and their focus on programming, as well as on enabling and empower­ing individual students, suggests they would have a dynamic, visi­ble presence on campus next year. 



The Observer endorses LaMagna-Andresen 

EDITORIAL 
saturday afternoon, The observer editorial board interviewed the three tick­ets campaigning for student body president and vice president, and each pair out­lined a different approach they planned to take if they were to be elected. after ex­tensive debate, we endorse junior olivia lamagna and sophomore rohan andresen for student body president and vice president. 
both front-running tickets, vidal/devine and lamagna/ andresen, bring impressive student government expe­rience, but lamagna and andresen’s successful track record of programming both in student government and locally better prepares them to launch successful initia­tives during their time in office. 
lamagna and andresen provided a simple, concrete explanation for how they plan to best represent all members of notre dame’s student body. andresen said they hope to find ways “to fulfill every single individual student’s full potential and break down the barriers that hold them back. … when each student is seen as their own unique person and when that uniqueness is recognized, that’s when you have a diverse campus.” 
while the two may be un­able to personally address each student’s needs dur­ing their one-year tenure, we were impressed by the prioritization of students as individuals throughout their platform. They incorporated this value into planned aca­demic projects, like open­ing up course registration eligibility to help students tailor their classwork to their unique personal and profes­sional goals regardless of their declared major. This idea also came out in their event planning, like their desire to facilitating student interest in the greater south bend community. 
one important point of distinction we saw between the lamagna/andresen ticket and their main com­petitors, lauren vidal and matt devine, was the two teams’ different views of the relationship between the university and south bend. vidal and devine discussed their “29 for 29” initiative, which would pair each residence hall with an underprivileged south bend draw on lamagna’s extensive programming experience as current junior class presi­dent and also focus on ways to help students maximize the opportunities for explor­ing venues, businesses and other under-appreciated aspects of the surrounding 
  The election will come down to whether students prefer LaMagna and Andresen’s potential dynamic leadership or Vidal and Devine’s promised skillful use of the existing bureaucracy system. When
 faced with these options, The Observer endorses Olivia LaMagna and Rohan Andresen. 
family to extend the network of the notre dame family. while this is an admirable, exciting plan, lamagna and andresen explicitly said students should not just see south bend as “a place to do charity.” Their initiatives area. 
essentially, we see two distinctly different and vi­able visions of leadership with these tickets. lamagna and andresen talked mostly about ways to use their au­thority to serve students’ personal needs. vidal and devine seemed to focus more on gathering a like-minded executive cabinet and then delegating tasks to department heads to navi­gate the structure student government. 
however, we at The observer were not satisfied with their plan to install an official press secretary, which would move them one step farther from their con­stituents and cut down on face-to-face communication between them and the rest of the general student body. 
our decision as a board was somewhat split, though, and we feel each ticket would be able to serve as adequate leaders. The election will come down to whether stu­dents prefer lamagna and andresen’s potential dynam­ic leadership or vidal and devine’s promised skillful use of the existing bureau­cracy system. 
when faced with these options, The observer en­dorses olivia lamagna and rohan andresen because of their collaborative, indi­vidually focused and expe­rienced leadership strategy. 

Sean Campbell - George McCabe 
Who are they: This a trip to disneyland or they’d push for students another licensing switch massive seashell collec­year’s incarnation of the disney world, the two to be allowed to sing the from the new under armour tion.” — mccabe annual Zahm house ticket, agreed their first act in of-“batman Theme” with the contract to wrangler Jeans. Fun Fact: campbell and freshmen sean campbell fice would be a nap. players after a home foot-because of the jeans’ clas-mccabe claim to be spon­and george mccabe are “we could probably ball loss, mccabe said they sic, comfortable fit, he said sored by club Fever. when upfront about their lack of just nap on the way to were willing to leave that he sees them as better suit-asked why the south bend qualifications for the posi-disneyland and then just decision to the coaches. ed for the athletic teams’ establishment decided to tions but said they still be-stay on vacation for the rest Best idea: none needs. endorse them, campbell re­lieve they could be adequate of our term,” mccabe said. Worst idea: launching mccabe said he is not ported that the club repre­leaders for the student Top priority: replacing a study abroad program ex-worried about the 10-sentative told them, “yeah, body. campbell is running the current alma mater with clusively for saint mary’s year contract with under this looks real.” for president and mccabe the “batman Theme” song. students in Zahm house. armour because “there are Bottom line: mccabe for vice president. “coach Kelly is a real fan,” mccabe said it would be always loopholes in those told The observer he antici­
“we have no real experi-campbell said. “we know open to students of all ma-things, so it shouldn’t be a pates the most challenging ence to speak of,” mccabe tradition is important and jors and could enroll stu-problem.” part of the job will be the said. “we don’t have a lot of all, but that tune still fits dents for up to a decade. Notable quote: “The “things that are difficult,” skills.” nicely with the standing Most feasible: none only thing that would set including showing up for 
First priority: after de-and swaying thing.” Least feasible:campbell me apart from the other work and having to com­bating whether to prioritize when asked whether said he hopes to usher in candidates would be my plete projects. 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Marisa Iati 
assistant managing editor 

Editor’s note: This is the second installment in a series of col­umns chronicling the journey to the Holy Half Marathon on March 29. 
“good luck on your run!” my coworker calls out cheerily as i’m about to leave the office. 
i glare at him. “are you mocking me?” 
he is, understandably, surprised. “i’m trying to be en­couraging…” 
at this point in the three-month training process, i might be a little oversensitive to allusions to the holy half. my preparation for the 13.1-mile run hasn’t gone quite as planned so far, and it’s frustrating to feel as if i haven’t been improving as quickly as i should be. 
i actually wasn’t planning to write this column for a while. when i told my friend i’d write the next installment of this series “when i have something to say that isn’t bit­ter,” she reminded me that not everything i write or say has to be happy-go-lucky. 
she’s right. reality is messy. it doesn’t always go how we plan, and even the most optimistic among us sometimes become disappointed and discouraged. 
so, let me put this out there: right now, i am, in fact, disappointed and discouraged. 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
associate scene editor 

last Friday and saturday, the debartolo performing arts center’s (dpac) browning cinema screened the nominees for the best short Film categories in the up­coming academy awards. 
The short films from all three categories — animated, live action and documentary — were shown through­out the weekend in a special theater limited release that gave oscar enthusiasts a look at the contenders. 
The five nominees from the animated category this Friday gave a diverse snapshot of the world of anima­tion, with a great range in both style and content. From a silly story about a witch based off of the children’s book “room on the broom” to minimalistic animation and heavy themes in “Feral,” about a boy raised in the woods then brought into civilization, the shorts exemplify just how many directions the animated format can move. 
The animated category’s likely winner is “get a horse,” the disney short seen at the beginning of new film “Frozen,” which combines classic 1920s mickey mouse animation with fun, modern manipulations (much like previously-nominated disney short “day and night”). Though not as interesting or complex as others in the category, the short is fun and happy enough and will unfortunately probably take the oscar. 
dpac showed the live action nominees Friday. again, the films represented an array of genres, reminding us that a shorter run time doesn’t mean compromised style. on the contrary, standout live action short “Just before losing everything” used all of its 29 minutes to 
of all the obstacles i knew i would face, i did not expect the whole “polar vortex” thing. i wasn’t anticipating wind chills that made stepping outside, much less running out­side, the absolute last thing i felt any desire to do. i didn’t consider how much mental energy it would take to psyche myself up to trek to rolfs and run around in circles on the track for what felt like an eternity. 
but, maybe even more importantly, i had very little con­cept of what it would be like constantly to compare myself to others. i didn’t think about how it would feel to listen to my friends casually mention the nine-mile run they com­pleted that morning or to watch fellow non-serious runners charge through six miles during the second week of train­ing. i wasn’t aware that those things would be difficult, but they are. 
every single step of every single run is an immense chal­lenge for me. each time i put one foot in front of the other, i am fighting for it. i have been blessed enough that many things come easily to me; running is not one of them. 
That’s the whole reason i’m doing this, though, isn’t it? To prove to myself that i’m capable of pushing through any obstacle, any challenge, any roadblock? i guess so. but some days, it’s hard to maintain that perspective. 
only a week and a half into my official 10-week training period, i had already asked aloud, “is it too early to say that i’m not going to be able to do this?” 
The answer, delivered unhesitatingly and unequivocally 
build up suspense in ways a feature film could never do. The French short, about a woman and her two children escaping an abusive husband, keeps the audience on the edge of their seat. 
similarly, live action shorts “That wasn’t me” and “The voorman problem” both involved some gripping tension, albeit for very different reasons. The former is a spanish film about aid workers who meet a child soldier in an (perhaps reprehensibly) unspecified african coun­try. The latter is a star-studded, cerebral comedy starring martin Freeman of “The hobbit” as a prison psycholo­gist and Tom hollander as an inmate who claims he is a god. 
The remaining nominees in the category were a bit more lighthearted, with Finnish short “do i have to Take care of everything?” about a mother attempting to get her family ready for a wedding, and the sappy and over-the-top danish “helium,” about a hospital janitor befriending a terminal child. 
The films in the final short Film category, documentary, screened saturday and explored a num­ber of profound topics. because the documentaries are usually longer than their animated and live action cous­ins, the entire screening is more than a little lengthy. running 184 minutes total for the five nominees, watch­ing all of them in one screening is demanding — be warned — but what makes the three hour-long viewing possible is the emotional intensity in each one of the films. 
The documentary shorts include “cavedigger,” which follows manic “cave sculptor” ra paulette as he pursues his art of making enormous caves in new mexico. while to me by my roommate, who is the greatest of all tough-

love cheerleaders: “yes, it is.” 
well, i guess i’m not quitting just yet. 
There is a part of harper lee’s “To kill a mockingbird” in which atticus tells his son that courage is “when you know you’re licked before you begin, but you begin anyway and see it through no matter what.” 
as far as this holy half business is concerned, i’m pretty sure i was licked before i began. but i am continuing to convince myself, over and over again, that this unfortunate circumstance is no reason to throw in the towel. in all hon­esty, some days i only keep going so i won’t have to write a column for this newspaper admitting that i’ve given up. 
whatever it takes, though, right? 
There are still more than seven weeks until the holy half. That’s seven more weeks of struggling, of sore legs and of trying to remember why i ever thought this was a good idea. but it’s also seven more weeks to develop the ability to run a half marathon, and i guess that’s pretty great. 
The mantra of the holy half is “earn your wings.” if i make it through the whole race in march, i definitely will have done so. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
paulette frantically carves out caves with a wheelbarrow strapped to his back, he is sharply contrasted by Jack hall, the subject of another nominated short, “prison Terminal.” The film follows hall, a terminally ill inmate in the highest security prison in the united states, dur­ing his last six months. 
“karama has no walls,” about the events surrounding the yemeni revolution in 2011, provides vivid images of yemen and the tent village set up during the revolution three years ago as well as intimate interviews with those involved or impacted by the tragic day when a pro-gov­ernment group opened fire on a protest. 
“Facing Fear” is the unlikely story of a gay man who, by chance, met the neo-nazi skinheads who attacked him 25 years ago. The film is an emotional tale about empa­thy, fear and forgiveness. 
but the standout documentary and probable winner is “The lady in number 6: music changed my life,” which examines the life of 109 year old alice herz sommer, the world’s oldest pianist, as she doles out wisdom, shares the power of music and explains how, during the holocaust, music kept her alive. 
The short films may not get much attention at the academy awards, but these nominees were often com­pelling, heartbreaking and thoroughly entertaining. and don’t worry, if you missed the one-time screening of these shorts, all of the nominees will be available on vimeo on demand and on iTunes on Feb. 25. with the diversity of films between the three categories, you’re sure to find something you’ll like. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Nothing ‘Super’ about this Bowl 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
when i got to class monday morning, people were asking each other about the super bowl. i mean, it is the biggest sport­ing event in america, of course people were talking about it. 
but most of the questions were some form of “hey, why was an opera singer singing the national anthem?” or “how tall is bruno mars?” or “how cute was that little puppy in the budweiser commercial?” 
before the seahawks stam­peded the broncos 43-8 on sunday in new Jersey, people were asking “will peyton manning retire a champion?” or “what action is marshawn lynch ‘bout?” or “why does richard sherman have so many beats commercials?” 
maybe the post-game ques­tions were just as ridiculous as the ones posed before the blow­out, but there is a reason they were not about the game — be­cause it was not a game. 
For the first time since i learned the difference between an of­fensive tackle, a defensive tackle and a tackle, i did not watch the second half of the super bowl. it was the worst super bowl of my lifetime. 
The broncos were in over their heads, and it showed on the very first snap. 
while manning was pre­sumably yelling some random midwest city (was there a pos­sibility he said “south bend” at all sunday night?) at his offensive line, center manny ramirez launched the ball from the 14-yard line into the end zone. with the errant snap, denver had given away points, the ball and any chance of winning the championship. 
but that was only one of denver’s comedy of errors. manning was responsible for three turnovers and receiver demaryius Thomas fumbled the ball away in the third quarter. while the seattle defense should be credited with forcing those mistakes, the broncos game film is as bad as “That’s my boy.”  wes welker was andy samberg to peyton manning’s adam sandler. 
had the broncos held pos­session for all 60 minutes, the seahawks would have still won. (yeah, i know fatigue and other stuff would have set in and ev­erything but just bear with me.) The legion of boom and co. outscored the best offense in nFl history, 9-8. 
seattle needed just 39 yards from lynch to win by five touch­downs. The game’s leading rush­er was actually a receiver who didn’t play in a full game all sea­son and also returned a kickoff for a touchdown (that’d be percy harvin). seattle was so much better than denver on sunday the seahawks didn’t even need their best weapon on offense to even show up. 
you know what else failed to show up? all the funny super bowl commercials. 
while the adorable little lab in the budweiser commercial was the cutest thing in a super bowl since drew brees’ son, the ad made me want to move some­where warm and run around with a hoard of puppies instead of buying some beer. 
when people are hailing a lame doritos time machine-themed ad as one of the best commercials of the night, something went wrong somewhere. oh, and did Tim Tebow finally get his revenge on peyton manning with his “no contract” T-mobile commercial? maybe he did, maybe he didn’t. but it sure looked much better than T-mobile’s other ad, which appeared to use magenta from blue’s clues as a backdrop. 
speaking of strange colors ap­pearing on television, was i the only one who thought the crowd, with all its lime green and orange, looked more like a music festival than a football game? 
maybe they simply thought they were attending a bruno mars concert instead of a football game. 
well, they weren’t that far off. 
Contact Matthew Defranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

alleged hernandez victim shot outside club, arrested 
Associated Press 
harTFord — a man who al­leges he was shot in the face by former new england patriots tight end aaron hernandez in Florida was shot again, this time outside a connecticut night­club, where he then opened fire, police said monday. 
alexander bradley was part of a disturbance involving money sunday that spilled outside of the vevo lounge bar & grill in hartford’s south meadows neighborhood, police lt. brian Foley said. 
after the 31-year-old was shot multiple times in the right thigh, he retrieved a gun from his car and tried to enter the nightclub, Foley said, before he opened fire. 
no other injuries were re­ported. responding police of­ficers stopped a car that sped away from the club, and an in­jured bradley got out and fell on the street, Foley said. he was taken to a hospital under police guard and his condition wasn’t released, but he’s expected to survive. 
bradley was charged with criminal possession of a firearm, criminal use of a fire­arm and other crimes. his connecticut lawyer, robert pickering, hung up the phone on a reporter without com­menting monday. 

detectives recovered 11 shell casings from outside of the club, Foley said, and bradley’s gun was reported stolen from springfield, mass. Foley said the investigation into who shot bradley is ongoing. 
bradley, an associate of hernandez, alleges in a Florida lawsuit that he lost his right eye when hernandez shot him in the face as they argued outside a miami club last February. 
hernandez is detained on a murder charge in the death of odin lloyd, a semi-professional football player whose body was found June 17 near hernandez’s north attleborough, mass., home. hernandez has pleaded not guilty. 
boston police, meanwhile, have linked both hernandez and bradley to a double homi­cide in July 2012. police believe hernandez and bradley were in an suv when someone in­side the vehicle fatally shot daniel Jorge correia de abreu and safiro Teixeira Furtado in boston’s south end, accord­ing to a search warrant filed by bristol, conn., police. 
The warrant doesn’t say who investigators believe pulled the trigger in the double killing or suggest a motive. no charges have been filed in the case. The warrant sought recordings of phone calls made by bradley while he was jailed in hartford in october for failing to appear before a massachusetts grand jury investigating the 2012 shooting. 
investigators say they found the suv wanted in the boston homicides at the home of hernandez’s uncle in bristol. 
police say surveillance cam­era recordings show hernandez and bradley going into a boston nightclub shortly after the shooting victims went into the club. The recordings also show hernandez driving the suv out of a nearby parking garage with bradley as a passenger shortly before the shootings, police said. 
boston police called hartford police monday about bradley’s shooting as part of their inves­tigation, Foley said. 
OLYMPICS 

un secretary general to attend olympic opening 
Associated Press 
uniTed naTions — secretary-general ban ki-moon will take part in Friday’s opening of the winter olympics in sochi, russia and deliver a keynote address to the international olympic committee’s general assem­bly, the first by a u.n. secre­tary-general, officials said monday. 
ban’s visit to sochi comes after several world leaders decided to skip the games, in­cluding u.s. president barack obama, german president Joachim gauck and French president Francois hollande. russia has come under criti­cism for its human rights record and law against gay “propaganda.” 
ioc president Thomas bach said ban will deliver a keynote speech at the ioc assembly, which runs from wednesday to Friday. 
u.n. spokesman martin nesirky said one reason the secretary-general wants to go to the sochi games and speak to the olympic committee’s members is the “growing rela­tionship between the ioc and the united nations,” which he wants to build on. 


The two organizations share very similar values, es­pecially on the use of sport to promote peace and develop­ment, nesirky said. 
besides delivering the first-ever keynote speech to the ioc assembly by a u.n. chief, ban will be speaking publicly and holding bilateral meet­ings with world leaders at­tending the games, nesirky said. 
The secretary-general car­ried the olympic torch on the final leg of its journey to the opening of the london sum­mer games in 2012. 
The u.n. general assembly adopted a resolution in november calling for a global truce during the 2014 winter olympics which run from Feb. 7-23 and the paralympics from march 7-16. 
The resolution cites ancient greece’s traditional olympic truce period that allowed free passage of athletes and spectators from often-war­ring city-states to the original games every four years. 
The 193-member world body has passed resolutions since 1993 calling for an olympic truce, but countries continue fighting wars wheth­er the olympics are on or not. 
secretary-general ban is­sued a statement Friday appealing for a global obser­vance of the olympic truce, especially in syria, south sudan and central african republic. The first talks be­tween syria’s government and opposition ended that day without any tangible results. 
“The olympic Truce is root­ed in the hope that if people and nations can put aside their differences for one day, they can build on that to es­tablish more lasting cease­fires,” ban said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Casey races toward another chamionship meet 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after competing in the 200­yard butterfly in last year’s ncaa meet, junior bridget casey is ready to make it a repeat performance — and she’s well on her way to another champi­onship competition. 
during the shamrock invitational on saturday, casey met the ncaa b-cut standard in the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 1:59.30. This year, she’s also looking to add a b-cut time in the 400-yard individual med­ley (im), an honor she barely missed out on last year. 
“i just missed the b-cut in the 400 im last year,” casey said. “it would be really awesome to be able to swim two individual events.” 
casey recently had the chance to expand her event schedule when she was thrown into the record-breaking 800-yard free­style relay against iowa on the morning of the race. 
“i focus more on middle dis­tance to distance freestyle and rarely swim a 200 free,” casey said. “i was nervous going into the relay especially because i was anchoring. i had a pretty good meet before that and i love swimming on relays, so i just put my head down and hoped my split was fast enough to break the record.” 
casey, along with senior kelly ryan, junior emma reaney and freshman katie miller broke the pool record with a time of 7:22.65. 


casey said her approach to meets has changed since she started swimming for the irish. 
“high school swimming was all about training and the idea hard work pays off,” casey said. “since my time at notre dame, i have learned that hard work and a strategy is what it takes to go to the next level in college.” 
casey’s dad, uncle and two older sisters all swam for notre dame. coming from a big irish family, casey said the choice to swim for notre dame was a “no brainer.” 
“it was the perfect school for me,” casey said. “The team was also a big part of the decision and i liked brian barnes as a coach.” 
with conference competition coming up, casey has turned her sights to her end of season goals, both individually and with the irish teammates. 
“i hope we step up and make a statement at [the acc championship],” casey said. “This is our first year in the con­ference and i know how hard we have worked this year. i have so much confidence in this team. i just hope we taper well and our hard work pays off.” 
casey said she her individual goals include improving her time in the 200-yard butterfly and the 400-yard im to qualify for the na­tional championship meet. 
“i will need to go a few sec­onds faster to be able to go to the ncaas again this year,” casey said. “however, that was a really great in-season time and i hope that i can go even faster at con­ference so i can make ncaas again this year.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




SMC BASKETBALL | smc 59, Trine 50 
Belles struggle against press but claim victory 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
The belles overcame 27 turnovers to notch their second road conference victory with a 59-50 victory over Trine on saturday. 
“we struggled with Trine’s full court pressure,” belles coach Jenn henley said. “normally, that’s way too many turnovers to win a game, but we made up for it in other ways.” 
The belles (6-13, 4-6 miaa) were able to hold the Thunder (4-14, 1-8) to less than 30 percent shooting from the floor in the first half and 35 percent for the game. saint mary’s grabbed an early 4-3 lead three min­utes into the game and nev­er relinquished it. 
“our defense is getting better and better,” henley said. “we still have work to do, but this was a step in the right direction, espe­cially the first half. 
“we really wanted to get back to … controlling the boards, too, which i thought we did a great job doing.” 
The belles out-rebound­ed the Thunder 50-32, in part due to junior forward ariana paul’s 14 rebounds. 
although the belles lead stretched to nine in the first half, and ballooned to 12 six minutes into the second, henley said it never seemed like the Thunder were com­pletely out of the game. 
down 38-26 with 14:36 re­maining, the Thunder went on a 12-4 run to cut the belles lead to four halfway through the second half. 
That was the closest the Thunder would get, though, as the belles, up 52-46 with 
3:00 left, went 7-for-10 from the free throw line in the fi­nal three minutes to stymie the Thunder rally. 
“Though we struggled with the press, i thought hit­ting those key free throws down the stretch were one of the ways we held our composure,” henley said. 
Thunder sophomore for­ward alivia recker led all scorers with 14 points, with 12 of those coming in the second half. Junior guard kelsey henselmeier added 11 for the Thunder. 
senior guard shanlynn bias led the belles with 13 points and eight rebounds and sophomore forward krista knapke chipped in 10 points. bias and knapke were two of nine belles to score. 
“i like having a balanced scoring attack, though that’s not something we’ve stressed,” henley said. “it’ll certainly make us a harder team to defend moving forward.” 
The belles next take to the floor wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. at calvin in grand rapids, mich. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


CLUB SPORTS 

irish sailing team begins season in galveston 
reportedly receiving con-fog and rain showers. despite benny richmond. each skip-came out to 64, 21 points 
Special to The Observer 

fused glances as they boarded the unfavorable weather con-per/crew pair completed lower than the second place 
last weekend the notre their plane with lifejackets in ditions the team held the lead twelve races over the course finisher. dame sailing team escaped hand. on saturday the weath-throughout the day, and end-of both days. schneider and This is a promising start to the freezing cold of south er was sunny and 60 degrees ed the day on top. hull raced in the a divi-the sailing season completed bend by heading down to with 15 knots of wind, which notre dame’s winning team sion, accumulating a total of by such a young team. in two the warm weather at the allowed the team to gain included sophomore captain 38 points and koerwer and weeks the team is sending harris kempner memorial the lead by the third race. Jack schneider, vice cap-richmond raced in the b di-four seniors out to the nelson regatta hosted by Texas a&m on sunday the wind speed tains sophomore christian vision, ending the regatta rolsch intersectional regatta university at galveston. The slowed to 10 knots and was koerwer and freshman mike with an impressive total of 26 at Tulane university in new team flew out Friday night, accompanied by unwanted hull as well as freshman points. The team’s total score orleans, louisiana. 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




Swimming 
conTinued From page 16 
place. mckenzie’s mark was his best on the season and met the ncaa b-cut mark. 
Freshman Joe petrone claimed first place in the 1,650-yard individual free­style event with a time of 15.44:03, 40 seconds faster than his previous best time. 
The  underclassmen  were  
not  the  only  ones  who  
helped  secure  irish  vic­ 

tories over the weekend. senior captain Frank dyer continued his personal suc­cess, winning the 200- yard individual freestyle. dyer, a two-time all-american, swam a 1.37:28 to earn an ncaa b-cut-qualifying time of his own. 
“one thing that really dis­tinguishes our team is our depth. we had many differ­ent guys step up and score for us today,” welsh said. 
on the diving boards, freshman Joe coumos swept the competition in the 1-me­ter board with a point total of 355.80. his teammate, ju­nior nick nemetez, came in second. 
but the irish could not match the success of their individual entries in the relay races. The 200-yard medley relay team of sopho­more bogac ayhan, juniors cameron miller and Zach stephens, and dyer fin­ished second with a time of 1.30:26. additionally, the 400- yard freestyle re­lay team of sophomore michael hudspith, fresh­man reed Fujan, junior patrick murphy and fresh­man nicholas sim came in third with a time of 3.03:46. 
after hosting a record 609 fans at the shamrock invitational, the irish re­turn to the rolfs aquatic center next weekend for their regular season fina­le against cleveland state on saturday. The meet will be the final home meet for welsh, who will be retiring after 29 seasons at the helm. 
“we love swimming at home. between the pool and all the support we receive from the school and our families, we always swim well there,” welsh said. 
after facing cleveland state, the irish will have two weeks before the acc championships in greensboro, n.c. 
“as a team, we need life­time best times from our individual and relay teams so we can get as many peo­ple qualified for the ncaa championships. we need to be the best we’ve ever been that weekend,” welsh said. 
The irish jump back into the pool against cleveland state at rolfs aquatic center on saturday. The meet be­gins at noon. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Irish freshman guard Steve Vasturia closes out on Boston College junior guard Alex Dragicevich during Notre Dame’s win on Saturday.Vasturia finished with 13 points in Notre Dame’s loss to Syracuse Monday night. 
Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
The irish pulled within three points with 8:46 left to play, but syracuse (22-0, 9-0) extended its margin to 10 over the next four minutes. notre dame once again closed the gap to five points after irish junior forward pat connaughton completed a three-point play with 2:52 remaining. 
The teams traded baskets from there, but notre dame never cut the lead to fewer than five points. syracuse missed the front end of a pair of one-and-one opportu­nities in the game’s final 40 sec­onds, but notre dame could not convert on the other end as the orange closed out the victory. The irish outscored the home team 37-30 in the second period, but it was not enough to over­come the deficit accumulated in the opening frame. 
“we really responded in the second half,” brey said. “it was a tough end of the first-half run, came back, i think we got it to one possession a couple of times. i thought our defense was excel­lent. i thought we made some strides defensively in our man-to-man in the second half, even though we didn’t win the game.” 
irish senior center garrick sherman scored a team-high 16 points and pulled down eight re­bounds, helping notre dame se­cure a 22-16 advantage on points in the paint. Freshman guard steve vasturia netted a career-high 13 points and connaughton chipped in 11 points and eight re­bounds. senior guard eric atkins had nine points and led the irish with six assists. 
The irish got off to a quick start, scoring the first basket after an atkins steal and layup. notre dame led at multiple points dur­ing opening minutes, but never by more than three points. 
syracuse relied on the sharp shooting of cooney, who hit five of his seven 3-point attempts in the first half and entered the break with 17 points. on defense, the orange held notre dame scoreless for a seven-and-a-half­minute stretch at one point, capi­talizing with a 13-0 run to carry a 10-point lead into the half’s final five minutes. notre dame trailed 31-18 at halftime after reaching a season-low point total in the first half. 
sherman led notre dame’s first-half effort with nine points and four rebounds. vasturia con­tributed five points in the period. 
still winless on the road in conference play, notre dame will return home for its next two acc games. The irish host north carolina on saturday before wel­coming in clemson on Feb. 11. brey said the irish leave syracuse with the positive outlook from the victory over boston college still intact. 
“well i think we should have a great mindset,” brey said. “you know, we just got a split. we split, and that may be as good as it gets for our basketball team this year. we want to go back and see if we can win against a really good team and a great program. That would be a great win for our pro­gram, to beat the north carolina program. we did it earlier this year against duke. can we do it again? we need a little bit of rest first before we get into our prac­tice mode.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
matches in these tight moments, it’s very key, especially for us to build up our confidence.” said vrabel. “hopefully that can trans­fer to other matches in the future.” 
The irish struggled with anoth­er scrappy team in the hoosiers (3-1) on sunday, dropping the doubles point early. only two wins were needed for indiana to earn the point, but notre dame also trailed in the third match when it was called. 
“our doubles are usually very good,” said louderback. “we weren’t even in it. … They got on us and won it fast.” 
Trailing 1-0, the irish rebound­ed and tore out of the gates to start the singles matches. closs started the scoring, defeating hoosiers freshman paula gutierrez 6-4, 6-2. her victory was followed by vrabel’s 4-6, 6-0, (10-5) win over junior shannon murdy and kellner’s 6-4, 2-6, (10-7) triumph over junior alecia kauss, giv­ing the irish a 3-1 lead. however, freshman monica robinson was nipped by indiana senior sophie garre 4-6, 6-3, (10-6) and sanders fell to junior katie klyczek 6-1, 4-6, (10-2.) sanders fell behind 3-0 in the second set, but refused to go down without a fight, coming back to win the set and at least force the tiebreaker. 
“all i could think of was stay­ing in as long as i could and help my teammates,” said sanders. “i ended up fighting back. … i gave it all my energy in the second set and just ran out of energy in the tiebreaker.” 
sanders’s rally gave the irish a little momentum as the at­tention shifted once again to gleason. having already played a tiebreaker at the end of the first set, gleason and indiana junior carolyn chupa headed to the final tiebreaker after gleason prevailed in the second set 6-3. chupa stormed out to a 7-1 lead, but gleason turned the momen­tum, rallying for eight of the next nine points to take a 9-8 lead and have a match point opportunity. a good chupa serve forced gleason into a net shot, but gleason an­swered with two straight points to win the match. 
“she likes being in that posi­tion,” said louderback. “she en­joys it, she likes it. … she played an unbelievable comeback in the tiebreaker. Just didn’t give up and kept playing and she used the crowd to her advantage. They were fired up and i think that helped her a lot.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu. 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
66 Lectern 67 Jazz style 68 Rickover known 
as the Father of the Nuclear Navy 
69 Imbeciles 
DOWN 
1 Mountain ridge 2 Big-bosomed 3 Time’s Person 
of the Year for 2008 and 2012 4 Loss of faculties 5 Beginning of 
summer? 6 Fruity iced beverage 
7 Runners of experiments 8 Nuptial vow 9 Old-time actress Nita 
10 Knit fabric in lingerie and swimwear 
11 Like a fly ball off the foul pole 
12 Tribe encountered by Lewis and Clark 
13 Lucy Lawless title role 19 Bronzes 21 Quarterback Troy 24 Legal tender 25 Labor 28 Omnia vincit 
29 Move on casters 30 LG Electronics competitor 31 House in Havana 32 Above, in Berlin 33 Misbehaver 
ACROSS 
1 Dacha or villa 
6 Rock used to make sparks 
11 Equine : horse :: vulpine : ___ 
14 Unsophisticated sorts 
15 Storm tracker 
16 Dined 
17 End-of­semester doings 
18 With 61-Across, goal of Frederick Douglass and Harriet Beecher Stowe 
20 Big book 
21 Disclosure to a loan applicant: Abbr. 
22 U.S. capital and environs 
23 With 51-Across, presidential order signed on January 1, 1863 
26 Hit it off with 

27 Old Russian leaders 31 Art movement for Picasso 34 Scrooge player Alastair 36 Stockyard call 
37 & 39 Signer of the 23-/51-Across 
42 Jetsam locale 43 Rapper with the #1 album “Hip 
Hop Is Dead” 45 Almost 46 ___-Detoo of 
“Star Wars” 49 Signs of spring 51 See 23-Across 56 Acquired with 
little or no effort 59 TV’s Sue ___ Langdon 60 Romance 61 See 18-Across 63 “Holy Toledo!” 64 “It’s f-f­freezing!” 65 Salsa singer Cruz 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Puzzle by JOHN FARMER 
35 Role for 47 German auto 56 All-time career diminutive make batting average Verne Troyer in leader
48 Jerry of stage 
“Austin Powers” and screen 57 Early Michael films Jackson 
50 Canopy tree
38 Artist Chagall hairstyle 
52 Comment from 
40 “99 Luftballons” a kvetcher 58 Car sticker fig. 
singer, 1984 41 Made a random 53 Early Great 62 Tree in many 
Plains residents street names
selection, in a way 54 Sheeplike 
63 When doubled, 44 Sunny rooms 55 Imperatives a Gabor 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: level out emotionally and you will be able to look at your situation differently. The options you have may be long-term, but in the end, you will reach your destination. it’s the journey that counts, as well as how you treat the people you meet along the way. Try and you will surpass your expectations. your numbers are 4, 9, 12, 23, 36, 42, 49. ARIES (March 21-April 19): get into the groove. staying busy and focused on your accomplishments will help you avoid anxiety and fear of not measuring up to what’s expected of you. show how masterful you can be by getting things done. a positive choice will pay off. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what you can to help others. offer suggestions and show compassion. The solutions you offer will be impressive and help you drum up interest in something you want to pursue. romance will help improve your love life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): approach any situation you face with honesty. uncertainty will not go over well when dealing with colleagues, friends or those you are trying to win approval from. avoid impulsive expenditures, lending or borrowing. adaptability will help you excel. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): emotional matters will lead to unexpected changes that may not sit well with you. show your concern and offer suggestions that will help smooth things over. compromise and understanding, along with using your intuitive intelligence, will help ward off personal problems. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a challenge or taking on a competitive position will help get you moving and motivate you to succeed. Test your skills and master what you enjoy doing most, and you will gain confidence and satisfaction. social activity will pay off. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): expect to face a financial setback if you get involved in a joint investment. being responsible will help you avoid making a mistake. doing something to avoid conflict will not bring good results. practical application will pay off. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): expect to face opposition when dealing with a personal or business partnership. don’t let your emotions cost you. make choices based on what’s best for you financially. an impulsive act will turn into a big fiasco. back away from anyone using emotional manipulation. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): bide your time and take care of the finer details when dealing with work or personal projects. set your own standards and refuse to let anyone coerce you into doing something you don’t want to do. make decisions based on your success and happiness. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make positive changes at home and to your personal life that will allow you the freedom to do as you please. stick to the truth when asked to do something. don’t take on or make promises that are unrealistic. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): let the dust settle before you make a decision that will influence your environment or surroundings. getting along with people in your community will be necessary if you want things to go your way. set your priorities and proceed. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take an emotional stance and base your needs on what you see going on around you. picking and choosing the direction that suits you best will set you on a positive path that will help you reach your personal and professional goals. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): honesty will be questioned and secrets revealed. protect your reputation by handling whatever issues arise swiftly and truthfully. you will gain respect and win favors if you show integrity and compassion. hold your head high and move forward with confidence. 


Birthday Baby: you are determined, smart and intuitive. you are entertaining and unique. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
KACTR  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
HRPOM  

UNSEFI INVIED  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


A:  THE  
Yesterday’s  (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SNUCK BEACH ACROSS DOUBLE Answer: After their defeat the night before, the coachwanted his team to do this — BOUNCE BACK  



2/5/13 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information  enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an  name  
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  address  
city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | syracuse 61, nd 55 
Irish can’t cool Cooney 

No. 1 Syracuse pushes past Notre Dame on the back of Trevor Cooney’s career-high 33 points 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
The irish were looking to piece together a new winning streak to salvage their season, but the momentum from saturday’s overtime victory over acc bot­tom-feeder boston college was not enough to propel notre dame past the country’s top team. 
notre dame (12-11, 3-7 acc) threatened to pull off the road upset, but eventually fell to no. 1 syracuse, 61-55, at the carrier dome on monday evening. 
on a night when syracuse se­nior forward c.J. Fair and fresh­man guard Tyler ennis managed only six points apiece, redshirt sophomore guard Trevor cooney scored a career-high 33 points on 9-of-12 shooting from 3-point range to pace the orange. cooney tied the program record for made 3-pointers in a contest. 
“he made some really tough ones,” irish coach mike brey told pat rogers of watchnd after the game. “i think seven of them were really challenged. he was the one guy we couldn’t get under control. but i thought he made some really tough ones.” 
see baskeTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S SWIMMING | nd 223, mo. sT. 147; nd 224.5, iowa 145.5 
Irish claim seven first-place finishes 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
The irish  cruised to vic­tory over missouri state and no. 25 iowa in the ninth an­nual shamrock invitational over the weekend in notre dame’s first home competi­tion since november. 
notre dame (6-5-1) beat the bears 223-147 and the hawkeyes 224.5-145.5. The irish were propelled to vic­tory by seven first-place finishes and nine runner-up results. Four of the sev­en victories were won by underclassmen. 
“Top to bottom we were very pleased. we had several guys win their first ever col­legiate event for us over the weekend and we are very ex­cited and grateful for that,” irish coach Tim welsh said. 
The irish set the bar high in the first individual race, as sophomore shane mckenzie placed first in the 400-yard individual medley, clock­ing in at 3.55:52. he was joined four seconds later by his teammate, junior James mceldrew, who finished in 
3.59:03 and earned second 
see swimming PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, illinois 3; nd 4, indiana 3 

notre dame sweeps weekend 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
no. 23 notre dame beat illinois and indiana by identical 4-3 scores on Friday and sunday, respectively, at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
irish sophomore Quinn gleason sealed the victory on back-to-back days, winning a tie­break in the final singles match of each contest. 
The irish (5-1) started Friday’s match against illinois (4-1) off strong in the doubles por­tion, earning the first point af­ter gleason and senior britney sanders beat the top illini team of junior melissa kopinski and freshman alexis casati, 7-5, while the irish duo of senior Julie sabacinski and freshman mary closs defeated senior misia kedzierski and freshman louise kwong by a score of 6-4. 


The teams traded points in the singles matches, with the illini drawing the match even at 1-1 when kedzierski topped closs 6-4, 6-2. The irish drew ahead again as sophomore Julie vrabel defeated illini freshman Jerricka boone 6-4, 6-3; but kwong an­swered, defeating sabacinski 6-1, 5-7, (10-8). sanders put notre dame up 3-2 as she topped kopinski 6-4, 3-6, (10-6); then casati drew illinois back in with a 7-5, 6-4 victory over irish senior Jennifer kellner, leaving gleason and illini senior allison Falkin in a winner-take-all final match. 
after splitting the first two sets, gleason surged ahead in the first-to-10 tiebreaker, opening up 7-0 and 8-1 leads. however, the finish would not come easy, and gleason, who rolled an an­kle earlier in the match, began cramping up and visibly limp­ing. Falkin capitalized on the opportunity, drawing within 8-4, but the lead was too much and gleason hung on 10-5, securing both personal and team wins. 
“illinois is exactly what we thought they’d be. They’re like that every year,” irish coach Jay louderback said. “They compete really hard, they never give up. For a while it looked like we were in control and then they’re back in it … i think our kids needed to be a little more ready knowing they were going to be like that.” 
“i think pulling out these 
see Tennis PAGE 14 

Men’s Basketball at Syracuse  L 61-55  Men’s Tennis at Illinois  Wed., 7 p.m.  ND Women’s Softball at Tenn. Tech  Sat., 10 a.m.  
Men’s Swimming, Shamrock Invitational  W223-147 W224.5-145.5  SMC Basketball at Calvin  Wed., 7:30 p.m.  ND Swimming vs. Cleveland State  Sat., 12 p.m.  
ND Women’s Tennis vs. Indiana, Illinois  W 4-3 W 4-3  ND Women’s Basketball at Florida State Hockey vs. Maine  Thu., 7 p.m. Fri., 7:35 p.m.  Men’s Basketball vs. North Carolina ND Women’s Softball at N. Dakota State  Sat., 12 p.m. Sat., 2 p.m.  


Track, Meyo Invitational Fri.- Sat. ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Michigan Sat., 7:45 p.m. ND Women’s Tennis, ITA Championships Fri.-Sat. Men’s Hockey vs. Maine Sat., 8:05 p.m. No events scheduled 




