The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 4 | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Professor joins White House council 
Economics professor Abigail Wozniak appointed to the Council of Economic Advisers 
to apply her academic inter-notre dame, with a specific dame, wozniak’s cours-
By JACK ROONEY 

associate news editor ests and knowledge to tangi-focus on labor economics. es included “principles ble problems and solutions. in the past few years, of microeconomics and The council of economic “it’s a chance to answer wozniak has taught cours-migration, education and advisers (cea) provides questions that people need es on labor economics assimilation: Three Forces 
president barack obama answered,” wozniak said in that built america.” she also 
with guidance on both for-a press release. “i’m looking teaches graduate-level eco­


smc students receive grants 

eign and domestic econom-forward to being able to use 
ic policy and helps inform the training that i have in 
white house policy deci-a way that helps the public 
sions, and this year, the interest.” 
cea includes a notre dame wozniak is not able to 
professor. take press requests dur­
professor abigail wozniak, ing her term for the cea, nomics classes. 
evans said wozniak’s po-
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 

sition speaks to the high lev­
associate saint mary’s editor 

el of respect she commands 
as an economicist. over the summer, four 
“i think the fact that she’s student independent study 
gotten a job with this sort of and research (sisTar) 
an associate professor of economics, began a one-year term as a senior econo­mist at the cea in July and said the position allows her but william evans, chair of the economics department, said wozniak has completed a broad range of research projects during her time at 
visibility indicates what the and the development of profession thinks of her,” the american labor force. he said. “There are a lot of dating back to 2005, when she began teaching at notre see cea PAGE 4 



Handbell Choir sparks student interest 
By WEI LIN 
news writer 
like their music, the members of the notre dame handbell choir are a study in balance. 
The choir is a mix of mem­bers with prior experience playing handbells and oth­ers who had never played before coming to notre dame. 
senior and president of the handbell choir delaney pfister said some members have 10 years or more of ex­perience, like herself, while other members have never even seen a handbell before. 

“all anyone needs is a willingness to learn,” she said. 
The notre dame handbell choir is holding auditions in room 328 of the coleman­morse center from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. tonight. pfister said there will be another au­dition night on Thursday, september 4th. 
Karen schneider-Kirner directs the notre dame handbell choir as well as other music ministries. The choir is comprised of notre 
see choir PAGE 5 


grants were awarded to saint mary’s student-faculty duos for projects ranging from researching patterns in Tv shows to studying the reac­tion of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) with metals. 
senior philosophy major Tess siver said the sisTar grant provided her with one of the most fulfilling expe­riences of her saint mary’s career. 
siver began her senior the­sis on empathy, other minds and the use of metaphor and questioning with the aid of the sisTar grant. 
“The sisTar grant is in­tended to allow a student and faculty member to work together as equals, usually on parallel, but distinct proj­ects,” siver said. 
beyond the content she was studying, it was a rare oppor­tunity to work side-by-side 
see granT PAGE 5 


Students continue education through ACE 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
while many students in the class of 2014 said good­bye to notre dame this sum­mer, students in the alliance for catholic education (ace) program stayed on cam­pus for more classes and learning. 
maria lynch, associ­ate program director and a graduate of ace, said while it is true that ace is a two-year program where college graduates teach in under­privileged catholic schools, the program offers much more to its fellows and participants. 
“current Teaching Fellows, as well as graduates of the program, are an integral component of the alliance’s greater mission of strength­ening catholic education across the country,” lynch said. “ace programs form school leaders, work to 
see ace PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                             peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What was the last book you finished? 

Liz Hynes 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“‘a dance with dragons,’ by george r. r. martin.” 
Kaleigh O’Boyle 
Freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“1984.” 
Rob Callus 
senior 
off-campus 
“alice in wonderland.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Patrick Connelly 
senior 
siegfried 
“du lac.” 
Aneila Tyksinski 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“‘doing the Truth in love’ by himes, from my sslp.” 
Emer Tiernan 
Junior 
pangborn 
“wolf of wall street.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kelly Konya renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com haleigh ehmsen Kit loughran emilie Kefalas greg hadley 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Graphics Scene 
sam coughlin erin mcauliffe 

LGBTQ Welcome Blood Drive Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica National Holiday: 
Photo Viewpoint 

wei lin gabriela leskur Back Picnic Grace Hall Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Labor Day Fieldhouse Mall 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Campus-Wide 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Benefits Relay for Life. Opening game versus 11:45 a.m. - 12:45 a.m. All Day All are welcome. Rice. Music by the Notre Classes are in session. 
Corrections 

Panel: Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass Dame Folk Choir. Sacramental 
in the aug. 26 edition of the observer, “Understanding South Quad Basilica of the Sacred Women’s Soccer Preparation Info the story “Freshmen make first official 
Gaza” 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Game Session 
grotto trip,” incorrectly references 
Hesburgh Center Rally for football game 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Alumni Stadium Coleman-Morse 
Keenan hall rector as Fr. noel 

12:30 p.m. - 1:45 p.m. versus Rice. Mass includes music 1:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Center 
Terranova. The observer regrets this 
Discussions of conflict by the Women’s Notre Dame versus 7:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. 
error. 

in Gaza. Liturgical Choir. USC. Designed for interested students. 


ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | The observer 
ND to offer edX Consortium courses 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
as part of its unfolding and increasingly diversified ap­proach to digital education, notre dame will begin offering free and open online courses through the edX consortium next spring. 
professor elliott visconsi, the university’s chief academic digital officer in the provost’s office, said notre dame’s digi­tal strategy “is one emerging component of the university’s broader commitment to world class academics, research and teaching.” 
“The edX consortium is good for notre dame because it al­lows us to join the company of other world-class research universities to understand and pursue new tools in effec­tive teaching and learning,” he said. “it helps us to share our academic work — our research and teaching faculty — with the world in an interactive and engaging way. 
“but whatever we build for edX courses will be used in courses and programs at notre dame. The communities, re­search outcomes, knowledge base and instructional media we create at notre dame and share through the edX platform will help us achieve the goal of delivering an unparalleled ed­ucation to our students. one of our overall principles is to put notre dame students and fac­ulty at the heart of the learning experience.” 
The edX consortium was founded by harvard university and the massachusetts institute of Technology (miT) in 2012 with the goal of provid­ing free, open and high-qual­ity online education. in June, notre dame officially became one of 36 edX charter members, joining universities including the university of california at berkeley, columbia, cornell, dartmouth, georgetown and the university of chicago. 
visconsi said he and the fac­ulty digital strategy commit­tee chose edX from a number of potential partners because its values most closely aligned with notre dame’s. 
“we chose edX because it aligned with our philosophi­cal goals: it’s not-for-profit, it’s committed to transparency of data sharing and inter-in­stitutional collaboration and its goal is to improve human flourishing through access to education,” he said. 
in addition to providing en­richment opportunities for the world, the partnership with edX will maintain a focus on the educational benefits it can create on notre dame’s cam­pus, visconsi said. 
“public engagement is a ben­efit and not a driver of our digi­tal strategy,” he said. 
visconsi said notre dame’s edX courses, which will be an­nounced sometime during the fall semester, will be free to anyone, but will not count for academic credit nor will they replace any existing classes. instead, he said the courses will provide enrichment oppor­tunities, which can be utilized in already-developed classes at notre dame. 
“everything that we do in our strategy is designed to support and underscore the value of a residential research university education,” he said. “we’re not looking to replace faculty, we’re not looking to replace courses with online courses. 
“what we’re looking to do is expand the possibilities for stu­dents and faculty, supplement or layer digital materials onto courses, allow faculty to do more research-driven, highly 
paid adverTisemenT 
engaging teaching that is based in the sciences of learning. 
in order to do this, visconsi said the university will hire instructional designers to help professors construct cours­es that can be disseminated through the edX platform. he said this will alleviate pres­sure from professors to create every aspect of a digital course and lead to a higher-quality fin­ished product. 
“it’s a bit like making a mov­ie,” he said. “you don’t give somebody the camera and ask them to hold camera, write the script, do the acting, raise the money, edit the footage and distribute the film. There are different professional skills that combine in teams to create works of art; we think of online course design as a team effort led by faculty but created in partnership.” 
visconsi said the courses will be “of broad interest” and in “a blend of different academic ar­eas,” which he believes will gen­erate enthusiasm among notre dame students and faculty. 
“These courses, we antici­pate, will be of great interest to the expanded community of learners who care about notre dame, and so these courses will continue to raise the aca­demic profile of the university on a global scale,” he said. 
going forward, visconsi said he hopes to use edX courses in a variety of different ways to better connect students to their peers and underscore the university’s commitment to being an academic leader. 
“we’re also really interested in using these platforms and these tools to connect stu­dents who may be interested in studying abroad with students back home, and then, as stu­dents come into notre dame, building some materials … that will help the transition to the university,” he said. 
“it’s important for students to know that the university is committed to advances in teaching and learning and that we are putting faculty and re­sources into the smart and ef­fective use of digital tools and strategies to deliver a world-class education.  we always have been committed to excel­lence in the classroom; edX is one small part of that continu­ing commitment to make sure that we’re always improving.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Senate discusses new first-year program 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday night to discuss upcoming projects for the school year, including the campaign “29 for 29.” 
student body president lauren vidal said “29 for 29” pairs the 29 notre dame dorms with 29 homes in the south bend area for service during the holidays. 
all of the resident halls are 
CEA 
conTinued From page 1 
really great economists who have had these staff posi­tions at the same point in her career, so i think it’s a great opportunity for her. it’s in­dicative of what the profes­sion thinks of her work, to have such a high-level and visible position.” 
“Since CEA’s focus is very broad, and academics tend to focus on fairly narrow fields, you have to learn about a lot of topics in which you didn’t necessarily have pre-existing expertise when you work at CEA.” 
Abigail Wozniak 
associate professor of 
economics 
evans also said wozniak’s position highlights the ex­cellent work of the notre dame’s economics depart­ment, which he said is included in this campus-wide service project. however, senate discussed some of the concerns with the initiative. 
“one of the problems is that students go home around the holidays, which is when the program would be taking place,” vidal said. 
nonetheless, the initial lines of communication have been set with the center for the homeless, and the pro­gram is expected to start around Thanksgiving. 
“relatively young,” growing from 11 faculty members when he arrived in 2007 to nearly 25 currently. 
“we want the profession at large to understand the good things that are going on here, and this is one way we get to publicize that,” he said. 
Kevin rinz, a graduate economics student who also worked as a staff economist at the cea from July 2013 un­til July 2014, said the work at the cea differs vastly from an academic setting. 
“you spend a lot of time in meetings, on conference calls, writing memos, creat­ing presentations, analyzing data and reading papers, but which of those things you do in a given day and the topics you cover vary substantially and are subject to change on very short notice,” he said. 
“The council itself is com­posed of three people — the chairman and two mem­bers. The members help the chairman lead the organi­zation. when cea gets a re­quest from another part of the white house or starts a new project of its own, one of the members usually works with the senior economists with relevant expertise to decide what direction cea’s 
The group also discussed recent changes with the first-year program, in which notre dame has decided to abol­ish the physical education program. 
student body vice president matt devine discussed the structure of the new program. 
“a committee of professors was formed to discuss unex­plored opportunities for the program,” devine said. 
it was decided that a pro­gram including student 
work will take. The senior economists and junior staff [including staff economists, research economists and re­search assistants] then carry out the analysis and report back to the member.” 
rinz said the members then take requests to the chairman, who gives further direction until the project is complete. he also said cea staff are free to pursue re­search topics that interest them and take them to the members and chairman. 
evans said he hopes wozniak’s experience at the cea will help create a unique and innovative classroom experience when she returns in July 2015. 
“it would be nice to parlay this into some policy-based courses that students can benefit from,” he said. “but socialization, cultural com­petency, extra and co-curric­ular activities and pedagogy would better serve the first-year students. yet some mem­bers of senate expressed discontent with the changes. 
“p.e. was empowering peo­ple to play sports like squash that they wouldn’t normally play, and this was a great way to help people from different sets of backgrounds to come together and learn a new set of skills,” said representative 
we’ll see; that’s going to be up to [wozniak]. it’s a very different experience from teaching.” 
“It would be nice to parlay this into some policy-based courses that students can benefit from. But we’ll see; that’s going to be up to [Wozniak].” 
Kevin Rinz 
graduate economics student 
rinz said working with the cea can enhance academic research in a variety of  ways. 
“since cea’s focus is very 

paid adverTisemenT 
for alumni hall scott moore. 
The group is meeting with dean hugh page next wednesday to discuss their questions and concerns. 
“i would encourage you ... to harness any feelings that you may have about this so that we can have a discussion while respecting the decision that has been made,” vidal said. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jessica.l.merdes.2@nd.edu 
broad, and academics tend to focus on fairly narrow fields, you have to learn about a lot of topics in which you didn’t necessarily have pre-existing expertise when you work at cea,” rinz said. “This can help you discover new areas in which you would like to do research when you return to academia. 
“also, perhaps more im­portantly for researchers interested in public policy, working at cea shows you what issues policymakers consider important, how they think about them and what kind of evidence they find persuasive. This can be useful if you want policy­makers to pay attention to your future research.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | The observer 


Choir 
conTinued From page 1 
dame undergraduate and graduate students who come from different academic 
“I’ve been in the handbell choir for three years now. Being in the handbell choir has been one of the best decisions I’ve ever made.” 
Delaney Pfister 
president of Handbell Choir 
and musical backgrounds, pfister said. The handbell choir is primarily a liturgi­cal choir and operates under campus ministry. 
The notre dame handbell choir performs about once every three weeks, said pfister. during the 11:45 
a.m. sunday mass, the choir performs solo pieces, as well as supplements to the mass parts. it also performs dur­ing vespers at the basilica of the sacred heart and at vari­ous locations in december for the holiday season. 
The handbell choir goes on domestic and interna­tional tours where it perform at various parishes to help raise money for the par­ishes’ underfunded music programs. in the last three years, it has been to canada and washington, d.c. 
pfister said the choir cur­rently has 15 members and is looking to add more. at the audition, musicians interest­ed in joining jump right in and begin working on piec­es while randomly dispers­ing throughout the choir. she said it is important to be able to read music profi­ciently, and it is even better if the auditionees are famil­iar with both the treble and bass clefs. 
“i have been a member of the handbell choir since i came to notre dame, so three years now,” pfister said. “being in the hand-bell choir has been one of the best decisions i’ve ever made. we all have so much fun in rehearsals learning the music.” 
The handbell choir will be present at activities night on sept. 2, and pfister encour­ages everyone to speak with members at the fair. 
“my advice would be to give us a try if you are in­terested,” she said. “it can 

be  difficult  to  determine  passionate about.”  
which activities you want to  
be a part of on campus, so  Contact Wei Lin at  
find things you are actually  wlin4@nd.edu  

ACE 
conTinued From page 1 
increase latino enrollment in catholic schools, train ed­ucators of english as second language and exceptional children, partner with schools to strengthen in­struction and school culture and so much more.” 
according to recruiting coordinator for ace teach­ing fellows matt gelchion, there are 178 ace Teaching Fellows this year, 95 of which are first-year teachers, who will work in 120 different schools in 31 different com­munities across the country. 
anthony barrett, senior english major and ace in­tern, said the ace program is unique and different from other teaching programs. 
“because ace has only about 180 members, they are able to provide members teacher and a graduate of the with high-quality support notre dame class of 2014. and guidance,” barrett said. students return to campus “ace is a faith-based com-before their second year to 

“ACE is a faith-based community that serves Catholic schools. ACE is fully funded and includes a required M.Ed. 

program.” 
Anthony Barrett ACE intern 
munity that serves catholic schools. ace is fully fund­ed and includes a required m.ed. program. Finally, the summer preparation for ace is longer and more rigorous.” 
The ace journey begins the summer before the first year of teaching with gradu­ate coursework and student teaching, according to Katie mullins, a first year ace continue their coursework. 
mullins said she began teaching third grade at st. ambrose catholic school in Tucson, ariz., two weeks ago. she said teaching has always something she has been interested in, and she is excited for the year. 
“i am thrilled to finally be diving head first into this ministry of teaching.  i am excited to learn from my fel­low acers, the wonderful teachers at my school and, most importantly, my stu­dents,” mullins said. 
gelchion said he hopes the future is bright for the ace program. 
“we distribute postcards that showcase students holding signs that say, ‘my goals: college & heaven.’ That’s our mission: to help put students on the path to a life-changing education and a lifetime of happiness with god. That’s how we’ll mea­sure our success,” gelchion said. “my hope — and cer­tainly it’s an ambitious one — is that every student whose life ace Teachers touch will be helped on that track.” 
Contact Emma Borne at          eborne@nd.edu 
siver said. 
Grant 
senior sociology major 
conTinued From page 1 

Kelsey collins received a with a professor, siver said. sisTar grant to research 
“one of the most impor-with professor of sociology tant things to me about re-dr. susan alexander on rep­ceiving this grant was the resentations of masculinity opportunity to go above and in television shows, specifi­beyond and to learn about cally breaking bad and The being a philosopher by walking dead. watching and working with collins said her summer professor sayre as she went research experience helped about being a philosopher,” her realize her dreams of 
paid adverTisemenT 

being a career researcher. 
“[i] plan on going to grad­uate school to be a crimi­nologist,” collins said. “The project gave me the neces­sary experience in research that i need to flourish in my future endeavors.” 
senior biology major colleen Quigley spent her summer studying the sus­ceptibility of a clinical strain of mrsa to various metals. 
Quigley said the sisTar grant allowed her to do re­search that wouldn’t have been possible during the regular school year. 
“There were many days when i had to take measure­ments at specific times or do hours of prep work which would have been difficult with classes placed through­out my day,” Quigley said. “[The grant] allowed me to carry out my research from start to finish without large interruptions or other class­es taking more of my focus.” 
Quigley said her faculty partner was assistant pro­fessor of biology dr. reena Khadka, who specializes in microbiology. Together, they compared the growth of the strain of mrsa to two sepa­
“By virtue of the sort of college Saint Mary’s is, students have an almost infinite number of opportunities to get to know their professors as more than just their teachers and learn from both their explicit instruction and their more subtle cues.” 
Tess Siver 
senior sociology major 
rate control strains when ex­posed to metal compounds. “i was able to work close­ly with dr. Khadka in a way 
that would be difficult when she has other students to ad­vise and teach at the same time,” Quigley said. “we were able to work very col­laboratively which was ... a great experience.” 
Quigley said she will write up her results from the sum­mer research to contribute to her senior composition. 
siver said she appreciates the opportunity her sisTar grant allowed her because it is unique to saint mary’s. 
“by virtue of the sort of college saint mary’s is, students have an almost infinite number of oppor­tunities to get to know their professors as more than just teachers and learn from both their explicit instruc­tion and their more subtle cues,” siver said. 
“i would encourage any student looking to pursue a career in academia to apply for a sisTar grant with one of their professors.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

spotify confession 

Kevin Song 
assistant managing editor 

“it’s a small world after all.” This single song lyric might possibly be the most dreaded line in any disney song for those visiting the disney parks. The ride of the same name is simultaneously one of the most anticipated yet hated rides in the “most magical place on earth.” it’s the love of little kids and the bane of all catchy-tune-hating adult chaperones. but for me, it’s the song of the summer, symbolizing one of my favorite places in america. 
This summer, i visited disney world not once, but twice. i’m a proud annual passholder to disney world and have flights booked to orlando to return in January. i have a spotify playlist of disney songs and some disney plushies in my room, and i’m not ashamed to ad­mit it. 
as we return to the wonderful ex­panse of beautiful green quads and endless cornfields, and as a new batch of freshmen enter our lady’s university, i find myself coming out about my disney fandom to the en­tire school community to make this point: “don’t be ashamed.” don’t be bashful and don’t be afraid to be who you are. 
it’s easy to blend in with every­body in an isolated environment such as this one, whether it’s with what you wear, what you eat, what you think or what you do. it’s easy to do what all of your friends are doing and drop activities you might be passionate about for the sake of time or appearance. 
i highly encourage everyone to at­tend activities night and sign up for as many activities as you think you might be interested in. but don’t sign up for activities just because your hallmates are doing it, and don’t shy away from a booth for a dance troupe or model un because you think your bengal bouts friends will judge you for joining. 
whether you are beginning your college career or about to start your professional career in a few short months, remember to be who you are. let your own personality show. don’t be ashamed to be who you are, no matter what. don’t hesitate to try what you want to try, not just what your friends are trying. don’t be afraid to add your own dash of color to the blue and gold paint­ing that represents the notre dame community. 
in the words of aladdin, it’s “a whole new world.” go out and be who you are. 
Contact Kevin Song at ksong@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Block the vote 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

newsweek magazine asked 1,000 american citizens to take the united states citizenship test in march of 2011. The exam is given to those seeking naturaliza­tion and contains such mind-benders as, “name one state that borders mexico” and “what are the first three words of the us constitution?” a score of 60 percent — failure by notre dame standards — was considered a pass. 
Thirty-eight percent of respondents flunked the test. Twenty-nine percent were unable to name the vice president, while 73 percent could not define the bill of rights. That this level of political illiteracy exists at all in america is troubling enough. but it gets downright depressing when another truth comes to light — these people vote. 
call it the poll booth paradox. we’ve been given the power to alter our government and laws at will, yet many among us refuse to accept the associated respon­sibility. as the midterm elections approach, america’s future is (and may have been always) in the hands of so-called “low-information voters.”  with a flick of their fingers on a polling lever, they will shape the course of a nation of $300 million people, an economy of $15 trillion dollars, and an arsenal of 5,000 nuclear bombs. such an enormous responsibility ought only to be en­trusted to competent scholars of our country’s civics. 
when your car breaks down on the side of the road, it will do you little good to flag down 30 rubberneckers and canvass them for a majority opinion. instead, you call an automobile repairman, who has been carefully selected for his extensive knowledge and years of expe­rience. his expertise will likely yield a more accurate diagnosis than that from the misinformed guesswork of the masses. 
if we as a society so eagerly employ experts to fix our broken cars, we must be prepared to do the same with our “broken” country.  voters who flock to the polls in november to change the nation’s government ought to be required to prove their knowledge of that gov­ernment. at a minimum, they should have to pass the united states citizenship test. This will prove that their enfranchisement did not occur by accident of birth, but rather was earned through their careful study and un­derstanding of the american political system. 
This is by no means an unreasonable standard. as demonstrated above, the naturalization test is a walk in the park, even if your civic knowledge begins and ends at “schoolhouse rock.”  in the last five years, 91 percent of naturalization applicants — american non-citizens by definition — passed, according to the united states citizenship and immigration services. The test is available in its entirety, with answers, on the uscis website. There is no excuse for failure when the bar is set this low. 
now, from a legal perspective, adopting such a system would likely require an amendment to the constitution. requiring a “political literacy test” would probably run afoul of the voting rights act of 1965, and possibly the 24th amendment. but with enough support from both sides of the beltway, anything’s possible. 
what might this new voting system look like? perhaps something like this: 
on election day, John smith goes to his precinct’s polling station. he receives a ballot and fills it out as he always has, leaving two sections blank: the selec­tion of his candidates and the civics evaluation section. on entering the booth, he fills out the civics evalua­tion — five multiple-choice questions randomly chosen from the united states citizenship test. he then con­tinues as normal, filling out the remaining sections for his candidates of choice. The results are then graded electronically. 
if John gets three or more questions correct, his bal­lot is counted towards the results of the election.  if three or more are wrong, his ballot slides to the reject bin, insulating the political process against the poten­tial damage his ignorant decision might have caused. 
as he passes by the check-in counter on the way back to work, John grabs a sticker from the bin and proudly affixes it to his chest as a symbol of his participation in the democratic process. The text?  “(hopefully) i voted Today!” 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering. He lives in Alumni Hall and can be reached at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


come back to the great Table 
Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 

i am seated at the great Table, and no one else is here. it is a table of inexpressible magnificence — sturdy, elegant and well-polished. intricately hand-carved along its prodigious length by illustrious artisans of old, the table is set with a feast of such grandeur that it parallels aslan’s Table in c.s. lewis’ “The voyage of the dawn Treader.” 
surrounding the table are handsome, luxurious chairs — finer than the Throne of solomon — numbering more than any mortal could count, enough for every man and woman to join in comfort and dignity that would befit an emperor. 
The great Table has been visited by the preeminent ar­chitects of human thought — monarchs and aristocrats, philosophers and theologians, generals and judges, dicta­tors and activists, presidents and preachers, popes and sag­es, artists and musicians, writers and poets, journalists and economists, scientists and mathematicians, professors and students. at the table, men and women have debated grand theories, analyzed discoveries, set policy, engineered social change, explored faith and made momentous decisions. 
dining together is an intimate experience, one that litera­ture has always recognized as a symbol of trust and fellow­ship. but today, unfortunately, the table is unoccupied, as it often has been over the course of its history. 
what is this table, you ask? it isn’t the round Table of arthurian legend, but it should be similarly revered. it is the metaphorical table at which men and women hold dia­logue with humility, compassion, curiosity and sincerity. regardless of topic, the great Table demands the perspec­tive of all to be shared with integrity and purpose. 
The great Table is present in each of our dorm rooms, in each classroom and hallway, in state houses and congres­sional hearings, at kitchen tables and church youth groups. 
many of you may be thinking, who is this person to make such an absurd and self-aggrandizing claim, that he is the only one at the table? you may be thinking, “i am sitting at the table, why have you not noticed me?” 
The reality is that i am not at the table most of the time, either. regardless of our best intentions, we all forsake our seat more often than not. we each fall victim to confirma­tion bias, and we each find ourselves disparaging those who disagree with us, if only in our thoughts. we exaggerate our claims and twist facts to bolster our case. while in the pres­ence of like-minded company, we validate our beliefs as the only logical conclusion and construct frameworks that prohibit any variation from our concurring identity. worst yet, we forget an obligation to comport ourselves with love and respect. 
For example, in the recent minimum wage debate, nei­ther camp seems willing to admit the harsh reality that there will be winners and losers, at least in the short term. on one side, it is a raise for america; alternatively, it is a recipe for massive job losses. The actuality probably lies somewhere on the spectrum between these claims and certainly encompasses a much broader and deeper set of consequences. Furthermore, both sides like to characterize the other as malevolent culture destroyers bent on hurting someone, when exercising some empathy would reveal that most people do hope to achieve the common good. 
how then does one participate in balanced and fair dis­cussion? how does one find common ground? how does one realize that there may be more than one answer to a problem? it is our duty as citizens of the world to sit at the great Table for every conversation in which we participate. 
overconfidence in our self-perceived flawless worldview allows us to accept whatever sleight of hand is necessary with the facts to reinforce our opinions. what’s more, this overconfidence can lead us to abandon intellectual integ­rity. There is no justification for defending one’s opinion regardless of the facts, and there is no dignity in failing to articulate one’s beliefs. There is balance that must be struck. 
personally, i believe that there is absolute truth and that, as a man of god, i should seek that truth in my life. however, i also know that there exist many debates in which there are no right or wrong answers. problems are complicated. issues are differentiated and ingrained. To understand a subject, context is king and good faith analy­sis is essential. 
i would like to take this opportunity to call each and every member of the notre dame community to come to the table this year. let’s engage in conversation. let’s reexamine our assumptions, assess norms and dislodge groupthink. more importantly, let’s confront tough issues and acknowledge the holes in our reasoning. i am commit­ted to intellectual honesty in my columns and discussions this year. in addition, i aspire to conduct myself with a lov­ing carriage that facilitates understanding and dialogue in pursuit of the common good. 
Today, the need to come together in communion at the great Table is crucial as ever, and an empathetic posture in conversation can make all of the difference in bringing others back to the table. as such, the byline of this column, “we’ve lost our Quorum,” envisions a conversation rest­ing upon values of love, empathy, trust and honesty that resound deeply in the notre dame ethos. 
so come, join me at the table. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and political science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Finding footing in the dating world 
Caitlin Hilton 
The daily cougar 

with summer ending and the school year begin­ning again, many students are starting the aca­demic year with a summer love on their arm or a potential love interest close by. on the other hand, there is probably a good number of women who spend a fair amount of the summer waiting for a special someone to ask them out — myself being one of them. 
vicki larson, co-author of “The new i do” and writer for the omgchronicles, was asked at a teen dating seminar whether it was okay for a girl to ask a guy out. while her co-author, susan pease gadoua, responded with a firm no, larson stated that instead of directly asking, women should in­stead create an opportunity for the man to do the asking. 
This makes one wonder whether men really care this much about asking or being asked out by a woman, or if it matters at all. after all, this is 2014 — there shouldn’t be so many mind games involved in something as simple as asking another person out on a date. 
anthropology senior andrew Fitzpatrick said that he recognizes that times are changing. 
“many years ago, i think it was a cultural norm to have the guy ask the girl out, but now i don’t feel like it is as big of a deal,” Fitzpatrick said. “girls feel more confident and don’t feel like they need to sit back and wait to be courted in a relationship. as well for guys, it is not an embarrassment to be asked on a date from a girl. These views may not reflect the total population, but i think the majority would agree (with me).” 
michael mills published a 2011 article that surveyed male and female college students on who preferred to ask and who preferred to be asked out on a date. mills found that only 6 percent of women are willing to do the asking while 93 percent pre­fer to be asked. likewise, 83 percent of males want to do the asking while 16 percent are willing to be asked out. 
“i think it matters who makes the first move,” said kinesiology sophomore stephanie benza. “in my case, i’d rather that the guy make the first move because i have the power to say ‘no’ or ‘yes,’ while knowing if his intentions are good or not. it kind of gives you control of the relationship.” 
in that respect, it is really women who care more about a cultural norm of male assertiveness than men do. it seems that although we are in a society where women are slowly moving closer to equality with men, many women are the ones clinging to the old-world mentality when it comes to gender roles. 
program coordinator for the women’s resource center malkia hutchinson said that this old-world mentality is one that many women are raised on. 
“i think we’re all raised in various systems where some things are seen as the norm and some things are seen as deviant. early gendered socialization encourages certain behaviors from boys and certain behaviors from girls. not only that, but (women are) taught what’s appropriate in engaging with the op­posite gender due to those gendered expectations of what’s feminine or masculine,” hutchinson said. “i think men tend to be expected and or are encour­aged to ‘make the first move’ because that’s a sign of assertiveness. women are encouraged to be on the receiving end of the move making because if they did make the first move, they would be asser­tive, which is associated with masculinity.” 
Though modern women have empowered them­selves considerably over the past century, it’s interesting that some women are placing them­selves in this submissive role of waiting on the man. 
when asked if she thought there were ways wom­en could change their perceptions about aggressive­ness and assertiveness when dating, hutchinson said she encourages mutual activeness in dating. 
“i actually don’t like the idea of any party being aggressive when it comes to dating, so i don’t view that as ideal in men or women,” hutchinson said. “i think i’d encourage anyone who has feelings for another person and is interested in pursuing that further to 1) read the other person’s cues to see if they may feel the same way, and 2) be an adult and let them know you’re interesting in getting to know them further, would like to spend more time togeth­er, etc. nobody should feel like they have to wait for someone to make a move if they’re getting vibes that the other person is into them. Just put on your big boy or big girl pants and say something.” 
while i will not say that this mentality is totally the fault of women — because it isn’t — i also will not say that we do not share some of the blame. evidence has shown that while the numbers are still significantly higher in preference of men being the “askers,” men are moving forward faster than women are in their willingness to let women take the assertive role of “asker” as well. 
such a trend cannot change unless women start to take the initiative of not being afraid to make the first move. it’s still nice for the guy to ask, but that doesn’t mean that it always has to play out that way 
— especially since men are now more willing to let the woman take the reins every once in a while. 
The Daily Cougar is the official student-run news organization of the University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

early sunday Festival experience – not wanting to miss sunday afternoon opener speedy ortiz, i made it known i had to get to union park at doors’ open — or gates, i’m fairly new to this. getting there at 12:00 p.m. meant being able to explore some of the other activities offered at the music fes­tival, including the tented record fair. after briefly getting caught up talking music with representatives from a superb, familiar local new Jersey label, don giovanni, we hurried over to the small, tree-alcoved blue stage for speedy ortiz. The band lived up to all my expectations — and dreams 
— slaying lesser-known material from their debut “sports ep” along with their week-old adult swim single “bigger party.” with their less-than-hour-long set leaving still more hard-nosed noise to be desired, perfect pussy followed, well, perfectly. Two of the most cathartic performances of the weekend came from perfect pussy’s lead singer meredith graves, who was moved to tears during her powerhouse per­formance of the stunningly beautiful “interference Fits,” and the subsequent sunday afternoon players, deafheaven. The two young bands exerted all of their energy and played with their hearts on their sleeves, justifying their early critical ac­claim and spots on the lineup. all this in the span of three hours early in the day epitomizes the festival experience. 
rapping along to danny brown’s “monopoly” while sitting and eating chicken sateh – This is also what festivals are all about. 
graced by pusha T’s presence for 20 minutes – his set started late. no, it barely began before it was already over. he made up for lost time by blazing through his material, giving fans every verse and bar he has so meticulously crafted over the past couple of years. his deliberate, slow-burning flow oozed attitude and commanded the attention of those who stuck around during the delay and surely grabbed those who previously walked away because of his tardiness. Though his time was punctuated, he did not leave out any one of his bests from last year’s hit-filled “my name is my name,” or his fea­tures on “cruel summer,” “move That dope” or “runaway.” 
st. vincent’s entire set – when you see st. vincent’s annie clark in person, you become transfixed by her. she has an absolutely captivating aura, like she definitely knows some­thing her audience — and everyone else — does not. between songs, we joked that, at the end of her set, annie clark would be taken off stage by a uFo abduction because that’s the only possible way she could leave. if that had happened, i’m sure everyone else in the crowd would have easily accepted it. oh yeah, and she went berserk playing her second-to-last song on top of a security guard’s shoulders, writhing on the ground with her guitar and ending it by kneeling in front of the kit and head-butting the bass drum. after this wild per­formance, she calmly played a beautiful rendition of “your lips are red.” 
grimes closes with new material and genesis – watching grimes perform felt like witnessing her material alone in her bedroom. nervous but excited, her feelings towards unveil­ing her music to such a large, receptive crowd brought out the multidimensional, upbeat persona that her music em­bodies and that the crowd so obviously anticipated seeing. after an already lively set, she introduced her brand new single “go,” which sounded gigantic and blew the crowd away. Finishing off with fan-favorite “genesis,” boucher was met with the loudest crowd applause i heard throughout the entire weekend. 
singing along and looking on with neutral milk hotel – as we made our way out through the silent, attentive crowd to get a view of the entire stage and massive instrumentation gathered for neutral milk hotel’s saturday night headlining set, glances anywhere above shoulder level revealed a sea of exhausted faces. clearly, many of nmh’s avid fans were choked up in a pre- or post-teary-eyed state, coming down from a long day, and, more immediately, a cathartic per­formance of “Two-headed boy.” The band had forcefully plowed through three of their liveliest songs — “holland,” “1945,” “The King of carrot Flowers part one, and part Two & Three” — early on, to thousands of people, which at that time seemingly made up one living entity, singing along at the top of its lungs. The excitement of being in that crowd came from not only hearing Jeff mangum’s signature vo­cals and lyrics, but from sharing his music with this group of people. seeing couples in each other’s arms and groups of friends getting their second winds bouncing around once the band got to upbeat blasts “ghost” and “[untitled],” made me think about those in the audience who might have met or shared a moment at a nmh concert during the band’s first active years, and those who would share this new memory far into the future. mangum stately finished with the full band playing out “Two-headed boy, part Two” and then left goosebumps with “oh comely,” while thousands and a high-rising church looked on from the background. 
Contact Matt at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 


By Kelly Konya 
scene writer 

The last words James Joyce uttered be­fore relapsing into a coma were, “does no­body understand?” yet, one hundred years after the publication of his remarkable short story collection, “dubliners,” we are still grappling and questioning and trying our best to, indeed, understand. with end­less amounts of commentary on Joyce’s playwriting feat, poetry collections and, of course, his instant classics “ulysses” and “Finnegan’s wake,” Joyce has captivated his audiences from the start. This year, the book “dubliners 100” was published to commemorate Joyce’s mastery of the short story in 1914’s “dubliners.” it deserves your reading more than any other current col­lection – here’s why. 
The book is a brilliant endeavor to bridge the gap between a classic irish writer like Joyce and present-day irish voices, con­taining revamped versions by fifteen con­temporary irish writers of the same fifteen stories from “dubliners.” some of the versions stray far from the original stories; others are aligned in theme and form, but all are successful in their own right and fulfill Joyce’s original vision to represent what he called, “a chapter of the moral his­tory of my country.” i found the book on bloomsday this past summer in dublin. stacked high in hodges Figgis bookstore, it acted as a physical testament to the scope of connectivity and innovation in Joyce’s works. he is just as good now as ever, and “dubliners 100” celebrates his enduring significance. 
in the introduction to “dubliners 100,” editor Thomas morris calls the new ver­sions “cover versions,” like covered songs. The writers included in this anniversary edition were not selected to merely rewrite the “dubliners” stories in their own mod-ern-day voices, but instead were given the option to rework Joyce’s stories in any way they wished. with this freedom, the book turns out to be one of the most approach­able ways to access a broad slew of contem­porary irish writers, while still honoring Joyce. 
my favorite story in “dubliners” remains “a little cloud,” for i’m sympathetic to­wards little chandler’s desire to go beyond his present context and perhaps become a poet,travel abroad or, really, be anywhere besides his hometown. The “dubliners 100” version is spot on: irish writer John Kelly delivers a tale with the same turbu­lence and genius. with Kelly’s version in mind, i flipped back to Joyce’s story and recognized new aspects that Kelly empha­sized – the new book giving me an innova­tive way to approach the old. This version is a true treasure — in tandem, Joyce’s voice is revitalized in light of the contemporary writers who make the original stories shine. 
before studying in dublin this sum­mer, i considered the irish canon to be constituted by the literary giants we can all identify: oscar wilde, samuel beckett, Jonathan swift, but when i returned home i was immersed in the works of modern-day irish writers who i hadn’t even heard of, like roddy doyle and colm Toibin. it’s no sur­prise that the irish canon prospers the same today as it did in the past — it is thriving. i encourage you to access this canon in any way you can, for it will not disappoint. 
conveniently, one opportunity is hap­pening this week at nd — the seamus heaney memorial lecture and poetry read­ing in the hesburgh room of the morris inn this afternoon at 4 p.m. 
For those of you who don’t know him, heaney is the latest writer who has unde­niably solidified his place in the irish liter­ary canon. The fourth irishman to win the nobel prize, heaney represented the voice of an entire nation in challenging times and created some of the most memorable, beautiful poetry in recent decades. 
so, after you order “dubliners 100,” hop over to attend the event and prepare to be stunned. whether it’s been one or one hun­dred years since first being published, the writers and works that make up the irish canon are something to be shared and treasured; “dubliners 100” and heaney are, in my eyes, the perfect place to start. 
Contact Kelly at kkonya01@saintmarysedu 
SAMANTHA COUGHLIN |The Observer 


By Erin McAuliffe 
scene editor 

i spent the summer in Jackson hole, wyoming on white water more than wifi and spotting animals instead of spotifying. it was an amazing experience to be fully in­vested in whatever was going on around me all the time, however my music street creds were being stifled under my newly-discovered trail creds. i enlisted a hip friend of mine to assemble me a playlist to keep me updated on new tracks. The playlist broadened my limited music selection and refreshed the stale music i had been listening to since arriving in the wilderness; however, it did not allow me to revel in the delight of discovering new music on my own. 
i missed the sense of intimacy created when you discov­er a new song and the only thing on your mind, the only influence on your mood, in that moment is the music. your only opinions on the artist are your own, the air clear of other’s approvals and criticisms. 
although this way of connecting with artists is estima­ble, i employed an even more intrinsic way of finding new music this summer. i decided to take advantage of the en­vironment and culture i was immersed in for the summer. placing a focus on local, live music, i went to free outdoor concerts on the weekends, frequented places with local 
By John Darr 
scene editor 

is it uncool to be joyful? To be silly, bouncy or happy for no reason? surely, we all know people who are joyful, bringing happiness to those around them through persistent opti­mism and goodwill. but looking at the music scene, the most ostensibly joyful artists spend most of their time criticized or unheard. critics seem to gravitate towards artists whose lyric booklets read like confessionals or drama film scripts while popular dJ’s spin hip-hop and dance songs drenched in unfulfilled or tainted desire. maybe we’re all just drama queens. or maybe, we simply need someone to remind us that it’s cool to be joyful. 
Kyary pamyu pamyu is hard at work making joy cool again. starting out as a fashion blogger and later rising to fame as a model, Kyary has become the face of Tokyo’s harajuku district, famous for its youth culture. she collabo­rated with producer yasutaka nataka to release her sugar­coma-inducing first single, ponponpon, which went viral via youTube. after ponponpon’s success, Kyary released two records, both produced by nataka, which reached the no. 1 and no. 2 spots in the Japanese music charts. both “pamyu pamyu revolution” and “nanda collection” featured bright­ly maximalist, layered production and a host of sing-along vocal melodies. 
bands for entertainment and even attended a bluegrass music festival. 
my adventure started with a free, outdoor concert fea­turing The infamous stringdusters, an acoustic bluegrass band a few of the girls i was working with at Triangle X ranch in grand Teton national park were fans of. skeptical of what a bluegrass concert would entail, i tagged along and was pleasantly surprised. The band had a defini­tive groove aspect i never would have associated with bluegrass. i spent the night busting a move – sometimes turning to the robot for a shock factor in the sea of “hip­pie dancing” or inventing new moves with my roommate to showcase our crump. needless to say, by the end of the night, we had a sizable fan base. 
dance was an essential addition to the music out west and it definitely added to the experience. normally, listen­ing to an artist for the first time entails sitting in bed with headphones on, perhaps casually snacking on the stale cheetos in the bag that has been on your table for a week. imagine swing-dancing while hearing a band for the first time – the initial listen enhanced with endorphins and energy. 
in the beginning of august some of my coworkers and i took a trip to idaho to attend the Targhee bluegrass Festival. it was quite a different experience than most 
Kyary has been compared to lady gaga due to her ri­diculous costumes and enthusiastic fanbase, but that’s just about where the similarities end. where lady gaga’s image is highly sexualized and provocative, Kyary’s is childlike and uber-cute. her lyrics detail fantasy worlds and daydreams. while this isn’t unusual for J-pop stars, Kyary’s music is set apart by her western stylistic and musical tendencies. in es­sence, she’s the perfect link between our music scene and its intimidatingly foreign eastern counterpart. 
her newest record, “pika pika Fantajin”, is another en­try in an already excellent discography. boasting producer yasutaka nataka’s trademark production and another batch of cloud-nine lyrics, “Fantajin”is nothing new for Kyary. as always, the melodies are immensely catchy; the produc­tion is crisp and clear, and the arrangements are dense and energetic. 
Fortunately, “Fantajin” sees Kyary and nataka continuing to introduce new and unique ideas in their tried-and-true formula. single – and highlight – “Kira Kira Killer” features an immaculately-crafted background vocal that makes for the best pop moment of the year. Finally, the chanted “l! u! c! K!” and “1! 2! 3! 4!” help drive the track forward in all the right places. it’s a pop listener’s dream come true. 
Then there’s beautiful farewell song of “yume no najima­ring ring,” which uses a subtle indie-rock guitar riff during its verse to complement the gorgeous melody during the crop-top, flower-crown-infested music festivals. There was a focus on the outdoor culture: chacos, locally-craft­ed trucker hats and patagonia paraphernalia ran rampant. There were trailheads all around the resort where the festi­val was held, open for hikes during set-breaks. since there was only one stage, people strung hammocks between trees in the back. The standout sets we saw included the sam bush band and leftover salmon. one of my friends brought a large stuffed-animal trout to hold up and dance with at salmon’s set, reasserting our status as fan-favorite. 
however fun these concerts were, not all the music i saw live was exuberant and groovy. my roommate and i de­cided to return to the venue where we saw The infamous stringdusters for what was promised via an online blurb to be an “explosive performance.” upon arrival we were met with lots of middle-aged people and an empty dance floor. we ran to the general store to grab a 5–hour energy; how­ever not even the syrupy, burning concoction could liven it up. 
That experience aside, what i thought would be a sum­mer of training my ears to close at the first note of songs like, “drunk on a plane” or “moonshine in the Trunk,” turned into an ear-opening practice. 
Contact Erin at emcaulif@nd.edu 
chorus. “mottai nightland” features a spooky halloween choir that evolves into a cheerful schoolyard choir over the course of the track. “Tokyo highway” uses propellant video game synth melodiesand asoaringrefrain to mimicthe mo­tion of its title, and “explorer” is decked out in a glorious en­semble of celebratory flutes and brass to close out the album. 
even though the sugary synth-pop of “pika pika Fantajin” is far from new territory for Kyary, she continues to craft quality fresh music in its bounds. at this rate, she’s a rare art­ist who has found a much-needed niche in both the Japanese and american music scenes. Kyary’s music is full of happi­ness — here’s to hoping she keeps doing exactly what she’s doing. 
Contact John at jdarr@nd.edu 
Pika Pika Fantajin 
Kyary Pamyu Pamyu 
Label: Warner Music Japan 
Best Tracks: “Kira Kira Killer,” “Mottai Nightland,” “Tokyo Highway” If you like: Girls Generation, Owl City, MIKA 



SAMANTHA COUGHLIN |The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

cavaliers revive hope in cleveland 
Alex Carson 
sports writer 
heartbreak is in my blood. i was born in the summer of 1995 in northeast ohio. Three months and two days later, the cleveland indians lost the world series in six games after posting baseball’s best regular season winning percentage in 41 years. and at the ripe age of two, i sat in front of the televi­sion screen as José mesa took the hill to try and close out game seven of the world series and get the indians that elusive title. 
unfortunately, that didn’t happen. mesa blew the save. The curse of rocky colavito lived on. it joined The catch (the baseball one), red right 88, The drive, The Fumble, The shot, The move and later, of course, The decision amongst the most unfortunate incidents in cleveland’s sports history. 
but the point of all this isn’t to prove that cleveland fans are more tortured than every­one else — though we are. it’s to try to better understand the dynamic that has led to the series of events bringing Kevin love to the cavaliers in what is undoubtedly one of the big­gest trades in nba history. love probably is the best big man in the game right now, but giving up andrew wiggins in addi­tion to anthony bennett and a first-round selection is a lot for a player whose contract is expir­ing at the end of this upcoming season. 
andrew wiggins is the guy that’s been hyped up for quite some time as the next great nba player. he has been com­pared to lebron James, and he’s one of the most athletic players that has come into the league for quite a while. plus, you have to imagine that wiggins would’ve reached his full po­tential under the tutelage of King James. he’d potentially set the cavaliers up to become one of the nba’s dynasties with lebron passing the torch to him in a few years to carry on the winning tradition. 
but here’s the issue with wiggins — lebron is turning 30 this december. and for all of the potential that wiggins pos­sesses, it’s just that — potential. For wiggins to grow into a play­er that’s as good as Kevin love is now, it’s likely going to take him somewhere in the ballpark of five years. by then, lebron’s going to be on the cusp of turn­ing 35, likely out of his prime. cleveland is a city that hasn’t brought home a title for 50 years and 156 consecutive seasons of major professional sports, and while the thought of being a title contender for 10 or 15 years with wiggins around sounds appealing, cleveland is a city that would go absolutely crazy for just one. 
i mean, let’s consider some­thing here. if the cavs were to take home the 2015 nba title, matthew dellavedova would almost certainly have free drinks waiting for him in the 216 for the rest of his life. guys like Kenny lofton and omar vizquel are treated as minor — maybe even major — prophets in the “religion” of cleveland sports, and those guys couldn’t win the all-important champi­onship. so, knowing that, imag­ine the type of reaction Johnny manziel would get if he led the city’s beloved browns to a super bowl crown. 
with all that said, it has been a fun summer. lebron came home; cleveland went crazy, and then Kevin love showed up at the party. and it’s a move that shows the cavaliers are all in to win a title. sure, owner dan gilbert and gm chris grant could’ve waited around, allowed wiggins and anthony bennett to prosper and used the three first-round picks they had for next year to add even more youth to the lineup, but they didn’t. The cavaliers are out to get cleveland its title now, not later. and that’s why this trade makes all the sense in the world. 
one title. That’s all i’m asking for. 
Contact  Alex Carson at acar­son1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles begin season with busy weekend 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
The belles open their sea­son this weekend at the mount union classic in alliance, ohio, with four matches Friday and saturday. 
last season, saint mary’s went 12-15 (8-8 miaa) and secured a berth in the conference tourna­ment, which features the top four teams in the miaa, for the first time since 2008. saint mary’s brings back several players from last year, including three cru­cial team members in sopho­more clare mcmillan, junior Katie hecklinski and senior Kati schneider. 
as a freshman, mcmillan tal­lied 922 assists, the most by a saint mary’s rookie since 2003. schneider was named to the all­miaa first team and hecklinski garnered second team all-conference honors. schneider and hecklinski led the team in both kills and digs. schneider led the team with 389 kills and hecklinski recorded 296, while schneider’s 329 digs were second only to hecklinski’s 379. 
coach Toni elyea said she is counting on schnieder and hecklinsski to be the team’s lead­ers but emphasized it will take a team effort to succeed. 
“(schneider and hecklinski) have earned all-miaa honors, but for us it is always a team ef­fort,” elyea said. “schneider is a great outside hitter, and we defi­nitely look to the two of them, but the way it always is for us is about being a whole team. if we are passing the ball well and commu­nicating, it will all come together.” 
This tournament is the belles’ only action before a stretch of sev­en consecutive miaa games, and elyea said this weekend is critical to get the season started off right. 
“we are facing teams with re­ally talented returning players, but we have the same thing,” elyea said. “we want to go in and be competitive, so we will be pre­pared to be competitive in con­ference play. That’s what this is about and going in and being re­ally competitive is our main goal.” 
in the weekend’s action, the belles will face bethany, mount union, John carroll and lawrence. Three of the four teams are coming off winning seasons, and all were competitive in their respective conferences. 
bethany is coming off a third consecutive 30-win season and was picked first in the president’s athletic conference preseason poll. The bison return the major­ity of their team, which includes two first team all-pac selections in junior mackenzie lauber and sophomore dylana mcKenzie. 
mount union set a school re­cord last year with 31 matches and is ranked 10th in the avca coaches’ preseason poll. They re­turn senior nicole snyder, who is only 71 kills shy of recording 1,000 in her career. 
John carroll went 21-10 last year and returns six players who were freshman a season ago. That includes the ohio athletic conference’s reigning freshman of the year, Kit o’shaughnessy, who tallied 968 assists in her rook­ie campaign. 
lawrence will enter the tourna­ment after last year’s 10-20 cam­paign. The vikings went 5-5 in the midwest conference and finished sixth last year and will be a young squad this season as their roster includes nine freshmen. 
elyea said she recognizes the steep competition, but knows that saint mary’s will be prepared. 
“we expect big things this year,” elyea said. “we want to go in, find that starting line up and just compete at a really high level. we’re excited.” 
The belle’s open with the bison on Friday at 5 p.m., be­fore playing the hosts, mount union, at 7:30 p.m. the same night. They will conclude the tournament saturday when they face John carroll at 10 a.m. and wrap up with lawrence at noon. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
MLB | piTTsburgh 3, sT. louis 1 
pirates defeat cardinals 
Associated Press 
ike davis wasn’t able to play meaningful late-season games during his time with the new york mets. he’s making the most of his chance with the pittsburgh pirates. 
“it’s the first time he’s been involved in games that have this kind of significance this late in the season,” pirates manager clint hurdle said wednesday after davis’ long home run keyed a 3-1 win over the st. louis cardinals. “he’s showing up to the ballpark ready con­tribute any way he can.” 
davis hit a two-run drive off a speaker above the seats in right-center field in the second inning. a day earlier, davis had a pinch-hit, tiebreaking, three-run homer in the eighth inning of pittsburgh’s 5-2 win. 
davis arrived in the ma­jor leagues with the new york mets in 2010 and was traded to pittsburgh in april. The mets finished with losing records in all of his seasons in new york. 
“it’s hard when you’re mathematically eliminated,” davis said. “you hit a home run and it’s a great feeling still, but it’s kind of like it didn’t really matter. if you’re still in it, it defi­nitely feels a little sweeter.” 
davis hit his 10th homer af­ter adam wainwright (15-9) plunked russell martin on the left elbow with a pitch that martin barely tried to avoid. davis sent an 88 mph cutter clanking off a speaker raised on a pole, about 15 feet above the seats, a drive estimated at about 433 feet. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
WANTED 
Tutor for 7th and 6th grade girls. Help with English, Math, Science and Social Studies. Located in Granger. Monday-Thursday - times flexible. $20/hour. Call 574-261-0795 
“You wake up, flawless. Post up, flawless. Ridin’ round in it, flawless. Flossin’ on that, flawless. This dia­mond, flawless. My diamond, flawless. This rock, flawless. My rock, flawless. I woke up like this, I woke up like this” 
FOR SALE 
CONDO - Mishawaka - Sedgwick House: 3BR 2.5BA on 3rd floor. Living room with fireplace, separate dining room, electric kitchen, large linen closets, dryer and new washer. Balcony with view of park and river walk. Underground parking with stor­age. Elevator to all floors. Secured en­trance. $99K. Call 574-255-3862 
Lot for sale: 3/4 acre lot, .5 mile north of Warren Golf Course. Partially 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
wooded, city utilities, zoned single family. Call Beth 574-274-2122 
Looking to trade 2 tickets for MI in Section 3 Row 38 plus cash for 3 tick­ets together anywhere in the stadium for MI. Please call 574-850-2487 
FOR RENT 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/Eddy Street -prime location. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 


ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | The observer 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

smc starts season at wabash 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s kicks off its 2014 cross country season this weekend at the wabash hokum Karem. 
The belles finished third overall in the michigan intercollegiate athletic association (miaa) last year, tied for their highest finish in team history and return sev­eral veterans to the squad. sophomore brittany beeler finished as the second-high­est-placing belles runner in every race last season and will step up to become the team’s leader with the graduation of top runner Jessica biek. 
seniors samee chittenden and erin Knauf as well as juniors allie danhof and Katelyn dunn bring even more experience to the team. 
The wabash hokum Karem race is entering its 52nd year and the belles have been making the trip to crawfordsville, ind., for the past four seasons. The squad finished fourth last year, one spot shy of its highest finish ever. 
The belles start their fall campaign at 10 a.m. saturday at the wabash hokum Karem in crawfordsville, ind. 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Turner takes over for Piane 
By MANUEL De JESUS 
sports writer 
after a 39-year tenure as head coach of the track and field and cross country program, Joe piane hands the torch over to alan Turner. 
Turner, who has been part of the coaching staff for the past five sea­sons, was the assistant coach from 2012 to 2014. Throughout his tenure as assistant coach, Turner helped notre dame runners and hurdlers achieve various successes, coach­ing 18 first-team all-americans and 17 acc and big east conference champions. 
despite losing their veteran head coach, the athletes support Turner as their new mentor. Junior molly seidel said the team is most excited about the high expectations Turner has set for the runners from the moment he took the head coaching position. 
“he immediately tried to con­tact everyone on the team [after becoming head coach] and told us what his mission statement and goals were,” seidel said. “he wants us to win championships, to con­tinue getting better and to have all of the athletes be the best they can possibly be.” 
There aren’t any fears in taking on the new challenges Turner holds for the athletes this upcoming season. 
“i think it’s good for us to have high expectations because it push­es us to reach to where we never thought we could go,” seidel said. 
seidel competed in four meets last season including the ncaa championship. her best fin­ish was at the national catholic championship where she was the seventh runner of 91 to cross the finish line. regardless of her indi­vidual successes, seidel said she be­lieves her team can do better. 
“last year was really disappoint­ing,” seidel said. “a lot of problems with injuries hurt us, and our mind­sets weren’t where they needed to be. we needed to be more men­tally tough. we need to focus on the team aspect of the sport more. it’s much more of a team sport than track. you’ve got to make sure you remember that, when you’re running, you’re running for your teammates.” 
seidel said the team so far has transitioned relatively well with Turner taking the helm of the program. 
“it’s been smooth since Turner has been there for a while, and ev­eryone knows who he is,” seidel said. “a lot of us are comfortable with it. while there are larger changes with the staff, which will need a little bit of an adjustment, in the long run, it’ll be good for the team.” 
seidel also mentioned that de­spite losing key senior runners, the team is ready to step up as a unit, and the upperclassmen are pre­pared to take on leadership roles. 
“This year we graduated three of our seniors [in the women’s cross country team],” seidel said. “i think this year, as we move forward, we’re obviously looking towards our se­niors in emily Frydrych, hannah eckstein, gabby gonzales and the rest of the senior girls, but we’ve also got the juniors and underclass­men who are looking to be strong. They’re ready to show leadership and be courageous out on the course. we don’t have one defined leader, and i think it’s better that way. everyone is really stepping up, and that might even be better for our team.” 
The irish start the season sept. 5 during their annual trip to the crusader open in valparaiso. The race is set to begin at 6 p.m. 
Contact Manuel De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Football 
conTinued From page 16 
hear it in his voice.” 
martin started 11 games last season in the middle of an offensive line that al­lowed eight sacks, second fewest in the Fbs. 
his fellow senior, mcdaniel, was the lead­ing irish rusher in 2013. he rushed for 705 yards and two touchdowns on 152 carries. 
mcdaniel discussed the qualities that led to his se­lection as a captain. 
“having the respect of your teammates and being consistent, being account­able,” mcdaniel said. “i like to think of myself as all those things, and i want to portray that each and every day in the things i do on the field, but off the field as well, and i want my team­mates to know that i’m the type of guy that is going to do it the right way.” 
mcdaniel said he wouldn’t shy away from opportuni­ties to speak up to the team, even in difficult situations. 
“That’s something that comes naturally for me be­cause i don’t accept to lose,” mcdaniel said. “when i have the opportunity to take ownership of a situation, i like to think that i’m conta­gious sometimes. i want my work ethic to be contagious, my actions to be contagious. but if it’s not, you’ve got to be vocal about it sometimes.” 
day ascended to the cap­taincy quickly, making enough of a statement in his freshman and sophomore seasons to be named a cap­tain as a junior. 
day made eight starts last season despite nursing an­kle injuries and recorded a career-high seven tackles in the last home game of the season against byu. in 2012, his freshman season, he played in all 13 games and made 23 tackles. 
“i’m always trying to learn new things, trying to learn the big scope of things, so i know the entire defense instead of just my individ­ual position,” day said. “it’s about being committed and showing, no matter what your situation is, you have to help out.” 
Contact Samanatha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 






ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | The observer 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Gleason steps up to lead Irish 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
For two years, Quinn gleason has been one of notre dame’s best and brightest young stars. now, it falls to the junior from mendon, n.y., to lead a team filled with a crop of new, young, talented players. 
sophomores mary closs and monica robinson each earned significant play­ing time last season, and coach Jay louderback said he expects notre dame’s two newest recruits, brooke broda and allison miller, to contribute quickly. so, for gleason, the season is one of transition. she said she knows her role must go be­yond her play on the court and includes being an exam­ple to the younger players. 
“i’ve learned so much from being on the team for the past two years and a lot of that was because of leadership by upperclass­men,” gleason said. “so i’m hoping i can follow in their footsteps to help the newer players on our team get ac­climated to competing for a college team.” 
The irish are coming off an up-and-down season where they scrapped their way to an 18-10 (8-6 acc) record before going on a run to the sweet 16, in which they upset 15th-seeded northwestern. For her part, gleason went 21-10 in singles matches and ascended the national ranks from 87th to 39th. 
louderback said he was impressed with gleason’s ef­forts and thinks her progress only will continue. 
“she had a great year in singles and doubles,” louderback said. “she showed that she can play no. 1 for us, as she had some great wins, especially at north carolina and duke, over top­20, top-10 kinds of players. she’ll probably never have an easy match, but she can handle that. she has the ex­perience of doing well in a tough conference, getting a win at the ncaa individuals. i think this a year where she can get even better.” 
it will be a tough test, as the acc features eight teams that advanced to last year’s ncaa championship, in­cluding national runner-up north carolina. however, gleason said last year has helped prepare her for the difficulty of what is ahead, and she hopes to be able to use the fall season as an op­portunity to round into form for the spring. 
“This fall season, i’m just hoping to keep improving my game,” gleason said. “what i learned from last season is how important it is to be able to perform under pressure. i’m really looking forward to the tournaments this fall. The competition will be tough, so it will be good preparation for our spring season, and with one acc season under our belts, everyone’s coming back a little more confident and experienced.” 
That experience is what louderback is counting on the most. notre dame’s team will feature five fresh­man and sophomores, so louderback said gleason’s role on the team is of utmost importance. 
“The biggest thing is leadership. it’s something we really need after losing three seniors,” louderback said. “The experience of get­ting to the final 16 was re­ally good for this group. The young ones enjoyed it and want to get back, but it is re­ally important to have play­ers that have been around and can give young players leadership.” 
still, gleason said she re­alizes that ultimately it all comes down to how she per­forms on the court. she was named the midwest player to watch by the intercollegiate Tennis association in may. 

“This summer i really fo­cused on improving my serve and i’m hoping to still make improvements as the sea­son begins,” gleason said. “i want to add some more pow­er to my shots so that i can attack the net more aggres­sively. i have to be a leader off the court, but that starts with making sure i play well on it.” 
This fall should be a great proving ground for gleason and the irish. it is a time for improvement, team-build­ing and solidifying a line­up for the spring. gleason’s ability to progress and con­tinue to be successful will, by all accounts, make a huge difference in how successful the irish can be in the spring, louderback said. she says she is ready to take another step and be a leader, and her coach and team say they are eager to find out how far she can take them. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Klonsinski give-and-go with junior mid-teams ranked in the top 12 in fielder evan panken. panken, marquette and georgetown. 
conTinued From page 16 
for his part, had five tallies Forgive them, if they, being least twice as far as the sar-last year. senior forward up 2-0 going into the final dine-like badgers who lined vince cicciarelli chipped minutes of the first half of the up opposite them. in an assist as well monday final exhibition game of the 
The reigning national night and returns after fin-year, began to let their minds champions and current no. ishing as the third-leading wander and perhaps lost a 1 team in the land looked scorer for notre dame in 2013 little fire. the part even as they stood with six goals. clark woke them right back there: calm without much on the flip side of the up at halftime and the irish nervous movement among field, graduate student goal-were back to their old selves. them. keeper patrick wall blanked even the coach seemed al­
oh yeah, and then the wisconsin for the 60 minutes ready to be in midseason game started. he was on the field, looking form. 
leading up to kickoff, the just as sharp as last season anyone could tell the game conversation in the press box when he played every minute was one-sided when the centered on the debate of in net for the irish. in front irish wanted it to be. i will who would replace leading of him, graduate student de-not go as far as predicting a scorer harrison shipp, who fensemen luke mishu and repeat national champion-graduated last year. andrew o’malley helped ship; there are just too many 
ladies and gentlemen, ev-keep the badgers from even variables for that. however, ery other player who scored registering a shot until the after watching monday’s for the irish last season is 38th minute. game, although it was only back again and they ended Then, as irish coach bobby an exhibition match, the the preseason on a tear clark remarked after the irish definitely look like title monday night. game, the irish had a letdown contenders. after a couple 
That list includes junior from the 38th minute until ties against saint louis and midfielder patrick hodan, halftime, the only stretch bradley, one could have whose 11 goals last year were notre dame’s starting 11 did asked, “is notre dame ready good for second on the team, not dominate in their 60 min-to defend its title?” not so trailing only shipp’s 12. utes of play. however, after anymore. hodan chipped one over the halftime the team came out no, ladies and gentlemen, badger goalkeeper in the first fired up and put in two quick the irish are going to be quite half for his second goal of the goals, seizing back all the all right. exhibition season. graduate momentum they had let slip student forward leon brown away before the intermission. Contact Zach Klonsinski at tallied five goals last year people, forgive the irish if zklonsin@nd.edu and started this year’s count they were already thinking The views expressed in this with one only minutes into ahead to the season-opening column are those of the author the match. he also tossed tournament this weekend, and not necessarily those of in an assist on a beautiful where they will face two The Observer. 

M Soccer o’malley said. “it’s different conTinued From page 16 now that i have returning cap-paid adverTisemenT 

taincy. i don’t think it’s any 

Fortunately for the irish, more responsibility than it the team has multiple players was last year because [while] returning at key positions this the captaincy is the ‘leader’ of season, especially on defense, the team, … the team is very with five of the six starters self-motivated, and they do from last season coming back a lot of leading of their own to play. The lone exception, and in places you wouldn’t grant van de casteele, grad-really expect it. Freshmen uated and was drafted by the are leaders in their own way. colorado rapids of the mls. sophomores are leaders in 
The number of returning their own spots. starters, players, most of them un-bench players. everyone has derclassmen, is something their own role on the team, o’malley looks forward to and everyone leads in that working with. role.” 
“we’ve got a lot of really in particular, o’malley great young talent looking to pointed to senior defenders fill in this year, which is re-max lachowecki and luke ally exciting,” o’malley said. mishu as two players who “There’s actually a battle stepped up in the past year. between two sophomores he also said he realizes how to fill a spot, and i think the fortunate the irish are to have friendly competition has re-graduate student goalkeeper ally pushed the guys to prove patrick wall back between the themselves, and i think they posts for one more year. can do more than replace “he’s one of those guys what grant brought [to the that’s always striving to im­team].” prove,” o’malley said of wall. 
in addition to being at the “you see him always walking, head of what looks to be a [and] he’s got his little note-strong returning defense, book because he’s scouting o’malley also finds himself other teams. he’s finding out in the position of being the what other peoples’ tenden­only returning captain on the cies are and what his own ten-team. however, when asked dencies are. it’s just exciting whether that requires him to to see all of the guys finding take on an even bigger role on ways to improve themselves, the team, he instead said he and they’re all hungry to get expected other team mem-more.” bers to emerge as leaders in their own right. Contact Mike Ginocchio at 
“i get that question a lot,” mginocch@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | The observer 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you will know instinctively when to step up and do what needs to be done. you will fight for your beliefs until you are satisfied with the results. do your best to protect against illness and injury. Take time out to regenerate and realign your strategy in order to reach your goals with the least amount of stress and interference. your numbers are 9, 16, 20, 28, 33, 41, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take a good look at your career path. a practical change of plans will help you boost your confidence and your reputation. an opportunity to network will play in your favor. prioritize love and romance. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what makes you happy. get involved in an event or attend a trade show or conference, and you will expand your knowledge and get some worthwhile information that will help you make an important decision. progressive action will pay off. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be careful when it comes to making promises. if you aren’t going to be able to follow through, you will jeopardize your reputation. honesty will be a factor when dealing with someone who wants something from you. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): bide your time and make practical plans that you are confident will work out well for you. use your imagination and creative insight to capture interest. don’t feel you have to make an impulsive move because someone puts pressure on you. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): being adaptable and willing to compromise will help you win favors and get your way in the end. working hard to satisfy everyone around you will pay off. step up your game and do whatever it takes to get ahead professionally. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): efficiency will be your strength and will help ensure that you accomplish what you set out to do while giving others a chance to see you in action. you can expect to be offered interesting proposals that will lead to future gains. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your genuine desire to help and to make a difference to your community, a cause or a friend will add to your popularity. a change in your current status or within an important relationship must be allowed to unfold naturally. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): express your thoughts and desires openly. once you let others know what you want, you will be able to separate those willing to help from those who are not in a position to do so. problems will result if you make a drastic personal change. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep life simple, truthful and positive. an optimistic approach to change followed by hands-on hard work will help you bring about a happier and healthier lifestyle. romance is on the rise. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t be daunted by the changes going on around you or by what others do. Focus on your life and the things that will bring you greater security. money, legal and medical issues dealt with tenaciously will turn out favorably. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take advantage of opportunities that come your way. Focus on personal improvements, love, romance and making professional decisions that will help you reach your financial goals. don’t let a partnership hold you back or stifle your imagination. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): self-deception can lead you down a slippery path. look at whatever you are dealing with realistically. you can make progress, but only if your vision is clear. Try to make the best choices for the right reasons. 

Birthday Baby: you are practical, dedicated and insightful. you are aggressive, determined and concerned. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
IMGOZ  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
AETBA  

 
 
 
 
 

GNIJEL  

 
 
 
 
 
 

SCYOKT  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Ans:  
Yesterday’s  (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TWICE REBEL DREDGE FLYING Answer: When Lou Ferrigno found out he’d be playing theHulk on TV, he thought it was this — INCREDIBLE  


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Edited by Will Shortz 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

PUZZLE BY ERiK WENNSTROM 
38 “Musetta’s 49 CBS drama Waltz” opera featuring LL Cool J 
39 Scooter ___, Plame affair 50 Puts the pedal figure to the metal 
41 Poem in which 54 Symbol of Paris plays a the National 

prominent part 
Audubon 44 Handmade Society 47 Applies 56 Loud, as a color 48 A.L. East athlete 57 Plant holder? 
ACROSS 1 “I didn’t know I was speeding, officer,” e.g. 4 Cover sheet abbr. 
8 Hire 14 A mean Amin 15 Tropical 
food that is poisonous if eaten raw 
16 Kind of solution 17 Pince-___ 18 Girl’s floral 
name 19 ___ Hollywood 20 “Charlotte’s 
Web” actress on a hot day? 23 Like some pickings 
24 Number of weeks in Julius Caesar’s year? 
25 Pickled veggie 28 “A Brief History of Time” author 
doing sales? 33 “Shucks” 34 DVR brand 
35 With 45-Across, conger, e.g. 
36 Like some consonants 
40 Scarce 
42 Bond girl Green of “Casino Royale” 
43 Attorney General Holder 
45 See 35-Across 
46 “Porphyria’s Lover” poet with a pan of ground beef on the stove? 
51 One of the two characters in Dr. Seuss’ “Fox in Socks” 
52 Limbo need 
53 Take ___ from 
55 “Tom Jones” novelist playing baseball? 
60 Most music is played in it 
62 One-volume works of Shakespeare, e.g. 
63 Ukr., until 1991, e.g. 64 “Same here!” 65 Pollster Roper 66 Not shoot straight 67 Neglects to 68 Official with a list 69 J.D. holder 
DOWN 1 Comes across 2 10s, say 3 Rock’s Limp ___ 4 In a shouting 
match, perhaps 5 Skater Lipinski 6 Little nothing 7 One who’s 
morally flawed 8 “Pardon the Interruption” network 9 Country that’s over 50% 
desert 10 Max of physics 11 Person who 
has a way with words? 12 You, generically 13 “Better ___ …” 21 ___-3 fatty acid 22 Nothing 26 Bender? 27 “Holy moly!” 29 Dwindle, with “out” 
30 Symbol after “I” on many a bumper sticker 
31 “___ to a Kill” 32 Sign on a door 36 Corner office, 
e.g. 37 Sweet Swan of ___ (epithet for Shakespeare) 






58 Literary matchmaker 
59 Kings of ___ (“Use Somebody” band) 
60 ___ the Kid (N.H.L. nickname) 
61 Eastern principle 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

8/22/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Donning the ‘C’ 
Newly-named captains discuss what they will bring to role, expectations for season 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
There aren’t a lot of letters on a notre dame football jersey — no player names, just “nd.” 
Four players now get to add a “c.” graduate student safety austin collinsworth, junior defensive lineman sheldon day, senior center nick martin and senior run­ning back cam mcdaniel were named captains for the upcoming football season. 
“it’s a great honor to be able to wear the ‘c’ on saturdays and be recognized by your teammates and your coach,” collinsworth said. 
collinsworth recorded a career-high 43 tackles and three interceptions last season as a senior, his first season as a starter. he saw action in every game of his freshman and sophomore seasons but missed his en­tire junior season with a shoulder injury. 
“it’s a young group, but also it’s a new defense, so i have to be on point at all times and make sure every­one’s in line because it’s new to everybody,” collinsworth said. 
martin’s older brother and former offensive tackle Zack martin served as a captain in 2012 and 2013. The martins are the second pair of broth­ers to captain the irish, join­ing bob golic (1978) and mike golic sr. (1984). 
“[Zack] knew,” nick martin said. “he texted me, and then i called him once i was done with everything, watching film and whatnot. … it was a good phone call. it was special.” 
Zack martin used the mo­ment to give his younger brother some advice. 
“[he told me] do your thing,” nick martin said. “you’ve got to be consistent, know when to step up and lead, know when to just lead by example. and he was just proud of me. you could just hear it in his voice.” 
see FooTball PAGE 12 


MEN’S SOCCER 
Team prepares to defend national title 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 


Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer sports writer 
on dec. 15 of last year, for the first time in school his-

as i watched no. 1 notre tory, the notre dame men’s 
dame take on wisconsin in its soccer team captured the 
final exhibition game monday, ncaa championship with a 
one thing became clear to me: 2-1 victory over maryland. as 
the irish were a lot bigger than classes have just begun and 
the badgers. it was clearly the preseason is at its conclu­
noticeable even from my seat sion, the no. 1 irish aim to do 
high above alumni stadium. it again. 
i turned to the team manager and if you take the word of 
filming the game next to me returning graduate student 
and pointed it out, just to defender and team captain 
make sure i was not seeing andrew o’malley, the man 
things. who scored the game-win­
“wow,” she said after a sec­ning goal against maryland, 
ond. “yeah, they really are, it’s just business as usual in 
aren’t they?” south bend. 
looking out at midfield, “i think, to be honest, we’re 
the badger players seemed trying to keep a lot of things 
small in all respects. not similar,” o’malley said. “Just 
only did the irish tower over because last season was so 
them height-wise, but the good, and the kind of things 
notre dame players were you want to do are the kind 
broader-shouldered too, with of things we did last year, 
their new white home under without trying to replicate 
armour jerseys showing off too much of last year because 
muscles that made me jealous we’re trying to create our 
high in the box. own identity this year. we’re 
heck, they even stood far-trying to make sure that 
ther apart at midfield during complacency doesn’t creep 
player introductions and the in as a team.” COLBY HOYER | The Observer national anthem, stretching at 
Irish graduate student defender Andrew O’Malley chases the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-0 victory over see m soccer PAGE 14 Michigan on Sept. 17 at Alumni Stadium. see KlonsinsKi PAGE 14 




