The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 26 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students march for sexual assault survivors 
Game day silent protest raises awareness for sexual assault on local college campuses 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
on saturday afternoon, approximately 50 students participated in a silent march to raise awareness for survivors of sexual assault on college campuses, fol­lowing the path of the notre dame marching band as it marched across campus to­ward notre dame stadium before the football game against massachusetts. 
organizer madeline lay, a junior at saint mary’s, said the march was also meant to show solidarity with all those who have been im­pacted by sexual assault. 
“it wasn’t meant to be an­tagonistic,” she said. “we just wanted to take this in a positive direction, because we feel like a lot of times pro­tests or marches or whatever 
— they’re very angry and vi­cious and they’re directed toward the perpetrators. in this case, we wanted it to be about the people trying to change things. we wanted this to be supportive and 
see march PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Gaju Gatera 

Fifty students participated in a silent march Saturday before the football game against Massachusetts to display solidarity for those affected by sexual assault. 


smc announces first-year election results 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
last week, saint mary’s student government association (sga) an­nounced the results of the first-year student govern­ment elections. sofia scott and sophia Johnson won the positions of president and vice president of the class of 2019, and Jordan myers and annie gregory were elected class senators. 

scott said she has been part of various student governments for six years and enjoys being a leader among her classmates. she chose to run for the posi­tion of president because she wants to have a voice to make a difference in her class, she said. 
“i wanted our class to not just be another class who graduates from saint mary’s, but one who is re­membered for what we have done,” scott said. “i am most excited about being able to lead and represent our class at such a special place.” 
scott’s goals for the year include bringing a color run to campus, implementing green initiatives and rais­ing money for the 
see elecTions PAGE 7 




NDSP reports theft near lake 
Observer Staff Report 
a male student was robbed on the path around st. Joseph’s lake in the early hours of sept. 27, notre dame security police (ndsp) an­nounced in a crime alert email sent to students sunday morning. 
The student was on the path near the power plant at around 1:50 a.m. when he was approached by “a person or persons,” who then took his cell phone out of his hands and pushed him down, the email said. 
no injuries were reported in the email, and no description of the suspect or suspects was provided. 
“community members are encouraged to travel in groups or contact o’snap for a safety escort at (574)-631­5555 or via the nd mobile app Transit icon,” the email said. 


EPA representative lectures on climate change 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Just days after pope Francis’s arrival in the u.s. and address to the nation’s leaders, environmental protection agency (epa) ad­ministrator gina mccarthy spoke on campus Friday af­ternoon to both students and the press, discussing climate change and notre dame’s recently announced efforts to reduce its carbon footprint and integrate a va­riety of sustainable energy sources. 
in the next five years, the university will cease burn­ing coal in its campus power plant, and by 2030 it plans to halve its carbon emissions, university president Fr. John Jenkins said last week. 
at Friday’s press confer­ence, mccarthy quoted Francis’s words earlier in the week and stressed the importance of the nation getting behind efforts to pre­vent further climate change. 
“on  wednesday,  dur­ 
ing  remarks  at the  white  
house,  the  holy  Father  

pope Francis said, ‘when it comes to the care of our common home, we are living at a critical moment in his­tory,’” she said. “indeed the pope, president obama and countless other world lead­ers have made it clear that the time to action climate change is now, and that all of us — whether in the public, private, academic or faith-based communities — have a role to play in addressing this global challenge for the sake of our kids and espe­cially for those most vulner­able. That’s why we must act today. 
“and i have to say, the 
see climaTe PAGE 6 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 irish insider WITHIN 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite outdoor activity? 

JP Bruno 
sophomore 
Zahm house 

“going whale watching with my friend ryan.” 
John Sexton 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“golf.” 
Brandon Aubrey 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“play sports.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Emily Gust 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“i really like to go camping and mountain climbing.” 
Pierre Byrne 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“spikeball.” 
Jenn Blum 
junior 
walsh hall 
“skiing in steamboat, colorado.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

selena ponio rachel o’grady alex winegar 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lucy du matt munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

Germany’s Climate Investing Dirty Book Sale Team Time for the ND Volleyball 
emily Kruse claire radler 

Confrontation with Conference Keynote Stepan Center Arts Joyce Center the Holocaust 115 McKenna Hall 9:30 a.m.-4 p.m. Morris Inn 7 p.m.-9 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Annual sale of dusty 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. The Irish take on the 
Corrections 

4:30p.m.-6 p.m. Environmentalist Paul or slightly damaged First fundraiser for Eagles at home. 
The observer regards itself as Opening reception. Hawken will speak. books. NDCAC. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Integral Ecology Workshop: Getting Reading Artful Yoga Movie Night 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Started in Research Hammes Bookstore Snite Museum of Art Coleman-Morse 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. Brownson Hall 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 4 p.m.- 5 p.m. Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Lecture series 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Authors Valerie Sayers Relax with yoga in the 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
discussing Pope Learn research and Liam Callanan will O’Shaughnessy West Free screening of the 
we can correct our error. 

Francis and the planet. strategies. be in attendance. Gallery. movie “Rudy.” 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

Panel dialogues Pope’s encyclical over climate 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
before notre dame took on massachussetts on saturday, a panel composed of notre dame faculty convened in Jordan hall of science to discuss “science, religion and environmental change: how it relates to the encycli­cal the pope has issued.” 
panel moderator mary galvin, dean of the college of science, said the discus­sion is particularly timely given that pope Francis has been speaking about his en­cyclical, "laudato si’" and the moral obligation to solve the issue of climate change during his visit to the united states. 
“pope Francis in a state­ment said ‘climate change is a problem that can no lon­ger be left to future genera­tions,’” galvin said. “‘when it comes to the care of our common home, we are living at a critical moment.’” 
The first panelist, david lodge, professor of biol­ogy and director of the notre dame environmental change initiative, began the panel by giving some histor­ical context. 
“at the intersection of sci­ence and religion, you can’t just jump into any modern document and think that it can be taken entirely at face value,” he said. “you want to think about how the sci­entific community … might react to such a document. The history of the interac­tion between christianity and science has been, to say the least, a little fraught on occasion.” 
lodge spoke specifically of the conflicts between galileo, darwinism and en­vironmentalism and the church. he said these are three examples “on which it’s difficult to even enter­tain a serious, polite conver­sation sometimes” between the church and the scientif­ic community. 
“At the intersection of science and religion, you can’t just jump into any modern document and think that it can be taken entirely at face value.” 
David Lodge 
professor 
biology 
“and into that context steps pope Francis,” lodge said. “and pope Francis and the encyclical really pro­vide some just wonderfully refreshing surprises in this context. … pope Francis takes science really seriously … so scientists can read this document and feel perhaps pleasantly surprised given the context i described.” 
lodge also said Francis writes in the encyclical that environmental change should be a moral concern for humans everywhere, not just those who are directly affected by it at this moment in time or those who place an intrinsic value on the lives of other creatures. 
“in the encycli­cal pope Francis says ‘interdependence obliges us to think of one world with a common path,’” lodge said. “god does not only love us, the pope says, he loves all the other critters, too, and that’s the basis of the moral obligation.” 
panelist georges enderle, professor of international business ethics said peo­ple need to accept climate change is a problem in the world today. 
“i think it is very crucial to open our eyes and face real­ity,” he said. “This is not just the opinion of a few people studying philosophy, but i think it’s an urgent need which is emphasized by the pope in this encyclical.” 
“climate change is an enormously complex and ur­gent problem,” enderle said. “we need new dialogue, and the pope, in his address to the joint session and to congress … urges us to talk together, to seek together and to have a dialogue, be­cause only then will we have a chance to address those important issues. we need action at all levels. The rule of law in a country is a pub­lic good, which means ev­erybody benefits from it, and a war is a public bad. everybody is affected by it. 
see encyclical PAGE 7 

professor links posterity, sustainability and arts 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
John sitter, mary lee duda pro­fessor of literature, discussed the relationship between sustain­ability, posterity and liberal arts in his lecture saturday, “what’s posterity ever done for us?: 
literature and the Future.” 
sitter’s lecture, part of the snite museum of art’s “saturday scholars series,” highlighted spe­cifically how the liberal arts can help us understand the role of sustainability, and how sustain­ability in turn, allows us to un­derstand our place in the world and the responsibility we have towards future generations or “posterity”. 
“sustainability is about trans­mission of things of value to fu­ture generations,” sitter said. “ ... it invokes the idea of meeting the needs of the present without com­promising the ability of future generations to meet theirs.” 
sitter discussed how poster­ity and the emphasis society places on it are indicative of our relationship to our environment and reveal our attitudes toward sustainability. 
posterity, defined as the fu­ture generations or descendant of mankind, was emphasized by historical figures such as the founding fathers and was used as a measure to discuss the im­pact of our actions in a historical context. sitter said discussion and concern towards poster­ity has decreased since the latter half of the 20th century, and so­ciety places a lesser importance on posterity than previous gen­erations. additionally, sitter said authors attribute this change in perspective to the rapid and abrupt changes and advance­ments in society and technology since post-war expansion. 
“we need to learn to talk seri­ously about posterity, and that to do so, we begin to bring some of the most basic facts about our species into light of robust con­versation,” sitter said. 
sitter also discussed the role of sustainability, and how sustain­ability and the liberal arts are interconnected. he said while liberal arts and humanities do not initially appear to have any relationship to the study of sus­tainability and ecology, liberal arts can allow us to understand humanity’s interaction with our environment. 
sitter said the traditional dis­tinction between the liberal arts and the sciences implies there is still a distinction between man-made creations and the natural world, when in fact this distinc­tion no longer exists. 
“The blurring or interpenetra­tion of scientific and humanis­tic study now leads, whether we want to or not, to new ways of understanding where we are, ” sitter said. 
sustainability studies, like the liberal arts, generally aims at a deeper understanding of our­selves in our world, sitter said. 
sitter said literature remains an example of how the humanities can expand the conversation on sustainability. The prominence of post-apocalyptic and dystopi­an science fiction for example, is one of the ways writers examine our current relationship towards the natural environment, and how they can predict and bring to the surface the problems and practices that society proliferates on the natural world, he said. 
“literature alone cannot re­lease us from our temporal claustrophobia, but it has done and what it can do is give us an engagement with the future that has less to do with its explicit content and more to do with its investment in sustainability, through its resistance to mere consumption and consumerism, its resistance to the marketplace of disposability,” sitter said. 
according to sitter, humanities are also instrumental in contem­plating why we value our envi­ronment and our relationship toward it. sitter emphasized the need to include our relationship and treatment of the environ­ment within ethics. 
“an ethical system for our day has to be able to take into account the natural environment as seri­ously as traditional ethics have taken our relationship to each other,” sitter said. “sustainability is not just about getting the sci­ence right or the technology right. it’s about meanings and values." 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 




The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SMC student shares effects of bullying 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
This week’s installment of Justice Friday at saint mary’s focused on the issues of bul­lying and highlighted ways to identify and respond to bullying 
The discussion was hosted by junior Katie dwyer. she centered her discussion on defining modern bullying and showing that it affects stu­dents of all ages. 
dwyer said, in general, bul­lying can be defined as a form of aggressive behavior in which someone intentionally and repeatedly causes another person injury or discomfort. 
she said there are several categories and subcategories of bullying such as physical, verbal, unspoken, passive ag­gressive and cyberbullying. 
dwyer said, from her per­spective, cyberbullying is the modern form of bullying. 
“it has such an impact on today’s society, especially in this country. … it can involve hurtful messages, posts, and videos,” dwyer said. “hacking accounts, imitating others or pretending to be the person you’re bullying, gossiping or online exclusion are all forms of online bullying.” 
dwyer said there is potential that there is overlap in teens that have been bullied online and have bullied others. 
“over half of teens have been bullied online, and about the same number have been the perpetrators of cyberbullying.” 
dwyer addressed some of the negative effects of bullying. 
“one in 10 high school drop­outs say they left school be­cause of bullying. … bullying victims are at increased risk for depression, anxiety, sleep problems and poor school ad­justment. … bullying perpe­trators are at increased risk for violent behavior, substance abuse and academic prob­lems,” she said. 
Furthermore, bullying and harassment has been linked to almost 75 percent of school shootings, dwyer said. 
dwyer said more than half of all bullying situations stop when another peer intervenes. she said school-based bullying prevention programs decrease bullying by up to 25 percent. 
“we need to put emphasis on people seeking out a trusted adult and determining if the behavior falls outside of the student code of conduct or the state laws.” 
dwyer mentioned how im­portant it is for saint mary’s women to support one another. 
“why would we bring each other down when we should be trying to stick together?” she said 
dwyer invited audience members to ask questions and contribute to a dialogue about bulling. sophomore morgan matthews shared her thoughts on women bullying women. 
“with women, it’s mostly passive aggressive confronta­tion, even if you say something to somebody because they’re bullying you. They never let go, women always have [the confrontation] in the back of their mind,” matthews said. 
dwyer ended the discussion by offering support to any vic­tims of bullying. 
“[bullies] were wrong. when you feel like you’re infe­rior, you’re really not, you are equal to your peers,” she said. “nobody is below you but no­body is above you either. That is something that you grow up to realize. you have to make it there to realize that … there is more to life than being the victim of bullying. There are brighter days to come. “ The Justice Fridays discus-the student center. 



dwyer shared the phone sions take place every Friday number of the suicide preven-from 12 to 12:50 p.m. in Contact Allison Sanchez at tion lifeline, 1-800-273-8255. conference room a and b of asanch01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

conference focuses on carbon energy reduction 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
on Tuesday, the mendoza college of business will host various companies and speakers at mcKenna hall for a conference titled, “climate investing: Transition to a low-carbon world.” 
leo burke, director of the global commons initiative at mendoza and director of the conference, said he hopes to discuss the invest­ing opportunities in greener technologies and the im­pact those investments can make. 
“of all the energy pro­duced today, 85 percent is coming from fossil fuels,” burke said. “we need to sig­nificantly slow that down or make a change. in order to do that, we need to invest money: invest money in re­newable technologies, invest money in microgrids, invest money in new infractures of all kinds ... it all takes mon­ey. This impact investing is an important tool or an im­portant approach we can use to make that transition.” 
The conference will take place all day Tuesday and wednesday with an opening 
March 
conTinued From page 1 
make this a positive thing.” 
participants in the march wore white bandanas over their mouths to symbolize and honor the voiceless vic­tims of sexual assault, lay said, and carried signs with information and statistics about sexual assault on col­lege campuses. 
“we really wanted to prayer from university president Fr. John Jenkins. The panels will discuss “climate and carbon,” “investment perspectives,” “industry policy and perspectives,” “global perspectives” and “new opportunities and a new generation,” as well as key­note addresses. 
burke said he received massive support and influ­
“The Pope’s encyclical gave a wind in the back, so to speak, for the conference and his visit to the United States ... reemphasizing the need for caring for the earth.” 
Leo Burke 
conference director 
ence for this conference from his interactions with panelists and the vatican recently discussing environ­mental issues. 
“it was very much [an in­spiration],” burke said. “The pope’s encyclical gave a wind 
encourage people in the com­munity to stand up for these individuals, for the survi­vors, for the allies and just for people who are passionate about this and for people who are making strides already at their universities, wheth­er it be for policy change or through other groups,” she said. 
The majority of the re­sponses to the march were positive, lay said. 
“it was really incredible 

paid adverTisemenT 

in the back, so to speak, for the conference and his visit to the united states ... reem­phasizing the need for car­ing for the earth. all of this makes this time for the con­ference very timely.” 
vince cushing, chief technology officer (cTo) of the conference’s largest sponsor, energy company Qcoefficient, said he wants the conference to go beyond discussion and incite action. 
“i know a lot of people with a lot of good opinions and good policies,” cushing said. “but when it comes to [people] executing and doing things, i don’t re­ally have a really long list. so i thought this would be a great opportunity to see people from notre dame accomplish something, not just talk about it. 
“politicians talk about [the environment] all the time and everybody talks about how it’s important to clean up the environment, even the pope does that. what we’re short on is people who turn that around, execute on that and accomplish some­thing, not letting the rest of our lives be worse off.” 
speaker Joyce coffee, managing director of the nd-gain project, another co-sponsor of the confer­ence, said the conference will raise awareness to the 
“No conference is going to be the end-all-be-all by itself. This conference is a stone in a wall that contains other stones that enable something that could be erected. I have great faith that when talented people come together...with the wish to make change that something new can happen.” 
Leo Burke 
conference director 
climate-investing oppor­tunities in assisting those most susceptible the harm­ful effects of climate change “our data shows that 
people in rural countries are at least ten times more like­ly to experience an climate change impact than those in wealthy countries at any giv­en year,” coffee said. “The new innovative place for cli­mate investing is adaptation. Those companies that seek out these opportunities have amazing collateral benefits, bringing people out of pov­erty, ... decreasing the bot­tom line, decreasing global conflict. all of these are en­hanced by investments that should be furthered by the corporations sponsoring the conference.” 
burke said his greatest hope for this conference is that it will be a part of last­ing change. 
“no conference is going to be the end-all-be-all by it­self,” burke said. “This con­ference is a stone in a wall that contains other stones that enable something that could be erected. i have great faith that when tal­ented people come together ... with the wish to make change that something new can happen.” 
Contact Alex Cao at  acao@nd.edu 
up of students from saint mary’s, holy cross, notre dame, iusb [and] members of the community.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
because i’ve been working on this for months — all of us have. it was kind of amazing to finally see it come to frui­tion. … people were clapping and they were saying ‘Keep doing what you’re doing, nev­er stop fighting,’” she said. “people were really support­ive, and it was incredible, actually.” 
lay said she believes the march achieved its goal of bringing awareness to the is­sue of sexual assault. 
“when we finally stood in front of the stadium and we were looking out facing the library, you could just see people holding their thumbs up,” she said. “as we were marching, people were read­ing the signs and you could hear the shock in their voice, like ‘oh my god, how did i not know this?’ … i think it’s going to start a lot of conver­sations, and that was kind of the point of it.” 
The march was the first event sponsored by the or­ganization i’m someone, lay said. 
“[The organization] was started by six individuals who were really passionate about this cause because we live in this environment,” she said. “This was one thing we all agreed on, that we felt passionate about stopping. we really want to put an end to it, and we felt like the best way to do that was to really get out there and talk about it. 
i’m someone is not affiliated with notre dame or saint mary’s, lay said. 
“we really wanted to make it not about any particular school. … we’re not affili­ated with any club, college or university, and we are made 





Climate 
conTinued From page 1 
pope’s time in washington was indeed personal for me, not just as a catholic but as someone who has been in the fight against climate change for many years. 
“his trip reaffirmed the tide really has turned … that we’re past the old days of debating the science and making in­cremental progress, and right now we do have solutions available to us so that we can take actions now that are not just good at addressing cli­mate but that are also good for our economy and those most vulnerable,” she said. 
mccarthy described notre dame’s plans for the integra­tion of sustainable energy and reduction of carbon emissions as “an opportunity to demon­strate what the pope’s moral responsibility actually looks like.” 
“The steps we are taking here today at nd are some­thing that i want to make sure everybody knows and is cel­ebrating, because they are a tremendous example of bring­ing life to the pope’s chal­lenge; of recognizing that we have a moral responsibility and we do have actions that we can and must take today,” she said. “i want to explain to everybody just how excited i am to be on this campus, un­der this president’s leadership and actually tackling this is­sue in a way that’s going to add value to the campus, but per­haps more importantly bring life to the intersect of faith and values that the challenge of climate change demands. 
“That is really so well aligned with the message of this pope. and i commend the university of nd for setting ambitious goals and efforts in taking action already to re­duce their carbon footprint, which they expect to halve by 2030. That is what leadership and that is what stewardship actually looks like,” she said. 
executive vice president John affleck-graves also spoke, detailing further what the university hopes and plans to do in the coming years in regards to renewable energy. 
as the university works through its coal cessation plan, he said, it has explored and is currently working on a number of other energy strategies. 
“at the moment, we’re us­ing a lot of natural gas, we’re looking at creating our first geothermal field set to go in after next June as we complete the research building on the east side of campus,” he said. “we’re going to have a geother­mal field under the parking area there, and we’re looking at other geothermal fields in several places on campus.” 
in addition to geothermal energy, affleck-graves said notre dame is investigating other avenues to create a more “diversified strategy.” 
“[we’re] moving more and more towards renewable ener­gy, so we arrive at a situation where most of our energy will come from renewable sourc­es,” he said. “ ... we’re looking at a hydroelectric plant on the river. we’re working with the city of south bend, and that’s in the planning and approval stages. There’s a lot of regula­tion that goes around that. 
“we’re also looking at solar, particularly in some of the parking fields that we have, where we have large open areas that we can maybe put solar on top of parking struc­tures, and maybe a little bit of solar on top of roofs.” 
when asked about the cost of moving from traditional sources of energy to renew­able sources, affleck-graves said he did not foresee that being a large issue for the university. The cost of invest­ing in things like a geother­mal field would be high, he said, but after the field goes in there would no longer be installation costs associated with it. 
“i wouldn’t say it’s new money, it’s an element of new money but also the redirec­tion of money. … instead of a new coal fire burner, we’ll invest in another alternative source,” he said. 
mccarthy said because climate change is a reality now, action needs to be taken immediately to protect the disadvantaged and future generations. 
“it’s not just about the chal­lenge of keeping our children safe in the future, but it is all about protecting them today, protecting the most vulnera­ble and making sure we meet the president’s call for us to take action and meet that moral responsibility,” she said. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mynds@nd.edu 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | The observer 



the community as a whole,” in student government dur-cooperation and problem-gregory also participated Elections scott said. ing my high school career,” solving from high school stu-in student government in 
conTinued From page 1 
vice president Johnson Johnson said. “sometimes it high school and is excited to 
said she looks forward to is better to take a step back be part of the decision mak­
class’ senior week, she 
and offer new insight into a 
ing process at the college, 
said. scott and Johnson have situation.” she said. along with creating 
been brainstorming about newly elected class senator unity in the first-year class, 
numerous 
ideas and look myers also plans to keep the gregory also intends to uni-
forward to getting started, entire class informed about fy clubs across campus, she 


student government issues said. 


as well as increase involve­“since i am assuming a leadership role within the 

dent government to achieve [first-year] class, i think it 
these goals, she said. is crucial that i get to know 
“i intend to use the les-all of my fellow classmates,” 
sons of governmental in-gregory said. “This year i 
tegrity to find a voice for hope to create friendships 
students,” myers said, “as the with all of my classmates so 
class of 2019 senators, anne they feel comfortable com-working alongside scott as 
they lead their class through 
the first year at saint mary’s. 
specifically, one of her main 
goals is to focus on hearing 

she said. everyone’s voice, she said. 
“i am excited to imple­ment our ideas and see a tangible difference that sophia and i can make not only in our class, but also in 
“it is extremely important to me that everyone gets a chance to give input about their ideas, a lesson i learned in the time i was involved ment in campus events, she said. she intends to incor­porate lessons of leadership, [gregory] and i would really like reaching out to the stu­dent body to allow the stu­dents to also have an active role in student government.” 
ing to me with concerns and ideas.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Encyclical 
conTinued From page 3 
and so, if you say … the climate issue is a public bad, we have to think about how to address it.” 
The third panelist, Joyce coffee, managing direc­tor of notre dame global adaptation index (nd-gain), said she believes through his encyclical, the pope has made the issue of climate change a human rights issue that is not just for americans to think about in terms of how it affects first-world countries such as the united states. 
“The pope has really put the 
question of climate change  those in rich countries on an  
firmly and unequivocally  as  annual basis. our data also  
a human rights question,” she  showed that it would take  
said. “Those living in lower  more than 100 years for low­ 

“The Pope has really put the question of climate chang firmly and unequivocally as a human rights question. Those living in lower incomes in least-developed countries experience 10 times more climate impacts than those in rich countries on an annual basis.” 
Joyce Coffee 
managing director 
Notre Dame Global Adaption Index 
incomes in least-developed er income countries to reach countries experience 10 times the level of resilience that more climate impacts than we enjoy in upper-income 
paid adverTisemenT 


countries, and this dispro­portionate risk is something the papal encyclical calls out.” 
coffee also spoke to nd­gain’s mission, saying the organization’s mission of service to justice, educating the next generation of lead­ers and increasing the world’s awareness about the need to adapt to climate change, lines up with pope Francis’s call to action in his encyclical. 
“we believe that if we can increase the uptick of invest­ments that save lives and im­prove livelihoods in the face of global shifts, we will in fact be addressing that incredible call to action that is through­out the papal encyclical,” coffee said. “we will actu­ally be seizing opportunities for these collateral benefits of climate adaptation … the pope spoke to. … climate adaptation lifts more out of poverty. … climate adapta­tion can help decrease armed conflict, especially when that conflict is driven by droughts and food insecurity.” 
alan hamlet, assistant professor in the department of civil environmental engi­neering and earth sciences, said the encyclical makes the need to address water as a part of this discussion clear. 
“almost everything that we care about, in a global context right down to our daily lives, is very connected with water,” he said. “The encyclical does an absolutely great job of lay­ing down the connections between social, technical, economic and so forth, all of those systems. and embed­ded in almost all of those is­sues is water.” 
hamlet said the world needs to move away from looking to past water trends to predict future ones and to move past the damage report into solutions. 
“There’s a great need, in the water sector, to move beyond the use of historical records for our planning,” hamlet said. “we assume that the variability we’ve seen in the past with historical records is a crystal ball of sorts for the future. with climate change, that idea is really gone and we need to use models instead of observations. … we also need to move beyond the damage report. … it is an extensive, formidable list, but we need now to move beyond saying what is going to break to say­ing how we are going to try to fix it.” 
despite the panelists’ praise of pope Francis’s encyclical for addressing many critical issues, they also voiced con­cerns about certain aspects, such as its specificity to which it did not address other topics that they felt should be mentioned. 
during her introduction, galvin said notre dame is al­ready taking necessary steps to meet the challenge pre­sented in the papal encyclical. 
“This is a critical time which will require all of us to act,” she said. “at notre dame, Fr. John Jenkins announced this week, on monday, that notre dame will cease burning coal in five years and cut co2 emissions in half by 2030.” 
The panelists also spoke about the unique role notre dame may play as a catholic university in carrying out the mission presented by pope Francis in his encyclical. 
“i came upon the line [in the encyclical] that said, ‘young people demand change,’” coffee said. “‘They wonder how anyone can claim to be building a better future without thinking of the en­vironment degradation and suffering of the excluded.’ i thought that sounds so much like the mission statement here. … i think that we have a real opportunity here to further that quest for human solidarity within the curric­ulum, action and work that happens at our university that impact society, to really bring more service to justice through the university’s ef­forts to educate the next gen­eration of leaders.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 


The observer |  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

let kids be kids 
Alex Winegar 
news writer 

For one of my psychology classes this se­mester, i have the opportunity to spend time in the early childhood development center (ecdc) on campus. For the class, we are re­quired to spend 75 minutes in a classroom once a week to observe a child of our choice and write a case study at the end of the term. 
being in the ecdc has been an eye-opening experience. while i have observed my chosen buddy’s behavior, i have realized some of the greatest things about being four years old again. 
The other day i sat at the coloring table, picked up a whale stencil, grabbed a fresh crayola marker and traced it. Then i asked one of my little friends to help me decorate it. we had so much fun adding polka dots and a smile to the whale that i traced another whale, then another and another. The stress about an upcoming exam and the 60 pages of reading i had to do that night melted away with each whale. The only worry i had was that i wouldn’t be able to finish coloring be­cause my 75 minutes were almost up. 
youngsters also get to take naps, read the books they want to read and, most impor­tantly, be naïve. 
The innocence of childhood is becoming a thing of the past. Kids are getting cell phones at younger and younger ages and pushing legos aside for ipad apps. 
Kids need to be kids for a long enough time to allow their brains to develop properly. i understand it is convenient to put an ipad in front of your child but staring at a screen isn’t letting their imagination flow and doesn’t help their decision-making skills. 
because kids have access to technology at younger ages, children are able to find things on the internet that are too mature for them, which destroys their innocence. if today’s youth didn’t have as much permission to use the internet, i honestly believe there would be less acting out, underage drinking, etc. 
sometimes i want to go back to being obliv­ious to the world and the negative news you hear as soon as you walk through the door of adulthood, but i know that’s not possible. i want to believe in santa claus again and not know what the latest terrorist act is. 
so here is my challenge: let kids be kids. limit their usage of technology and have them spend more time outside and play with simple toys like blocks, trucks and stencils. if kids ask about current events or mature topics, parents should be honest but gentle. communicate with them at a level they un­derstand. preserve their innocence and enjoy it before the angst of teenaged years hit. 
Contact Alex Winegar at                           awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Francis frenzy 
Fr. Joe Corpora 
guest column 

ever since i learned pope Francis would make an apostolic journey to the united states, i set a goal to meet him. i didn’t care what city — d.c., new york or philadelphia. i just wanted to meet him. 
months ago, i began contacting friends who might be able to help me get a ticket to one of the events. a priest i know was in charge of the mass at madison square garden in new york city. i told him i would begin practicing to be the lectern, if necessary, and i could meet the pope when he preached from the lectern. Through a friend i was able to get a ticket to the mass of canonization. The ticket arrived sept. 15, the Feast of our lady of sorrows, the patronal feast of the congregation of holy cross. i had my “speech” all prepared if i had the chance to meet the holy Father. “santo padre, yo te amo. y te doy muchas gracias por todo lo que estás haciendo por la iglesia y por el mundo. ... holy Father, i love you. and i thank you very much for everything you are doing for the church and for the world.” 
i had the great privilege of concelebrating the mass of canonization of Junípero serra. The holy Father presided. when i arrived at the national shrine, the desire to meet pope Francis person­ally began to fade away. while i would have liked to meet him, i was simply grateful, so grateful to see him and to concelebrate a mass that he would preside at. i also wanted to listen closely to his homily. 
i loved his homily. The “mercy pope” is really a man of mercy. he spoke so beautifully in spanish, reminding us that darkness and error and sin never have the last word when it comes to god. what has the last word is the “oil of hope.” he used that phrase several times and when he did, he moved his hand as though he were massaging someone with the oil of hope. 
several things were so clear as he preached. he is a man of god. he is a man of mercy. he believes what he preaches. i would even say he is what he preaches. i thought, “i could go to confession to him, because he would anoint me with the oil of hope and the oil of mercy.” pope Francis does not have only ecclesial authority. he also has moral authority. i believe what he preaches, because he is the pope, but more so because he speaks from his own encounter and life with Jesus. he knows Jesus and in his travels, in his life, in his person, he makes Jesus known. 
as i walked through the crowds of thousands before and after the papal mass, i was really struck by how much spanish i heard. it is just a sign of the current and future reality of the catholic church in the united states. i know all the data and all the numbers, but i was still amazed by so many people speaking spanish. 
after the mass, i took the subway from the national shrine to the stop near the hotel where i stayed. The subway was filled with thousands of people who were coming from the mass. when i walked from the subway to the hotel, many peo­ple asked me, “did you see him?” The entire city was alive with Francis Frenzy. “yes, i saw him,” i was happy to say. 
pope Francis is a rock star like no other. watching him in the papal parade was amazing. he has the unique ability to deflect all the adula­tion and praise and truly point to our lord. as he waves on the right and then on the left, it’s clear this is not about him. it’s about god. he wants to draw peoples’ attention and sights to god, not to him. 
at the end of a beautiful day in d.c., i thought to myself … i did not get to meet pope Francis to­day. Far more important than meeting him, he in­spired me to want to love his boss more … and my boss. in his person and in his words, he encour­ages us to love god more and to be better messen­gers of his mercy. i can hear him saying, “it’s not important you meet me. i want you to meet Jesus, the incarnation of god’s mercy and love.” 
Friday afternoon, the holy Father visited our lady, Queen of angels catholic school in east harlem. i had the great honor of providing some commentary on the usccb’s live feed about his visit. The usccb told me they would send me his speech in advance of his visit to the school. several hours before he arrived, i received an e­mail that read “From the holy see press office. embargoed until 4:00 p.m.” i’m sure that i will not receive many more e-mails with those words in the subject line. 
i loved watching the holy Father interact with the children, teachers and parents at our lady, Queen of angels school. he was so happy and so engaging. here again i was surprised and pleased to see how many students spoke to the holy Father in spanish. This is a sign of the church’s real attempt in the past six years to actively re­cruit latino children and families to catholic schools. The holy Father had to be pleased with his visit to the school because he was able to see first hand that the church continues her mission to educate children of immigrants. 
i love pope Francis. ¡viva el papa! ¡viva! 
Fr. Joe Corpora is the Director of University-School Partnerships in the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). He also serves in Campus Ministry. He is a priest in residence in Dillon Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



noTre dame 62, massachuseTTs 27 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Running away with it 
Irish offense breaks out for highest point total since 1996 in blowout win 

Notre Dame must be more consistent moving forward 

Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
on the surface, notre dame defeated massachusetts soundly saturday, winning 62-27 and out-gaining the minutemen 681 yards to 450. 
Those numbers, however, don’t tell the whole story. 
notre dame’s inconsistent play against massachusetts was troublesome, not only because it was against a middling mid-american conference team but also because that’s become the norm for the irish so far this season. 
The question of stability, or lack thereof, all starts on defense for the irish. This unit looked like one of the most fearsome in the coun­try when suffocating Texas, porous against a run-of-the­mill virginia offense, then stout again when defending georgia Tech’s triple option last week. 
see plamondon PAGE 3 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
Five rushing touchdowns and 457 total rushing yards paved the way for no. 6 notre dame’s 62-27 win over massachusetts on saturday at notre dame stadium. 
The irish (4-0) out-ran the minutemen (0-3) by more than 300 yards on their way to 681 total offensive yards and notre dame’s highest scoring output since 1996. 
“we were pretty good up front offensively,” irish head coach brian Kelly said. “we were able to control the line of scrimmage around the football today. 
“i think that was the big difference in the ballgame.” 
senior running back c.J. prosise opened the scor­ing on a 57-yard rush to put the irish on the scoreboard with 6:02 remaining in the first quarter. prosise rushed for two touchdowns and 149 yards on 15 carries and be­came the first notre dame player with three straight 100-yard games since darius walker in 2005. 
The minutemen, though, kept the irish within strik­ing distance in the first half, shrinking notre dame’s lead from 14-0 to 14-13 and then again from 21-13 to 21-20. 
“any team that plays notre dame is going to bring their best game,” prosise said. “we knew they were going to come out with some trick plays and do whatever they could to stay in the game.” 

with four minutes left in the first half, the game reached its turning point. The irish defense held massachusetts to a single yard on three plays after sophomore punter Tyler newsome and junior corner­back devin butler combined to pin the minutemen at their own one-yard line. 
Freshman receiver c.J. sanders then responded with 
see blowouT PAGE 2 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
C.J. PROSISE 
IRISH SENIOR RUNNING BACK 
For the third game in a row, c.J. prosise ran all over notre dame’s opponent, going for 149 yards and two scores during saturday’s win over massachusetts. prosise now has exactly 600 rushing yards on the season. 

QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“You’ve got to give it to the offensive line today.” 
irish sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer cited the offensive line as the key driver of notre dame’s strong rushing game saturday. 
Trio of backs paces Irish run attack to big game 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
senior c.J. prosise got the rushing attack rolling right away for no. 6 notre dame in its 62-27 rout of massachusetts on saturday, breaking the 100-yard mark before the first quarter and giving the irish the lead with his 57-yard sprint to the end zone about nine minutes in. 
unlike the last few games, though, prosise was not the only rusher to put up big numbers. his 149 yards and two touchdowns came early, as he stayed on the sidelines for much of the second half. 
The rest of notre dame’s whopping 457 yards on the ground — the first time the team has broken the 400-yard mark since 1996 — came pri­marily from freshman run­ning backs Josh adams and dexter williams, with fresh­man quarterback brandon wimbush adding 92 yards, highlighted by a 
see run game PAGE 3 The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

deshone Kizer completed a respectable 68 percent of his passes but only totaled 207 yards. although the intercep­tion was partially receiver will Fuller’s fault, Kizer still has plenty of room for improvement. both Kizer and freshman backup brandon wimbush looked great running the foot­ball, however. 
RUNNING BACKS 

c.J. prosise continued to dazzle, racking up 149 yards on 15 carries. he broke one for a 57-yard touchdown, although that wasn’t even the longest run of the day. Freshman Josh adams scored from 70 yards out and was electric as well, rushing for 133 yards on the day. Freshman dexter wil­liams also impressed, scoring his first career touchdown in the third quarter. 
RECEIVERS 

This grade could have been a lot higher had two long bombs to junior will Fuller and freshman equanimeous st. brown not been called back for various reasons. as it was, the receivers still had a respectable day. Fuller and chris brown led the way, while amir carlisle achieved a season high with five catches. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

although the irish will face many tougher defensive fronts than massachusetts, notre dame’s line looks scary good. They won the battle in the trenches again, paving the way for 457 rushing yards with an average of 9 yards per carry. The group was solid in pass protection as well. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

although the minutemen scored their first three touch­downs on the ground, take away the 83-yard score and the defensive line limited the massachusetts running game from getting much going. add in six Qb hurries and a shel­don day sack and it was a good outing. 
LINEBACKERS 

The group of notre dame linebackers had a solid game as well, topped by James onwualu’s best performance of the season. he finished with four tackles, two of them for losses, and a sack. Jaylon smith and Joe schmidt both had six tackles for this irish group. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

This grade is heavily based on the fact notre dame finally had its first interception of the season, courtesy of cole luke. outside of that play, the group kept everything from quarterback blake Frohnapfel in front of them. The second­ary did, however, fall for another trick play that almost cost them. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

This grade is also based mostly on one play: freshman c.J. sanders’ 50-yard punt return, notre dame’s first since 2009. sanders was fun to watch, weaving in and out of mas­sachusetts defenders. Kicker Justin yoon’s second paT miss in as many weeks could be cause for concern. 
COACHING 

give brian Kelly credit for making sure his team didn’t come out flat against the minutemen. even with high energy on the irish sideline, Kelly struggled developing a game plan to put massachusetts away early. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.48 (B+/A-) 
The biggest issue with notre dame this weekend was its consis­tency from the first half to the second half. although each posi­tion group played well as a whole, the team struggled to put away a weak massachusetts team until later than expected. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
C.J. SANDERS’ 50-YARD PUNT RETURN TOUCHDOWN 
with massachusetts down just one late in the first half, the upset seemed within reach. The freshman receiver, however, had differ­ent ideas, taking a punt to the house to spark the irish to a big win. 

Blowout 
conTinued From page 1 

a 50-yard punt return. he cut at the 35-yard line, again at the 10 and then ran straight into the end zone to put the irish up 28-20 with 3:21 left in the half. sanders’s touch­down return marked the first for notre dame since golden Tate’s touchdown return against pittsburgh in 2009. 
“i was really excited,” sanders said. “it was 21-20 at the time, and i told my guys to give me some time, and i’ll make a play. i knew the punt return shifted momentum. i was thankful and blessed that i was able to help the team.” 
“They were running up to me,” sanders said. “i think that was the first one since golden Tate. 
“everybody was really ex­cited. They haven’t seen that in a while.” 
sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer connected with senior receiver chris brown on a seven-yard touch­down pass with six seconds left in the first half to give the irish a 35-20 halftime lead. 
after the break, the irish let the minutemen only find the end zone once more, while notre dame added three more touchdowns to its total. 
“we had to come out after halftime and score,” prosise said. “after that, it just took off and we got our confidence up.” 
The irish have now rushed for more than 200 yards in five straight games, dating back to their 2014 music city bowl win over lsu. The last time notre dame started a season with four-straight 200­yard rushing games was 1989, when the irish hit the mark 11 games in a row. it also marks the longest streak at any point in the season since the irish ran for at least 200 yards in six consecutive games in 2000. 
Kizer was 15 of 22 pass­ing for 207 yards, recording two touchdowns and one in­terception, while freshman quarterback brandon wimbush was 3 of 5 passing for 17 yards in relief. adding to the irish running game, wimbush scored on a 58-yard run late in the third quarter. Junior receiver will Fuller also added his sixth touch­down catch of the season for the irish. 
“[The game today] was great,” Kizer said. “The offen­sive line was balling like no other today. 
“hopefully we can con­tinue to get into a routine in the way that we prepare, and that i prepare, for each game when it comes to the small things. i learned from some mistakes from last game in terms of how i should prepare the night before, so things worked a little better this week.” 
Kizer and the irish take these lessons as they head into their next game at no. 12 clemson on saturday. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughran@nd.edu 

offense shines in victory 
Observer Staff Report 

no. 6 notre dame cruised to a win saturday over massachusetts with a 62-point explosion — the highest output since 1996 — as it set a number of offensive 
records for the brian Kelly era.  
Racking yards  up  rushing  

The 1996 season was also the last time notre dame ran for more than 400 yards in a game as they did saturday, finishing with 457 yards on the ground and five rushing touchdowns. 
many of those yards came from senior running back c.J. prosise and freshman run­ning back Josh adams, who with 149 and 133 yards re­spectively became the first duo of irish runners to each break the 100-yard mark in one game since Theo riddick particular was a milestone. it was his third consecu­tive game with more than 100 yards, a feat not accom­plished by a notre dame run­ning back since 2005 when darius walker did it. over those three games, prosise has run for 495 yards, the most for an irish back in a three-game span since Julius Jones in 2003. 
and  cierre  wood did it in  
2012.  
prosise’s  performance  in  

Touchdowns all around 
until massachusetts fresh­man running back marquis young ran the ball into the end zone early on saturday, notre dame had yet to allow points in the first quarter of any 2015 game. however, the irish defense did force a three-and-out on the minutemen’s opening drive, just as they have done in ev­ery other game this season. 
helping the irish strike back, freshman running back dexter williams, fresh­man quarterback brandon wimbush and sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer all recorded their first career rushing touchdowns. 
Junior wide receiver will Fuller was a more famil­iar face in the end zone. his second-quarter touchdown grab was the 22nd of his ca­reer, tying him for fourth in the school record books for receiving scores. 
Four of the irish touch­downs went for 35 yards or more, the most the team has had in a single game to this point in 2015. among the long plays was a 50-yard punt re­turn by freshman wide re­ceiver c.J. sanders, the first punt return for a score since golden Tate did it in 2009 and the first at notre dame stadium since Tom Zbikowski took one back in 2006. 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

Run Game 
conTinued From page 1 
keeper he took 58 yards for a touchdown. 
williams also recorded his first collegiate score when he skittered in from 14 yards out in the third quarter, and he had 48 yards by the end of the day. 
adams had to wait un­til the fourth quarter for his touchdown, the third of his career and the last irish score of the night. he outran minutemen defend­ers 70 yards to the goal line and finished with 133 total rushing yards for a personal high. 
“i’ve had a lot of carries the last couple games, so it was good to get a little rest today,” prosise said. “i know the fans are going to be hap­py to see that this freshman class that came in this year is really good. They had a lot of people score today, and i think in the future those guys are going to be making some big plays here.” 
adams even played signif­icant time when the game was close, at one point 21-20 in the second quarter. 
irish head coach brian Kelly said he came in saturday with the intention of dispersing the carries more than in the first three games, giving prosise a break after he took the bulk 
Plamondon 
conTinued From page 1 
against massachusetts, it was a tale of two halves. 
The minutemen put up 20 points on the irish in the first half, putting a short-lived scare into the notre dame faithful. after the irish forced three con­secutive three-and-outs to begin the game, the defense went into hiber­nation mode and allowed massachusetts to score on three successive drives in the first half. although the scouting report highlighted massachusetts’ quality air attack, it still came as a total surprise when the minutemen kept pace with the irish and gained 276 yards of total offense in the first half alone. 
with a clemson offense next on the docket that sports prolific playmak­ers such as quarterback deshaun watson, that’s alarming. 
To the notre dame de­fense’s credit, it righted the ship in the second half and made massachusetts look like the mac foe it is. They held the minutemen to just seven points that came in garbage time with notre dame’s backups in the game. if notre dame’s defense disappears for a half against a different team, of the load in those wins. 

“The young backs stand out to me; adams and williams getting in was very, very important to us,” Kelly said. “we probably redlined 
c.J. a little bit. … it was nice to see [adams] run well. 
“and then dexter obvious­ly is a very gifted player, and we saw that today. he’s got great speed. he’s just still learning, but i think we all saw today what kind of ath­letic ability he has.” 
prosise, Kelly and sopho­more quarterback deshone Kizer, who ran nine times for 42 yards, all credited notre dame’s offensive line for the dominant rushing the team has enjoyed so far. 
“you’ve got to give it to the offensive line,” Kizer said. “no matter who’s running behind that, there’s going to be some sort of a hole or some sort of gap. 
“if the young guys are pa­tient, they’re going to get their yards.” 
Kizer also complimented the young runners on their performance and noted how their different approaches could make the notre dame running game harder to defend. 
“dexter is an explosive style of guy,” Kizer said. “Josh kind of runs the ball a little different; he likes get­ting north and south a little more, and it brings a little more of a variance to the 
however, it will prove much costlier. 
on offense, it was quar­terback deshone Kizer that lacked consistency. To be fair, Kizer has been the starting quarterback at notre dame for all of two weeks. but notre dame can only go as far as its signal caller, and he is certainly experiencing his fair share of growing pains. one wouldn’t be able to tell from his stat line — 15 of 22 passing for 207 yards, two touchdowns and an interception — but Kizer continues to miss a lot of throws. That was some­thing irish head coach brian Kelly even admitted after the game, although he bal­anced that statement by mentioning Kizer’s ability to self-correct. 
For a quarterback with only two career starts, Kizer’s decision-making is on its way to becoming his strong suit, as he has demonstrated the poise of a crafty veteran at times. against massachusetts, however, he showed the same flaws as he did against georgia Tech. his execu­tion on certain throws left those watching scratching their heads. some found the turf well short of his receivers, while others were completions that did not hit receivers in-stride. Kizer has exceeded expectations and way the irish are going to run the ball.” 
none of the three backs whose legs carried the irish to the convincing victory over massachusetts have significant experience at the position, as prosise was thrust into the starting role when junior back Tarean Folston tore an acl in the first game and had just con­verted from receiver during the spring. 
Kelly said that along with prosise’s natural running ability, the addition of first-year running backs coach autry denson has been key to the team’s success on the ground. 
“autry denson does a great job,” Kelly said. “he’s our all-time leading rusher here at notre dame. he’s able to have conversations about the position that are real in the way that he’s played the position, so he can really impact [prosise] with a lot of knowledge, so that’s been very helpful with his learn­ing curve.” 
The trio of prosise, adams and williams, along with contributions at the quar­terback position, will look to continue the current irish streak of five games with more than 200 rushing yards when they visit clemson next week. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi1@nd.edu 
done enough to get the irish comfortably by so far. but his consistency, not neces­sarily problematic against a team of massachusetts’ cali­ber, must be improved upon with the irish playing more formidable opponents down the road. 
now four games into the 2015 season, Kelly said he knows what the “heartbeat” of his football team is. For a group that has aspirations to play well into January, its time for Kelly and his coaching staff to coax a little bit more out of the irish. it was an impressive win all things considered against massachusetts, but in order to compete with the likes of clemson and usc, the defense can’t disappear for three series in a row and fans shouldn’t have to worry about potentially easy throws finding the dirt. 
both Kizer and the de­fense have shown flashes of brilliance in recent weeks. it is time for them to perform on a consistent basis. The place they must start is none other than one of the big­gest stage in all of college football, under the lights in death valley. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 
1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
14  21  20  7  62  
6  14  0  7  27  

NOTRE DAME 7, MASSACHUSETTS 0 
c.J. prosise 57-yard run (Justin yoon kick) 
6:02 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 95 yards 3:06 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, MASSACHUSETTS 0 
deshone Kizer 7-yard run (yoon kick) 
0:19 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 4:26 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, MASSACHUSETTS 6 
marquis young 83-yard run (lucas blake kick blocked) 
0:00remaining 
Drive: One play, 78 yards, 0:19 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, MASSACHUSETTS 13 
sekai lindsay 1-yard run (mike caggiano kick) 
11:17 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 50 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, MASSACHUSETTS 13 
will Fuller 26-yard pass from Kizer (yoon kick) 
7:47remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 74 yards, 3:30 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
Jamal wilson 1-yard run (caggiano kick) 
6:44remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 75 yards, 1:03 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
c.J. sanders 50-yard punt return (yoon Kick) 
3:21remaining 
NOTRE DAME 35, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
chris brown 7-yard pass from Kizer (yoon kick) 
0:06remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 74 yards, 1:21 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 42, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
prosise 16-yard run (yoon kick) 
12:02remaining 
Drive: Seven plays, 73 yards, 2:58 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 48, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
dexter williams 14-yard run (yoon kick failed) 
9:28remaining 
Drive: Two plays, 30 yards, 0:35 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 55, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
brandon wimbush 58-yard run (yoon kick) 
2:18remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 85 yards, 2:13 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 62, MASSACHUSETTS 20 
Josh adams 70-yard run (yoon kick) 
8:34remaining 
Drive: Four plays, 82 yards, 1:37 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 62, MASSACHUSETTS 27 
shakir nesmith 33-yard pass from ross comis (caggiano kick) 
3:35remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 77 yards, 4:59 elapsed 
STATISTICS 





TOTAL OFFENSIVE YARDS 
681 450 





EMILY KRUSE | The Observer 

Irish freshman quarterback Brandon Wimbush rolls out to pass during his Notre Dame debut Saturday. Wimbush ran for a touchdown in the win, and on his first pass attempt, had a deep throw to junior receiver Will Fuller, which was ruled incomplete after a video review. Wimbush also had a would-be touchdown pass called back due to an Irish penalty. 
Eight different Irish players found the end zone Saturday as Notre 
Dame hung 62 points, its highest outlay since 1996, on an overpow­ered Massachusetts squad. C.J. Sanders had the first punt return for a 
IRISH OFFENSE 
touchdown in Brian Kelly’s tenure late in the first half, and C.J. Prosise continued his strong start to the season, topping 100 yards rushing for 
MASSIVE IN WIN 
the third consecutive game and running for two scores. 


AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 
Junior cornerback Cole Luke looks upfield after his Graduate student receiver Amir Carlisle hauls in a interception in Notre Dame’s 62-27 win Saturday. catch Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 


a cereal question 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 
whilst perusing the internet (and by the internet, i of course mean buzzfeed) this morn­ing, after under-toasting my bagel and spilling my coffee all over me, the kitchen and my computer, i came across an article that read “The shoreditch cereal café was attacked by anti-gentrification protesters.” 
oK, i know the title is not all that attention grabbing, but the reason i stopped was because, while studying abroad in london, i happened to visit that particular café, which is better known as the cereal Killer café. i did indeed purchase very overpriced american cereal, which to be honest was not the best use of my limited funds, but c’est la vie. and in the pit of my stomach, i knew that after reading this article, i was going to regret my purchase of a “double rainbow:” Froot loops, Fruity pebbles, freeze dried marshmallows and strawberry milk. 
now for a little background on the cereal Killer café. on its website, the café boasts of 120 dif­ferent kinds of cereals, 30 different varieties of milk and 20 different toppings. names like “chocopotomas,” “bran gran, thank you ma’am” and “unicorn poop” are written on a chalkboard, and cereal from around the world plasters every wall, including lots of limited edition products that must have expired years ago. basically, this is a hipster tourist’s dream. ridiculous names, overpriced food and, of course, the perfect place to instagram the hell out of your particular ce­real. and yes, i went there. make what you will of that. 
The fact that this café is the target of an anti-gentrification group is hardly surprising. cereal Killer café is a beacon for the middle class who want to experience “shoreditch,” but only from the inside of an artsy café. it’s on brick lane, a street that has a diverse history and is situated in the middle of the east end, which is slightly edgier but still a very classic example of gentrifi­cation. however, i was surprised to see the group who decided to riot outside the café was in fact class war, an anarchist group we had learned about in my politics of protest class in london. 
class war started out as a newspaper writ­ten among a small group of anarchist friends that gradually grew larger. at 8 p.m. saturday, members gathered outside the cereal Killer café, wearing masks and bearing torches, and proceeded to throw paint at the windows. on a website devoted to the protest, the organization described part of its reasoning for the riot: “our communities are being ripped apart — by russian oligarchs, saudi sheiks, israeli scumbag property developers, Texan oil-money tw*ts and our own home-grown eton toffs.” 
whatever you think about its methods, class war does have a point. gentrification plagues many major cities. wealthier people move in to historically working-class neighborhoods, push­ing up the prices until it is impossible for the inhabitants who have lived there for years to con­tinue to feasibly do so. while there are benefits to having wealthier inhabitants (streets are safer, jobs are created and there are more store options, including better groceries), they change the char­acter of a neighborhood, and not necessarily for the better. so much is lost when the diversity of a neighborhood changes and you force inhabitants who have lived there, worked hard to be there and formed the character and culture of that area for so long to leave. rioting may not be the best form of discussion, but it certainly forces people to face the hard questions. 
now, i don’t really think the cereal Killer café is going to bring an end to the culture of east end and brick lane. it probably won’t even last that long; Fads die, and eventually people are going to realize they are wasting their money on over­priced cereal. There will be some new hipster thing everyone in the london study-abroad group is thrilled to try, and i will probably be right there along with them. 
but maybe also stop in at that little corner shop or “caff” that’s been there for the past 50 years, and give them a little bit of your time and money as well. 
Kitty Baker is a senior program of liberal studies and film, television and theatre major and proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

What is an education worth? 
Kate Hardiman 
annuit coeptis 

The price for a notre dame education is $64,775. other elite universities across the na­tion have similar or even higher tuition costs. as the figures continue to rise, they have helped to change the perception of higher education. 
once a necessity for inculcating the virtues that sustain a free and democratic polity, colleges and universities are now perceived in a more utilitarian manner; cash is the input, return on investment in the form of a lucrative job is the output. 
The new college scorecard, developed by the department of education, draws on data from the Treasury department and irs to aggregate the costs and benefits of more than 7,000 colleges and universities across the nation. The database is clearly cost-focused, examining average cost per year after financial aid, graduation rates and the median earnings of graduates. 
students and parents become consumers, and colleges and universities become production fa­cilities that meld students into marketable com­modities. president obama calls this approach a way to “get the most bang for your educational buck.” 
interestingly, college scorecard does not pro­vide a ranking of schools like for-profit peers such as The princeton review or u.s. news and world report. Following intense pressure from college administrators, the president walked back his statement in 2013 that the government was going to rate and rank colleges by studying the “value” they provide to students. 
due to the complexity of the data and the ques­tion of whether or not a federal agency should be able to rank private schools, the government’s decision not to rank colleges was wise. yet, on the scorecard’s homepage, a sort of implicit ranking exists. a button on the bottom invites users to “check out these schools,” where one can find “23 four-year schools with low costs that lead to high incomes” and “15 public four-year colleges with high graduation leading to high incomes.” 
in the database, notre dame’s “average annual cost” is listed as $27,845 and its “salary after at­tending” is $69,400. it is important to note that the average annual cost appears lower than it might be in actuality, as it only reflects average cost to those who are recipients of federal finan­cial aid. 
Though the college scorecard database may be a potentially helpful tool for federal financial aid qualifiers, the underlying message this initiative sends is that the value of notre dame, and that of 7,000 other schools in the united states, is mea­sured by their monetary returns. This explicit favoritism toward accumulation of wealth leads to larger questions about the purpose of educa­tion as a whole. 
The four years we spend on this beautiful cam­pus has more to do with the growth of our hearts and minds than the growth of our bank accounts. as aristotle once said, “knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.” education is not merely about finding the right answer; it is knowing how and why we arrived at that conclusion in order to appreciate the process. campus should be a place where complex issues are confronted, pre­conceived notions are challenged and faculties of critical thinking are stimulated. 
universities such as notre dame that strive for something more than mere return on investment — notably the education of the entire person — are given short shrift by examining mere finan­cial metrics. 
Those who examine only returns on invest­ment discount the benefits that careers in social services, education, non-profits, service in the military and local government provide to soci­ety. moreover, such a misplaced focus impedes vocational discernment and the pursuit of knowl­edge for its own sake, not for its particular ends. majors such as history, theology, the liberal arts and philosophy suddenly become “less useful” and are not taken seriously. 
in a world where, in the words of william wordsworth, only “getting and spending” seem to matter, we must reclaim education’s original end: fostering the development of heart and mind so that we may better serve god and each other. 
Kate is a junior majoring in the program of liberal studies and minoring in philosophy, political science and economics. She hails from Pittsburgh and is a proud member of Breen-Phillips Hall. Contact her at khardima@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LUCY DU | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Wei Lin 
assistant managing editor 

want to know how to get a good work­out without getting out of your seat? watch the season two premiere of “how to get away with murder” (hTgawm). This latest shonda rhimes series is centered on prestigious law professor and criminal defense lawyer annalise Keating, played by viola davis, the first african-american actress to win an emmy award in the drama category. 
if you saw last season in its entirety, you understand how the series does a heck of a job when it comes to twists, surprises and cliffhangers. The series practically left its viewers in a dark, confused, comatose-like seven-month hiatus after the season finale ended by revealing the shocking death of rebecca sutter, the love interest of wes gibbins. 
This episode introduces a new mur­der case: adopted siblings caleb and catherine hapstall are accused of murdering their affluent parents. They don’t play too large of a role in the epi­sode except at the very end. 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

last week, the two leading rappers of the “new school,” drake and Future, linked up for the collaborative mixtape “what a Time to be alive.” while the pair aren’t the first artists people nat­urally expect to link up for a project, sometimes it is indeed true the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. 
Future, best known for his simplis­tic — albeit infectious — songs laced with an auto-Tuned, hit-making voice, seemed to find a niche with drake’s versatile delivery, as the two churned out multiple “party banger” songs thanks in large part to producer metro boomin (who might be best known for his work on ilovemaKonnen and drake’s “Tuesday”). 
however, Future was far from the true star of the mixtape. i’m still a fan of his work — as i said, he keeps put­ting out hits that get stuck in my head 
The season premiere was so full of twists and surprises that the revela­tion of who murdered sutter was over­shadowed by everything else. bonnie winterbottom, Keating’s uber-loyal as­sociate, tied a bag around sutter’s head while she was bound up in the base­ment. i did not expect it and i’m sure no one else did either. winterbottom was so uninvolved with the whole scandal last season. she was practically the only main character who did not know the truth about the murder of Keating’s cheating, scheming husband. 
when the body of sutter was first dis­covered, Frank delfino, the other asso­ciate, suspected Keating, but Keating also suspected delfino. Then, both sus­pected gibbins and even put him to the test. he passed and was believed to be innocent. soon enough, Frank suspects laurel, an intern like gibbins. everyone was playing the blame game, and in my opinion, everyone was likely. except for bonnie. mind blown. 
but this was clearly the first of many unexpected revelations and twists. at the beginning of the episode, we are introduced to a mysterious woman, eve, who seems to know Keating very 
for days at a time (especially because they’re easy to remember). but drake was the one who truly stood out to me on this project, especially on the song “30 for 30 Freestyle.” 
no, it did not use the “30 for 30” theme song on repeat like i hoped it would, but the song still embodied the essence of the award-winning sports documentary series, to the point that i almost expected drake to begin his verse with the series’ trademark “what if i told you ... “ opening. 
on the track, drake reflects on his nearly 15-year music career, starting by doing what rappers do and puffing out his musical chest. “conspiracies to end my run and send me a message / 40, did you get the message? / cause i just checked my phone and i didn’t get it.” yes, it’s a typical rapper’s material (and, for that matter, atypical drake material), but it does underline a bit of the progress drake has undergone, from angsty, emotional teenage rapper well. it’s also clear they have a bad his­tory. Keating was trying to save the object of her love affair — a gorgeous hunk of man, ex-detective nate lahey 

— from death row after she framed him for the murder of her own husband. Twisted, i know. 
eve turns down the case, only for Keating to visit her apartment. That’s when we find out a little about her past. Keating and eve were lovers, but Keating, presumably, ended the rela­tionship messily when she began see­ing her now-dead husband. but wait, there’s more. They still have feelings for each other. and they rekindle this love with a somewhat pg-13 kiss. 
The biggest surprise is at the end, and we’re given another typical “hTgawm” cliffhanger. Fast forward two months, we’re at the two siblings’ creepy, old mansion. The entire duration of this last scene, we hear the Keating narrat­ing, “statistically, if you’re going to be murdered, your killer will be someone you know ... an acquaintance, a friend, a family member ... your lover. why is that?” we hear a gunshot, we see gibbins run for his life, and we see a wounded Keating lying on the ground 
to a man confident in his place atop to­day’s music industry. 
“wrote this [expletive] on a bumpy flight on a summer night / Flying over chattanooga, out here trying to spread the movement.” no longer “wheelchair Jimmy,” dependent on his role in “degrassi” to get a buzz, drake has expanded his own fame and pull to firmly establish his own “ovo” brand. safe to say, that brand has indeed tak­en off — just take a look at the kind of pull he has with nba franchise Toronto raptors. as he boasts, “i got a club in the raptors arena / championships, celebrations during regular seasons.” 
but this track isn’t simply drake rat­tling off his accomplishments. anyone who has seen one of the “30 for 30” documentaries knows the most inter­esting parts of each one are when they profile the lows along with the highs of that sports team/figure. drake also opens up (in more typical drake fash­ion) about himself, specifically to the in her blood and gasping for her life. 
The end. Fin. Finito. That was it. 
The ending marks another week of wondering what could’ve happened. who shot her? was it gibbins? why were they at the hapstalls’ mansion? did she die? she couldn’t have died. how would the “hTgawm” series sur­vive if they kill off Keating? They can’t. i’m just praying she’ll be fine. happy thoughts, wei. happy thoughts. 
on another note, we get to see the fine, young connor walsh get serious with a geeky oliver hampton. connor wasn’t the “dating type of guy,” but he’s changed a lot since then. he and his boyfriend are now “officially a boring, domesticated, co-habitating couple.” and it’s super cute. 
new episodes air each Thursday night at 10 p.m. on abc. For those who want to revisit the first season, you can watch it in its entirety on netflix. until Thursday, i’ll continue to formulate theories of what the ending meant. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
very beginning of his own rapping career with a reflection of his song “closer to my dreams” from his first project, “comeback season.” he con­templates, “i just listened to ‘closer to my dreams’ / wide eyed and unedu­cated at 19 / i can’t rap like that, all young and naive / not after all of the [expletive] i’ve seen and the things i believe.” 
it’s simply interesting to see the growth and transformation drake has undergone through a 15-year mu­sic career that still somehow feels young. because of his seeming om­nipresence in the current musical landscape, it is easy to lose sight of the overall transformation drake has undergone: from “degrassi” child star to musical superstar on top of the rap­ping world. what a time to be alive, indeed. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 


LUCY DU | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

step back from the big Ten love 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
For at least one more week, ohio state and michigan state are the consensus no. 1 and no. 2 teams in the na­tion, occupying the top slots in both the ap and coaches polls. 
That’s neat and all, and it makes the big Ten, a con­ference we all laughed at a couple years ago, look pretty good. 
The same way we should’ve pumped the brakes on call­ing the big Ten “dead” after the second week of the sea­son last year, can we hold off on calling the conference “good” again after four this season? 
with the exception of two games that won’t tell us much — penn state and rutgers both have army left 
— the league’s nonconfer­ence slate is done and dusted and, quite frankly, there’s not much there that impresses. 
let’s look at the confer­ence’s five still-unbeaten teams and work our way down from there. 
ohio state is good. most fans would agree to that, de­spite how rusty the buckeyes have looked in their four tune-up games — and let’s be honest, that’s all they really were. 
michigan state is also good. even with what utah did in its 62-20 dismantling of oregon on saturday night, the spartans’ home win over the ducks is still a solid one, but it’s the only one they car­ry into the big Ten campaign; wins over western michigan, air Force and central michigan tell us little more than nothing. 
northwestern, which now sits 16th in the ap top 25, could actually be solid, based on its opening-week home win over stanford and week 3 win at duke, who took down georgia Tech this past week. The wildcats have found their success through their defense and have the luxury of avoid­ing both the buckeyes and spartans in crossover games 
— they could be the most likely team to find their way to indianapolis to face ohio state or michigan state in the big Ten championship game. 
past that? yawn. 
unbeaten indiana’s best win so far is probably western Kentucky, while beating pittsburgh is 4-0 iowa’s highlight thus far. 
amongst the league’s 3-1 teams, the outlook gets a little grimmer: now-no. 22 michigan, whose loss is to that aforementioned utah squad, trounced byu, which looks kind of good, and minnesota and wisconsin lost to a pair of top-15 squads — no. 4 Tcu and no. 13 alabama, re­spectively — but that’s all there is to offer. remember, illinois got drilled at north carolina, and penn state lost to Temple. 
both maryland and purdue lost at home to bowling green, and rutgers is a dumpster fire of drama. nebraska is irrelevant at best. 
The point? 
if we’re looking to a northwestern team to be the savior of the confer­ence’s west division, it might not say much that is good about the overall health of the conference. saturday night saw the league’s best win [oregon] fall flat off the face of the earth, leaving northwestern’s triumph over the cardinal the only one the big Ten has over a top-25 op­ponent thus far. 
granted, it’s not as if other conferences have more out­side of league play, but it’s a stark reminder the confer­ence really hasn’t done that much to prove itself yet — and it won’t really have much opportunity to do so. 
when the dust settles in december, there will prob­ably a team from the big Ten in the playoff; statistically speaking, it’s a good bet, especially given everything that’s happened. 
if the cards fall right, the loser of the michigan state­ohio state game could well find itself in the playoffs too, though that’s not a particu­larly likely situation. 
but to start unnecessarily declaring the conference is “back” because of one sin­gular win — the spartans’ over oregon, which now looks a lot less impressive — falls nothing short of being irresponsible. 
between now and december, games will be played. upsets will occur, indiana will lose at least one game, rutgers will maybe have coaches and there’s no way northwestern runs the table. 
Though who knows? 
let’s just not make such silly statements this early. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

best teams in the acc,” lachowecki said. “i think ev­eryone remembers our result against them in the ncaa tournament last year, so it’s good to beat them. 
“i wouldn’t say it makes up for it, but it’s nice to beat a team you have a rivalry with. i’m sure we’ll see them again down the road and they’ll want to get revenge. That’s what happened last year.” 
The irish came close to opening the scoring less than a minute after kickoff, as sophomore forward Jeffrey Farina set sophomore for­ward Jon gallagher free on goal, but gallagher shot wide of the near post. Fewer than two minutes later, virginia sophomore midfielder Jake rozhansky had a close-range header in the box, but his ef­fort was comfortably caught by irish junior goalkeeper chris hubbard, who would not be seriously challenged by the cavaliers again in the first half. 
The irish pressured the cavaliers throughout the first half with dangerous set piec­es. First, a free kick 20 yards from goal from junior defend­er brandon aubrey was tipped over the crossbar by virginia sophomore goalkeeper Jeff caldwell. From the result­ing corner, aubrey headed the ball across the face of the goal, but Klekota could only manage a header wide. aubrey then found himself on 

FOR SALE 

2009 Vibe like Toyota Matrix 58,500 miles, $8,500 obo, w/ 
the end of senior midfielder patrick hodan’s free kick, but also headed the ball wide. 
in the end though, notre dame broke through in open play, as a patient passing move deep in cavalier terri­tory ended with hodan find­ing gormley in the box, who calmly slotted the ball into the corner of the goal in the 36th minute. 
The second half started slowly, with a blocked Farina shot providing one of the few early chances, but the course of the game suddenly turned in the 70th minute by a red card: virginia junior forward riggs lennon, who had returned to the field af­ter receiving injury treatment only two minutes earlier, was sent off for violent conduct against junior defender matt habrowski. 
irish head coach bobby clark said the red card al­lowed his team to control the game. 
“The red card of course had a huge impact, you can see that the game changed after that,” clark said. “once you go down a man it’s very hard to chase the rest of the game, so that made it very easy for us to keep control of the game, and we did that for the most part.” 
it didn’t take the irish long to make the most of their nu­merical advantage, as in the 78th minute, Farina flicked a long throw from lachowecki on to panken, who beat a defender and shot beyond caldwell’s reach. 
The cavaliers began to claw their way back into the game almost instantly however, winning a penalty within a minute of the restart. senior midfielder Todd wharton converted the opportunity, sending hubbard the wrong way. 
The irish restored their two-goal advantage in the 81st minute when sophomore midfielder blake Townes won the ball high up the field and was able to get the ball to Farina, who squared the ball across the face of the goal to Klekota, who tapped the ball into a wide-open net. 
The irish almost brought their goal total to four in the final minute, with gallagher finding himself alone against caldwell on a counterattack, but the cavaliers goalkeeper got his fingertips to the shot and sent it wide. 
The cavaliers had only five shots to notre dame’s 13, and clark said he was im­pressed by the way his team restricted virginia’s scoring opportunities. 
“The way we played that game is the way we try to play every game,” clark said. “The game will dictate whether you press them high up the field or defend deep in your own half. i think we did both very well, and apart from the penalty, we didn’t give them much of a chance to get the ball and a good look at goal.” 
The irish will next be in action Tuesday, when they take on marquette at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
snow tires on wheels, one own-“Quid in arca est? Multa pecunia? er, clean, no accidents. 574-707-Magnus numerus gemmarum?” 3255 inspect on campus Puella arcam aperit. Multae for­mae mali provolant et errant! Sed Sed Pandora est curiosa: Pandora spem in arca conservat. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
with a shot. 
after williams’ shot, the game opened up with irish sophomore midfielder Taylor Klawunder putting a header on goal and junior goalkeeper Kaela little making a save on Florida state freshman midfielder Kaycie Tillman. 
Klawunder’s header proved to be the best chance the irish got in the second half. 
in the 73rd minute, senior forward anna maria gilbertson left the game with an injury and Jacobs received a yellow card for an aggressive play challenging the Florida state goalkeeper. 
irish senior forward brittany von rueden also earned a yellow card in the waning moments of the game for arguing with the referee as the seminoles hung on for the victory. 
romagnolo said the team’s second half offensive performance was due to a lack of effort. 
“i don’t think anything hap­pened [offensively],” romagnolo said. “There were very few good passes connected in the attack­ing half. i don’t think we found each other in good areas of the field, and i don’t think their runs were very good.” 
with the loss to Florida state, notre dame completed the toughest part of its schedule on paper, and naughton said the team will try to put the loss out of its mind moving forward. 
“These games are done and over with,” naughton said. “There’s really not much we can do about the result. so we’re not going to dwell on it. we’re going to focus on moving forward and getting prepared for the next game we have coming up.” 
The irish will play against miami on Friday in coral gables, Florida. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
seniors had a particularly good weekends in alabama. 
“i want to highlight two seniors who did a really great job,” he said. “eric [schnurrenberger] and Kenny [sabacinski] played really well.They really stuck out to me as having strong tourna­ments in particular. They’ve proven they can win at this level, to handle the competi­tion we put in front of them, and they’re continuing to im­prove, which is really exciting for me to see.” 
Friday, schnurrenberger defeated columbia senior eric rubin (7-6, 6-4) and was a part of the doubles tandem with fellow senior Quentin monaghan that beat alabama freshman mazen osama and senior becker o’shaughnessey on saturday (6-3). 


For his part, sabacinski pulled out a victory over alabama sophomore danny Kerznerman on saturday (6­0, 6-2). 
The irish have a quick turn around as they begin prepara­tion for the iTa all-american championships at michael case Tennis center in Tulsa, oklahoma, which kick off with qualifying on saturday and conclude oct. 11. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
set, 25-21. 
The seminoles then got off to a fast start in the third set to take a 17-6 lead and cruised to a 25-12 set win to secure a match victory. 
dilfer again led notre dame with 18 assists while Fry ac­counted for nine points; soph­omore outside hitter sydney Kuhn chipped in with a .263 attack percentage and team highs in both kills and digs, eight and nine respectively. 
after the pair of set­backs, irish head coach Jim mclaughlin tried to take the focus off wins and losses, in­stead focusing on the team’s development. 
“we gotta stay process-driven and not worry about outcome,” mclaughlin said. “we have to fight through this. it’s hard to go through, you know? and the only way you get through it is by making the improvements and getting through it, but we gotta stay in the process. if we do that we can come out of this for sure.” 
as the irish try to bounce back from two conference losses, mclaughlin said the team has a lot of work to do. 
“[we have to fix] everything. we gotta take care of every phase of the game,” he said. “we’ve made some progress but there’s just so much out there that we have to make. but i just think once we un­raveled a little bit, we lost our energy and then we unrav­eled more. but we just gotta stay process-driven and keep working.” 
The irish will look to break their current four-match losing streak when they host boston college at purcell pavilion on Friday at 7 p.m. before hosting syracuse on sunday at noon. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
66 Verdi’s opera slave girl 
67 Sign of things to 
come 
68 Loathe 
69 Gas in a DINER sign 
70 Uncool sort 
Down 
1 Like he-men 2 Energy giant that went bankrupt in2001 3 Rebounds per game and others 4 Two trios plus 
one 5 Pine (for) 6 Murmur lovingly 7 Over the speed 
limit 8 Big maker of microchips 9 Baseball’s record-setting Ripken 10 Train conductor’s 
shout 
11 Take care of 
12 Building wing 
15 Recover from 
17 Web locale 
21 Pie ___ mode 
24 Russian 
pancakes 
25 It’s south of Ky. 
27 Baton Rouge sch. 
29 Belly muscles 
30 Tool a magician 
uses in a woman­in-a-crate act 
31 Detects like a bloodhound 33 Movie snippet 35 Pro’s opposite 
36 Old “We’re up to something good”carrier 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 
38 Leg joint 50 2012 Olympics 55 Genre of the 39 Blood component locale, with a hint “Pokémon” TV to the ends of the series
that contains answers to the 56 Break off hemoglobin 
six starred clues 
57 General way 41 W.W. II spy org. 

51 Dissolve and things are going44 ___ counter wash away, as 60 Read carefully 
(dieter) minerals 

62 General at 47 Part of CBS: 52 The “I” of IM, AppomattoxAbbr. sportswise 64 Words that have 49 Lake between 53 Network for a certain ring toOhio and Ontario political junkies them? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Across 
1 What a slob makes 5 Start of a play 9 House, in Havana 13 Poker pot starter 
14 Animal used for Davy Crockett’s cap 
15 Ancient doctor known for his work on anatomy 
16 *Big gamble 18 Daytime host 
DeGeneres 19 Good-looker 20 Impressive
accomplishment 22 Scarfed down 23 Commencement 24 *Election Day 
receptacle 26 Blabs 28 Former Chevy 
subcompact 29 Doofus 32 Poses (for) 34 Pass, as a law 

37 *Result of a financial panic 
40 *Tight braid 
42 Hogs 

43 Desserts good for a hot day 
45 “CSI” evidence, often 
46 D.C.-based agents 
48 Adams who photographedYosemite 
51 *Series of changes frombirth to death 

54 Criticize in good fun 
58 Low-ranking
U.S.N. officer 59 Petrol brand 60 Visitor to a 
confessional 

61 Lagoon encircler 
63 *Precipitous drop 
in cost 65 Like Cinderella’s stepsisters 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Think before you react. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions. Focus on yourself and how you can make improvements that will ensure your happiness and well-being. strive for perfection as well as living within your means. don’t allow emotions to take over or hinder your ability to get things done. your numbers are 5, 13, 23, 26, 32, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay grounded, even if someone tries to upset you emotionally. Focus on your personal needs and doing things that you find exciting. love is on the rise, and avoiding feelings of jealousy will keep an important relationship running smoothly. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get things out in the open if you are having a problem with someone. Knowing where you stand and what you can expect will help you make better choices. a day trip will bring you clarity and open up your options. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t follow someone without questioning what’s in it for you. make positive changes to the way you live and who you hang with and it will be easier to break the habits and routines that cost you financially and emotionally. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): move things around to suit your needs. get out in your community and see if there is something you can do to bring about positive changes. don’t let someone’s negativity get you down. remember, actions speak louder than words. make a difference. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll inspire the people you talk to today. your expressive and engaging way of presenting your ideas and plans will draw someone special to your side. an opportunity must not be overlooked. romance is highlighted.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be able to see the big picture, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect the fine details that require a little more attention. ask questions and challenge anyone who you feel may be offering false information. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your involvement in matters that concern you will give you a platform to use your skills in order to make a difference. romance is encouraged and will help improve your personal life. a change of scenery will make your life better. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t trust anyone with your money, your possessions or your ideas. Try to develop a project by yourself or with someone you know you can trust. a change to your routine will make your life better. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your time and effort into self-improvements, not into trying to change others. not everyone will be overjoyed with the changes you make, but that will make it easier for you to weed out who you want in your circle and who you don’t. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on the people in your life who mean the most to you. make a difference to someone who has something to offer in return. sharing will bring you satisfaction and open up options that you never considered in the past. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tell the people you love exactly how you feel, and you will get an interesting response that will warm your heart. love is on the rise, and children and family affairs will lead to greater unity and prosperity. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your own interests or someone will take advantage of you. make changes to your home that will give you greater freedom to follow creative pursuits. an opportunity to make money from home looks promising. 

Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, entertaining and farsighted. You are unique and compassionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, cavaliers 1 ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | Florida sTaTe 1, nd 0 
nd knocks off 10-man No. 3 Seminoles virginia in budding rivalry top No. 16 Irish 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
in a meeting of the past two national champions, no. 6 notre dame emerged trium­phant, beating no. 4 virginia 3-1 at alumni stadium on Friday night. 
The cavaliers (5-1-2, 1-1-1 acc), who were reduced to 10 men in the 70th minute, were undefeated in their 12 games, including an ncaa tournament victory over the irish (6-2-1, 2-1-0) last sea­son, but goals from junior forward mark gormley, se­nior midfieder evan panken and senior midfielder connor Klekota ensured a notre dame victory. 
irish graduate student de­fender and co-captain max lachowecki said beating such a strong conference ri­val was important for the irish. 
“it was a great win, espe­cially against one of the 
see m soccer PAGE 12 

By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame came down from its emotional high sunday afternoon as no. 3 Florida state came into alumni stadium and beat the no. 16 irish, 1-0. 
Following an upset win over no. 1 virginia on Thursday, irish head coach romagnolo said she was frustrated with her team’s mentality and ef­fort sunday. 
“we need to be more pro­fessional in how we approach games,” romagnolo said. “we can’t choose when we’re go­ing to play hard. we have to play hard and have compo­sure in every opportunity we have.” 
The first half was a back­and-forth affair as both sides saw good scoring chances, but only the seminoles (9-1-1, 2-0-1 acc) managed to take advantage. 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer Thirty-five minutes into 
Senior midfielder Connor Klekota dribbles past a defender during the game, a trio of Florida Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Virginia on Friday. state players broke away 
from the irish defense to score an easy goal when red-shirt junior forward berglind Thorvaldsdottir fed freshman forward elin Jensen to put the seminoles ahead. senior de­fender Katie naughton said the goal was due to a defen­sive breakdown. 
“i think they did a great job of finding the open player,” naughton said. “it kind of sucked us out on the defense. They were able to find the open player and got a nice shot off. little bit of a break­down on our end. it’s going to happen every now and again.” 
Though the irish (8-2-1, 1-2-0) entered the second half trailing, they came out with momentum as freshman for­ward natalie Jacobs created a scoring opportunity that was narrowly ruled offside. 
despite notre dame’s ear­ly pressure, however, the seminoles nearly answered back after senior forward cheyna williams hit the post 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

MEN’S TENNIS | crimson Tide Four in The Fall 
squad competes away from home 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish continued their fall tournament sched­ule this weekend, as 10 of 13 players traveled to Tuscaloosa, alabama, for the crimson Tide Four in the Fall tournament. 
irish head coach ryan sachire said notre dame had a productive trip in a week­end that included matches against columbia, alabama and south Florida. 
“overall, it was a good ex­perience for our team, no question about it,” sachire said. “it was a really high level of competition. we saw some really good teams down there. and that’s our goal for our players in the fall, to expose them to the highest level of competition we can. From that perspective it was good.” 
despite picking up a hand­ful of victories against each team they played, sachire said notre dame could have performed better over the weekend. 
“we always want to win more than we do,” sachire said. “sometimes you come home with a little bit of a sour taste thinking you could’ve grabbed a couple more wins. we know there were some matches we could’ve won. There were some guys that could’ve played well. we have three weeks now until the re­gional championships that we’re hosting. we’re coming home with a really good feel for what we need to do to get ready.” 
in the coming weeks, the irish will compete in intercollegiate Tennis association (iTa) events, starting with the all­american champion­ships next week in Tulsa, oklahoma, and the usTa/ iTa national indoor champi­onships in november. 
notre dame will look to­wards a number of upper­classmen this year, and sachire said a pair of his 
see m Tennis PAGE 12 

ND VOLLEYBALL | louisville 3, nd 0; Florida sTaTe 3, nd 0 
Notre Dame drops pair of conference games 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

notre dame kicked off its acc slate with two losses over the weekend, falling at home in straight sets to both louisville and no. 17 Florida state. 
The irish (5-9, 0-2 acc) started strong in Friday night’s matchup against louisville (8­4, 2-0), but struggled for the rest of the match in a three-set loss. notre dame led 22-18 late in the first set, but was unable to hold the lead; louisville then handled the rest of the match on its way to a three-set, 25-23, 25-19, 25-16 sweep. 
sophomore outside hitter sam Fry led the irish in the loss against the cardinals with a strong showing; her .421 at­tack percentage on 10 kills with two blocks kept the irish in the match, while sophomore cap­tain and setter maddie dilfer added 23 assists. 
sunday afternoon, the irish welcomed no. 17 Florida state (9-4, 2-0) to purcell pavilion, and though the seminoles also won in straight sets, notre dame hung around for the first two sets. 
after dropping a close first set 25-20, the irish put togeth­er a strong run in the second set to take a quick 13-5 lead. however, they were unable to hold it and dropped the second 

see volleyball PAGE 14 





