The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 1 | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Nd, sMC classes of 2019 arrive on campus 
Notre Dame chooses from largest ever applicant pool 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
representing 112 coun­tries and 6,340 different high schools, the notre dame class of 2019 applicant pool set the record for most applications ever received for one class. 
“This incoming class con­tinues the trend of being more global and diverse than any previous year,” don bishop, associate vice president of un­dergraduate enrollment, aid. “Thirty-two percent of the new class will be u.s. students of color or international citizens and over eight percent will be the first in their family to at­tend college. notre dame is arguably the most nationally representative university in the united states.” 
bishop said the approximate­ly 2,015 freshmen arriving on campus are some of the most accomplished to ever come to notre dame. during their time in high school, 35 percent of the incoming class were heads of a student organization, while 45 percent were captains of a var­sity sport and 50 percent were involved in fine arts, drama, music or dance. 
“The admitted students sur­passed the previous exception­al academic records with even higher levels of achievement in leadership and service. we are inspired and impressed with 
see nd 2019 PagE 9 



Saint Mary’s introduces diverse first-year class 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Thursday, about 420 new belles strolled down the avenue as the class of 2019 moved in. 
according to the admissions office, the number of women in the first-year class has 40 more students than last year’s incom­ing class, and the number of transfer students has doubled. 
This year more students than ever applied to the college, direc­tor of admissions sarah dvorak said. more than 1,700 applica­tions went through the office, of which 1,382 were accepted. sixty of those students applied early decision, and about 55 of them were accepted, dvorak said. nearly 13 percent of the women in the class are legacies, with ei­ther a mother or sister alumna connection. 
“as an all-women's, catholic, liberal arts college, we have a reputation as an academically challenging institution, and we work hard to set the expectation for what we expect our of our ap­plicants," dvorak said. "we find that our students self-select at the point of application and there­fore, we don't receive too many applications from unqualified students.” 
diversity has increased in the college as well. incoming stu­dents come from five different countries, meaning saint mary’s students now come from 
see smc 2019 PagE 9 




Irish freshmen remember incoming classmate 
danbury, connectBy J.P. GSCHWIND news writer a resident of  icut. incoming freshman Taja brookfield, reynolds said she and many  By ANDREA VALE news writer  i have gotten butterflies in my stomach when i stepped onto  
connecticut, Town send was a of her classmates had gotten  campus,” Koscielski said.  
The notre dame class of graduate of immaculate  high to know Townsend and were  Transferring to notre dame  when Koscielski wasn’t offered  
2019 had not officially set school and was go ing to start talking to her online.  was something of a no-brainer  admission to notre dame her se­ 
foot on campus or even re-her freshman year  this fall. “we got pretty close to her  for incoming sophomore marissa  nior year of high school, she knew  
ceived their dorm assign-in response to  her death, so when we heard that she  Koscielski, who had grown up  her attempts to become part of  
ments when one of their own, the class of 2019 be gan an on-passed, we all immediately  granger, indiana, only 20 min- the university family were far  
rebecca draper Townsend, going commitmen t to honor  utes away from campus.  
died in a car accident July 2 in her memory.  see classmaTe PagE 9  “For as long as i can remember,  see TransFer PagE 9  

university welcomes transfer students 


news PagE 6 viewpoinT PagE 12 scene PagE 14 FooTball PagE 28 TracK & Field PagE 28 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney                             christina gutierrez Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 

as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How do you feel about the acronym NOVO? 


Broderick Kelley 
graduate student 
sorin college 

“i didn’t novo that was a thing.” 



Grace Maxwell 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 

“i can’t even remember what it stands for.” 

Chris Stepien 
senior sorin college 
“novo-ing doesn’t sound as good as darT-ing.” 



Logan Lally 
senior 
stanford hall 

“i’m still waiting for them to tell me what it means.” 

Emily Dargen 
senior 
off-campus 
“i thought it sounded like a brand of birth control.” 



Ned Vara 
senior 
sorin college 
“what is this?” 



Want your event included here? 

News Photo 
margaret hynds Zach llorens Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen 
Sports 
rachel o’grady 
Zach Klonsinski Graphics alex carson 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu renee griffin 
Viewpoint 
Halls Open for DomerFest Halls Open for Men’s Soccer vs. First Day of Classes 
austin Taliaferro 
Freshmen Rolfs Sports and Undergraduates Saint Louis for Undergraduates Campus-wide Recreation Center Campus-wide Alumni Stadium Campus-wide 9 a.m. 10:30 p.m.-1 a.m. 9 a.m. 7 p.m. All day 
Corrections 
Welcome Weekend Annual party for Move-in for all The Irish take on Saint Classes start for all 
The observer regards itself as kickoff. freshmen. students. Louis. students. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Soccer vs. “The Winter’s Tale” Women’s Soccer vs. “Love’s Labor Lost” Opening Mass and 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Valparaiso DeBartolo Performing Toldeo Main Building Picnic 
however, recognize that we will make 
Alumni Stadium Arts Center Alumni Stadium 7:30 p.m-9 p.m. Joyce Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m. 2 p.m-4 p.m. 3 p.m. Part of the Notre Dame 5:30 p.m-8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on Part of the Notre Dame The Irish take on Shakespeare Festival. Annual kickoff 
we can correct our error. 
Valparaiso. Shakespeare Festival. Toledo. activities for the year. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer 

ND rolls out changes to Welcome Weekend 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
This time each year, campus receives about 2,000 recent high school graduates from across the united states and the world, eager to begin their new lives as college students at the university of notre dame. 
as in years past, notre dame will host a variety of activities and programming throughout the weekend to help students acclimate to their new environ­ment. but new this year, the division of student affairs and First year of studies (Fys) has rechristened the weekend for­merly known as “Frosh-o” to “welcome weekend.” 
“This weekend is about wel­coming students to campus, making them feel at home, mak­ing them know where they’re go­ing to get their food, who their roommate is, that they’ll have friends, that life will be o.k. and to welcome them to thenotredame family – spiritually, physically, academically,” elly brenner, as­sistant dean of Fys, said. 
brenner, who sat on the over­sight committee responsible for redesigning freshman orienta­tion weekend, said the weekend’s new format will streamline the process of introducing students to the notre dame community without overwhelming them with unnecessary information. 
many of the weekend’s activi­ties are the same as or similar to previous years because the committee wanted to preserve meaningful campus traditions, brenner said. however, she said students will spend less time than before sitting and listening to long speeches from a “talking head.” 
“we’re doing a trip to the grot­to, we have mass … but we’re not getting down into the really deep weeds of if you want to go study abroad, do you need your immu­nizations?” brenner said. “The parents need that information, the students don’t.” 
in addition to the first year mass and grotto trip, other welcome weekend activities in­clude a campus-wide welcome from university president Fr. John Jenkins followed by a cook out, the launch of the moreau First year experience course, a dance party/festival known as “domerFest” and a variety of op­tional events occurring all week­end, according to information provided on the new welcome weekend mobile app. 
brenner said the timing of Fr. Jenkins’s welcome address to freshmen is a significant change to welcome weekend programming. 
“Fr. Jenkins will be welcom­ing everyone to the university on Friday night, whereas it used to be saturday around lunchtime,” brenner said. “somewhat like [how] commencement is the last thing that students do here on campus, this will be the first thing that they do here, before anything else.” 
paulmanrique, program direc­tor of new student engagement in the division of student affairs, said the agenda for the weekend was designed to incorporate the best elements from previous years while also introducing new programming intended to en­sure “that every student is feeling the same sort of welcome when they get to campus.” 
beyond standardizing the ex­perience of first years upon arriv­ing to campus, the restructured weekend will also highlight the fundamental characteris­tics of a notre dame education, manrique said. 
“one of the big things that we’re trying to push this year is that when you have a student leave notre dame, [we] want them to be able to articulate, ‘these are the talking points for what i experienced from a holy cross education,’” manrique said. 
he said one of the weekend’s particular points of emphasis is notre dame’s strong academic tradition. 
saturday morning, freshmen will meet with their instructors for the first class of the moreau First year experience course, and according to manrique, the course, which is new for the 2015­16 academic year, will continue the orientation process after welcome weekend. 
“it’s tough to say that a student who’s 17 or 18 coming from high school to campus can be orient­ed to college life over the course of four days,” he said. “but what we hope to do with that moreau First year experience course is give them the opportunity to ex­tend that orientation throughout the entirety of one year.” 
one facet of orientation weekend that remains nearly unchanged is the variety of ac­tivities and traditions students participate in through their 


By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
belles beginnings, saint mary’s traditional first-year orientation weekend, began Friday morning when new students moved into their residence halls. 
activities for the weekend in­clude various discussion groups with peer mentors, icebreakers with resident assistants (ras) and other activities to help first-years get acclimated to living on campus. 
student government association (sga) president Kaitlyn baker said orientation week encourages every new stu­dent break out of her shell while helping her to fit in and feel at home at saint mary’s. 
“orientation is a great way to help transition a high school stu­dent into a college woman,” baker said. “it gives her confidence to be on her own and promotes inde­pendence by providing her with the tools and resources she needs for a successful four years.” 
baker said the events and activ­ities are similar to those of years past with traditional events such as belles bash and domerfest, as well as a “playfair,” coordinated by a professional team-build­ing company bearing the same name. 
“we will also be having pre­fest, an event to gather the new students together before heading to domerfest,” she said. 
“it will be filled with music, food and pointers to get them through the night, and the rest of college, from the people who have been there before.” 
morgan dahnke, an ra in mccandless hall, stressed the importance of having hall staff available to freshmen throughout orientation weekend. 
“[First-years] will have a lot of questions about the sessions they will be attending, and we want to be around to talk with them about it,” dahnke said. 
according to baker, the closing of the circle ceremony, a college tradition that gathers the newest belles to begin their college expe­rience and life together, will take place saturday evening. 
“we express the value and importance of our core values 
— faith, justice, learning, and community — and how they will impact a belle’s life at saint mary’s and beyond,” baker said. “The closing of the circle symbol­izes the connection of the new students to one another. 
“it shows that we are one com­munity, all sisters, and we have one another’s backs and will sup­port them and cheer for them throughout our four years. The circle remains closed until the fi­nal days of their senior year when they participate in the opening the circle ceremony.” 
dahnke said her best advice for new freshman is to take ad­vantage of events happening on campus. 
“you can make your college ex­perience whatever you want it to be,” she said. “have fun, get in­volved and make new friends.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
residence halls. 
“The format that we’re go­ing for within the hall is pretty much the same, there’s just a few small changes, but overall it’s go­ing to be the same look and feel as Frosh-o used to be, only now it’s the new name — or the new brand if you will — of welcome weekend,” ned vogel, welcome weekend captain for st. edward’s hall, said. 
melaina lasalle, captain for breen-phillips hall, said each hall has a strong sense of spirit and dorm pride, which helps incoming students feel at home within a few days of arriving to campus. 
“we have all these events with other dorms that the welcome weekend captains are in charge of planning, and that covers building relationships among upcoming student body,” she said. “i think that’s the best way to really welcome someone is the community, is making sure that they really feel comfortable and that they have friends and that they see that they’re going to build some really strong rela­tionships in the four years that they’re there.” 
lasalle said that more impor­tant than the weekend’s line-up of events to making new students feel welcome in their new envi­ronment is the tight-knit com­munity within the residence halls and across campus. 
“notre dame kids are all so great and all so welcoming,” she said. “honestly, just reach out to anyone and most likely they will be willing to help. and i think that’s something that is really comforting. 
“That’s something i figured out my first week at notre dame was that the people take away any nervousness you might have right away because they are all so helpful. and it’s also good to be helpful back because it just really builds the community factor.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 
smc first-years participate in belles beginnings 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer 



SGA focuses on enhancing campus community 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
members of the saint mary’s college student government association (sga) spent their summers working on ways to incor­porate the college’s theme of “community” into the group’s programming for the upcoming school year. 
“we have a ton of goals for this year,” sga vice president madeline Kohler said. “our committee members have worked very hard this sum­mer to get a jump start on planning and organizing dif­ferent events and big weeks to make this happen.” 
The first campus-wide event is an american-themed belles bash and will take place sunday, august 23, fea­turing food, games, music and giveaways throughout the night, Kohler said. The event is open to holy cross and notre dame students as well, she said. 
“in addition to bringing the smc campus together, we re­ally want to unite the tri­campus community,” Kohler said. 
Keeping with the theme of community, Kohler said sga is making a strong effort to get more diverse representa­tion within the association. by creating the community Justice committee to re­place the international committee, sga will bring together underrepresented groups on campus, she said. 
“The international com­mittee only spoke to our international students on campus,” Kohler said. “and while they are very impor­tant to us, we want to focus on all diverse members of saint mary's — therefore re­naming it the community Justice committee, where we will bring underrepresented groups on campus together 
“In addition to bringing the SMC campus together, we really want to unite the tri-campus community.” 
Maddie Kohler 
SGA vice president 
such as students with disabil­ities, transfer students, in­ternational students, lgbTQ and minority groups.” 
Kohler encouraged students to participate in up­coming campus events that sga has planned 
“students can get involved in sga by being on a com­mittee within our organi­zation such as First year concerns, social concerns, Food, community Justice, sustainability, mission, community, Technology and market and media. students can learn more about these committees and get involved at student involvement Fair on august 25 at 5 p.m.,” she said. 

Kohler said sga hopes to involve more students in the association by being more transparent to the smc community. 
“we want to be open and honest with the students of saint mary's and inform them of important events going on around campus,” she said. “we also want to address the problems and concerns that the smc community has by encouraging students to come to our senate meetings, which will be town hall style, so all students can express and discuss their ideas, prob­lems, and concerns. 
“we really want to unite the campus together, from freshman to seniors and re­ally focus on the saint mary's community. we want to get as many belles involved as possible and it would be awe­some to see students support sga by showing up the these events that we work so hard to plan for the students and community.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Reckers fire causes dining hall evacuation 
spokesperson dennis brown there. The fire was contained. ladder that allowed us to get the rest of the dining hall
By JACK ROONEY 
managing editor said there were no injuries [There was] a lot of smoke, but up above the shaft to find out reopened. and no damage to the dining no damage in the building what was going on," brown about 65 dining hall em-
at about 10:30 a.m. hall building, though there itself." said ployees were held outside the Thursday, a small fire in the may be some damage to the The notre dame Fire The cause of the fire could building until shortly before chimney of reckers cafe restaurant's pizza oven. department (ndFd) also not be determined immedi-11:30 a.m., when ndFd al­caused an approximately "There was a fire in the called in the south bend and ately, brown said, but the in-lowed them to re-enter. hour-long evacuation of south chimney shaft above the clay fire departments for cident is under investigation. dining hall. reckers restaurant," brown support. reckers remained closed af-Contact Jack Rooney at 
at the scene, university said. "There’s a pizza oven in "They assisted with a large ter the fire for the day, while jrooney1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 





SMC President Mooney announces retirement 
deeply about the good of evidence that the work be-mission of the college. student saw her and ran back 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor this community, and i trust ing done here is important “so many people carry the into the dressing room, re-
that will expand to the vari-work. “ responsibility to keep the turning with a library book. 
saint mary’s president ous communities you will mooney said as an alumna special mission of the sisters mooney said the student carol ann mooney will take inhabit as you move through and an administrator, saint of the holy cross central to opened the back of the book part in her final first-year your lives. mary’s has become a huge the college and [work] to to show her the card, which orientation this week af-“you thrive on the chal-part of her identity. ensure that saint mary’s listed the due dates. 
ter an announcement in 
June that she will retire as 
the college’s 11th president 
when her contract ends may 
31, 2016. 
reflecting on her time at 
the college, mooney said she 
will miss the students most. 
“one of the great joys of “it will be important, continues to thrive because “she took out the card 

however, especially in the of the excellence of the ex-and showed me my signa­
first year of my retirement perience that it offers to our ture, indicating that i had 
to distance myself from the students. checked out the book. she 
college and allow the next “i hope you will look back also showed me the month 
president room to establish on your time here and be-and day that i was required 
her, or his, priorities,” she lieve that saint mary’s has to return the book and said 
said. “having a fresh set of helped you to become the she was due to return the 
eyes assess the needs of the best possible version of book on the same date. 
being president at a small college is to be able to inter­act with the students,” she said. “you are fascinating young women who really are preparing to make a differ­ence in the world. you care lenges posed to you by your professors and leave here prepared to meet the chal­lenges that await you. you are smart, thoughtful, ambi­tious, funny, faith-filled and joyous people. you are the college can only improve saint mary’s.” 
mooney said she hopes students remember her as one person in a long line of dedicated individuals who work to spread and live the yourself.” 
one moment mooney will always remember was af­ter a theatre production of “macbeth.” she said she waited after the show to greet the actors, and one 
“Then she looked at me and said, ‘maybe someday i will be president of saint mary’s, too.’” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
nd reserves spots in grad program for smc students 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
saint mary’s students hoping to improve their teamwork and business skills can now look no further than across the street, as notre dame announced this summer that it will guarantee four seats in its master of science in management (msm) program for graduates of the college. 
Tori wilbraham, a 2015 saint mary’s graduate who earned acceptance to this year’s msm program, said she enjoys collab­orating with her 48 classmates. 
“one of the best parts of the program is the cohort atmo­sphere,” wilbraham said. “Just like the business world, team­work is essential for being suc­cessful. working with a team and learning from one another has been one of the most excit­ing and rewarding parts.” 
according to wilbraham, this particular 10-month program offers a unique educational experience because it teaches technical skills that will make students more marketable. 
“getting to be a part of the notre dame family while pursu­ing a graduate degree is some­thing that makes notre dame’s msm program so special and really so valuable,” wilbraham said. “The reputation of the mendoza college of business and alumni network at the university of notre dame made my decision a no-brainer. 
“i knew that if i wanted to en­ter the business world, going to itself from others like it because it does not require an under­graduate business degree. 
“Knowing that this program exists for a saint mary’s stu­dent four years down the road can make saint mary’s very attractive, especially to those parents who worry a bit about their daughter following her passion in a non-business ma­jor,” Fleming said. “we are very confident that the combination of studies proposed by this part­nership will be ideal for some of our students.” 
Fleming said both notre dame and saint mary’s will ben­efit from this new policy. 
“saint mary’s students are al­ready familiar with notre dame because of the co-exchange program. There would be an easy transition for our students who wish to stay in the area for their graduate education,” dr. Fleming said. “notre dame’s msm program will be blessed with smart, articulate, confident graduate students with an eager­ness to learn a very new field.” 
wilbraham also said students who receive undergraduate de­grees from saint mary’s are pre­pared to take on the challenge of the msm program. 
“having a liberal arts back­ground is such a valuable thing, and with my new business acu­men, i will be more marketable,” wilbraham said. “programs like the msm are so valuable be­cause they are full of students who have studied what they loved and want to enhance their 
Ricketts, Ruelas prepare for upcoming year 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
student body president bryan ricketts and vice presi­dent nidia ruelas said aug. 11 the student government team has been working on several events and initiatives that will affect the incoming freshmen class, from individual events to year-long programs. 
ricketts said one of the first events will be a Quad market during welcome weekend, a program that began in the spring. 
“we’re bringing in a ton of off-campus vendors, and all the parents will still be here, the students will be here,” he said. “it’ll be set up on north Quad, and it’ll be a great op­portunity to introduce fresh­men to the community, right off the bat, all the great re­sources we have to offer.” 
he said a “celebrity scoop” event will introduce freshmen to campus celebrities, includ­ing faculty from athletics and campus ministry. 
ruelas said student govern­ment will also be sponsoring coffee hours for students to get to know faculty on a more personal level. 
“we’ll give them a $10 gift card to go get coffee with pro­fessors,” she said. “it’s really great to get to know your pro­fessors and that’s something we want all students to do.” 
student government will also be sponsoring a dorm week, which will begin the week of sept. 13, to encourage new students to make friends outside of their own residence halls, ricketts said. 
“our team has been working really hard to make this hap­pen,” ruelas said. “sometimes it’s difficult to get to know people in different dorms be­cause in the first week you’re mostly in your dorm. ... This will be a great way to get to know other people in other dorms and upperclassmen.” 
ruelas said a recsports opening night is also in the works to introduce students to health and wellness re­sources on campus, and that student government will also host a reception with information about the First undergraduate experience in leadership (Fuel). 
“This reception is specifi­cally geared towards fresh­men, it’s to make sure they know the different options there are for them to get in­volved,” ruelas said. “it’s a little more focused than for example, activities, where you have lots of clubs and activi­ties. This is specifically about getting involved in leadership on campus, like freshmen class council and the student union board. it’s geared to­ward guiding students to find out what their interests are and figure out what they want to do.” 
ricketts said Fuel, which will be led by student direc­tors madi purrenhage and michael Finan, can be a help­ful way for freshmen to share their individual talents and interests; increasing aware­ness of students’ identities was one of the platforms in the ricketts-ruelas campaign. 
“while Fuel isn’t explic­itly about diversity or identity, when you really get down to it, the way madi and michael are approaching this is try­ing to take the strengths every student has and build upon them,” he said. “whether that comes from your back­ground or your interests or your involvement back in high school, it’s really about celebrating who you are now and where you’re going to go from here.” 
ricketts said he wants to make sure they feel welcome to be leaders on campus. 
“when we’re here working on issues for notre dame, it’s not good if a quarter of stu­dents are not talking to us. our door is always open up here in laFun.” 
ruelas also encouraged students to bring questions and concerns to student government. 
“we’ll have office hours that we’ll send out to the en­tire student body, so that they can come in and talk to us, once a week,” she said. “even if a freshman just wants to get know us, that’s perfectly fine. we have a Keurig, and they can come get a cup of coffee with us and have a conversa­tion with us — we’re always open to that.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
notre dame would give me a education by spending a year great network of supporters.” doing something completely 
saint mary’s provost and se-different.” nior vice president of academic affairs, dr. patricia Fleming, Contact Martha Reilly at said this program distinguishes mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Badin, Carroll Halls welcome new rectors 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
as notre dame welcomes the start of another school year, two residence halls wel­come new rectors. sr. susan sisko of badin hall and Fr. matt Kuczora of carroll hall will take on new roles in the community as leaders and mentors of students in the dorms. 
margaret morgan, di­rector of residential life recruiting, said that when hiring new rectors, she looks for people who will provide care and support to stu­dents throughout all of life’s situations. 
“we search for people who will see their work as a min­istry,” morgan said. “i think that new rectors impact the notre dame community with a fresh energy and zeal for their work in the halls.” 
according to a press re­lease from the office of student affairs, sr. sisko is a connecticut native who earned a bachelor’s degree in psychology from duquesne and a master’s degree in theology from notre dame in 1991. she has worked as a teacher and administrator in various catholic schools and institutions for over 25 years. 
sisko said she worked with young adults for number of years in previous jobs and is excited for the chance to return to the university and work with its students. 
“i’m most looking forward to meeting the young wom­en of badin hall and walk­ing with them day by day,” sisko said. “i hope to share life with these young women and help them be the people god is intending them to be, whether they are beginning or completing their journeys at notre dame. To see these students grow and mature, and to be even a small part of that experience, will be so rewarding to me.” 
she said hopes to continue to foster the healthy commu­nity in badin built up by her predecessors. 
“i know that badin has tra­ditionally been a hall that takes pride in its warm, lov­ing community,” sisko said. “my goal is simply to build upon the foundation that was placed here before me. i hope use my energy, my enthu­siasm and all of my gifts to continue and add to badin’s great history and traditions.” 
Fr. matt Kuczora graduat­ed from notre dame in 2005 with a degree in account­ing and again in 2011 with a master of divinity, according to a press release from the office of student affairs. he was ordained a priest in the 
congregation of holy  cross  
in 2011.  
Kuczora  said  that  holy  

cross priests and brothers have been serving as rectors at the university since its beginnings. 
“as a holy cross priest, i can live out my religious or­der’s mission to be an ‘edu­cator in the faith’ in a 24/7 role that impacts the lives of the future leaders of our so­ciety,” Kuczora said. “when i had a chance to apply for a position like that, i didn’t think twice about it.” 
Kuczora said he remembered feeling incred­ibly welcomed since his first day as a freshman at the university and served as a resident assistant during his senior year. 
“The dorm experience cre­ated a powerful network of brothers that remain some of my best friends to this day,” Kuczora said. “as the new rector of carroll hall, i’m most looking forward to passing on that great experi­ence to future generations of notre dame students.” 
he said he hopes to contin­ue to promote the environ­ment of welcome and respect he experienced during his time as an undergraduate student. 
“my favorite part of the notre dame dorm system is the way we welcome all peo­ple and invite them to create lasting bonds of friendship and even of family,” Kuczora said. “i hope that residents find their dorm to be a place where they don’t have to per­form or be perfect, where they can be themselves and be accepted just as they are.” 
morgan said she believes the new rectors will have a positive impact on the unviersity community. 
“Fr. matt and sr. susan bring a wealth of rich min­istry experience with them,” morgan said. “i think their time in both badin and carroll will be filled with laughter as they work to­wards our holy cross mission of cultivating hearts and minds.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
Indiana Attorney General sides with ESPN in appeal 
Observer Staff Report 
The hesburgh libraries re­ceived the largest donation in its history, a $10 million gift from the marilyn & rudolph m. navari charitable Foundation that will be used to further develop the libraries’ digital services, the university announced in a press release Friday. 
The donation will fund the renovation of what will be the navari Family center for digital scholarship at the hesburgh library, part of ongoing renova­tions. part of the gift will also be used to “establish an endowment to support digital library services and research projects related to the center,” the press release stated. 
“i am deeply grateful to rudy and Jane navari and their fam­ily’s foundation for this gener­ous gift,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in the release. “it recognizes the importance of a library for any university com­munity and the centrality of the hesburgh libraries for notre dame. This gift will allow us to expand and enhance our library services through digital technol­ogy to support the critical work of scholars now and in the future.” 
sotomayor to speak on campus 
Observer Staff Report 
u.s. supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor will speak on notre dame’s campus on sept. 2, university president Fr. John Jenkinsannouncedwednesday. 
nbc news correspondent and university trustee anne Thompson willjoinsotomayorin a discussion of “a wide range of is­sues”moderatedbyfellowtrustee and u.s. court of appeals Judge ann claire williams, according to theuniversity press release. 
according to the release, the event, which is sponsored by the office of the president, notre dame law school and the institute for latino studies, will be free and open to the public. The doors to leighton concert hall atdebartoloperformingarts center will open at 6 p.m. and the event will run from 7 to 8:15. 
sotomayor will also speak with smaller groups of faculty and stu­dents while on campus, the press release stated. 
a bronx, new york native, sotomayor received degrees from princeton and yale uni­versities, and has served on the supreme court since 2009 after her nomination for the position bypresidentobama. 

Observer Staff Report 
indiana attorney general greg Zoeller is on espn’s side. 
in a 26-page amicus brief filed last Thursday, the state’s chief legal officer came out in support of espn in its appeal of an april st. Joseph superior court rul­ing that notre dame security police (ndsp) is not subject to indiana’s public records access law. 
“a police officer is per­haps the quintessential public employee, cloaked in the authority of the state to investigate, detain, arrest, incarcerate, carry and dis­charge a firearm, and gen­erally maintain the safety of the citizenry,” the brief stated. “The notion that a po­lice department exercising these core state powers can be shielded from public scru­tiny by dint of its affiliation with a private university is antithetical to the important policy interests underlying the access to public records act.” 
in a press release, Zoeller said his office supports the opinions handed down by indiana public access counselor luke britt, whose non-binding opinions said ndsp ought to release its re­cords to the public. 
“The state takes the legal position that transparency is needed in the exercise of police power in order to maintain the public’s trust,” Zoeller said in the release. 
“disclosing that a possible crime occurred and convey­ing basic pertinent informa­tion helps inform and protect the public and creates more transparency and account­ability within the criminal justice system.” 
in october, espn report­er paula lavigne request­ed ndsp records, but was denied. in January, espn filed its initial lawsuit in st. Joseph superior court to ob­tain the records, and on april 20, a judge ruled in favor of notre dame. The court of appeals will rule on the case at a later date, according to the attorney general’s press release. 
university spokesperson dennis brown declined to comment Tuesday. 
Library receives record donation 


ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer 

class of 2019 and friend of dame for their sophomore 
sMC 2019 
Classmate Townsend, pamela udoye 
transfer 
year as long as they maintain conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
said the actual fundraising 
a 3.5 grade point average. was only part of their goal to 
while at holy cross, gateway wanted to do something for spread rebecca’s legacy. 
from finished. she, like many students take some classes at 
16 different countries includ­her, let people know how great “we shared her story with 
other students, decided to ap-notre dame as well as par­
ing vietnam, Japan and Zambia, she was,” she said. as many friends and family as 
ply to transfer in the fall semes-ticipate in clubs, research and 
dvorak said. according to reynolds, a possible because rebecca was 
ter of her sophomore year. various activities, easing their 
The class also represents a num­group of freshmen wanted to such a special and amazing 
according to erin camilleri, transition to full-time notre 
ber of racial and ethnic minority do something tangible to cel-person,” udoye said. 
associate director of dame students. 
groups including latina, african ebrate their friend. Freshman sophomore Travis gayle 
undergraduate admissions, “The gateway program is 
american, asian, american nick bufalino suggested cre-also helped spread the word 
25 percent of the 640 students a really exciting program be­
indian or alaskan native and ating and selling a bracelet about the bracelet fundraiser 
who applied to transfer to cause all of the students have 
native hawaiian or pacific in rebecca’s memory to ben-on social media and said the 
notre dame this past year were all the benefits of a four-year 
islander, dvorak said. efit she’s The First, a charity experience demonstrated 
admitted. one hundred and notre dame experience,” 
“The diversity represented in granting scholarships to im-the power of the notre dame 
twenty-nine have enrolled, Koscielski said. 
this class will undoubtedly im­poverished girls in developing community to come together 
resulting in a 79 percent yield nicholas pittman took 
pact the saint mary's community countries. Townsend worked for a common cause. 
rate, with students from across part in the gateway program 
in a variety of ways,” dvorak said. closely with she’s The First, “as a freshman, coming in 
the country and around the alongside Koscielski. 
“They represent a large spectrum and started a chapter of the or-was intimidating whether 
world. “i transferred because that 
of socioeconomic, geographic, ganization at her high school. anyone admits it or not," gayle 
Fifty-six percent of incom-was the plan from the begin-
racial and ethnic categories, but “as soon as we heard about said. "This was one of the sil­
ing transfers are male and 44 ning,” pittman said. “i had 
they also bring a wide array of di­the loss of rebecca, our class-ver linings in a cloud that gave 
percent are female, and most wanted to attend notre dame 
verse backgrounds, perspectives, mate, the class of 2019 knew me a chance to show the fresh-
transfer students ranked with-for quite some time, and af­
experiences and academic and that we wanted to do some-man that what we exemplify 
in the top 10 percent of their ter not being pulled off of the 
co-curricular interests.” thing to honor and celebrate is family and togetherness at 
high school class, camilleri wait list my senior year, i knew 
accepted students display a va­the selfless love that rebecca notre dame." 
said. this program would be the 
riety of talents, both academic and embodied,” bufalino said. in addition to the brace­
“i’m always impressed best way to do so. spending a 
extracurricular. The incoming bufalino said they raised let campaign, the class of 
with the students who choose great deal of time on campus 
class includes women who have money for the brace-2019 will make a quilt with 
to transfer to notre dame,” and across the street fresh-
founded philanthropic organiza­lets through the website messages of support for the 
camilleri said. “so many bring man year only solidified that 
tions, entrepreneurs, musicians, goFundme. classmates raised Townsend family in memory 
a passion and enthusiasm for desire.” 
artists and athletes, dvorak said. more than $4,600, bufalino of Townsend as part of official 
all that notre dame offers, gateway students were 
“we look for academically said, and they plan to sell the welcome weekend program-
and they take full advantage chosen from his or her under-
talented students who have wristbands for $3 each at the ming. on sunday from 1:30 
of their time here, including graduate applications to the 
challenged themselves in the start of the school year. to 5:30 p.m, the quilt will be 
study abroad, research, intern-university, eliminating any 
classroom, achieved academically "The positive reception and assembled in a tent on north 
ships, as well as countless clubs need for additional applica­
and who strive for social justice, support from the notre dame Quad and all members of 
and organizations.  Their paths tions their freshman year at 
equality and human dignity,” family has truly been over-the class of 2019 community 
may vary, but they all lead to holy cross. 
dvorak said. “we want students whelming,” he said. “as a first are welcomed to participate. 
the same place, home to nd.” “i cannot find words to ac-
who will flourish at saint mary's generation student at notre Townsend will also be com-
Koscielski transferred into curately articulate my excite­
— who will appreciate the benefits dame, i am so thankful to memorated at the first year 
the university through the ment for this coming year,” 
of an all-women's college and who be part of a community that mass welcoming new students 
gateway program, a program Koscielski said. “i am very 
will value the opportunity to ex-goes beyond the call of duty on aug. 23. 
in which students enroll at grateful for all of the connec­
plore and discover their passions to show genuine support in a 
holy cross college for their tions, experiences and op-
and potential in the world. time of need." Contact J.P. Gschwind at  
freshman year and are guar-portunities i have gained over 
“i have no doubt that the saint another member of the jgschwin@nd.edu 
anteed admission into notre this past year, and i am excit­
mary's community can only ben­ed for all of the ones that are to 
efit from the opportunity to learn 
paid adverTisemenT 
come.” 
from this incredible class.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  
Contact Nicole Caratas at avale@nd.edu 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
“we are enrolling people 
Nd 2019 
who want to come to nd and 
conTinued From page 1 
develop a sense of purpose 
and have an impact during the students who aspire to their life,” bishop said. join the notre dame family,” The class of 2019 produced a bishop said. yield rate of 56 percent, which 
according to the admissions measures how many stu­office, notre dame uses a ho-dents actually enrolled in the listic admission process that university after acceptance. considers students for their ex-“all by itself, that is a very ceptional academic and intel-high number, and among the lectual promise and creativity, best in the nation, but it also as well as their leadership and up from 53% last year," mundy entrepreneurial records and said. "This reflects my staff's sense of service to others. great attention to identifying 
“This is another great class students who are good 'fits' for entering notre dame, selected notre dame." from a record-breaking appli-“i chose notre dame after cant pool," bob mundy, direc-a revelation,"Kevin dingens, tor of admissions, said. "as in an incoming freshman, said. the past they are academically The fact that notre dame gifted, ready to engage our fac-touched me so deeply ... is a ulty in all areas. what is also testament to the extent of the important to us is the charac-university's reach into the ter and spirit that they bring to facets of your life past gradu­campus. ation. The first class athletic, 
"This class is full of students social, and overall academic with many great gifts. i always notre dame experience lasts like to remind them that notre beyond graduation to form an dame is a place which will en-alumni community that is as courage them to develop and strong as the student body it-grow those gifts, but that the self. i want to be a part of that value of those gifts is not fully community.” realized until they are shared with others — and they do that Contact Rachel O’Grady at in so many ways.” rogrady@nd.edu 






paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

iNsidE ColuMN 
push for more 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
love thee notre dame. 
members of the class of 2019, you will hear those words countless times over the next four years, everywhere from The alma mater to instagram posts. 
notre dame and saint mary’s are places worthy and deserving of our love. The pro­fessors, administrators, staff and students that make up these institutions will have a profound impact on you that will last far beyond your time on campus. For that, they should be loved. 
but how should we show our affection for this place, our home? 
we can cheer on our sports teams. we can perform well in the classroom. we can form lasting friendships in our dorms. all of these are wonderful examples of ways to give back to notre dame and saint mary’s. 
yet sometimes, showing our love will require a little more effort and discomfort. sometimes, we need to acknowledge fail­ures, both personal and institutional. 
The beginning of each school year brings promise of fresh beginnings and new reso­lutions. and for these promises to come to fruition, we need someone to call us out on our mistakes. 
here at welcome weekend, mistakes and failures may seem like unnecessarily gloomy talk when you are embarking on a new exciting stage of your life. but as any graduate or rising senior will tell you, time flies here. welcome weekend will become senior week faster than you could possibly imagine. 
don’t let that happen without making your mark. challenge yourself, challenge your friends, challenge your professors and challenge this university and this college to become better. we can always be better. 
if you truly love notre dame, you should not be afraid to occasionally criticize when it deserves to be criticized, just as you should be quick to praise when it merits praise. anyone who equates suggestions for improvement with disloyalty does not understand that notre dame and saint mary’s are not infallible. 
here at The observer, we hope to pro­vide you with a forum for making these suggestions. These pages are yours to fill. whether you write a letter to the editor (something i encourage everyone to do) or join a club or organization devoted to better serving our local community and beyond, you will find your way into the pages of our paper, because we are dedi­cated to covering the people who make a difference. 
and when we inevitably fall short of our own high standards, let us know how we can do better. we exist only to serve you. 
so welcome, class of 2019. i sincerely hope you learn to love thee, notre dame. love thee for what it is, and for what it can be. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttErs to thE Editor 
‘You are Notre Dame’ 
i extend a warm welcome to all new and return­ing notre dame students. whether you are arriv­ing on campus for the first time or returning after a summer away, we are very glad you are here. 
as we celebrate the new academic year, i invite you to attend the campus-wide opening mass on Tuesday, august 25, at 5:30 p.m. in purcell pavilion. please join me on this important occa­sion, as we gather as a community, welcome new members and ask god’s blessing on our endeavors this year. Following mass, there will be a picnic on north Quad, where music and entertainment are planned. all are welcome. 
The university of notre dame’s mission is distinctive. we strive to offer an undergradu­ate education of the whole person — mind, body and spirit — that is second to none. we cultivate scholarly excellence, and we advance human understanding through top-tier research and post-baccalaureate programs. in all that we do, we ensure the catholic identity of notre dame informs our efforts. 
as you know, the university has a rich history. generations of notre dame graduates have been shaped by their experiences here, and they, in turn, have left their mark on the university. we invite you to do the same, to be part of notre dame’s present as well as its future. individually and collectively, you have tremendous talents and gifts to share. i hope you will take every day, ev­ery place on this campus and every conversation with professors or classmates as an opportunity to engage, learn and grow. you are notre dame. 
once again, welcome. i wish you every grace and blessing. 
Fr. John Jenkins 
president university of notre dame aug. 20 
An Irish greeting 
welcome, class of 2019. 
on behalf of the student body, we’re excited to see you all on campus. amidst all of this construc­tion, i’d invite you to take some time to think about something else being built here on campus — your selves. 
it’s important to remember what you’ve already brought with you — supportive parents and men­tors, top-notch education and a commitment to serving others. you’ve also got a strong commu­nity. even before you had met one another, your compassionate response to the death of rebecca Townsend showed your care and your strength. 
now that you’re here, you have the opportunity to build on all of this. attending this university is a unique time to discover the things that are im­portant to you — those that spark your imagination and those that challenge your ways of thinking. don’t shy away from this challenge. your peers will support you in this journey, in classrooms and in residence halls, but you’ll also find support from the many committed faculty and staff across this campus. 
i encourage you to get involved, try new things and to take time to reflect as you begin this ex­perience. whether your interests lie with student government where you can join Fuel, Freshman class council or the student union board, or if you would like to join a choir or book club on campus, take the time to explore and make the most out of this opportunity to learn and grow. 
student government staff will be around campus in the coming days welcoming you all and working in the office. Feel free to drop by 203 laFortune to visit me, nidia ruelas (the vice president) and the rest of the staff. if you’ve got ideas about how to make notre dame better, we’d love to talk with you. 
best wishes for your time here, and once again, welcome. 
Bryan Ricketts 
student body president university of notre dame aug. 20 
Editorial CartooN 

lEttErs to thE Editor 
experience the real saint mary’s 
on behalf of the faculty and staff at saint mary’s college, i extend a warm welcome to the class of 2019, our transfer students and the first graduate students to attend saint mary’s since the 1960s. as an alumna of saint mary’s and its 11th president, i understand how powerful this experience will be for you. your time here will be spent in a rigorous academic environment that will both challenge and support you. our faculty, staff and administration are accessible and eager to help make your transition to col­lege life successful. 
as a holy cross institution, we emphasize the education of the whole person. your collegiate experience includes both the time you spend in the classroom and the many hours that you are not in class. every co-curricular activity will enhance your experience here, and i encourage you to participate in as many activities as time and your academic schedule permit. 
one of my aspirations for you is that you will develop a sense of obligation to the common good and that your entire life and work will reflect that understanding. if this happens for you, then you, too, will have experienced the real saint mary’s, the saint mary’s that i and over 18,000 alumnae around the world experi­enced during our time here. 
our proud 170-year tradition of educating students to make a difference in the world now includes you. it is your turn to make history at saint mary’s college, and i know that you will change us for the better. i look forward to ac­companying you on this exciting journey. 
Carol Ann Mooney 
president saint mary’s college aug. 20 
Leading Notre Dame in new directions 
dear new students, 
like generations who came before, you are embarking on a journey at the university of notre dame where you will have an opportu­nity to advance your knowledge, develop your leadership skills, deepen your faith, learn from others and form lifelong friendships. whether you are a first-year undergraduate, transfer, professional or graduate student, we are de­lighted that you have chosen to join our com­munity, and i extend a warm welcome to you as you begin this formative time in your life. 
i hope notre dame challenges you in many ways. your professors, your rector, your advi­sors and your classmates will encourage you to stretch yourself intellectually and develop on a spiritual and personal level. Take these op­portunities to find a passion that matches your talents and allows you to lead a purposeful life. dare to be different, yet be respectful and wel­coming to all. have a wonderful time, without engaging in behavior that would place you or others at risk. expect much of yourself, care for those in the community around you and reach out for support when needed. explore new things, while cherishing the people and traditions that matter. embrace notre dame’s distinctive catholic mission, and enrich your understanding of it through study and reflec­tion. contribute your own talents to improve the lives of others. 
much of your development at the university can and should occur on your own. at the same time, know that the division of student affairs is available to support you through our resi­dential communities and a variety of student service departments. rectors and members of our hall staffs across 29 undergraduate halls and two graduate and family residences are dedicated to building christian communities that are rooted in the holy cross tradition. The professionals who serve in campus ministry, the career center, the mcdonald center for student well-being, the office of community standards, the office of disability services, the gender relations center, graduate career services, graduate student life, multicultural student programs and services, recsports, the student activities office, the office of housing, the university counseling center, university health services and beyond, are trained to provide specialized services and programming that will complement your development. all of us are eager to smooth and enhance the road that you will travel during your time at notre dame, and i encourage you to seek our help along the way. 
i look forward to watching how your pres­ence, energy, and ideas renew and enhance our university. you will lead notre dame in new directions based on the paths that you pursue. may we all form a strong community and write the next chapter of this beloved institution together. 
Erin Hoffman-Harding 
vice president office of student affairs aug. 20 
A Belle Welcome 
welcome new belles! 
i am excited to finally have you all on campus. i hope you all had safe travels and a pleasant ar­rival. i imagine you are in a total frenzy. probably still trying to get organized, find your way around and meet new people all at the same time. it is an overwhelming and exciting time but try to remem­ber to pause every once in a while and really take it all in. you will never have these moments again. Trust me, as a senior, i can honestly say it is impor­tant to slow down, don’t rush anything and enjoy all of it. 
i hope you find that saint mary’s is going to be a great home for you. even if it doesn’t feel like home right away — which it won’t — give it time and before you know it you will be calling your mom and referring to school as home. 
but in order for saint mary’s to become your home, you must really invest yourselves here. remember to put yourself out there this year. Join clubs you have always wanted to be a part of, try out for the musical even if you’ve never been on stage, and introduce yourself to that girl whose planner you think is really cute (future best friends? i think yes!). 
college is a time to discover who you are, and saint mary’s is the perfect community to do just that. one thing i love about my fellow belles is how different and unique we all are and yet how united we are in our sisterhood here at saint mary’s. in our community we support each other, have fun together and are truly bonded as belles forever. 
i promise you saint mary’s will not disappoint you. here you will thrive, whether it is academi­cally, socially, athletically or artistically. you will learn so much about yourself, your desires and your capabilities. i am so excited to be part of your first year of self-discovery, and i wish you all the best in the years to follow. 
The avenue will always lead you home. 
Kaitlyn Baker 
student body president saint mary’s college aug. 20 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


impressive feat. 
Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
2. holy half 
put down the fro-yo and join 
notre dame has lots of tradi-the legions of runners making tions. duh. and perhaps some of endless circuits around the lakes. you freshmen think of yourselves who cares if the course is poorly as contrarians who won’t give marked and the weather makes into the peer pressure to fol-you want to cry, sweat and shiver low them all. but come on. This all at the same time? is notre dame. you have to do some. so let’s compromise. here 3. go to at least one game are some of the more off-beat of every sport bucket list items everyone at everyone loves football, and nd should cross off before they last year all eyes were on the graduate. men’s basketball team as it made 
it to the elite eight. but notre 
1. Chapel crawl dame athletics go far beyond 
There are 57 chapels on notre that. in pretty much every sport, dame’s campus. it’s hard enough the irish field a competitive squad to know where they all are, but with ncaa aspirations. They making it out to each one is an deserve your support, even if it 
TRAVEL THE WORLD WITH THE OBSERVER 
FOLLOW OUR NEW STUDY ABROAD BLOG, OBSERVER PASSPORT. LAUNCHING SEPT. 1 

means walking across campus. 
4. go to the Pool 
how this gem has remained hidden in south bend for so long is beyond us. Kick back and relax with great music and even better atmosphere. 
5. Eat lunch with Muffet 
muffet mcgraw is the most successful coach at notre dame right now. her teams have made it to five straight Final Fours. sometimes, she likes to pop into south dining hall for lunch with some of her players and sit with other students. learn every­thing from the finer points of the princeton offense to louboutins. 
6. go to Fr. Jenkins’s office hours 
our president is a busy man, understandably. so if you can grab a half-hour of his time to offer your ideas, pick his brain or just get to know him and shake his gand, you should jump at it. 
7. smoke a cigar at Fr. hesburgh’s grave 
meeting Fr. hesburgh used to be at the top of everyone’s bucket lists. now, pay your respects while enjoying one of his signa­ture pastimes. 
8. Capture a squirrel 
anyone can feed a squirrel. if you’re patient, you can even get one to eat out of your hand. but just imagine how thrilled your roommates will be when you 
paid adverTisemenT 
bring back a furry little friend. rabies? what’s rabies? 
9.Polar plunge 
This one’s for every painfully awkward joke someone makes about the cold when you say  you go to notre dame. 
10. get asked the Question of the day for the observer 
o.K., so this is a little self-serv­ing. but seriously, it’s a ticket to instant campus fame and a great way to show your friends how naturally hilarious you are. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.
    Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

y,
ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer 
Saint Mary’s hires head coach with local ties 

sMC VollEyBall 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s announced south bend native denise van de walle as its new volleyball head coach august 7, effective for the 2015 season. 
“growing up in south bend, i’ve been familiar with saint mary’s since high school,” van de walle said in a saint mary’s press release. “it has a wonder­ful reputation of excellence. i’m excited to be a part of it and very excited to be the belles’ new head volleyball coach.” 
van de walle, who most re­cently comes from a three-year stint as a notre dame volun­teer assistant coach, was a head coach at bowling green from 1983 through 2011, where in her 29 years at the helm, the Falcons won three mid-american conference championships, posting a 30-win campaign in 1992. she was named mac coach of the year on four separate occa­sions, and her teams at bowling green won 527 matches. 
as a player, van de walle was a four-year letter-winner at ball 
paid adverTisemenT 
state, where she was part of a team that set the cardinals pro­gram record for wins in a season. she stayed in muncie, indiana, to start her coaching career, win­ning the 1977 state champion­ship with northside high school, before returning to ball state as an assistant coach. a stint as an assistant at cal poly preceded her move to bowling green as head coach. 
also, van de walle was on the usa volleyball board of directors from 1998 to 2003 and served as the american volleyball coaches association president in 2001 during a seven-year stint on that organization’s board of directors. 
in addition to her work in col­legiate volleyball, van de walle was an assistant coach on the 2004 and 2008 u.s. women’s paralympic sitting volleyball teams, winning bronze in athens and silver in beijing. 
van de walle takes over a belles squad that finished 15-13 last season under Toni elyea, narrowly missing out on a spot in the miaa tournament through a tiebreaker after posting an 8-8 record in the conference. on the heels of the team’s winningest year during her six-year stint as belles head coach, elyea left saint mary’s in July to take the same position at belmont abbey, a division ii college in belmont, north carolina. 

in her first year at the helm, van de walle will have to cope with the loss of six seniors from last year’s squad, including all­miaa second team outside hit­ter Kati schneider. senior outside hitter Katie hecklinski, who was third on the team with 256 kills last year, returns, as well as ju­nior clare mcmillan, who was the belles’ assist leader last sea­son with 7.72 per game. 
saint mary’s will open up its 2015-16 slate with a home con­test against manchester on sept. 1 before traveling to elmhurst, illinois, for the elmhurst Tournament on sept. 4 and 5. The conference slate will begin for the belles on sept. 9, when they host calvin in the first of 16 conference matchups during the two-month regular season. 


The observer | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

sPorts authority 
Recapping this summer’s lessons 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
as a general rule, i always want to be listening, to be learning. it’s why i’m a his­tory major; it’s why i probably always hang around too long at interviews; it’s why i always prefer to be quiet and around the background of different situations. 
yet this is also a trait that seems to be contradic­tory to the role of a reporter. everyone has a stereotypical reporter cast in mind: the an­noying, pushy, cold and un­feeling person always shoving people out of the way to get the inside scoop or the break­ing story, no matter the cost. This is far from the truth, of course — in my year and a half as a member of this de­mographic, i have met a lot of great people who i have a ton of respect for. 
sometimes, though, the media earns every bit of that bad reputation. 
This summer provided a couple of great examples of places we need to keep im­proving upon. one event oc­curred on social media, the other at a live awards show broadcast for the entire coun­try to see. in both cases, we were reminded just how many people our work reaches — and just how careful we need to be with it. 
as baseball’s trade dead­line approached, rumors flew about a trade involving mets infielder wilmer Flores be­ing sent to the brewers. in just minutes, everyone knew Flores was almost certainly going to milwaukee — except wilmer Flores himself. The aftermath of fans yelling to him he’d been traded was well documented: The tears, the fans giving him a standing ovation for grounding out in what seemed to be his final at bat. Then, the next night — still in a mets uniform — hit­ting a walk-off home run, and later working with ownership to stay a met for life. someone will have the movie rights soon enough, i’m sure. 
still, despite the hollywood-esque ending and the reality the reporters who broke the trade rumors were literally doing their jobs, in all of it we were reminded of the dehumanization our work can easily slip into. we cover real people, and very quickly our work has real consequences. we cannot forget the influ­ence our work can have on a person’s life, and nothing should be written, filmed or tweeted lightly. 
with that in mind, we also must be wary about how that influence is used — and who or what decides how to use it. sensationalism is hardly journalism, to me. in the era of page clicks, i worry some­times incredible and impor­tant stories may be lost to the pursuit of numbers above all else. 
The arthur ashe courage award at this year’s espy awards was one such ex­ample. i’m not saying caitlyn Jenner didn’t do something incredibly courageous. i’m not saying transgender rights and respect are not impor­tant. it’s a national conver­sation we need to continue. and i’m not saying a televised awards show should not try for high ratings. 
i am saying, however, lauren hill, a basketball player at mount st. Joseph’s diagnosed with brain cancer, knew she was going to die. she had an expiration date on her life, yet she became an inspiration for millions. i only hope to have a tenth of the courage and zeal hill and those around her showed in her fight if i ever find myself in that situation. and i’ll say hill directly used sports as her basis of getting her mes­sage to the world; she wasn’t an olympian from almost 20 years before i was born. 
i also hope espn didn’t make the decision on the award this year solely or even largely on who would provide the best ratings. i really want to hope this. i get it: ratings bring cash and the like. 
is that all that makes our jobs worth doing, though? it’s a discussion we need to have. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

M Basketball 
conTinued From page 28 
open things up for me,” grant said. 
grant mentioned that before the draft, he and porzingas talked about po­tential landing spots and discussed porzingas’s de­sire to play for the Knicks. grant said he had no idea that he would eventually be playing with porzingas this year for the Knicks. 
last season, the Knicks finished 17-65, the second worst record in the league. Their regular point guard, Jose calderon dished out 4.7 assists per game. 
when asked what he can contribute to the Knicks, grant said he could come in and immediately create plays. 
“i make the guys around me a lot better,’ grant said. “i can give them the open looks.” 
despite being the high­est drafted irish player since ryan humphrey was drafted 19th by the Jazz in 2002, grant said his father, harvey grant, and uncle, horace grant, who both played in the nba, told him it is one thing to make it to the nba and another to stay there. 
Twenty-two picks later, it looked as though grant and pat connaughton would both be playing in the big apple, but another trade just minutes later broke up that outcome. 
connaughton was picked by the brooklyn nets with the 41st pick, making it the first time notre dame has had two players drafted since laphanso ellis and elmer bennett in 1992. like grant, connaughton was traded after being picked, this time to the portland Trailblazers along with mason plumlee for rondae hollis-Jefferson, who was the 23rd pick in the draft, and veteran steve blake. 

The combo guard/for­ward posted 12.5 points, 7.4 rebounds and just under a block per game last season, along with a 42.3 percentage mark from beyond the arc. 
before this past season, many thought connaughton would stick to baseball af­ter being drafted by the baltimore orioles in the fourth round. however, connaughton has made clear that basketball is pri­ority after returning to notre dame last season to play during his last season of eligibility. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



y,
ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer through my mind at that in a 1,500 earlier in the sea-
point, ‘Just keep pushing, son and do a lot of workouts
seidel 
conTinued From page 28 
19th. 
“going in, i knew that bates and scott were the two heaviest favorites by far,” seidel said. “i definitely knew that i wanted to try and stay up with them as long as possible. but i think, ini­tially, it wasn’t even in [my] mind going in to win.” 
however, for the first five miles, the pace was well within seidel’s comfort zone as no runner made a decisive move to the front. she stayed near the front of the pack and maintained a tactical position to cover any moves her opponents might make. 
Then, with four laps to go, bates dropped the field with a 66-second lap that gave her a 50-meter edge over second. seidel led the chase pack, and as quickly as bates built a lead, she started to fall apart in the third-to-last circuit. as she entered the homestretch, seidel caught and passed her aggressively, starting a surge of her own. 
it was only at this point when seidel took the lead did she start to think she could hold on and win. 
“i was kind of just running scared at that point,” seidel said. “but it started going keep pushing. you need to stay ahead, and if you do that you might be able to do it.’ 
“i think that entire time i just knew the girls were behind me and i knew that dominique scott is one of the fastest kickers in the ncaa, so i was really just giving everything i had at that point. i didn’t want to let up too soon.” 
but scott was roughly 50 meters behind with 800 to go and had not started her kick. as seidel posted a 75-second penultimate lap, her next closest competitor was 20 meters behind and not gain­ing any ground. 
The gap between seidel and the field only grew as she pushed the pace even further in the final lap, tak­ing 70 seconds to go the re­maining 50 meters. as she crossed the line, the only runner nearby was hillary montgomery of Texas a&m, whom she had just lapped. 
seidel credited her strong kick at the end to her training and her experience earlier in the season running shorter distances, which forced her to develop quicker turnover, she said. 
“[irish distance coach matt] sparks had the good presence of mind to put me where i would do a long tem­po and then fast repeats at the end, something like 400 meters,” seidel said. “That was really getting that raw speed to get ready for that mad dash at the end.” 
with another year left in her collegiate career and a heralded recruiting class coming in, seidel’s expec­tations for herself and her team next season are now sky-high, she said. The irish will also have the benefit of a full season under sparks, who took over the distance runners two weeks before cross country season this year. 
“i think [the win] really has a lot of potential for the growth of the program as a whole … and helping to raise that bar and show that na­tional championships are something that we can do here at nd,” seidel said. 
senior Jade barber fin­ished fourth in the 100-meter hurdles and junior margaret bamgbose placed sixth in the 400-meter dash to secure the first-ever top-15 perfor­mance for the irish program, finishing tied for 13th place with stanford. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

A musical by Howard Ashman and Alan Menken 
12:00-4:00pm  Questions?  
Sunday, October 4 (callbacks)  Email theatre@nd.edu for more information.  
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 12:00-4:00pm  like us on Facebook! /NDFTT follow us on Twitter! @NDFTT  
Actors of all races and ethnicities are encouraged to audition.  


paid adverTisemenT 
Welcome, Domers! 
Join Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre for the 2015-2016 Theatre Season 
We know you did theatre in high school... 
FALL AUDITIONS 
Visit the FTT Department Office, 230 DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, to sign up for an audition time. 
AUDITION TIMES FOR WILDFLOWER 
A summer wind spreads the seeds of curiosity and fans the dangerous flame of desire. 
Student Subscriptions only $22 for all 4 shows! 
Call 574-631-2800 Visit performingarts.nd.edu DPAC ticket office (M-F, 12:00-6:00pm) 
ND THEATRE NOW: WILDFLOWER
Thursday, August 27 
by Lila Rose Kaplan
DPAC Rehearsal Room B024 (basement) 
Directed by FTT senior Anthony Murphy
4:00-7:00pm 
October 1-11, 2015
Friday, August 28 
Washington Hall Main Stage 
LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS 
2:00-5:00pm 
Saturday, August 29 (callbacks) 
Directed by Nathan Halvorson 
DPAC Rehearsal Room B024 (basement) 
November 18-22, 2015 
10:00am-12:30pm 
THE BEAR and AFTERPLAY 
AUDITION TIMES FOR LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS 
by Brian Friel February 18-28, 2016
Whatever you do, don’t feed the plants. 
PRIDE AND PREJUDICE
Friday, October 2 
Adapted by Jon Jory
Washington Hall 
From the novel by Jane Austen
6:30-10:30pm 
April 13-17, 2016
Saturday, October 3 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
All majors welcome! Auditions are not restricted to FTT majors – open to all ND/SMC/HCC students. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer 



FootBall 
Bryant leaves Notre Dame 
Observer Staff Report 
irish junior running back greg bryant will not appear on notre dame’s roster in 2015, according to a statement released by head coach brian Kelly on aug.4. 
“There are certain expectations within our program that must be met on a daily basis,” Kelly said in the statement. “Quite simply, greg did not meet those expectations.” 
Kelly also said that day bryant remains on scholarship and will be eligible to practice with the irish this season. however, roger mitchell, a tight ends coach at ju­nior college asa college miami, tweeted aug. 12 that bryant will play for the silverstorm in their inaugural season this year. asa’s head coach, ernest T. Jones, served as notre dame’s director of player development from 2012 to 2014 and helped recruit bryant to play for the Fighting irish. 
pete sampson of irish illustrated reported bryant’s father, greg bryant sr., did not know of his son’s transfer until news broke. 
bryant was originally reported on June 29 to be suspended for the first four games of the season due to a “violation of team rules.” 
when the first fall practices kicked off, notre dame was down to two veteran options at running back in junior Tarean Folston and senior c.J. prosise, who played a larger role in the irish backfield in the spring after spending the pre­vious two years as a receiver. The irish also brought in two freshmen running backs, dexter williams and Josh adams. 
bryant redshirted his fresh­man season due to knee tendini­tis, but the delray beach, Florida, native carried the ball 54 times last year for 289 yards and three touchdowns. he was notre dame’s 

hegarty to play for oregon 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after announcing his intent to use his final year of eligibility elsewhere march 4, former notre dame offensive lineman matt hegarty has decided to play for oregon for the 2015 season. 
as a result of graduating in may, hegarty is eligible immediately. 
oregon announced the trans­fer via its football staff’s Twitter account. 
in 2014, the aztec, new mexico, native started 11 of 13 games for the irish. after appearing in 12 games in 2013, hegarty was part of an offensive line shakeup for notre dame early in the 2014 sea­son, moving from guard to center for his last nine starts. 
in a statement to espn on march 4, hegarty cited a stroke earlier in his career and his wish to contribute as much as pos­sible as reasons for leaving notre dame. graduate student cen­ter nick martin and junior right guard steve elmer are entrenched in their respective positions on the line for the irish, while sopho­mores Quenton nelson and alex bars had been pushing for play­ing time and battled throughout the spring at left guard. 
at oregon, hegarty will have the opportunity to compete at center, where the departed hroniss grasu was a four-year starter. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

second-leading rusher behind Folston, leaving the irish with­out three of their top four ground threats from last year with the transfer of quarterback everett golson to Florida state and the graduation of running back cam mcdaniel. 
Kelly also announced in the statement that junior linebacker michael deeb and junior tight end mike heuerman will miss the season after taking medical red-shirts. both will remain on scholar­ship but do not count towards the 85-player total. 
injured Jones out for full season 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
starting senior defensive line­man Jarron Jones will miss the entire 2015 season after suffering an mcl injury in his right knee during notre dame’s training camp, head coach brian Kelly announced saturday. 
The injury occurred early dur­ing a practice, Kelly said, when a player rolled on Jones’s knee. he called the incident “kind of a freak deal,” and said Jones will undergo surgery next week. 
after being battered by inju­ries late last season, the irish de­fense was just getting back to full strength. Jones was coming back from a lisfranc injury that forced him to miss the last two games of the season, while senior sheldon day and graduate students Jarrett grace and Joe schmidt were reaching full speed after missing time. 
The absence of Jones leaves a hole in the middle of the line, as he started the first 11 games of 2014 and recorded 40 tackles, 
7.5 for a loss, along with 1.5 sacks and two blocked kicks. Kelly said saturday his spot will likely be filled by freshman Jerry Tillery and sophomore daniel cage. 
Jones was not the only irish player absent from practice saturday. senior running back 
c.J. prosise, who is challeng­ing junior Tarean Folston for time at running back, has a hip flexor that will keep him from going full-speed for at least an­other week, Kelly said. but he is not worried about prosise losing ground in the battle for playing time. 
“he knows the offense so well. we felt really good about his run tracks and his ability to know the offense,” Kelly said. “i think how it affects us more than anything else is that we don’t want to wear out Folston.” 
To combat that possibil­ity, Kelly said he has given senior Josh anderson, the oldest run­ning back on the squad, more carries during practice as the younger backs develop. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
Golson transfers to FSU 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Just as Florida state lost its no. 5 under center, it will gain notre dame’s no. 5 next season. 
Former irish quarterback everett golson transferred to Florida state, golson told Fox sports on Tuesday. 
The quarterback announced may 7 that he would leave the university and play his final season of eligibility elsewhere. golson started all 12 regular season games in 2014 for notre dame but came in off the bench in the irish bowl victory over lsu on dec. 30, when sophomore malik Zaire earned the starting nod. 
Florida state recently lost its starter, heisman Trophy winner Jameis winston, to the nFl draft, where he was selected first over­all by the Tampa bay buccaneers. 
“after much thought and care­ful consideration, i will utilize my fifth year of eligibility to join the Florida state university seminoles,” golson said in a statement to Fox sports’ bruce Feldman. “To coach Jimbo Fisher, the Florida state football team, staff, alumni and fans, thank you for allowing me to become part of the seminoles family. i can’t wait to get started.” 
golson officially wrapped up his time at notre dame in may, when he received his bachelor’s degree at the university’s com­mencement ceremony. he called the weekend “a defining moment in my life.” 

“The support i’ve received there over the past four years has helped strengthen my integrity, wisdom and character,” golson said in the statement. “i would like to thank all of the coaches who spent time speaking with me these past few weeks and consid­ered adding me to their football programs. Their interest and sin­cerity was truly humbling.” 
Florida state currently has five quarterbacks on its roster, includ­ing golson, but just one, redshirt junior sean maguire, who took any snaps in the 2014 season. maguire backed up winston and appeared in four games, making one start, and threw for 339 total yards and completed 25 of his 49 pass attempts. 
in notre dame’s 31-27 road loss to the seminoles on oct. 18, golson completed 31 of his 52 pass attempts for 313 yards and three touchdowns. however, one of his two interceptions on the night came in the final seconds of the game to seal Florida state’s victory after a controversial pass interference call against the irish prevented them from taking a late lead. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

The observer | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

russell 
conTinued From page 28 
final result, he said it still “feels amazing” and took a huge weight off his shoulders. 
“before, i knew i was going to be part of it, but there’s still hesitation, like, what if they came back and just out of nowhere like i got the worst case scenario and they said i wasn’t playing?” he said. “That’d kill me, so it’s one of those things that since it’s behind me, it’s a really exciting feel, and now i can just do what i want to do, do what i need to do to help this team win and put 100 percent in 100 percent of the time.” 
Kelly said the cornerback is shak­ing off the rust and getting back to his old form a few weeks into practice, commenting on one of russell’s more popular instagram posts, “when you’re out of pads for a year, you can’t duplicate that by jumping on boxes.” 
“he still needs that work,” Kelly said. “so the first couple of weeks, it wasn’t much. we were running past him, and he was holding us and grabbing us. now you can start to see him, his technique is coming back, his discipline is coming back, and it’s nice to see.” 
while russell stayed in shape during his suspension by training at home in washington, he said there was still an adjustment pe­riod to get caught up to the speed of practice — and the teammates he was going up against. 
“alot of it was just working on fun­damentals and techniques, so it’s different when you come and you go against a guy like [will] Fuller or chris brown or corey robinson that first day and they’re coming full speed at you, and you’ve got a guy like malik Zaire throwing the ball as well,” he said. “so it’s just that adjusting factor, and i feel like i’ve adjusted extremely well in a week.” 
russell said he is academically considered a senior and will meet with his advisor next week to sort through where he stands in school. 
with his return to the field fi­nalized, defensive lineman ishaq williams remains the only player from last year’s suspended group whose future is still up in the air. Kelly did not have an update Tuesday besides to say williams had just submitted his personal ap­peal to the ncaa. 
“his part had an appeal that he had to personally put together as well,” Kelly said. “That’s been com­pleted. That has been sent off to the ncaa, so now that goes through the process of them now looking at his appeal.” 
russell said he hadn’t talked with williams since camp started, and even before then, he said their con­versations weren’t centered around williams’ unknown future or their suspensions. 
“when we talk, it’s more like teammates,” russell said. “i still feel like he’s on our team, to me, so i talk to him like i talk to chris brown. i talk to him like i talk to sheldon day. … if he mentions it, then we’ll talk about it, but i don’t really bring it up much just because i know how it feels.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Football 
conTinued From page 28 
football team for our opener, so we’re trying to create as many sit­uations out there for our team. … we’ve got talented players, but, it’s about how they respond to situa­tions in the game that determine how the outcome is ultimately go­ing to be a win or a loss.” 
Zaire in command 
as junior quarterback malik Zaire and junior linebacker Jaylon smith emerged from the hallway at media day, a crowd gathered around Zaire’s designated table, microphones, recorders, cameras and reporters all vying for space. while smith, featured on four preseason awards watch lists and a recent sports illustrated cover, attracted a sizable crowd of his own, the majority of heads turned towards the quarterback who nabbed the starting spot. 
“i have 100 percent confidence in myself to be able to handle this job,” Zaire said. “That’s why i was able to be granted the ability to start and the support from my teammates and coaches to help this program win football games. 
“it’s important that as the high-profile position that the quarter­back is, not only for notre dame but also this offense, we have the command and the presence of running the show.” 
Fall camp has been a little dif­ferent than spring ball, when Zaire and Florida state transfer everett golson were still in a battle to lead the offense. Zaire is now the clear starter, which he said has allowed him to focus on things other than beating the player next to him. 
“camp has been great. it’s been a lot of learning,” Zaire said. “i think some of the situations we’ve been put in as an offense have been more than we’ve expe­rienced the past couple of camps, which is good, not only for me, but also for the group to be able to become adjusted to some of the situations that will be in real live-game experiences.” 
stanley returns a leader in his final season 
after the last campaign drew to end with the music city bowl win over lsu, Kelly and his staff had an important recruiting pitch to make — to one of their own. offensive tackle ronnie stanley was debating forgoing his se­nior season and declaring for the nFl draft but ultimately decided to return to school for one last go-around. 
“i think primarily [it was], you’re this close,” Kelly said of his pitch to stanley. “you haven’t had a winter workout yet. you’ve had two inju­ries that have really not allowed you to get as strong as you can be physically. you’re close to finish­ing off your degree. let’s get your degree. Then finally, let’s put you in a leadership position. 
“i think all those three things were certainly in front of him, and we simply went there to reinforce that we’d provide those opportu­nities for him.” 
stanley described the choice to return to school as “a very difficult decision,” but ultimately it was his teammates he didn’t want to leave. 
“one of things that got me to stay was my teammates, all those guys coming back that i built bonds with and i am really close with,” stanley said. “it wouldn’t feel right leaving all those guys that i know.” 
stanley said he has put an em­phasis on being a strong team leader, something that didn’t al­ways come easy to him. 
“i was always able to give my teammates good feedback and be able to influence them in some ways, but i was never too firm in my leadership role,” stanley said. “now i have taken hold of it and embraced it more than i ever have.” 
graduate student center nick martin said he was excited when stanley finally made the decision to return to campus. 
“i talked to him a lot about it,” martin said. “we’re very close, and i told him, ‘hey, i want to finish out my time here with you.’” 
with the return of stanley, the only piece missing from last sea­son’s offensive line is the gradu­ated christian lombard, a fact stanley said has had the line “locked-in” since practices began. 
“when we are in there, we are live. we are a very serious group out there,” he said. 
receiving corps ready for more breakthroughs 
despite a new face behind cen­ter, Zaire’s targets downfield have remained relatively stable, his largest departure being the gradu­ated tight end ben Koyack. while junior receiver will Fuller was the breakout star of the 2014 cam­paign, Kelly was asked about the possibility of such breakthroughs from other receivers, like juniors corey robinson and Torii hunter Jr. 
“you’re going to see a lot of [hunter] this year,” Kelly said. “he’ll play a lot. if he had to, he could play all the positions. … he’s probably our most versatile receiver in that he has the size and the speed and the ability to work inside out of the slot position be­cause of his elusiveness. we prob­ably don’t have another player that has that ability on the roster.” 
Kelly said teams aren’t going to put a lot of one-on-one coverage on robinson, but the lanky 6-foot­5 receiver has made strides in his ability to adjust to zone matchups, especially in the red zone. 
“he’s going to get a lot of brack­et coverage, a lot of seven, eight across, zone coverage, and he’s going to have to work the back end line,” Kelly said. “That’s where he’s going to have to live this year. 
“he’s getting accustomed to understanding zone coverages, though he’s still developing his craft and learning more about the game every day.” 
Fuller, for his part, said he knows he will be keyed on by ev­ery defense on the irish schedule. 
“i know that defensive backs want to go against me,” Fuller said. “i’m not a surprise this year. They’re going to be aware of what i did last year on screens. 
“when the spotlight is on me, i think i do a great job handling all the pressures. i love big moments and being under the lights. if my number is called, i get excited.” 
sanford hits the ground running 
First year offensive coordina­tor and quarterbacks coach mike sanford was everything Kelly thought he’d be, Kelly said, prais­ing the former boise state offen­sive coordinator’s ability to clearly communicate the team’s progres­sion-read offense. 
“at times last year we were not clear sometimes on our move­ment key and our progression reads,” Kelly said. “we are 100 percent on our movement key progressions. mike is a stickler for that, and i’ve always been a stickler for that. That’s one of the things that we have connected on and one of the things that we connected on in the interviewing process.” 
Zaire also described sanford’s attention to detail has enabled both himself and the offense as a whole to grow. 
“coach sanford is a guy that’s been more specific than other coaches,” Zaire said. “we’ve been more keen on finding out how we are going to get better every day and the steps we’re going to take every day to get better. it’s helpful because the day-to-day work isn’t so broad. it’s much more specific and set out each day.” 
however, Kelly said he and his coaches are still determining whether sanford, associate head coach mike denbrock or Kelly himself will call the plays in the upcoming season. 
Quote of the day 
brian Kelly, in response to a question asking if he feels more comfortable in his sixth year: 
“i don’t know if you ever get comfortable in the seat at notre dame. comfortable wouldn’t be a word that i would use.” 
Conatct Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




The observer | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’s soCCEr 

New Irish leadership in place as season kicks off 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
patrick hodan buried a low, curling shot off a pass from connor Klekota to lift notre dame to a 1-0 victory over butler on wednesday night, solidifying what has been a wholesale make­over for the irish since last season. 
hodan and Klekota, both se­nior midfielders, were selected 

as two of the team’s tri-captains back in the spring, along with graduate student defender max lachowecki. The three are tasked with the difficult role of replac­ing nine players from last year’s squad, including midfielder nick besler, the fifth-overall pick in last year’s mls draft, but irish head coach bobby clark said he likes what he’s seen from the trio so far. “The players pick the captains,” 
clark said. “we never pick them right away … because nobody really knows and i just tell the se­nior class, ‘you take over. you lead us through the early part of the spring.’ 
“i think if the staff had been choosing we would have cho­sen the same people. That’s the amazing part about it: nearly ev­ery time the players pick who we would pick. … They know who’s got respect in the locker room.” 
clark also credited notre dame with doing a great job of prepar­ing juniors for leadership roles through courses offered by the athletic department. 
it was not just the incoming se­niors who were working hard and getting ready for the season ei­ther, clark said, calling this year’s squad one of the fittest he’s ever had coming into a fall camp. 
“They’ve worked very hard at it,” clark said. “They really want to be good. i think they were a little disappointed the way the season finished last year, but at the same time they know it’s such a diffi­cult league we play in that i think they’re aware of the task ahead of them as well.” 
with so many departures there are a number of positions up in the air, but the most intriguing may be who will replace the grad­uated patrick wall in goal for the irish. wall, who compiled a career record of 38-7-10, played every minute for notre dame the last two years. 
The irish have three goalkeep­ers on their roster this year: se­nior brian Talcott, junior chris hubbard and freshman ryan Krutz. hubbard has played in both exhibition games so far this season after Talcott suffered a concussion playing a pick-up game with some of the other play­ers on the team just before fall camp began, although the two split time in the spring season. 
“we thought it was going to be a battle,” clark said. “we’ll need two goalies, and we’d like three goalies, but we certainly need a starter and someone who can back up.” 
clark praised his team’s work ethic and desire, but said there is still much to be done as the irish tune up for a difficult regular sea­son schedule, particularly in lim­iting turnovers in their own half of the field. 
after exhibition matches at ohio state and butler, the irish will take to the alumni stadium pitch for the first time monday night against saint louis in the team’s annual grassroots soccer game, which will collect proceeds for a charity very special to clark. his son, Tommy, founded grassroots soccer to help fight the spread of hiv in africa by educating teen­age boys about how to prevent themselves from contracting the disease, as well as how to treat it if they do test positive. 
“we coached in africa back in 1983, and the whole family was out there,” clark said. “[Tommy] went back there after he graduat­ed from dartmouth, and he went back there for a year to teach. he realized a lot of people he knew, especially younger people, had died or were ill from hiv.” 
clark said he wanted to encour­age the student body to come out to the game and give a small do­nation to the foundation — and to check out the home team in action. 
“even the students, i’m asking them just for a dollar,” clark said. “nobody’s going to stop them if they don’t, of course, but i’ve al­ways matched whatever they can put in. so the more money they put in, the more it’ll cost me. 
“i just hope there aren’t any millionaires that come walking in. i could be in serious trouble.” 
notre dame and saint louis kick off in the annual grassroots game at alumni stadium on monday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Nd WoMEN’s soCCEr 
nd ranks ninth despite offensive departures 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
Though notre dame’s top two scorers from 2014 are gone – star midfielder morgan andrews transferred to usc and vet­eran forward lauren bohaboy graduated after last season – ex­pectations, both internal and external, remain high, with the team ranked no. 9 in the nation heading into the Friday opener against valparaiso. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she has faith the offense wouldn’t diminish this season. 
“what’s exciting is we’ve had a couple different additions to the midfield. we have an attacking style,” she said. “if you looked at our spring games, the mobility and creativity that we had in the midfield was exciting. 
“The players got great experi­ence there and created a lot of offense, which carried over into the exhibition games and should continue through the season.” 
The five-player freshman class includes three midfielders: ann marie niro, natalie ward and shannon hendricks. senior cap­tain glory williams will anchor the midfield as well. 
This time last year, romagnolo had only recently been named head coach. in her inaugural season, the irish went 14-6-2 and reached the ncaa tournament’s third round, where they lost a heartbreaker to Texas a&m. 
“i think anytime you become more familiar with your team, it’s always going to be an advan­tage,” romagnolo said. “This is a great squad, they’re really recep­tive to learning and getting bet­ter. i’m very fortunate to be here.” 
among notre dame’s top play­ers are preseason all-conference selections cari roccaro, a senior midfielder, and Katie naughton, a senior defender. 
romagnolo expressed con­fidence in the mentality of the team and the abilities of the irish leaders. 
“what motivates this group is they want to be the best,” romagnolo said. “we have six se­niors on the squad who bring a lot of leadership, and i think they’re excited to make their mark and make this season special.” 
however, romagnolo ac­knowledged a dominant sea­son won’t be easy with some of the country’s top teams on the schedule, such as no. 1 Florida state and no. 2 virginia. 
“we try to have a very com­petitive schedule,” romagnolo said. “we have to be prepared for a battle whatever game we’re going into. The acc is one of the toughest conferences in the nation.” 
The irish’s first foe, valparaiso, 
last visited alumni stadium forming their identity. it’ll be in-in november. notre dame de-teresting to see how [valparaiso feated the crusaders, 1-0, with has] developed,” romagnolo a last-minute goal by junior for-said. “based on the tournament, ward Kaleigh olmsted in the first they’re a very blue-collar team, round of the ncaa tourney. and they’re hard to break down.” “early on, every team is The irish again take on the 

crusaders on Friday at alumni stadium at 7:30 p.m., followed by a matchup against Toledo at 3 
p.m. sunday. 
Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, august 21, 2015 | The observer 

CrossWord | will shorTZ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L E N GT H  P S A  S P A  
B E A RH U G  D E P P  T A B  
S O S UE M E  O P E R  A N Y  
MA S H  U S E  OG R E S  
T R A PP  R A B  I  D  CU R L S  
E A S YA  I  L  L  O B EY  
A S T OR  G O E S  O AS  I S  
S T  I LT  S  U F O  S NA T C H  
A N DM Y  D E N S  SN A R E  
ME M O  A N T  ED G A R  
K A R EN  S A T Y R  LD O P A  
A G E NT  C P U  O R EO  
P A M  F A R R  H O VL A N E  
U Z  I  B R  I  E  S T EL L A R  
T E X  I  S L  I NS E T S  

59 Viking, e.g. 60 Philosophize, 
say 
61 Strike leader? 
62 Breather 
63 Trained groups 
DOWN 
1 Sights at the dentist’s office 
2 Three-time Olympic skating gold medalist 
3 Georgia of “The Mary Tyler Moore Show” 
4 1955 Pulitzer-winning poet 
5 Rushed 
6 Maxim 
7 Pot and porn magazines, typically 
8 Norton Sound city 9 Diplomat who PUZZLE BY BRENDAN EMMETT QUIGLEY wrote “The Tide 
31 Literally, “the 41 Tending to wear of Nationalism” cottonwoods” away
10 Reform Party founder 32 Those with will 45 Illogically afraid 
11 Legitimate power? 47 Draw (from) 
12 Construction 36 Exactly 10 50 Actor Werner of project that seconds, for “The Spy Who began in Rome the 100-yard Came in From dash the Cold” 
13 Rush 16 “Yeah … 38 Spanish 
51 Heroic tale anyway” greeting 52 Lid afflictions 
ACROSS 
1 First rock band whose members received Kennedy Center Honors 
7 Jiffy 11 Shade of black 14 Fix, in 
carpentry 15 Undoubtedly 17 Dropped a line? 18 Olympians’ food 19 Figures for 
investors 20 Animal that catches fish with its 
forepaws 21 Ward on a set 22 Shade of gray 24 Work ___ 25 Annual with 
deep-pink flowers 28 Miles off 30 Tailor 33 Part of the Dept. of Labor 
34 All-Star Martinez 
35 “Guys and Dolls” composer/ lyricist 
37 Like dirty clothes, often 39 Secondary: Abbr. 
40 The muscle of a muscle car, maybe 
42 Soup scoop 43 Fill 44 Abba’s genre 
46 “Alice” actress Linda 
48 Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest city 
49 Game discs 
53 Uncopiable, say 55 Quick session for a band 57 Springsteen hit with the lyric “Only you can cool my desire” 58 Noted graffiti artist 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  
21  22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  
59  60  
61  62  63  

sudoku | The mepham group 

8/24/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
53 Cleaner fragrance 
54 They’re sometimes named after presidents 
56 Squat 
23 Ultra sound? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit26 Boolean card, 1-800-814-5554.operators Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 27 Charging crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit
things? 
nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.29 Ensnare, with Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past“in” puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 30 “It wasn’t Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
meant to be” 
horosCoPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let yourself be aggravated by the little things people around you do. Take your time to figure out what’s actually going on. it’s important to let everyone do his or her own thing if you don’t want others to meddle in your own affairs. Keep your personal life a secret and focus on self-improvements rather than trying to change others. your numbers are 7, 11, 19, 23, 31, 37, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): have some fun. now is not the time to sulk over what you don’t have when you should be thankful and enjoying what you do. being positive will invite a lot more opportunities your way. share your ideas in an entertaining fashion. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): spend time with the people who can help you advance. you have some good ideas that need to be shared if you want to be successful. you will ease financial pressure if you find a new way to use your talents. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take on the physical chores that need to be completed and you will impress others and live up to the promises you’ve made to your loved ones. put aside time to spend with someone special. a positive personal change is in the stars. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): The best way to deal with the pressure that someone puts on you is by taking care of your end of the deal. don’t let emotions slow your progress or make you look bad. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The more you collaborate, the more you will learn, grow and advance. your ability to make others feel important will help you move into a leadership position. your suggestions and solutions will set you apart from the competition.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a business trip or discussions with potential collaborators can help you get things accomplished faster and more efficiently. Take care of institutional matters and stick to proper protocol to avoid setbacks. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Try to learn from past experiences in order to help you navigate the challenges you are currently facing. stay focused on the important projects you have started, but put time aside to enjoy the company of someone you love. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep an eye on the people you are dealing with. someone will try to make you look bad. don’t get angry when doing your job superbly is your ticket to overcoming the jealousy of others. choose intelligence and diplomacy over revenge. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): learn from the mistakes made by others. put more effort into raising your standards or improving your domestic situation. planning a getaway for two will add spice to your life and encourage a happier future. make love a priority. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be ready to take advantage of an opportunity. There is money to be made and gains that will lead to a more affluent lifestyle. don’t let impulsive behavior take over. it’s your perfect sense of timing that will bring you success. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): share your thoughts, concerns and ideas with someone who can help you improve your earning potential. look at the big picture and take into consideration all the different ways you can put your skills to better use. don’t sell yourself short. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a couple of subtle changes will do you good. discuss your plans with someone you look up to or who your decisions will affect. set your plans in motion in order to put the past behind you. 

Birthday Baby: you are relentless, forceful and focused. you are an engaging leader. 
JuMBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | Friday, august 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FootBall 
Irish enter season with experienced squad 
Russell fully 

Zaire, Stanley set cleared by NCAA to lead developing 
after suspension offense 
By MARY GREEN By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor sports editor 
more than halfway through his 
at notre dame’s media day 40-minute press conference at 
last year, head coach brian Kelly Tuesday’s media day, brian Kelly 
walked into the auditorium clad had some news to break. 
in a typical blue blazer. This year “by the way, Keivarae [russell] 
he went for something a little less was fully cleared by the ncaa and 
traditional. reinstated, so he is back with us,” 
dressed in a snazzy, plaid the irish head coach said. “like 
green sport coat, Kelly said his how i dropped that one in there? 
reasoning for donning the jacket pretty cool, huh?” 
was simple: “well, i thought that The development in russell’s 
i went blue last year, i thought i’d return to notre dame didn’t come 
go green this year. blue worked as a surprise, but it nonetheless 
out pretty good. hopefully green provides a big lift for the irish 
will have the same kind of effect. secondary. a day after Kelly an-
so just going to try to keep every­nounced russell’s clearance, the 
body guessing.” team said freshman cornerback 
it symbolized the day’s theme shaun crawford, who had gar-
perfectly; last year’s team was nered praise from his coaches and 
full of talent, but now the irish teammates throughout preseason 
are brazen with experience, too camp and was expected to com­
— not that it’s made fall practices pete for playing time in his first 
any less hectic for notre dame season, tore his acl in wednesday 
as it prepares to host Texas in its morning’s practice and will now 
season opener sept. 5. miss the entire 2015 campaign. 
“we’ve got a lot going on,” Kelly Though russell expected the WEI LIN | The Observer said. “we’re trying to prepare our 
Senior cornerback KeiVarae Russell, left, prepares to make a tackle during Notre Dame’s 23-13 win over see russell PagE 22 BYU at Notre Dame Stadium on Nov. 23, 2013. Russell returns after serving a one-year suspension in 2014. see FooTball PagE 22 
traCk & FiEld | ncaa championships 
Seidel wins ND women’s first track title 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
with a strong burst of speed and a well-executed race, molly seidel made notre dame his­tory Thursday when she crossed the finish line of the ncaa 10,000-meter championship first in eugene, oregon. 
seidel’s national champion­ship run is the first women’s track title in program history, and her time of 33:18.37 also puts her second in notre dame’s record books, behind only american 5,000 meter record holder molly huddle. 
seidel was hardly the favorite entering the race, despite hav­ing the fastest qualifying time in the nation. boise state senior emma bates was the defending champion, and arkansas ju­nior dominique scott has won three national titles to go along with one of the fastest kicks in the ncaa. bates and scott both placed in the top 10 at the cross country national champion­ships, while seidel was back in 
see seidel PagE 19 

MEN’s BaskEtBall 
irish duo selected in nba draft 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after leading notre dame to a 32-6 record, its first ever acc championship and a run to the elite eight, Jerian grant can now add being a first-round pick in the nba draft to his list of accomplishments. 
after waiting a little more than 30 minutes, grant shook nba commissioner adam silver’s hand as the washington wizards selected the guard 19th overall June 25 at the barclays center in brooklyn, new york. but while it was technically the wizards, as owners of the 19th pick, who selected grant, a flur­ry of trades meant the new york Knicks have the rights to grant. 
“it’s really truly a blessing,” grant said after being drafted. “i just want to come out here and prove that i belong and make a name for myself. i’m a winner.” 
as part of a three-team trade, the wizards sent grant to the Knicks, who sent Tim hardaway Jr. to the atlanta hawks, who sent Kelly oubre, of Kansas, to the wizards. 
grant, who averaged 16.5 points, 6.7 assists and 1.7 steals per game in his senior season, was the eighth guard selected in the draft. before the draft, he was projected by most experts to go somewhere in the range of the 18th to 22nd picks. 
now, with the Knicks, grant will be asked to take a step back from the spotlight, play­ing alongside carmelo anthony and no. 4 overall pick Kristaps porzingis. grant’s passing skills are expected to mesh well with the triangle offense practiced by head coach derek Fisher and team president phil Jackson. 
“[The triangle offense] re­quires someone with high bas­ketball iQ” grant said. “i think im one of those guys. i’ll pick up the offense quickly and help the guys around me.” 
grant is confident in the po­tential offensive production the Knicks can create with anthony and porzingis with that offen­sive scheme. 
“[carmelo] and Kris, two great players, will definitely 
see m basKeTball PagE 18 



