The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 32 | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
UCC, CARE support mental health 
‘Illuminate the MiND’ week promotes awareness and on-campus resources 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the second installment of a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame in recognition of Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
notre dame’s university counseling center (ucc) treats 12 percent of the stu­dent body — from every dorm, from every major, from any club or organization and from any situation or back­ground. according to susan steibe-pasalich, director of the university counseling center, the top issues that affect stu­dents include anxiety, depres­sion, academic struggles and relationship problems. 
The national alliance of 

see nami PaGe 5 ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



Sisters to receive pro-life medal 
Observer Staff Report 
mother loraine marie maguire and the little sisters of the poor will receive the 2016 notre dame evangelium vitae medal in the spring, the university announced in a press release monday. The award honors individuals who have supported and advanced the pro-life movement. 
o. carter snead, the william 
p. and hazel b. white director of the notre dame center for ethics and culture, stated in the press release that the work 
see medal PaGe 5 
John Duffy
associate professor english 


professor speaks on rhetoric of political discourse 
atmosphere falls on the media, 


By AIDAN LEWIS 
he said. 

news writer 
John duffy, associate pro-“cable Tv, talk radio and all fessor of english, spoke on the other social media plat-the ethics of argument dur­ing “nd votes ’16: political 


responsibility and virtuous 
discourse” at geddes hall on 
monday night. The event was 
sponsored by nd votes ’16, a 
nonpartisan campaign aimed the event and participants the people supporting you 
received free goody bags thrive off of you becom­
at educating and registering young voters. 
duffy, the director of the university writing program, said the “toxic rhetoric” used in contemporary political dis­course has made finding truth in politics incredibly difficult. 
“This rhetoric has managed to undermine forces grounded in logical argument and em­pirical evidence, which once forms have made toxic rhetoric a fact of everyday life, a form of entertainment and a product to be bought and sold,” he said. 
were  considered  authorita­ 
tive,” duffy said.  
much  of  the  blame  for  
this  unhealthy  political  

duffy said the media has become unreliable in report­ing the truth, which has made discerning fact from fiction a legitimate challenge. 
“we seem to have come to a place where we are unclear on the nature of factual 
see voTes PaGe 5 



Kelly Cares hosts Zumba class in ND Stadium 
derstands that fight. on the field at notre dame 
than 900 people attended the theme comes in] when 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
when you are diagnosed with any type of cancer, you fight like a champion. paqui Kelly, two-time breast can­cer survivor and co-founder and board president of the Kelly cares foundation, un-

Kelly founded the orga-stadium, Kelly said. 
nization with her husband, 
irish head coach brian 
Kelly, after her first experi­

lot of non-profits that have lots of little ‘angel people,’ as i call them, those single people, because they need help just like everyone else. That was where the idea started.” 
monday, the organiza­tion held “paqui’s pink out Zumba,” a free Zumba class 
more 
ence with cancer. 
“i was sick for 18 months for the first time around. after i got better, i wanted to do something to help,” Kelly said. “i saw a lot of things when i was sick, and i was thankful that i had all the insurance that i needed, rides to chemo, people to take care of me during times that weren’t very good days. 
“There were people, single people, who were struggling doing the same things i did. i found out that there are a and t-shirts. 

“it’s a lot of fun, and you can’t go wrong with move­ment and music,” Kelly said. “i’m so excited to be a part of it. we share stories and [talk about] how much has changed because of the amount of fundraising, education, new drugs and early detection programs.” 
Kelly said this is the sec­ond year the foundation has hosted Zumba in the stadium. 
“cancer doesn’t just happen in october. our theme for paqui’s 2015 wellness playbook is edu­cate, thrive and support,” Kelly said. “Those are the things you need to do. if you have an illness, you’ll need to educate yourself about that illness. you are going to have lots of support and to let yourself accept that 
support. The thrive part [of 
ing better. it’s all part of the healing process, in my experience.” 
The paqui’s playbook se­ries was created after the organization felt that breast cancer support was lack­ing in the south bend area, patrizia martellaro, the marketing and development manager for the foundation, said. 
“There is not a lot in the area during october. so the 
see Zumba PaGe 5 







ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite thing about fall? 

Bella Bianco 
junior 
lyons hall 
“pretty colors.” 

Claire Turgeon 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“wearing more clothes.” 

Lydia Costello 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“halloween.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Matt Chignoli 
fresman 
Keough hall 
“football.” 


Roisin Goebelbecker 
freshman 
lewis hall 

“The leaves and apple cider.” 

Ryan Green 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“sweater weather.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
catherine owers Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale hunter mcdaniel nicole caratas rachel o’grady 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Fall Reading Series Dante Lecture A “Divine Comedy” Hindustani Concert 
emmet farnan austin Taliaferro 
Grace Hall Hammes Bookstore                                 Hesburgh Library Flashmob Hesburgh Library 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 7:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-6 p.m. campus-wide 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Participants will Four students present Lecture on the 750th 2 p.m.-5 p.m. A blend of Indian 
Corrections 

receive a free T-shirt as part of the Creative anniversary of Dante’s A lecture will follow the and Western violin 
The observer regards itself as and piece of fruit. Writing Program birth. performance. techniques. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Cookies and ND Men’s Soccer Bonfire, S’Mores and Notre Dame Football Football vs. Navy 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Conversation Alumni Stadium Cemetery Tours Pep Rally Notre Dame Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Library 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Holy Cross Hill  Joyce Center 3:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
3:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. The Irish take on the 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. The Irish take on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Enjoy a study break Wolverines in a non-Fr. Neil Wack will lead A home game weekend their rival, the Navy  
we can correct our error. 

with cookies. conference match. the tours. tradition. Midshipmen. 

ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | The observer 

‘Think Pink’ Week funds cancer research 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
This Thursday, the ladies of breen-phillips hall (bp) are employing the help of an in-demand item on cam­pus to encourage the notre dame community to support breast cancer research: fresh berries. 
“we wanted to have a 5K that was different from any of the other ones on cam­pus, and berries are a hot commodity at notre dame since they often aren’t in the dining halls, so we saw that as a way to draw peo­ple in,” breen-phillips’ vice president and junior laura luchini said. 
The 5K run is just one of many events bp is hosting for their inaugural Think pink week, which will fun­draise for harper cancer research institute. The race is set to take place Thursday at 5 p.m. at fieldhouse mall, where pacsun apparel, ber­ries and other free food will be available for registered race participants. 
“we knew that there were other 5Ks going on around that week, so we wanted to stand out,” luchini said.“we noticed that there isn’t any kind of breast cancer aware­ness week at notre dame like there is at most other col­leges. ... with all of the can­cer research happening on campus at harper research institute, and with breen­phillips’ color being pink, we thought it was more than fitting that we start this new week.” 
The week kicked off on monday with “Kiss away cancer,” where students and faculty were invited to sign banners outside of debartolo hall and north and south dining halls and to pick up a ribbon, pink lemonade and 

“We wanted to plan a fun, informative week for our students. All of the money that we raise is going to Harper Cancer Research Institute here on campus.” 
Laura Luchini 
vice president 
Breen-Phillips Hall 

hershey’s Kisses distributed by bp residents. 
“This is a cause that is important to me and many other people on campus, so it is amazing to be doing something that can help,” luchini said. 
Tuesday night from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m., breen-phillips will host the first of two profit-share fundraisers with blaze pizza on eddy street, luchini said, where a portion of sales that evening will be donated to the harper cancer research institute. 
“harper does a lot of cut-ting-edge research right across the street, and yet a lot of people don’t know what it is,” she said. 
luchini said she hopes to raise awareness about this research by hosting a talk given by representatives from the institute on wednesday night in debartolo hall. 
“The institute will be giv­ing a talk of the cancer re­search that’s happening right here on campus and how you can get involved,” luchini said. “i’m sure we all know of at least one person af­fected by breast cancer. it is so prevalent, and we thought it was important to remind notre dame’s campus how important cancer research is in finding a cure.” 

The week wraps up with the 5K on Thursday in ad­dition to an all-day profit-share fundraiser with five guys on eddy street. 
“we wanted to plan a fun, informative week for our stu­dents. all of the money that we raise is going to harper cancer research institute here on campus, and we want to raise awareness for harper and give them the opportunity to tell students how to get involved in re­search there,” luchini said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
speakers discuss experiences as gay christians 
and when it was it was in very what should be a voice of com-this seemed harsh, his story the catholic church in 1998 
By SELENA PONIO 

news writer hushed tones, in broad con-passion and mercy.” was not rare. and did not know any other gay demning statements of all gay Jones said he attempted to “They had these very defini-people following the church’s 
monday night, blogger people — very ‘us versus them’ live into futures that he knew tive lines of what it meant for teaching with sexual ethics at matthew franklin Jones spoke statements,” Jones said. he did not want. me to be in the good graces that time. about a place where he often Jones said the stereotypical “i always walked into this of this church,” Jones said. “i was so focused on living experienced isolation and a negative sentiments that were cold dark, lonely apartment “because the church is com-out the church’s sexual mo-lack of love and acceptance: blindly thrown over the en-and thought that was the total-prised of humans, we have also rality as a kind of checklist, his church. tire population of gay people ity of the reality that awaited contributed to injustices and of things you’re not supposed 
Jones, a contributor to the eventually succeeded in mak-me,” Jones said. “when we talk we can’t ignore that. we need to do, but i didn’t think at all blog “spiritual friendship,” ing him homophobic himself to people who even refuse to to ask how to make amends in about what my future would spoke monday night at “gay at one stage in his life. he said acknowledge the history of that regard.” look like,” Tushnet said. and catholic,” a conversation much of what affected him was suffering we have nowhere to eve Tushnet, author of “gay There is a danger in society’s hosted by the gender relations his church’s decision to silence go, because you’ve just basical-and catholic: accepting my emphasis on romantic love as center (grc), about how he any conversation regarding ly erased a whole people and a sexuality,findingcommunity, the highest and most success-grew up in portland, oregon, matters of homosexuality. whole history.” living my faith,” spoke about ful form of companionship, as a gay teenager in a conser-“The world is already having when his church found out her contrasting experience she said. vative baptist community and this conversation and when about his sexual orientation, growing up as a lesbian in a “society teaches that mar-how to this day he continues the church is silent on it … then Jones said, they banned him secular Jewish household and riage is the thing that rescues to live out a celibate life as a that just simply removes the from working with kids or her eventual conversion to us from the terror of loneliness, protestant. church from the conversation,” speaking on stage in front of catholicism. marriage is the thing that when 
“it just was not talked about, Jones said. “it actually removes the public. he said although Tushnet said she came into we cry out in the dark someone will answer us,” Tushnet said. paid adverTisemenT 

“The way that we escape isola­tion through romantic love is very deeply embedded into our culture.” 
Tushnet said that negative stigmas usually associated with living a life of celibacy can be debunked through the realization that celibacy is not synonymous with loneliness. 
“a big thing i’ve learned is to find ways that you’re not liv­ing in isolation … that you’re living with your family or your family of choice,” Tushnet said. “one of your home communi­ties would be your church.” 
both Tushnet and Jones said celibacy was not a restricting lifestyle, but rather a choice that gave them the “freedom to constrain” themselves to other vocations, such as serv­ing their communities. 
“celibacy is in some ways an expression of trust that there is more than this life,” Tushnet said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 

The observer | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

author critiques court position on marriage 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
supreme court Justice anthony Kennedy is trying his hand at “freshman philoso­phy” to redefine marriage in his supreme court opinion on same-sex marriage rather than relying on the words of the con­stitution and legal precedent, ryan anderson said. 
ryan  T.  anderson,  the  
william  e.  simon  senior  
research  fellow in  american  

principles and public policy, gave a lectured titled “Truth overruled: marriage and the future of religious freedom” in debartolo hall on monday evening. The lecture, which was sponsored by students for child oriented policy, discussed the impact of the recent ruling by the supreme court on same-sex marriage and its possible reper­cussions on marriage and the family. 
anderson said heterosexual couples that do not adhere to the institution of marriage in its full meaning have caused the problems that afflict the family today. 
“The legal redefinition of mar­riage could only take place after the cultural redefinition of mar­riage,” he said. “it is only after 50 years of heterosexuals making a mess of love, and sex and the family with non-marital child bearing and high rates of di­vorce that anthony Kennedy can say the male-female part doesn’t matter. … This problem with the decline of marriage rates and the increase of non-marital child­bearing is a direct consequence of the sexual revolution and the values it began promulgating about the family.” 
anderson said the problem with Justice Kennedy’s ruling is it enshrines the vision of sexu­ality and marriage that cen­ters on adult romance into our constitution. 
“if you think the past 40 or 50 years of marriage practices in the united states has been a good thing for our children, and a good thing for families and communities, the same past 40 or 50 years where we’re seen the introduction about hook-up cul­ture and the doubling of divorce rates, if you think that’s been a good thing for human well-be­ing and human flourishing, then by all means cheer on anthony Kennedy’s decision,” he said. “if you think this has been prob­lematic in many respects for human well-being and human flourishing, then you might want to be cautious before having five unelected judges redefine what marriage is and then say our constitution requires it.” 

anderson said the overarch­ing argument of his book, which shares a name with the lecture, is that the marriage movement should model itself after the pro-life movement. 
“Just like roe v. wade, there is nothing in the constitution that actually says there is a constitu­tional right to have an abortion,” anderson said. “so too, there is nothing in the actual constitu­tion that requires a redefinition of marriage.” 
The fourteenth amendment does not give an explicit defini­tion of marriage, anderson said, and this lack of common under­standing about the institution of marriage is the true point of con­tention in the marriage debate. 
“everyone is in favor of marriage equality,” he said. “everyone wants the law to treat all americans equally. The only way that Kennedy could attempt to show the law was violating equality was to smuggle in his own vision of marriage that sees marriage about primarily con­senting adult romance.” 
anderson said the supreme court’s ruling on same-sex mar­riage is degrading the status of marriage in contemporary 
paid adverTisemenT 
culture. 
“The law cannot teach both views of marriage, it will teach one or the other,” anderson said. “The law will then shape our cul­ture, our culture will then shape our beliefs, and our beliefs will shape our actions, and not just for you in the audience but for your children and your chil­dren’s children.” 
The restructuring of marriage to become more compatible with modern attitudes about dating will have negative conse­quences for the family, he said. 
“now that Justice Kennedy has redefined marriage to make it a genderless institution, there is no institution left in public life that promotes the ideal that ev­ery child deserves both a mother and a father,” anderson said. “what defining marriage does is say men and women are in­terchangeable and that mothers and fathers as replaceable.” 
anderson said it is better for children to be raised by a mixed-gender couple, and that this benefit to children is the reason for governmental involvement in marriage. 
“a secondary concern of mine is the effect redefining marriage has on children,” anderson said. “a child raised by both a mother and a father is provided with the best environment for human flourishing, and there are a few reasons why. science supports the fact that biology matters, gender matters, and stability matters.” 

anderson said the demoni­zation of those who have tradi­tional views of the institution of marriage acts as an obstacle to intelligent discourse on the topic. 
“if you heard people say over the course of the past decade that if you’re against same-sex marriage, then you’re no better than a racist bigot who is against interracial marriage, believe them,” he said. “now that they are in the ascendency of cultural power, they intend on treating people who believe marriage is the union between a man and a woman as if they are racists or bigots. 
“unlike the abortion issue, too many people at the elite level on the marriage issue view people who believe marriage is the union of a man and a woman as not only wrong, but also evil. it is our challenge, as middle america, to have a debate where reasonable people of good will can disagree but coexist.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | The observer 

Votes 
conTinued from page 1 
information. we’re not agreed on what constitutes a fact,” he said. 
in order for this toxic rhetoric to end, a cultural change must occur, duffy said, and this cul­tural change must be grounded in supporting statements with actual evidence. 
“There are assertions, assertions, assertions — but not evidence. when you provide evi­dence for a claim, you are dem­onstrating your integrity. you are not simply making wild state­ments, you are willing to back them up,” he said. 
duffy said people must also be willing to listen to those chal­lenging their ideas, who present opposing viewpoints. 
“you expose yourself to the contradictions, the uncer­tainties, the possibilities that attach themselves to any serious, worthwhile questions,” he said. 

by doing this, duffy said, “we expose ourselves to the possibil­ity that we might have to change our minds.” 
in closing, duffy said personal arguments and opinions should be taken seriously, since they are a reflection of personal values and are “expressions of who we are, expressions of our character, expressions of the kind of com­munity in which we want to live.” 
lorraine cuddeback, a ph.d. candidate in theology, exam­ined voting from a catholic perspective. cuddeback said de­veloping a strong conscience is a necessity for choosing the best political candidate. 
“The formation of a con­science first involves a willing­ness to seek what the truth is,” she said. 
cuddeback said that catholics should play an active role in the political world. 

“it is the particular vocation of lay catholics to directly shape the moral character of the coun­try,” she said. 
The event also offered stu­dents the opportunity to register as voters in preparation for the 2016 presidential primaries and elections and provided instruc­tions for obtaining an absentee ballot. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 
Zumba 
conTinued from page 1 
series was created and de­signed to touch everyone with a bunch of different activities,” martellaro said. “it is meant to get people educated on breast cancer and what they can do as a survivor or someone going through it or someone who just cares about the cause.” 
martellaro said that the foundation wanted to plan a fun event that everyone could get in­volved with during breast cancer awareness month. The event was designed to bring in students from the university, as well as those from the surrounding south bend community. 
“because health is one of the pillars of our organiza­tion, and staying healthy, having a healthy lifestyle is so important to preventing any kind of disease, includ­ing cancer, we wanted to do something health-related that people could get in­volved in,” said martellaro. 

according to Kelly, the event was simply designed to raise awareness for the cause. 
“for the people that have gone through it, it is some­thing to help them cel­ebrate their health,” she said. 
Throughout breast cancer awareness month, the foundation will hold numerous different events as part of the paqui’s playbook series, martellaro said. in addition to the pink out Zumba event, the foundation will be holding a pedal in pink cycle event on campus in the rockne memorial on oct. 27. 

“what we hope people get out of it [is] to motivate each other to go get their mammograms and have good health habits. That is the goal,” Kelly said. 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
NaMI 
conTinued from page 1 
mental illness (nami) spon­sored food for Thought on monday night in Jordan hall of science as part of “illuminate the mind,” this year’s mental illness awareness week. Junior Katie paige, president of nami-nd, introduced the 
goals  of  the  organization  
before  steibe-pasalich  and  
care  [campus  assessment  

response and education] 
lamps for students with sea­sonal affective disorder and let’s Talk, an anonymous drop-in counseling service for students to talk to a counselor briefly and determine if they want to pursue treatment at the ucc. 
steibe-pasalich also said the ucc has a warm line for non-emergency help. This line is often used by faculty and staff who are concerned about a student, she said, although students are encouraged to use it too. 
“if you’re concerned about someone but don’t know what to say, we will help you with the words,” she said. “friends can be the most effective in terms of getting someone help.” 
according to their website, the care team is devoted to providing early interven­tion for members of the notre dame community who are experiencing stressful or dif­ficult situations. Kelsey said it is a good place for students to start when looking for help. 
“no problem or concern is too small,” she said. “so if there’s ever a question and you don’t know who to turn to, a care consultant would be a good first step.” 

care consultants help stu­dents make a plan to deal with their problem and help them follow through on it, Kelsey said. she also said that care is focused on helping students advocate for themselves. 
“we do a lot of teaching and encouraging of self advo­cacy,” she said. “if a student is stressed out because they didn’t turn in a paper so they decide they’re just never going back to class again, we’d en­courage them to really reach out to that professor and let them know what’s going on and to not be afraid to ask for help when it’s needed.” 
more information about these and other resources is available at ucc.nd.edu and care.nd.edu. To reach the ucc warm line, call the ucc at 631-7336 and ask for the warm line. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
consultant dr. erica Kelsey discussed the mental illness resources available on campus for students. 
“every year, the first full week of october is nationally recognized as mental illness awareness week,” paige said. “nami tries to end stigma, provide support, educate notre dame and the south bend community and stand in solidarity with those who are struggling with mental illness.” 
steibe-pasalich said the 
paid adverTisemenT 

ucc staff is trained specifi­cally to help students. 
“This year, our staff is li­censed psychologists and clinical social workers with a special expertise in college student mental health,” she said. “we are also a training site for doctoral interns and accredited program studies.” 
The ucc offers services for a variety of mental issues, in­cluding a nutritionist for stu­dents suffering from eating disorders, an inner resources room with sunlight therapy 

Medal 
conTinued from page 1 
and witness of the little sisters of the poor “embody the goods at the heart of the evangelium vitae medal. Their unwavering defense of the unborn in the hhs mandate litigation along­side their longstanding work to care for the elderly poor offers a beautiful and powerful witness to the unique, inviolable dig­nity of every person, from con­ception to natural death. Their work is a testament to the radi­cal solidarity and hospitality at the core of the gospel of life.” 
The little sisters of the poor are an international orga­nization of women religious whose mission is to assist the elderly poor. The congrega­tion operates in 31 countries and includes 30 homes in the united states. These homes support more than 13,000 low-income seniors by providing health care and assisted living services. 

“in 2012, led by mother loraine, the little sisters of the poor became the face of reli­gious nonprofit organizations struggling against a federal mandate to facilitate access to contraceptives and drugs that, according to fda labeling, may function by causing the death of newly conceived human be­ings,” the press release stated. 
according to the press re­lease, the evangelium vitae medal consists of a specially commissioned medal and $10,000 prize, which will be presented at a banquet that will be held on notre dame’s campus in april. 

The observer |  tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INsIde cOluMN 

college with add 
Erin Rice 
graphics editor 

after years of refusing to test me for add, my parents drew the line when my fifth grade teach­er called to report that i had used all of the math handouts to make miniature origami mailboxes for every student to pass notes. 
as a 10 year old, being told that i was different and needed medication to help me translated to: you’re weird and need to be fixed. classmates would tease me about my ‘lunch-date’ with the nurse because of my daily visit to take my afternoon medication. i wanted to be normal, (although clearly i was far from it — origami mailboxes??), and taking medication made me different. i feared i would be labeled as less of a person, unable to function on my own. 
now that i’m in college and have been living with add for years, people approach medica­tion much differently. often friends tell me that i’m “lucky” that i have add because i get to take medication. i want people to know that i have to take medication to function normally. without medication i often forget what i’m talking about in the middle of a sentence. i can’t complete a thought with out being distracted by something else. i’ll intend to do one thing and do the com­plete opposite. 
adderall is helping me survive college; it’s not for fun. even with medication, i’m incred­ibly high-energy and i can still be unorganized, forgetful and impulsive. in order to handle the stress of the fast-paced college environment, i’ve developed habits and tricks to keep me on track even when i want to stop and pet that puppy on south quad for 45 minutes. even if you don’t have add, some of these tips might apply to you. if none of these apply to you, i’d like to meet you. 
first, make lists. don’t go crazy and make an absurd amount though, or the first thing on your to-do list might be to find your original one. break down a to-do list into three sections: do immediately, do this week and long-term 
second, put everything back in the same place and simplify. The less you have, the easier it is to stay organized. 
Third, leave time at the end of each day to tidy up your living space. i rarely spend time in my room. it’s typically littered with clothes i decid­ed against wearing that day. don’t let it pile up. 
fourth, always carry around a small notebook to capture those random, fleeting thoughts. write everything down. 
fifth, when you are rushing through your day, slow down to take a moment to look around and realize how awesome campus is. little mental breaks can help relieve stress and keep you fo­cused for the rest of the day’s tasks. 
and lastly, surround yourself with people who are patient and understand that you are actu­ally listening. if you are around people that are constantly annoyed by your short attention span and high energy, talk to them about it. There are also a lot of awesome people at nd, find friends that get you and love you for it. 
as someone with add, you may need to work a little harder, but never stop working to do your best. if you have any tips that work well for you, feel free to share. 
Contact Erin Rice at erice4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
As fish in the pond 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 

one of the most relevant lessons i learned about animal biology over my years in college did not, oddly enough, come from a biology class as a science major at the university of notre dame. rather, this learning moment was delivered by one of the 10-year-old little buddies i met through college mentors for Kids my sophomore year. as strangely specific as it sounds, her all-time favorite animal was the Japanese koi fish; upon further inquiry as to exactly why she held this conviction, she gushed about a recent trip to an aquarium where she was captivated by the vibrant, colorful patterns of the fish she saw in the tanks. The aspect that most intrigued me, though, was the lesson the marine biologist imparted during their visit about the growth patterns of the fish. apparently, when the fish is hatched and raised in a traditional fish bowl, it can grow to be about three inches long. when raised in a koi pond or similarly sized pool, the fish can grow to be around a foot long. however, if the koi is allowed to spend its life in a larger body of water — say, a small pond — it can grow to be nearly three feet or longer. 
from this example and many others in animal biology, it is a generally accepted principle that the qualities of an animal’s environment have pro­found impacts on its future outcomes. from young primates whose physical development is stunted due to being socially ostracized to the example of the koi fish having more room to grow and thrive, it is evident that the environmental conditions to which the individual animal is exposed have mas­sive implications for how it will develop over time. it doesn’t take much extrapolation from this ex­ample to ask the question, “what about us?” 
The medical school application is inherently re­flective, so the past several months have involved an awful lot of introspection, reflection and self-assessment. part of that process has involved me looking at the environment in which i have been able to learn and grow — specifically, how my undergraduate years have shaped and influenced who i am. another part has been trying to articu­late to others how meaningful this environment has been to me in terms of my personal and pro­fessional development. Just as a koi fish does not notice the water it lives in, though, it is difficult to really grasp the extent to which this place has shaped me (because it has, and in so many differ­ent ways). 
for me, one of the most fascinating parts about the environment that exists here at notre dame is the fact that, unlike the static pond or bowl in which the koi fish is confined, we have the abil­ity to shape and develop this place each and ev­ery day. That is precisely why i find weeks such the one before us — energy week, mental illness awareness week, respect life week and the oth­ers i am probably missing — to be so exciting. whether you share the stances being advocated by the various groups or not, you are witnessing the manifestation of our ability to mold and shape the metaphorical pond within which we live to an extent that no other creatures can. we have the ability to seek out and isolate problems and issues we experience in the communities we are a part of, raise awareness of those ills, and work together to make the environment that we learn and live in better than it was before. we are able to work to­ward the goal that this home we share together is a place where everyone has the space and support to grow and develop into citizens ready to go out in to the “real world” and make similar meaning­ful changes. as stewards of the campus commu­nity, we have the exciting opportunity to leave this place as a different — and hopefully better — place than when we first embraced it. 
and, frankly, that is some pretty powerful stuff. 
Michael Fliotsos is a senior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely     appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for        future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter tO the edItOr 

Addressing mental health 
i was happy to see The observer address mental health on friday, in its editorial and a column. i agree that we should be talking more about men­tal health. i am worried, though, about some of the ways that it currently is talked about, even in your sympathetic editorial. psychiatrists would have us believe that mental illnesses are caused by chemical imbalances, which might be cured with the right set of drugs. That’s no accident; pharmaceutical companies have aggressively lob­bied for standard diagnostic criteria (the dsm), and the medicated solutions that go along with them. 
i am not writing to vilify medication, which i know is helpful for many. but i do find it problem­atic when difficult mental states are described as simply being the result of chemical imbalances. i recently reconnected with my old therapist in england over skype. i was happy to find out that aetna will cover our sessions, but they want a di­agnosis and the corresponding code. my therapist and i talked about this (he has never given me a diagnosis before) and he recognized that in the uK mental health care professionals are more reluctant to give diagnoses, because they can be part of the problem, leading people to identify with an illness that then becomes intractable. 
receiving a diagnosis is probably better than being in denial, but i think we should question the supposed matter-of-factness that says chemical imbalances create mental illnesses, and are read­ily treated with pills. 
Joel Duncan 
ph.d. candidate in english 



Do we need gun control? 
Neil Joseph 
viewpoint columnist 
This past week, the entire country mourned the deaths of 10 individuals as a mentally disturbed man horrifically took their lives. like many of the horrific mass shootings we’ve seen over the past few years, this revived our constantly resurg­ing conversation over gun control in the united states. while it is sad that it takes such a tragedy for this debate to take place (like so many other debates), the conversation is necessary. yet, this discussion has led to nothing. our politicians either say that nothing needs to be changed or that lobbying groups prevent things from being changed. like with all contentious issues in our country, we seem to be at a gridlock. but should we even be doing anything? 
Those who don’t think there should be any changes to gun laws (or think that we should have looser gun laws) consistently cite the 2nd amendment: “a well regulated militia, being nec­essary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” some pro-gun groups vehemently as­sert that because of this, any gun control law is illegal. on its face, this argument is nonsensical 
— the government surely has a right to control arms (i.e., outlawing grenades and rocket launch­ers for civilians), just as it has a right to carve out exceptions for free speech (i.e., outlawing shouting “fire” in a movie theater). The question shouldn’t be whether the government has the right to restrict civilian ownership of arms. The question should be asking what the right amount of restriction is. 
This isn’t a simple question. lots of people try to simplify the various sides of the gun control debate. gun control advocates will point to a few graphs in a few countries where increased gun control has correlated with decreased murders. pro-gun advocates will point to a few studies that show that more gun deaths occur in gun-free zones. They’re both right, because it’s an intricate debate. but there are a few facts that both sides need to acknowledge. for one, it is true that in places where there are more guns, there are more homicides. at the same time, however, a com­mon (and true) saying is that correlation does not imply causation. The fact that there are more homicides where there are more guns doesn’t necessarily mean that severe gun restrictions will decrease the amount of homicides and mass murders that will happen. but it points to the pos­sibility that reducing the amount of dangerous arms available to civilians quite possibly makes them safer. 
another common theme for the pro-gun side is the mantra “guns don’t kill people, people kill people”. while true, this distracts from a truth — guns make it a lot easier to kill people. now, this doesn’t mean that we should be outlawing guns — owning a gun is a citizen’s right. furthermore, it’s naïve to think that the oregon shooter (or any criminal) would not have been able to obtain a gun if it were illegal to do so. with the amount of guns in our country right now and the ease to purchase them today, outlawing guns is ineffec­tive and unrealistic. it would probably have little to no clear effect on gun violence, and wouldn’t make us any safer considering the context 
in spite of this, our policymakers can’t do noth­ing. little by little, they need to try and figure out what actually works in reducing gun violence, the ease to obtain a gun and the deaths that guns cause. it starts with things that have vast public support — it’s appalling that the federal govern­ment won’t mandate background checks at gun shows when 85 percent of the country supports this policy. a majority of the country supports a ban on assault weapons and semi-automatic weapons (they’re called assault weapons, for cry­ing out loud, what is their purpose — to assault), yet we have not yet renewed the ban that clinton passed in 1994. The point is, we outpace our peer developed countries in gun deaths per capita — and it is the responsibility of policymakers to do something about it. 
curbing gun violence won’t be easy or all-encompassing. one policy won’t significantly reduce gun violence by itself. we need to make our country safer for all while also realizing that our founders put the 2nd amendment in the constitution for a reason — to save us from the tyranny of our government. but at the same time, we need to keep tragedies like the one this past week from happening. The policies we enact won’t do that wholesale — but they will work to­wards making it harder to purchase guns and will thus save lives. and that’s what should be done, because even one life saved is worth it.
     Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He can be reached at njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter tO the edItOr 

Join the conversation about campus culture 
for me, dorm parties were always a fun way to unwind after the end of a stressful week. i have fond memories of them and plenty of awkward stories that have resulted from them, but none stand out as being truly bad experiences. although now that the issues of sexual assault and consent have become increasingly more transparent, i began to consider the possible role that dorm parties might play in them. i do remember going to parties where one guy would continue to feed me drinks until i assume i was deemed drunk enough for him to make a move. Though in my experi­ence these dance-floor make outs were consensual, i wonder if that was always the case for my friends and peers. i remember leaving a party once and seeing a guy leading a stumbling girl back to his room. i want to assume that he was trying to take care of her and help her sober up while her friends enjoyed the party. i’m terrified that this wasn’t the case and that i didn’t do anything to stop something bad from happening. 
is the biggest problem with dorm parties really the sweat, then? do dorm parties potentially lead to problems when it comes to understanding consent? Though i don’t believe that removing alcohol from the equation is the solution to ending sexual assault, how much does it contribute to the problem? 
i think that this is an important conversation that needs to be had on this campus if we want to continue to address the issue of sexual assault at notre dame. it is definitely one that i wish my friends and i had had during our dorm party phase. come to 136 debartolo hall this wednesday at 6:30 to begin this candid con­versation about campus culture over chipotle. i’ll see you there. 
Allison Kerins 
grc fire starter 


The observer | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

The scene is southwestern suburbia. rows of cookie-cutter houses pierce the desert landscape. a team of fbi tactical agents converges on one of the houses. it doesn’t matter which one. it could be any house, anywhere. it turns out the house doesn’t hold what the fbi is look­ing for. rather, it is the site of horrors transposed from a cormac mccarthy novel. The heroine of “sicario,” special agent Kate macer (played by the incred­ible emily blunt), is so transfixed by the abhorrent sights — sights which director denis villeneuve and his cinematog­rapher, roger deakins, document with unflinching resolve — that it is evident that “sicario” is not simply another film about the ongoing war against drug car­tels. That is, the five-minute opening to “sicario” establishes it as a retelling of Joseph conrad’s “heart of darkness.” one that, by revealing the horrors be­neath the facade of normality, is charac­terized by a startling irony reminiscent of “blue velvet,” “american beauty” and “breaking bad.” 
macer’s seemingly futile efforts against the cartels capture the attention of matt, a mysterious government agent played by Josh brolin. his flip-flops 
— which mr. brolin seems to have sto­len from the set of his previous film, “inherent vice” — and used-car sales­man’s smile suggest his duplicity. he insists that macer join his task force, an altogether risky proposition that matt convinces macer will be an opportu­nity to do more good in this world than her current position allows. seeing just how persuasive that cheap smile can be, macer’s immediate supervisor pleads with her: “Think hard before you decide to get involved.” it’s not the subtlest mo­ment, but it works. This is the point of no return. even if macer makes it through the mission in one piece she will never be the same again. 
macer obliges and is quickly whisked away on matt’s private jet where she meets alejandro. as they depart the air­field, the trio passes dozens and dozens of apache attack helicopters. villeneuve foregrounds the united states’ inordi­nate defense budget not as a commen­tary, but to pose a question: what is the true cost of these agents’ work? in addi­tion to offering reprieve from the action scenes’ immense tension, the film’s qui­eter moments provide an answer. 

as played by the icy, exacting benicio del Toro, alejandro’s intentions are even more difficult to glean than matt’s. we are left with no doubt, however, as to the measures alejandro is willing to use to achieve his goals. in one of the film’s most haunting scenes, alejandro ap­proaches a seemingly unbreakable hos­tage with a full 10-gallon water cooler jug. as the camera tilts down toward a drain in the floor, it becomes unsettling­ly easy to imagine how alejandro ex­tracted the necessary information from the prisoner. 
in a year without the release of “mad max: fury road,” “sicario” would stand a chance at winning academy awards for cinematography (expect deakins to snag his 13th nomination … always a bridesmaid), editing and sound mixing. for my money, those three awards have been spoken for since may. awards aside, “sicario’s” outstanding technical ele­ments create some of the best onscreen action of the year. in one masterful se­quence an entire caravan of swaT suvs crosses the border into mexico to obtain a prisoner and deliver him to american soil for interrogation. The convoy knows they will be attacked. alejandro even correctly predicts when and where they will be attacked, yet the editing — with its rapid, precise shifts in point of view from within the convoy to the safety of the american side of the border and back again — set to the terse radio dialogue of the swaT team and Jóhann Jóhannsson’s brooding score, creates tension on par with that of the “Turandot” scene in “mission: impossible — rogue nation.” 
villeneuve also uses deakins’ compo­sitions to service the film’s moral agen­da. sweeping overhead shots depict the stark boundary between suburbia and the desert landscape. considering the opening scene of the film, these shots are a bleak reminder that no matter how desolate and unforgiving the natural world may be, true terror comes from human nature. 
and what of that central question? what is the cost of all this terror, of all this violence? i think a small scene in which macer torments herself, staring at images of violence on her computer — a sort of penance akin to harvey Keitel holding his hand in the flame of a can­dle in “mean streets” — rather than the film’s ending, provides the answer. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                      nlaurean@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 

The observer | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

lately, the sun rises less and less fre­quently, hiding behind its clouds. The fall season is in full swing, and with it come three guaranteed things: heavier clothing, heavier hearts and — natural­ly — heavier drake songs. 
over this past weekend, the new re­lease “can i?” — featuring his second collaboration with beyonce — was un­ceremoniously leaked over the apple music station beats 1’s “ovo sound radio” show. coming on the heels of his latest project, “what a Time to be alive,” a collaboration with rapper future, the song brought about somewhat of a re­turn to drake’s roots. 
The canadian rapper/singer croons over samples of beyonce singing, “can i / baby?”, asking a faceless lover various 
By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

last week, we premiered scenecast, a new podcast from the observer scene staff. each week, a think tank of scene writers will discuss a topic from the pop culture zeitgeist. our writers watch, read and listen to more media than is probably healthy, and this podcast will be another vehicle for sharing that knowledge, often in more depth than questions – naturally structured around the formula “can i … baby?”. while the style and delivery does sound a bit forced and tacky, the song still is able to relate to listeners’ own insecurities and romantic frustrations. 
yes, it is a bit confusing which direc­tion drake is trying to go in nowadays. while on the one hand, we have the tough-guy, superstar rapper puffing out his chest and boasting of his success for the majority of his latest album “what a Time to be alive,” the project still ends with a somber, reflective track in “30 for 30 freestyle.” To take things even further on the other hand, drake also walks a fine line between swagger and sadness on “if you’re reading This it’s Too late.” 
That is not to say that he as a musician cannot venture down both roads and express the multitude of his emotions 
is possible in print. in just under 30 minutes, you can have a grasp on what our staff is thinking about each week and why it is important to the cultural conversation. 
This week, the scenecast takes on Kanye west’s “808s & heartbreak,” in light of his recent shows at the hollywood bowl where he performed the album in whole. The scene staff considers wheth­er the album, which received more in different songs. after all, no man — or person, obviously — is ever truly static in their emotions. on any single day, any given person probably swings through the wide range of feelings and emotions probably about 50 times. Thus, to criticize an artist for putting out multiple songs going in different directions would be hypocritical, to say the least. 

yet somehow, there is a double stan­dard with drake. some days, it almost feels as if the artist wants to shed his “soft” reputation and assert how manly he is. other days, he just wants people to understand him and get that he, like anyone else, is prone to his emotions. 
it is also difficult for “can i?” to hold a candle to drake’s first collaboration with beyonce, “mine.” granted, the lat­est leak is just that — a leak — and so total judgment should be suspended 
critical reviews than any other Kanye album to date at the time of its release, has influenced the sound of rap music today. i unsuccessfully try to convince the other writers that this is one of Kanye’s best albums and everyone else accuses me of being a contrarian. matt mcmahon asks whether anyone can re­member a time before Kanye was mar­ried to Kim Kardashian and expresses his contempt for “808s.” erin mcauliffe until the finished product is officially released. but even with a glimpse at the style of the song and the first verse, the duo’s “mine” just sounds so much bet­ter. “mine” offers a full evolution within the song, while providing listeners both the female and male’s perspective in a (confusing) relationship. 
The two can, and have, released work together that is an undeniable hit and showcases two artists that complement each other’s style. while the initial product is promising, it does have some work to do and is in need of some pol­ishing. fans of the two musicians can only hope that the song promises on its potential. after all, the weather lately certainly begs for another sad drake song. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
phones in from london to tell a story about writing a rap “heartless” for an 8th grade history project, while miko malabute endorses young Thug even though he can never understand what he’s rapping. finally, everyone discuss­es their ranking of their favorite Kanye albums. 
Contact Matt Munhall at                   mmunhall@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN AND MATT MUNHALL | The Observer 

sPOrts authOrIty 

did you expect anything different? 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
i hate the media’s tendency to overreact. 
especially when it comes to college football. Take last weekend, for example. 
because i only write a sports authority column every other week, i missed my chance to tell you to bet everything you own plus whatever else you can sell, pawn, borrow or beg — even reverse-mortgage or just flat out sell your house — on alabama going into its match-up with georgia last weekend. 
why would i advise you to risk so much? 
because almost everyone overreacted after then-no. 2 alabama’s 43-37 loss to then-no. 15 ole miss at home three weekends ago. because for some reason the nick saban­coached team then dropped 10 spots in the polls. 
because for some reason, the oddsmakers made the crimson Tide underdogs in their first big game since the loss. 
The loss that sent alabama plummeting wasn’t just any loss though. it was a home loss, pundits pointed out. alabama just doesn’t lose at home. and that’s correct. 
alabama doesn’t embar­rass itself at home on national television. 
alabama doesn’t let oppos­ing offenses pass for 329 yards. 
alabama doesn’t allow 43 points. 
alabama doesn’t give up 24 points off turnovers. 
alabama doesn’t turn the ball over five times. 
and finally, alabama head coach nick saban doesn’t take kindly to anything mentioned above. 
The crimson Tide shouldn’t have even been in the game against the rebels, let alone have the ball late in the fourth quarter with a chance to drive for the game-winning score 
—
 twice. 

yet somehow they were, which just speaks to how much of a fluke that game was. alabama handed ole miss the victory. four of the rebels’ eight scoring drives — and three of their five touchdowns 

—
 came on drives starting in­side alabama’s 31-yard line. long story short, the rebels should have destroyed the crimson Tide. 


and yet ole miss didn’t. 
alabama still had more than a small chance of winning that football game. so when the ap poll came out two weeks ago and dropped the crimson Tide so fast it was as if anchors were tied around their feet; and when the same pollsters called in nasa to launch ole miss to the moon or even mars, i couldn’t believe what i was seeing. alabama, the 12th-best team in the country? ole miss the third? 
had everyone lost their minds? 
after alabama blew out ul­monroe, 34-0, two weeks ago, i thought enough time had passed for emotions to blow over and reason to regain its grip on reality. 
but no. instead, the polls actually dropped alabama another spot, to no. 13, and then proceeded to make mat­ters worse by favoring no. 8 georgia by 2.5 points. 
are you kidding me? 
with no offense meant to ul-monroe, saban basically had two weeks to plan for the bulldogs. 
and by plan, i mean say a lot of words to his team i cannot repeat in print. 
so when i found out the score was ‘only’ 31-3 in the third quarter, i was surprised — that georgia had scored. 
The over-under on the game was 55 points, and the only reason i would have been ner­vous about the teams eclipsing that mark was my uncertainty that alabama would be able to score that many points on its own; the bulldogs, i was con­vinced, weren’t even going to sniff midfield, let alone the end zone. 
how did anyone really be­lieve alabama wasn’t going to come out frothing at the mouth and carrying a massive chip on its shoulder? seriously, where have you been for the last, oh, decade? 
now, just days after claiming alabama’s reign as one of the top teams in college football was over, everyone and their mother is praising the crimson Tide as one of the best teams in country. 
That, for once, isn’t an overreaction. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Nfl 

Bears lose starting center to left leg fracture 
Associated Press 

laKe foresT, ill. — Quarterback Jay cutler seems over his hamstring problems. The chicago bears now have to worry about who’s available to block for him. 
The loss of center will montgomery to a broken left fibula in sunday’s 22-20 win over the oakland raiders left the offensive line scram­bling, and the grouping for this sunday’s game in Kansas city appears uncertain at best. coach John fox said he had no idea whether montgomery’s injury was a season-ender, but it definitely forces a shift this week. 
“it happens at a lot of posi­tions in a lot of football games in the national football league,” fox said monday. “all your backups.have to be ready to play in a moment’s notice, par­ticularly in the o-line because it is such a group dynamic. it’s five guys knowing exactly what the other guy is doing with line calls, pass protection alerts. we run some no-huddle, so there’s a lot of checks at the line.” 
left guard matt slauson shifted over from center after taking what he estimated were just six snaps at center all year and none in a regular season game. 
montgomery’s injury oc­curred on the third play, so slauson played amost the en­tire contest. That meant newly acquired patrick omameh came in at slauson’s regular spot. The bears already were without starting left tackle Jermon bushrod due to a con­cussion and shoulder injury. 
“i think we had maybe a cou­ple high shotgun snaps,” fox said. “i know we had the one center-quarterback exchange problem that resulted in a turnover. but the good news was our guys overcame it.” 
fox said some problems were understandable considering more than half the line was out or at different positions. 
“but i thought they didn’t panic and just kept swinging the sword and did pretty good,” fox said. 
being in charge of the line at a strange position left slauson feeling a need afterward to decompress. 
“it was tough,” he said. “i spent my time with my family, had a couple beers, and then a couple more. but it was good.” 
slauson, a 6-foot-5, 320-pound former new york Jet, missed three games last year with an ankle injury before suffering a season-ending chest injury after the eighth game. he called losing montgomery a huge blow to the line. 
“he sets everything,” slauson said. “The communication is so fast with him in there. and not that it’s not with me, but because i have to move, now a new guy comes in in my spot and now we’ve got two guys playing out of position.” 

Qb mallett to start for Texans against colts 
Associated Press 

housTon — The houston Texans are sticking with ryan mallett as their starting quar­terback despite his recent struggles. 
mallett threw an intercep­tion and didn’t lead the Texans to any points before he was replaced by brian hoyer late in a 48-21 loss to the atlanta falcons on sunday. 
hoyer threw two touch­down passes and directed three scoring drives late against a falcons defense that had pulled most of its start­ers. hoyer won the job out of camp, but was benched after one game in favor of mallett. 
The Texans (1-3) have a short turnaround before hosting afc south foe indianapolis on Thursday night. 
“he’s our starting quar­terback,” coach bill o’brien said of mallett. “like all of us, he knows that he has to play better. we all have to do better. he’s got to do a bet­ter job of throwing the ball 

FOR RENT 

3 BR 2 BA house with pool. Georgetown sub. Close to ND. 
more accurately, be more controlled in the pocket, don’t turn it over, gets us into the right play, but that’s who will start against the indianapolis colts.” 
mallett has thrown for 720 yards with three touchdowns and three interceptions this season. he’s in his fifth sea­son, but has started just five games in his career after play­ing behind Tom brady in new england for three seasons and being injured in his second game after getting the start­ing job in houston last year. 
o’brien was asked why he was staying with mallett since hoyer was more effective on sunday. 
“brian did go in there and do some good things,” o’brien said. “it was 42-0 at that time. it was a passing game. he did a good job. but i think right now being on a short week and things like that, i think it’s important for us to stick with ryan right now.” 
mallett will be without one of his top targets on Thursday with cecil shorts out indefi­nitely after dislocating his left shoulder on sunday. he was hurt on the final play of the game when he was driven to the ground and fumbled after catching a pass. receiver nate washington is day to day with a hamstring injury but will likely play. 
Though mallett took the bulk of the criticism for houston’s poor perfor­mance on sunday he was far from the only one who had a tough game. running back arian foster made his sea­son debut after missing the first three games following groin surgery. he ran just six times for 17 yards and helped the falcons build the early lead when his fumble was picked up and returned for a touchdown. 
“we really need to work on the running game,” o’brien said. “we’ve got to be able to run the football.” 
foster came out of the game healthy and o’brien expects him to play on Thursday night. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
52162 Pickwick Lane. $1200/mo + what you have here tonight, boys. deposit. Call 574-386-0882 That’s what you’ve earned here tonight. One game. If we played “Great moments are born from ‘em ten times, they might win 
great opportunity. And that’s nine,” Miracle, 2004 

sMc sports 
conTinued from page 16 
“i was so proud of our team and the way we continued to keep focus and play one shot at a time. winning that event gave us a bigger cushion on the third-place position, and it helped us gain some strokes on olivet, who is just barely holding on to the second spot.” 
averill shot a 79 on the day to finish in second place over­all in the individual standings while junior ali mahoney and freshman Taylor Kehoe both shot 84 to finish in a tie with each other for sixth place. Junior courtney carlson shot an 86 on the day to finish in a tie for 11th place, and senior Katie Zielinski shot a 93 to fin­ish in a tie for 23rd place. 
“i told my team that i was very proud of their perfor­mance,” moore said. “i told them that there are mile­stones in your life that you will remember forever, and that day was one of them for me. i thanked them for giving me my first collegiate win as a college head golf coach.” 
Two days after their victory, the belles finished in second place in the team standings at the fourth Jamboree on saturday at the Zollner golf course in angola, indiana. 
averill shot a 77 on the day to finish in first place in the individual standings. 
“i am extremely happy for sammie,” moore said. “she has put in a lot of effort this year to come back from a shoulder surgery over the summer. it is awesome to see that the hard work she has put in over the past month and a half is paying off. her putting and her greens in regulation have been much better these past couple tournaments and is a direct result of her stellar playing. i also love seeing her confidence just grow.” 
mahoney shot an 86 to fin­ish in a tie for 12th place in the individual standings, while carlson shot an 87 to finish in a tie for 14th place. Kehoe shot an 88 to finish in a tie for 19th place, and Zielinski shot a 93 to finish in a tie for 27th place. 
moore said she was happy with her team’s performance given the conditions they played through. 
“i wasn’t too disappointed, because saturday’s conditions were by far the worst we’ve played in this season,” moore said. “we played in 40-degree temps, rain and 30-m.p.h. winds. shooting anything in the 330s for a team was good. i was also excited to see that we gained more strokes on olivet and hope, who are the two schools ahead of us in the standings.” 
The belles’ fall season ends this weekend at the miaa end of season weekend Jamboree at bedford valley. 
“we are going to continue to work hard this week in prac­tice,” moore said. “working on some short game issues and ball contact for some of the players. i’m just so excited 
paid adverTisemenT 

about this weekend because my team has this confidence about them that is really start­ing to show every time we play.” 
cross country 

saint mary’s returns to ac­tion friday at the benedictine invitational after getting last weekend off. 
“i’m really excited for the benedictine race this friday,” saint mary’s head coach Jackie bauters said. “i think having a weekend off was really nice for the team, allowing them to get ahead in classes and some extra sleep. i hope the week­end off enables them to go into this week eager to train and prepare for great races on friday.” 
in their last event, the belles finished fifth at the miaa Jamboree. Junior brittany beeler, who finished in 13th overall, paced saint mary’s at the Jamboree. 
“in comparison to some of our other races on the sched­ule, benedictine is a smaller race with less significance but provides us with an op­portunity to continue to ex­plore our race strategies and race against teams we don’t typically compete against,” bauters said. “The course was really good to us last year. it’s flat and fast and helped achieve some solid prs. it would be great for the team to have solid performances this friday as a confidence boost and to continue to en­courage them of what we are working towards and seeing the progress that i’ve seen in practices.” 
bauters said the belles have what it takes to put to­gether a good showing at the benedictine invitational if they follow what they’ve pre­pared for. 
“i think the key to having a successful race on friday is sticking to and executing our race plan,” bauters said. 
The benedictine invitational kicks off an important month for the belles that will include the wisconsin-oshkosh invite next weekend and the miaa championships at the end of the month. The ncaa region­als and ncaa nationals will be held in mid-november. 
The benedictine invitational is set to begin at 5 p.m. friday in lisle, illinois. 
soccer 
saint mary’s suffered its worst loss since at least 2006 saturday, falling to alma, 7-0. 
The belles (1-8-1, 1-6-1 miaa) followed their best de­fensive performance of the season in last Tuesday’s shut­out of adrian with their worst performance of the season, as they conceded seven goals for the first time in the last 10 seasons. The belles offense continued its season-long struggle, as it was the eighth time in 10 games the team has been held scoreless this year. 
The scots (4-6-0, 3-5-0 miaa) outshot the belles 27-3 in the contest, including a lop­sided 19-0 advantage in the first half. The goals were about even in each half, however, as the scots scored four goals in the first half and three goals in the second half. The scots utilized a balanced attack as well, as junior midfielder megan Kalanik led the team with two goals and five other players each scored once in the victory. 
The belles will have to re­bound as they prepare for a re­match on the road with albion tomorrow. 
earlier this season, the britons (6-5-0, 4-4-0 miaa) defeated the belles, 2-0, at Jr. irish airport fields. This time, however, albion will play host to saint mary’s at alumni field. 
while the belles have strug­gled offensively this season, the britons have averaged nearly two goals per game. They are led by the play of junior forward domenique sarnecky, whose eight goals are best on the britons and more than the belles have scored as a team (five) this season. 
The belles are set to kick off against the britons tomorrow at 4 p.m. at alumni field in albion, michigan. 
Volleyball 
saint mary’s finished 1-3 this weekend in its four matches at the wheaton invitational. 
before the tournament, the belles (11-7, 4-3 miaa) played a nail biter against conference foe albion. They prevailed, 3-2, and picked up a confer­ence foe (27-25, 26-28, 21­25, 25-22, 18-16). The match featured 37 ties and 12 lead changes, and each set was de­cided by an average of only 2.6 points. 

The belles started the tour­nament on friday with a 3-0 win over north central. Junior libero meaghan gibbons led the belles with 14 kills in the match and was second on the team with 14 digs. sophomore defensive specialist mcKenzie Todd contributed a team-high 16 digs, while senior outside hitter Katie hecklinski added 13 kills and 13 digs in the win over the cardinals (14-7, 1-0 cciw). The victory pushed the team’s record to 11-4, which was its best record through 15 games since 2006, when it also went 11-4. 
later that day, however, the belles fell to no. 12 wisconsin­stevens point in straight sets by scores of 25-15, 25-22 and 26-24. despite the 3-0 defeat, the belles received strong ef­forts from hecklinski and Todd again. hecklinski had another double-double, notching 14 kills and 11 digs against the pointers (18-4, 1-1 wiac), while Todd led all players with 26 digs in the match. 
on saturday, the belles dropped both matches. first, the belles fell in four sets to tournament-host by scores of 25-23, 16-25, 25-16 and 25-16, as they were unable to repro­duce the effort that secured them a five-set win earlier this season against wheaton. Then, in the second match, wisconsin-eau claire defeat­ed saint mary’s 3-0, as they won by scores of 25-14, 25-15 and 25-23. 
hecklinksi led the belles with a total of 21 kills and 31 digs against the Thunder (7­12, 0-1 cciw) and blugold (15­6, 1-1 wiac). Todd added 28 digs, giving her 70 for the tour­nament (an average of 5.38 per set this weekend) and earning her an all-tournament team selection. Junior setter clare mcmillan led the way with 55 assists on the day for the belles. 
The belles will next take the court in a conference match-up against alma on Tuesday night. The scots (7-10, 3-4 miaa) come in to the match having won two straight, in­cluding a win over an adrian team the belles fell to in straight sets sept. 12. Tonight’s matchup is the first of two be­tween alma and saint mary’s this season. 
The belles and scots are set to square off tonight at 7 p.m. at art smith arena in alma, michigan. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu, Sean Kilmer at skilmer1@nd.edu, Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu and Benjamin Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


W tennis 
conTinued from page 16 
set match over mississippi state sophomore Kristina vozniak, 3-6, 7-6(3), 7-5. senior alaina roberts was the only other irish player to register a singles victory with a 6-0, 6-4, victory over redhawk sopho­more erin rodriguez. 
The broda and chong pair ad­vanced all the way to the quarter­finals of the doubles draw before falling to illinois’ team of louise Kwong and ines vias. The irish duo of sophomore allison miller and junior mary closs advanced to the semifinals of the doubles tournament, as well. 
now the irish will look ahead to the bedford cup at eck Tennis center and illinois blast on the weekend of nov. 6. 
however, robinson and gleason still have unfinished business at the riviera. after making it to the round of 32 in the 2015 ncaa championships, robinson said they will look to put in another strong showing against top-level competition at the iTa all-american championships. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at  skilmer1@nd.edu 
Interhall 
conTinued from page 16 
lewis 8, badin 6 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 

badin and lewis went down to the wire sunday afternoon at labar practice complex. looking to avoid an upset, the chicks defense stepped up big on a 4th-and-goal from the three-yard line and held on to win a close game by a score of 8-6. 
lewis (2-0-1) started the game strong, thanks to a safety forced by senior captain penny vorissis. The chicks defense, led by vorissis, constantly dis­rupted the badin offense up front. vorissis said she thought her team’s defense played well for the third straight week. 
“i thought the defense did a great job of re-configuring itself,” vorissis said. “Those were the first points we’ve al­lowed all season, however, so that was a bit disappointing.” 
badin (0-3) played its most competitive game of the year and had an opportunity to pull ahead in the fourth quar­ter after an interception deep in lewis territory. however, its inability to finish the drive was something senior captain maggie long noted after the game. 
“This season we’ve not been winning, but we’re improv­ing,” long said. “we had some calls go against us, but we need to work on closing out games.” 
Junior wide receiver christine Zavakos scored lewis’ lone touchdown on a 45­yard run in the first half, while junior running back melange gavin cut into the lead in the second half on a hook-and­ladder play for badin. both teams failed to convert their respective two-point conver­sions, which proved crucial to the final score. 
“it was a lot closer game than we expected, but i was super pleased with our performance today,” vorissis said. 
lewis looks to stay unde­feated against howard next sunday at 4 p.m., while badin tries for its first win against mcglinn, also at 4 p.m. 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret@nd.edu 

Pasquerilla West 25, breen-Phillips 0 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 

pasquerilla west came out on top over breen-phillips, staying unbeaten in a 25-0 win sunday afternoon. 
The purple weasels (3-0) were able to get things going right away as they marched down the field and made their way into the end zone thanks to a long touchdown pass from junior quarterback hannah butler to junior receiver monica busse. 
breen-phillips (0-3) saw its first drive stall, and a punt gave pasquerilla west good field po­sition. however, neither team was able to do much with its remaining positions in the first half, so the score stayed at 8-0. 
as the second half began, breen-phillips continued to struggle up against the staunch pasquerilla west defense. The purple weasels began to get the offense going as they went on to notch two more pass­ing touchdowns, one to junior grace magro and the other to junior allie griffith. 
meanwhile, the defense re­mained strong for the purple weasels as they came up with two interceptions, including a pick-six by senior captain bernie Jordan. 
Jordan said she was happy with her team’s performance. 
“it was a good team effort led by our solid performance on defense, so we’re happy to get another shutout,” Jordan said. 
breen-phillips continued to fight, however, even coming 
see inTerhall PaGe 13 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | The observer 




Interhall 
conTinued from page 12 
up with an interception of its own thanks to sophomore michele pennala. 
babes sophomore captain megan resnik said this was a tough situation for her team. 
“it was a rough game; a lot of our starters were out of town or swamped with homework, so we had a lot of girls play­ing both offense and defens,e which can be tiring,” resnik said. “everyone there put in a lot of effort, and hopefully our next game will be a lot more exciting.” 
pasquerilla west takes on welsh family next sunday at 5 
p.m. while breen-phillips plays cavanaugh at 6 p.m. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 
stanford 10, dillon 7 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
stanford bested dillon, 10­7, when the teams met on sunday. 
it took both teams time to settle in, with no first downs and one pass completed in the first quarter. stanford senior captain mike grasso said he was happy with the win de­spite the slow start. 
“we started off slowly on of­fense,” grasso said. “but we were able to put up 10 points in the second quarter, and it ended up being enough.” 
griffins sophomore quar­terback andrew foster con­nected with sophomore aaron lopiccolo in the end zone to score the game’s first points. stanford quickly followed up with a 40-yard field goal by se­nior logan welge. 
both stanford (2-0) and dillon (1-1) played strong de­fense at the line of scrimmage and in the secondary. both grabbed interceptions, one by stanford junior Justin witte, stopping dillon in the red zone. stanford freshman will phillips and sophomore aaron lopiccolo also shared two sacks, while dillon forced and recovered a stanford fumble. 
dillon’s only points of the day came on a touchdown run by junior Tyler dale. dillon kept the ball on the ground for most of the game and only completed one pass. 
dillon sophomore captain John walsh cited missing play­ers as one reason for the big red’s struggles, but he said has high hopes going forward. 
“our biggest issue today was depth,” walsh said. “we were tired. we only had 15 guys, but we fought hard. we’ve got to win next week. we’ve got a chance at making the playoffs.” 
dillon will play Keough next sunday at 3:30 p.m., and stanford will take on Keenan at the same time at riehle fields. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
st. edward’s 17, Zahm 0 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
st. edward’s defeated Zahm, 17-0, en route to capturing its third win and remain unde­feated season sunday. 
both teams ended the first quarter scoreless, with Zahm (0-2-1) holding st. edward’s (3-0) to its running game with only one pass attempt. in the second quarter, a short punt by Zahm gave st. edward’s pos­session at the 46-yard line. The gentlemen offense capitalized on the first play of the drive, running a pass from the 20­yard line into the end zone. 
st. edward’s defense held the lead with a key interception by junior cornerback griffin hilly at the 25-yard line to enter the second half with a 7-0 lead. 
in the second half, a failed fourth-down conversion from Zahm gave st. edward’s strong field position at Zahm’s 20­yard line. st. edward’s worked the ball to the four-yard line, and from there, junior running back Jahmel Jordon ran the ball into the end zone. 
several incomplete pass at­tempts by Zahm returned pos­session to st. edward’s at the 25-yard line, where it executed its second field goal attempt of the game, going up 17-0. 
Zahm senior quarterback Kyle romera said he was disap­pointed by his team’s perfor­mance as a whole. 
“we need to perform bet­ter in all three phases of the game,” romera said. 
st. edward’s junior captain and lineman phineas andrews praised his team’s perfor­mance in all areas. 
“we played a great game,” andrews said. “The defense was strong again; we got a great pass rush. we did a great job with the kicking game. offense is looking good: we hit the big pass play, so that was nice to see.” 
st. edward’s will look to con­tinue its undefeated season next wednesday against sorin at 9:30 p.m., while Zahm plays fisher on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
alumni 21, duncan 12 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
alumni kept duncan winless sunday, as the dawgs dropped the highlanders, 21-12. 
The game opened up with a touchdown for duncan (0­3), but alumni (2-1) regained its composure, and the game was a show for the dawgs from there on out. 
on alumni’s opening drive, sophomore running back Thomas hellios pushed the ball downfield before junior receiver nick raven snagged a pass in the end zone to put alumni’s first points on the board. 
The following possession, duncan rode multiple runs for first downs from freshman micah rensch, but the drive stalled and ended with a punt. 

duncan was forced to at­tempt a punt again on its next drive. however, the kick was blocked and recovered by alumni freshman luke dawahare for a touchdown to make the score 14-6 at halftime. 
The first drive of the third quarter ended with another touchdown catch for raven to extend alumni’s lead. 
The highlanders respond­ed with touchdown run from sophomore quarterback matt Kase to make the final score 21-12 after a failed two-point conversion. 
highlanders junior captain stephen Treacy talked about absences and penalties affect­ing the outcome of this game. 
“i think we played a pretty solid game, but we were miss­ing a lot of players,” Treacy said. “for example, our stand­out linebacker and running back. penalties killed us this game. we played hard but just couldn’t pull off the win.” 
“we came out hitting pret­ty hard, and this was a great win for us,” he said. “[we are] looking forward, we anticipate making it deep in the playoffs.” 
alumni takes on Knott next wednesday at 8:30 p.m. while duncan will play siegfried on sunday at 2:15 p.m. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
siegfried 20, Knott 0 
By TORI LLORENS 
sports writer 

siegfried came out on top with a 20-0 victory in its bat­tle for mod Quad on sunday against Knott (1-1). 
in a game riddled with in­juries and interceptions by the victorious ramblers, se­nior captain and safety grady schmidt said he was satisfied by his team’s performance and ready to move on. 
”That was good, very good,” schmidt said. “That’s what we expected, so we’re very happy with it. The injuries were bad. we have been hurting a lot anyway, so to lose two or three guys today didn’t help us, but we’ll try to regroup moving forward.” 
JuggerKnotts captain and se­nior middle linebacker casey mccaffrey his team beat itself, but the loss has only motivated them. 
“i think that the biggest fac­tors were turnovers, penalties and pass defense,” mccaffrey said. “we were pretty bad in each of those categories.” 
ramblers senior tackle James boyer said he is looking toward the future with high hopes and that the win will carry them through the rest of the season. 
“we are ready to move for­ward,” boyer said. “we are looking forward to duncan. it is just straight to the stadium from here.” 
in spite of the loss, mccaffrey said he was happy with mo­ments of play from both the team and individual players throughout the game. 
“we played great defense against the run but not par­ticularly against the pass,” mccaffrey said. “The field goal block was great, but unfortu­nately, we could not turn it into any points.” 
Knott plays against morrissey and siegfried will go up against duncan next week­end. both games will be held sunday at 2:15 p.m. at riehle fields. 
Contact Tori Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
farley 27, Pasquerilla east 12 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
farley defeated pasquerilla east on sunday, 27-12, in a contest in which both teams had something to prove. both the finest (3-1) and the pyros (2-2) were coming off losses to howard in their previous games and were looking to get back on track with the playoffs suddenly looming. 
farley started off hot, as se­nior captain michelle summers intercepted a pasquerilla east pass on the first play of the game. The finest then capital­ized when sophomore receiver sydney manista hauled in a 30­yard bomb for the touchdown. The extra point was converted, and farley led 7-0. 
The rest of the half, how­ever, was all pyros. led by sophomore running back hana Jenks and junior receiver and captain noelle gooding, pasquerilla east scored two straight touchdowns to go up, 12-7. The defense closed the second quarter with an in­terception by junior captain madeline mcgovern and held farley scoreless for the re­mainder of the half. 
in the second half, however, farley, led by the dual-threat capabilities of junior quarter­back elizabeth moulton, took the lead and never looked back. 
moulton ran for two touch­downs and passed for another as the finest surged to a 27­12 lead, and the defense held the pyros scoreless for the entire half. moulton said she was proud of how the defense played. 
“a key factor was our de­fense,” moulton said. “They really stepped up and made some big plays that ultimately took some pressure off of our offense. overall, it was a great win for our team coming off of a disappointing loss against howard.” 
pyros freshman safety monica schrand said her team will regroup after the loss. 
“we just need to clean up our execution,” schrand said. “we have great plays and great coaches, and as long as we trust those and capitalize on opportunities throughout the games, we will be a contender.” 

farley will face mcglinn on sunday at 5 p.m., while pasquerilla east has a bye week. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhout@nd.edu 
sorin 12, fisher 7 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
sorin prevailed 12-7 against fisher in a close battle on the field sunday. 
capitalizing on turnovers by fisher (0-2), sorin (3-0) worked cohesively to secure the victory. 
sorin senior John shea forced a turnover on the first fisher drive that led to a missed field goal opportunity, and junior abd-eljaami madina recorded an 80-yard pick-six. senior aidan baldwin was also a key player on defense, putting pressure on the fisher quar­terback by regularly breaking through the offensive line. 
on the offensive side for sorin, the chemistry between sophomore quarterback shane anderson and sophomore re­ceiver charles edwards was evident through the comple­tion of many long passes. sorin captain matthew requet said he was happy with his team’s play but also thought there was still room for improvement. 
“we completed passes and won the turnover battle, which was key,” requet said. “The de­fense also played well and only gave up a couple deep plays. [The team] still needs to work on putting together consistent drives.” 
despite the turnovers, fisher didn’t go away. in the last min­ute, the green wave executed a lateral play that gained them 30 yards but no points. 
fisher’s defense succeeded in stopping sorin’s run game the majority of the game, and although junior quarterback michael cooney was frequent­ly pressured, he got the ball out of his hands fast. Junior receiv­er luke hamel caught fisher’s only touchdown. 
Junior captain shannon massey was a major force on the offense, making substan­tial gains in the run game. on many runs, it took more than one defender to bring him down. despite his team’s loss, massey said he felt positive about the game. 
“i feel pretty good. we lost, but as far as playing, we did what we wanted to,” massey said. “we spread the ball and were able to throw the ball pretty well. our defensive line played really well; we only gave up a few deep plays be­cause we were out of position. other than a few fluke plays, we played well.” 
next week, sorin faces carroll, and fisher faces Zahm. both games will take place at 1 
p.m. at riehle fields. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 

The observer | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

football 
conTinued from page 16 
receiver] chris brown. he just made a lot of differ­ent throws, so poised in the pocket, some toughness, and handled the environment. so i think you can safely say that he can win games for you.” 
despite the loss saturday, Kelly said the irish staff is more confident now than ever Kizer can lead the team to a title. 
“i thought he showed great poise in the pocket, and i think it just added on to the fact that we’ve got a quarter­back that can help us win a championship,” Kelly said. 
limiting mistakes 
Kelly said his team had a big opportunity to knock off clemson but he wasn’t disappointed with the team saturday. 
“i’m not disappointed in our guys,” Kelly said. “i’m disappointed that they didn’t take advantage of the opportunity that they had this weekend, and that was to beat a team on the road in a tough place to play and overcome the elements.” 
The irish were plagued all night saturday by dropped passes, and Kelly said the irish left yards — and a chance to win — on the field by not coming down with more catches. 
“we had over 125 yards that we left out there,” he said. “so i thought we uti­lized the receivers that were getting the single coverage very well.” 
Kelly said junior receiver corey robinson, who cost the irish opportunities to score twice with key drops, has to improve his game in the future. 
“obviously corey’s got to play better for us. he knows that,” Kelly said. “he’s got to make some plays for us, but he’s going to be involved in the offense as well.” 
two-point conversions 
after throwing a touch­down pass to junior receiv­er Torii hunter, Jr. to trim clemson’s lead to two with seven seconds left, Kizer was stopped at the 1-yard line on notre dame’s subsequent two-point try — and Kelly said the irish got the look they wanted. 
“They gave us a six-man box. so it was six for six and we led the back up inside, and we didn’t do a very good job capping off the three technique,” Kelly said. “so we kind of stretched the play, and we did a poor job of blocking their nickel. we really had a favorable look, it was the look that we were hoping to get. 
“after throwing the ball successfully down there, they went into their pass-coverage defense. so it was the right thing to do was to run the football down there, and they executed better than we did on that particu­lar play.” 
Kelly defended notre dame’s decision to go for two earlier in the game after scoring to cut clemson’s lead to 21-9 early in the fourth quarter. 
“i don’t chase the points until the fourth quarter, and our mathematical chart, which i have on the sideline with me and we have a se­nior adviser who concurred with me, and we said go for two,” Kelly said. “it says on our chart to go for two. we usually don’t use the chart until the fourth quarter be­cause, again, we don’t chase the points. we went for two to make it a 10-point game.” 

had notre dame instead converted an extra point, and the game unfolded in the same way, the irish wouldn’t have needed to go for two to tie the game in the final sec­onds — Kelly, however, said it’s easy to analyze in hind­sight and that if robinson had caught the ball, it would’ve been a moot point. 
“well, i mean, you’re obvi­ously looking at the situation after the fact,” Kelly said. “if you look at it after the fact, you can draw any conclusion that you would like. 
“ … obviously, you know, if we catch the two-point conversion, which was wide open, then we just kick the extra point [at the end of the game] and we’ve got a differ­ent outcome.” 

redfield’s emergence 
despite still fighting a bro­ken finger suffered in notre dame’s 38-3 season-opening win over Texas on sept. 5, junior max redfield record­ed a career-high 14 tackles saturday, and Kelly said it was the safety’s best game yet in a notre dame jersey. 
“This past weekend, [he] probably played his best game since he’s been here at notre dame,” Kelly said. “so, you know, there’s a standard for him now on film for how he can play this game, and hopefully we can continue on this track. now we’ve got the film to show it against a very good competition against very good athletes, we can show him the kind of play that he’s capable of.” 

Injury update 
sophomore offensive line­man Quenton nelson suf­fered a sprained ankle late in the first half of saturday’s loss, Kelly said. he noted nelson’s status was uncer­tain for navy’s visit to notre dame stadium on saturday. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | The observer 

crOssWOrd | will shorTZ 


Just add Water | eric carlson & John roddy 
sudOKu | The mepham group 



hOrOscOPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: change is good, but be prepared for a series of unexpected developments. don’t let these obstacles stop you from going about getting what you want. procrastination, expecting others to do things for you, or just being lazy will only lead to dissatisfaction and postponed plans. don’t sit back when your future depends on what you do to reach your goals. your numbers are 6, 11, 23, 27, 32, 38, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get down when you should get moving. emotions will surface if someone makes a last-minute change or springs something unexpected on you. stay calm and focus on what matters the most to you. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): plan to do unique and interesting things that will make you stand out or impress your peers. concentrate on getting things done, not on wasting time arguing with someone who is difficult to get along with. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think before you make a move. you are likely to overdo it if you aren’t careful. do your research and don’t let anyone push you in a direction that doesn’t fit your budget, style or future plans. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try not to let what others do or say bother you. your emotions will be difficult to control due to the changes others make. spend time doing something that you enjoy or that will improve your skills and knowledge. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): financial and legal matters can be dealt with if you approach matters with an open mind. The changes you bring about now will help you get ahead professionally. gather as much knowledge as possible and update your resume. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): favors will be granted if you present what you are working on and collaborate with people who share your interests and concerns. an opportunity will arise if you network or expand your interests to include out-of-the­ordinary events or activities. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): expect to face opposition. stay calm and don’t let your emotions cost you. do whatever it takes to secure your position. pick up information, skills or support from others to ensure you do not fall short of your expectations. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): publishing deals, writing, interacting with peers and expanding your business interests will bring about a multitude of opportunities. a business trip will encourage more commerce and the chance to present what you have to offer firsthand. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be extremely careful when it comes to business, contracts, settlements or any money matters. you will not be given the information you require to make a good decision. someone will mislead you in order to take advantage of your generosity. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will accomplish more if you get down to business and physically work toward completing what you start. Too much talk will lead to uncertainty and changes that will be costly emotionally and financially. do your best to avoid interference. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your imagination will help you stand out and grab the interest of someone who can help you get ahead. don’t let what others do lead you astray or cause emotional mayhem. follow the direction that makes the most sense. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be shy — share your thoughts and plans for the future. The way you deliver your ideas will encourage others to not only support what you are trying to accomplish, but to physically help you reach your goal. 


Birthday Baby: you are insightful, hardworking and loyal. you are disciplined and helpful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
USKNT  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
LOHYL  

SINVAH GOBNIX  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Print your answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: WHEAT CHAIR INDUCT GROCERSaturday’s 
Answer: Deciding to become an author was this for Stephen King — THE “WRITE” CHOICE 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | tuesday, OctOber 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
fOOtball 

Kelly pleased with Kizer, Redfield despite loss 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
in his first collegiate road start, deshone Kizer led no. 15 notre dame to the brink of a road win at no. 6 clemson — and irish head coach brian Kelly said he was pleased with his soph­omore quarterback’s per­formance on the big stage, despite the loss. 
“i think we knew he was the guy that could handle the moment; he certainly was able to do that,” Kelly said during his sunday teleconference. 
Kelly saw a variety of throws from Kizer in saturday’s loss and noted the sophomore is a quarter­back that can do more than just manage a game. 
“These kind of games you get a chance to see more of what he’s capable of,” Kelly said. “we saw the different throws, a sidearm throw on a big conversion to [senior 
see fooTball PaGe 14 

Nd WOMeN’s teNNIs 

split squads find success for irish 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
notre dame was split up this past weekend, with most of the team at the purdue invitational and two players at the women’s all-american championships in pacific palisades, california. 
Junior monica robinson, a california native, played in the singles qualifying round of the iTa championships. robinson bowed out in the prequalifying rounds sunday after winning her first two two matches. in the first round, she dispatched senior mia King of Tcu, 6-2, 6-4. she then picked up a 7-5, 6-2, victory against memphis junior anki wind before falling to north carolina freshman Jessie aney, 6-3, 6-3, in the final pre­qualifying round. 
“i’m feeling blessed to be able to play back in my home state,” robinson said. “i played well and put my heart out there for every match. i fell a little short, but i know what i need to work on in or­der to keep improving before the spring.” 
her teammate Quinn gleason, who played at the top of the irish singles rotation last year, will take on vladica babic of oklahoma state on Tuesday in the singles qualifying round. however, robinson’s run at the all­americans is far from over, as she and gleason will compete in the main draw beginning Thursday. 

“right now Quinn and i are practicing doubles against a few other teams,” robinson said. “i just got done doing a few volley drills implementing the ladder to target those twitch muscles and get the critical footwork needed in doubles.” 
meanwhile, the rest of the team competed at the purdue fall invitational. on sunday, fresh­man rachel chong and sopho­more brooke broda picked up victories for the irish. broda was the true star of the tournament. she defeated illinois’ vladica babic, 6-1, 6-3, to become the only irish player to pick up victories in all three weekend matches. chong won two her of her three matches on the weekend, defeating miami (ohio) junior andreea badileanu, 6-3, 6-2, and prevailing in a three-
see w Tennis PaGe 12 
INterhall 

rivalries highlight football games 
Keough 20, O’Neill 0 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 
Keough defeated rival o’neill, 20-0, this sunday in a battle of west Quad neighbors. 
The two teams looked to air the ball out early, and both had some success in putting togeth­er sustained drives; however, the first points of the game were came in the final play of the half as Keough junior quarterback and captain matthew mooney found a receiver up the seam. 
after receiving the ball to begin the second half, Keough (1-2) marched downfield and notched another touchdown against a 10-man o’neill (0­
3) defense, which has lost its 11th man to a broken fin­ger. sophomore quarterback matthew yoder said the injury hurt o’neill’s chances. 
“we put our best foot for­ward today,” said yoder. “unfortunately it was 20 feet in­stead of 22.” 
o’neill turned to trick plays to get its undermanned offense going but ultimately could not find the end zone. 
Keough then tacked on an­other score on one of its few running plays of the day as the fourth quarter came to a close. 
mooney said he was pleased with his team’s overall performance. 
“we won 20 to nothing, so we just played pretty well all around,” said mooney. “[o’neill] is right next to us, so it’s always nice to beat them.” 
despite the final score, yoder, in the true spirit of the rivalry, said he had a reason not to be upset. 
“at the end of the day, i’m go­ing back to o’neill, and they have to go back to Keough,” said yoder. 
Keough will take to the field again sunday where its meet dillon at 3:30 p.m., while o’neill enjoys a bye week before returning after fall break. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 
see inTerhall PaGe 12  
sMc sPOrts 

Belles win first jamboree of season at Thornapple 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM, MICHAEL IVEY, SEAN KILMER and RYAN KLAUS 
sports writers 
Golf 
behind the strong play of senior sammie averill, saint mary’s won its first tourna­ment during head coach Kim moore’s tenure to tighten its grip on a top-four spot in the miaa. 
The belles won the third miaa Jamboree by three strokes, 333-336, over olivet on Thursday at Thornapple pointe golf course in grand rapids, michigan. 
“it was great getting our first win of the year,” moore said. “i’m so thrilled and ex­cited for my team. Thornapple pointe is such a nice course, but it is one of the hardest courses we play all season. also, add in the weather we experienced that round, and i was expecting some higher scores. 
see smc sporTs PaGe 11 





