The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 66 | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Hesburgh Libraries announces partnership 
Joins with St. Joseph County Public Libraries to expand access and resources for students, faculty and staff 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
st. Joseph county public libraries (sJcpl) and hesburgh libraries have formed a part­nership that will allow notre dame students, faculty and staff to access public library materials. 
lisa o’brien, circulation manager for sJcpl, said the county’s public library patrons can place holds on materials for pick up at hesburgh library, and they can return most sJcpl materials to hesburgh. 
“The partnership is mutu­ally beneficial,” o’brien said. “hesburgh needed a way for their patrons to access popu­lar materials and sJcpl needed to increase usage by residents affiliated with notre dame, a service area that according to our data had very low library usage.” 
o’brein said she thinks the partnership is a great example of how libraries can work to­gether to be more effective. 
“by partnering, we have found a way to meet the needs of our patrons while minimiz­ing costs,” she said. “because of limited resources, libraries should consider partnerships as an appealing option for sus­taining and expanding librar­ies services.” 
Tracey morton, manager of frontline services for hesburgh libraries, said as a residential campus, it is not easy for a busy student to get to the downtown library to pick up and return 
see library PAGE 3 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 


gallery showcases students’ artwork 

MONICA VILLAGOMEZ MENDEZ | The Observer 

Works created by students in Saint Mary’s courses are displayed in Saint Mary’s Moreau Art Galleries for the final weeks of the semester. 
By MARTA BROWN 
news writer 
starting this week and ex­tending through finals week, the saint mary’s moreau art galleries will display a rotat­ing exhibit of student work from the department of art’s video, advanced painting and drawing i classes. 
professor of art ian weaver said in an email, “rather than have the gallery empty for the final month of the semester, myself and professor [Julie] Tourtillotte decided to use the space to install the final works from our courses. 
“my students also have the re­quired research they have done along with their work; it has been placed on the pedestals next to the work.” 
Tourtillotte, the instructor for this display, said in an email that the videos on display from the department of film studies “are highlights from this semester’s work in arT 224 video art. The 
see gallery PAGE 4 


glee, orchestra collaborate 
BY LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
The notre dame glee club and symphony orchestra will join forces for a festive perfor­mance of beloved christmas songs, both old and new this saturday at debartolo performing arts center. 
all proceeds will benefit the south bend center for the homeless and the food bank of northern indiana, according to the debartolo performing arts center’s website. 
glee club and symphony orchestra director daniel stowe said the show will feature a wide variety of christmas music. 
“it’s kind of a potpourri con­cert that will be some music for orchestra alone, principally collections from the nutcracker suite by Tchaikovsky, and then a good many pieces from the glee club alone ranging from renaissance songs to popular christmas carols and other popular selections and then there will be some pieces to­gether,” he said. “we’ll also have a couple arrangements of tradi­tional carols that were arrange­ments for the glee club and orchestra together.” 
This joint concert is a break from the the traditional types of performances for both groups, stowe said. 
see concerT PAGE 4 



Professor wins grant for work on obesity prevention 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 
news writer 
Julie braungart-rieker, pro­fessor of psychology and di­rector of the william J. shaw center for children and families, has been award­ed an indiana clinical and Translational studies institute (cTsi) award and grant for her new program “undercover mother,” a home interven­tion kit designed to study childhood obesity prevention tactics. 
braungart-rieker said her study focuses on parents’ be­havior instead of children’s behavior. 
“we’re not really so inter­ested in what kids are eating, but rather what’s going on the home; how does the mother interact with the child, how’s the child’s behavioral func­tioning, all that kind of stuff,” she said. 
along with associate pro­fessor of marketing elizabeth moore, braungart-rieker has been studying how preschool­er’s impulsivity levels can correlate to their body-mass index (bmi). 
“we published an article in 2014 that basically showed this sort of this cascading ef­fect with mothers,” braungart­rieker said. 
see award PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 fooTball PAGE 12 men’s baskeTball PAGE 12 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 

Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What trend needs to die with 2015? 

Chris Bowser 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“dJ khaled’s keys to success.” 

Jean Llenos 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“hitting the Quan.” 

Kathryn Cotter 
junior 
walsh hall 
“man buns.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Meg Dalton 
junior 
walsh hall 
“Joggers.” 

Maggie Blake 
junior 
walsh hall 
“bae.” 


Michael Antipas 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“yaaasssssss.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



News Sports 
margaret hynds Zach klonsinski Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley 
Scene Graphics adam ramos lauren weldon 
Viewpoint Photo bianca almada molly o’neill 



Corrections 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Wednesday 
Auditions: “The Bear” and “Afterplay” 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. All students welcome. 
ND Women’s Basketball vs. DePaul 
Joyce Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. The Irish take on the Blue Demons. 

Thursday 
Mindful Meditation 
Coleman-Morse Center 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. All students, faculty and staff are welcome. 
Business Major Showcase 
Jordan Auditorium 5:00 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Keynote by Mark Gottfredson. 


Friday 
Elite Athletes in the Cold War 
McKenna Hall 2:00 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Three former athletes discuss life and politics. 
Reading Day 
Campus-wide All day No classes in session to allow preparation time for exams. 



Saturday 

Mass 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Music by the Women’s Liturgical Choir. 
What and When Was the Christmas Star? 
Jordan Hall of Science 7:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Astrophysics lecture by Professor Mathews. 


Sunday 
Men’s Basketball vs. Loyola Chicago 
Joyce Center 2 p.m.-4 p.m. The Irish take on the Ramblers. 
La Misa en Espaol 
Dillon Hall 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Celebrate the mass in Spanish. All are welcome. 
Lecture examines role of sociology 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Jocelyn viterna, associate professor of sociology at harvard university, de­livered a lecture on the interdisciplin­ary field of development sponsored by the kellogg institute on Tuesday after­noon. she spoke about the history and “identity crisis” of the field and on how a renewed interest in the field is allow­ing development to once again gain prominence in sociology. 
“at the close of world war ii, every­body was asking these questions: why are some countries poorer than others and what can be done to raise the stan­dards of living for everyone?” viterna said. “answering these questions was thought to be necessary by both schol­ars of academic institutions as well as by politicians.” 
viterna said the dependency and world system theory started to be largely discredited during the 1980s, causing many sociologists in that field to become less welcoming to interdis­ciplinary work and research. a lot of people who were doing research relat­ed to discipline described themselves as working with another subfield. 
“development sociology had a sort of identity crisis within its own disci­pline,” viterna said. “sociologists like to complain that we have practically zero presence in a lot of development institutions, but i think sociologists have to own up to the fact that although we have very important things to say, we didn’t exactly make ourselves easy to find.” 
The discrediting of the dependency and world system theory also gave way to what some scholars call “the new consensus.” 
“‘The new consensus’ is that there’s not a grand new theory, there’s not a grand new explanation of ‘what is de­velopment,’” she said. “now what we’re finding is there is consistent relevance of certain factors – these are these are institutions, social divisions human capital and targeted interventions affected.” 
“The new consensus” is multidisci­plinary, but, according to viterna, it draws heavily from sociological con­cepts, such as institutions, mobiliza­tion and transnationalism. 
“if you look at the scholarship on institutes and sociology, institu­tions themselves are fundamentally cultural,” she said. “but the idea of in­stitutions is that they are these durable structures of knowledge. They embody norms and practices and because we have these institutions that reduce the uncertainty of human interaction and problems of coordination.” 

viterna also said that many scholars are concerned with how the mobiliza­tion of resources function, specifically with how they encourage competition between developing areas and are used by institutions to coerce participation. 
she mentioned one agency who would only provide resources if enough women held positions on a local council. 
“There’s this idea that we’re em­powering women by ensuring that 50 percent of the positions are filled by women, but we have to acknowledge that this is coerced participation and we don’t know what the consequences of that are,” she said. “coerced par­ticipants are never as ideologically committed as those who do it for more intellectual, more philosophical reasons.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | The observer 

that partnership connects can take to change how their 

morton said discussions 
Libary 

Award university researchers and the children eat. for example, the 
for the partnership began 
conTinued from page 1 
conTinued from page 1 
community chapter of head kit contains recipe cards with 

in may 2015 and the service 
start, a national program de-sneaky ways to put vegetables 

launched in september 2015. 
she said the study focused on signed to help low income pre-into a child’s favorite foods, as 
materials. “right now, such a part-
the bmis of low-income moth-schoolers become school-ready. well as smaller plates and cups 
“after reading about the nership between a public li­
ers and their children. low braungart-rieker said the to help control portion size. 
many projects notre dame brary and private academic 
income mothers are at higher partnership benefits the fami-“we may not be able to do a lot 
has successfully worked and library is unique,” morton 
risk for depressive symptoms lies and the researchers. with controlling mothers’ de­
partnered on with the city said. 
and negative parenting strat-“head start already has a well-pressive symptoms, but we may 
of south bend, it inspired morton said hesburgh 
egies, such as being overly oiled machine,” she said. “They be able to work on the moms’ 
me to approach the library libraries’ focus is providing 
authoritarian or permissive. make sure families are educat-parenting, and that in turn 
senior leadership with the excellent customer service 
braungart-rieker says this ed about lots of different things might promote a more healthy 
idea, and i was given leave to the community and con-
negative parenting can be cor-about child development, and food environment,” braungart­
to approach my former co-tinuing to become a premier 
related to a preschooler’s high they have these home visitors to rieker said. 
workers at sJcpl to see if research university. 
impulsivity levels, and her 2014 help with any questions parents The success of the program 
there was an interest and if “hopefully in the fu­
study took it a step further by might have with their child. so if will be determined using 
so, what would that service ture we can have a limited 
linking impulsivity to food. you already have a system that pre- and post-tests measur­
look like,” morton said. browseable physical collec­
“kids who are more impulsive has that in place, why not give ing the eating habits and be-
according to morton, tion located in the hesburgh 
scored higher on this measure some extra material that could haviors of the participants. 
hesburgh librarians were library,” morton said. 
called food approach, meaning promote health?” if the program is shown to 
investigating a way to pro-o’brien said she hopes 
they’re very motivated by food,” braungart-rieker said “ex-be successful and effective, 
vide the leisure reading ma-notre dame students, facul­
braungart-rieker said. “They tra material” is a carefully-braungart-rieker intends to 
terials for which students ty and staff continue taking 
like sweet drinks, they emotion-planned home intervention develop it even further. 
were asking. advantage of the service. 
ally eat. ... and in turn, of course, designed by the research team, “our plan would be to then 
“sJcpl already provided “i also hope that we can 
kids that are higher in food ap-called “undercover mother.” apply for a larger grant where we 
the service our students find more ways to partner 
proach have higher bmis.” undercover mother kits contain could implement [undercover 
were asking for, so why try with notre dame or perhaps 
but braungart-rieker said resources mothers use to make mother] on a much larger scale, 
and recreate it on campus?” offer more library services 
just linking impulsivity with small adjustments in how their and also look at a lot more fac­
morton said. “not only do to nd users,” o’brien said. 
bmi wasn’t enough for her and children eat. tors that could be contributing 
they have popular fiction “in addition to offering this 
moore. “it’s based on this idea that to why this program is really 
books, they have popular convenient service, we have 
The new cTsi award will if moms could sort of just qui-successful for some families 
dvd’s, music and e-books.” many online resources that 
allow the researchers to fur-etly make some small changes but not as successful for other 
she said the issue was might be useful to nd us­
ther explore the question. in their home environment, families,” she said. “and then 
figuring out how to help ers. for example, we have 
according to the institute’s it could help reduce what’s the ultimate goal would be, if 
with access to the sJcpl popular titles available 
website, the community known as an obesogenic home that was successful, that head 
collection. for download as e-books 
health engagement program environment,” she said. start could take this on as a 
“we can issue or renew and e-audiobooks on our 
grant aims to “improve the according to the project de-program.” 
sJcpl library cards, as well website.” 
health of indiana residents scription, undercover mother 
as check in and check out 
through community-university attempts to educate moth-Contact Sarah Cate Baker at 
sJcpl materials,” morton Contact Matthew McKenna 
partnerships.” at notre dame, ers about five small steps they sbaker6@nd.edu 
said. at mmcken12@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Gallery 
conTinued from page 1 

students in this course learn about camera use, lighting, audio and editing with final cut pro. 
“The video exhibitions in hammes gallery will change over this Thursday to the students’ final project for this semester — two collab­orative video installations titled, ‘There/not There’ and ‘nature studies: earth, air, fire, water,’ she said. “These installations will remain on exhibit through next Thursday, dec. 17.” 
brigid feasel, a junior with a double concentration in studio and art history and an emphasis in painting and writing is one of the art stu­dents whose work will ap­pear in the exhibit. 
“my pieces are very detail-oriented and i like creating narratives within them, but i also don’t like taking things too seriously, so i like to add elements of humor to lighten up the scene,” feasel said in an email. “my pieces in moreau right now are made to essentially evoke the romantic landscape awe and introspective thoughts that are brought about when being exposed to the vast­ness of nature, but this isn’t a person’s journey, it’s a cow’s journey (where the hu­mor comes in). 
“i’m still trying to figure out my own artistic aesthet­ic at this point, but i know i want to incorporate humor and narratives into my fu­ture work. The subjects, i guess, will come from inspi­ration somewhere or from my own imagination,” feasel said. 
as an art major at saint mary’s, feasel said she knows her professors will help her form her own style and push her artistic limits. 
alexandra pittel, a ju­nior whose work is also dis­played in the gallery, said in an email, “my work reflects my commitment to detail though the technical appli­cation as well as conceptual aspects of my research. later in the semester, i started to think of this set of paint­ings as a phenomenological progression with a cast of characters. my hope is that the viewer is able to engage with the pieces as a docu­mentation of my reality, that they can interpret in a way that is meaningful to their own spiritual and physical consciousness. 

“The interdisciplinary ap­proach that allows my work to be multi layered is very much fostered by the lib­eral arts environment here at saint mary’s and my won­derful professors.” 
Contact Marta Brown at mbrown@saintmarys.edu 
Concert 
conTinued from page 1 
“Traditionally, our glee club christmas concert [is] just the glee club alone,” he said. “but this year as part of our glee club centenni­al, i invited the orchestra to perform.” 
freshman glee club mem­ber austin klein said stag­ing such a concert provides unique challenges for the both the glee club and the orchestra. 
“The challenges will come from moving pieces of the performance,” klein said. “There’s the acoustic chal­lenge of being so far sepa­rated, being so distant from the director and each other. we’re going to have to fo­cus really hard to make sure that we watch the director to make sure we don’t get off tempo.” 
for members of the orches­tra, the largest challenges are associated with the getting the dynamics of their per­formance correct, freshman orchestra member brian Quigley said. 
“we have to be aware of when their part is more im­portant than ours, and when ours is more important than theirs,” he said. 
another freshman orches­tra member, Jessica hardey, agreed. 
“getting balance within the orchestra and the choir is most important,” she said. “oftentimes the orchestra is 
“We have to be aware of when their part is more important than ours, and when ours is more important than theirs .” 
Brian Quigley 
freshman 
orchestra 
too loud and you can’t hear the choir, or the band instru­ments, horns and such, will be too loud and overpower the orchestra.” 
despite the challenges, members of both groups said they are confident the con­cert will be a success. 
“director stowe knows re­ally well how to coordinate us and how to make our pieces fit together,” Quigley said. “my favorite part of the orches­tra is his energy in directing and sharing this with the glee club and having it be coordi­nated so well because he di­rects both of us is exciting.” 
members of both groups are also excited to perform newly arranged pieces of music. 
“we’re playing a really fun version of ‘sleigh ride,’ hardey said. “it’s pretty jazzy, and it has some great instrumental parts. and as a cellist it has some really fun jazzy cello parts and it’s pretty much everyone’s favorite and everyone gets really excited about it.” said. “it will be a festive event 

stowe encouraged all who and it’ll get people in the could to come the perfor-christmas spirit and it’ll be a mance, which will highlight nice study break as final ex-the talents of both groups. ams approach.” 
“it’s a great showcase for some of the most talented Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at students on campus,”  stowe lmasinmo@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 



LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

christmas categories 
JP Gshwind 
news writer 

for those in search of yet another way to pro­crastinate for finals, i have a solution: compile the perfect christmas movie list. This is much harder to accomplish than it seems at first. in or­der to sort through the vast number of christmas movies that have come out over the years, it helps to group them into distinct sub-genres. in the spirit of christmas, i have done the work for you. 
Old classics that everyone with a soul has watched at some point: it’s a wonderful life, a christmas carol, white christmas, miracle on 34th street, a christmas story 
Modern classics: elf (everyone needs to know the four main food groups), home alone (1 and 2), love actually (okay, maybe this one is a stretch) 
Classics for kids: charlie brown’s christmas, how the grinch stole christmas (animated ver­sion), rudolph the red-nosed reindeer, The polar express 
Definitely not classics for kids: The little drummer boy, alvin and the chipmunks (appar­ently there’s four of these monstrosities), arthur christmas 
Slightly edgy non-traditional choices: die hard (1 and 2), bad santa, edward scissorhands, gremlins 
Super edgy non-traditional choices: black christmas, silent night, santa’s slay (yes, this actually exists) 
Religious movies to appease that really Catholic relative: The nativity, The heart of christmas, saving christmas (kirk cameron does kirk cameron stuff) 
Jim Carrey Christmas movies: a christmas carol (animated version), how the grinch stole christmas (non-animated version). 
Christmas movies for people with no taste and/or way too much free time: christmas with the kranks (Tim allen really should have stuck to The santa clause), deck the halls (matthew broderick and danny devito somehow man­age to not be funny for an hour and a half), fred claus (vince vaughn christmas movie attempt #1), four christmases (vince vaughn christmas movie attempt #2) 
Moderately funny and tolerable Christmas comedies: nation lampoon’s christmas vacation (cousin eddie carries it), The santa clause (but it’s all down hill after the first one), Jingle all the way 
Christmas movies set in Connecticut: christmas in connecticut (okay, this is my fam­ily’s personal favorite, but what other state has a christmas movie dedicated to it? your move, new Jersey) 
This year, it seems like hollywood studios are trying to expand away from traditional christmas movie sub-genres. There’s krampus, a comedy-horror movie based on an old folktale about santa’s demonic counterpart, and The night before, a stoner comedy (spoiler alert: seth rogen gets high, but this time it’s on christmas eve) 
There are many more christmas movies and categories i could have listed, but i have to go study for finals. which reminds me i need to re-watch elf for the 87th time, too bad there’s cook­ies in my vcr. 
Contact JP Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
recognize unpleasant history 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 
during president obama’s address to the nation sunday evening, he said, “my fellow americans, i am confident we will succeed in this mission [to defeat isil] because we are on the right side of history.” 
he then noted that the united states was “founded upon a belief in human dignity – that no matter who you are, or where you come from, or what you look like, or what religion you practice, you are equal in the eyes of god and equal in the eyes of the law.” 
while the primary purpose of obama’s speech was to discuss the ever-present threat of terrorism, his belief that the founding fathers considered human dignity in their creation of our country puts him on the wrong side of history, and cannot be overlooked. 
human dignity as we understand it today was cer­tainly not a concern of our country’s founders. in fact, the phrase did not appear in any u.s. law or reports until 1946. if we are to consider human dignity one of their central beliefs, we then overlook the oppression, discrimination and other injustices of our past, which they knowingly enabled. president obama’s statement simply is not true. unfortunately, he is not the first, nor will he be the last, to revise history in order to make it more convenient for an argument. 
donald Trump’s campaign slogan, “make american great again,” also effectively simplifies and glosses over unpleasant details of our nation’s past. what period in american history was so great that we are looking to repeat it? one in which we refused to consider women to be citizens by denying them the right to vote? or per­haps when government officials largely ignored public lynching of blacks? To suggest that a return to the past is best for our country is to push aside progress and hard-fought victories for the marginalized and oppressed. 
some assumption of moral authority is necessary to make a good argument, of course. it is emboldening to hear people claim that we are on the right side of histo­ry, that the united states is the best country on the face of the earth or that our success as a nation empowers us to be a leader for other countries around the globe. but history shows us that these claims are false and distort­ed. moral authority cannot be established if we choose to remain ignorant of our own country’s transgressions. 

clearly not every aspect of our history is dark and horrible. we have come a long way from the time of the american revolution. however, that does not mean that we should blatantly ignore the unpleasant details of our country’s past and pretend that america has always been a gleaming beacon of hope that upholds the prin­ciple of human dignity for all. 
not only does the oversimplification of history push aside the struggle of progress and take away from the efforts of all those who have fought to end injustices in our society, but it also prevents us from learning from previous mistakes. 
refusal to acknowledge our past wrongdoings does not accomplish any good. This lack of historical consid­eration is evident in recent headlines, as we are in the midst of what is essentially the same debate on immi­gration we have always had as a country. not long ago, we shunned immigrants from ireland, italy and cuba, in addition to many other countries. To suggest that one day these groups would not be considered second-class citizens was laughable. 
yet we see ourselves continuing to discriminate against immigrants from regions such as central america and the middle east today. we have somehow allowed ourselves to forget that we are a nation of im­migrants, and it is this kind of historical ignorance that enables the discrimination and injustice that persists in our nation today. This is just one example of how many in our country refuse to learn from history, but one does not need to look far to find many more. 
it is essential that we consider where we came from and let that inform our opinions and actions as we move forward. we will never be able to forge a better future if we ignore the lessons that history has to teach us. as unpleasant as it may be at times, we must face the ugly truth if we are to learn from it and continue to make progress towards ensuring the protection of hu­man dignity for all. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore in Lewis Hall. She is from Grand Rapids, Michigan and studies political science with a minor in international development studies. She can be reached at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thanks from Siegfried Hall 
To the notre dame community,  a consolation as we grieve his passing.  
with the men of siegfried hall, i express our deep- may the good lord welcome Jake into the reward  
est thanks for the many kindnesses shown to us at  of the saints and may his soul and the souls of all the  
the time of Jake scanlan’s sudden and unexpected  faithful departed rest in peace.  
death.  god bless you all. 
Jake was our beloved brother and friend. your  
presence at his memorial mass, the promise of con­                       Fr. John Conley  
tinued prayers and your countless expressions of  The Men of Siegfried Hall  
friendship and support have been and continue to be  dec. 8  

grade dropping is cheating 
grade dropping is the academic down low in higher education. it is consensual cheating. administrators, teachers and students practice a “don’t ask, don’t tell” partnership. however, if one is guided by liberal logic, grade dropping is not consid­ered cheating. according to liberals, hillary clinton does not lie. she misspeaks. likewise, grade drop­ping is not cheating. it is creative grade point averag­ing. however, the oxford dictionary says otherwise. 
cheating is defined as “to act dishonestly or un­fairly in order to gain an advantage.”  dropping a low grade in order to raise the overall average is gaining an advantage. not only does it misrepresent the stu­dent’s overall performance, it impeaches integrity. 

however, what is worse, it is sanctioned by college professors and administrators. it appears the ancient proverb is true, “The fish does rot from the head down.” 
moreover, stephen covey summed up the present american attitude about cheating. covey said, “The more people rationalize cheating, the more it be­comes a culture of dishonesty. and that can become a vicious, downward cycle. because suddenly, if ev­eryone else is cheating, you feel a need to cheat too.”
              Kevin Palmer 
martinez, georgia nov. 17 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Dear males 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
dear males, 

where are you? i have many female friends who are the kindest, funniest and most beautiful women i know. many of them have yet to be sought after by a worthy notre dame man. 
some of my girlfriends are worried they will never get married. This is partially because they are in their twenties and have yet to ever go on a date. if they choose to not date or get married, that is one thing. singleness is a beautiful thing, as it allows men and women alike to devote themselves to friendship, fam­ily and faith. it gives them free time to join clubs and devote themselves to their studies. single men and ladies for life! 
but some of my single lady friends don’t want to be single for life. Though they like dancing to beyoncé, but they want boyfriends, husbands and children at some point. They are not desperate by any means, but they are loving people and want a special someone to love. 
relationships are hard. They are both challeng­ing and life-giving. it means you have to think about someone else other than yourself. you have to be ready to put someone else’s needs before your own. single gentlemen of notre dame: are you ready to do so? 
i’m not convinced. many of you seem to miss these beautiful, down-to-earth, intelligent yet humble girls. i can name at least 20 that are not being pursued by guys, at least to their knowledge, and those are just the ones on campus whom i have met. 
young whippersnappers of this university: are you lazy? are you shy or proud or scared? you can calcu­late torque, market to a target audience and conjugate irregular verbs, but do you have the courage, maturity or even the desire to pursue a meaningful romantic relationship? 
i know that asking someone on a date is risky. Telling someone you are interested in them as more than a snapchat buddy can be scary. you may get turned down. 
if you do, though, at least you’ll know you have more guts than a large portion of the campus who can­not put themselves out there. rejection is a part of life, whether it’s from romantic interests, employers, pemco or publishing companies. we cannot always succeed, but we should always try. 
young men of notre dame, i know you are out there. maybe you are hiding behind the chin-up machine in rolfs. pause the lifting and try some living. pull out your ear-buds. Take a shower. say hello. 
young men of morrissey, of knott, of fisher: take heed. hide no longer behind your bro tank and sao shades. Take off the glasses. put on a collared shirt. discover these incredible women you have around you. you may only be here for four years. four years! 
obviously, don’t rush into a relationship if you don’t feel ready for one. but open your eyes. see these women around you with whom any man would be lucky to spend an hour. 

don’t get freaked out about commitment. a date is not an “i do.” it is simply saying, “hello, fellow human. i have enjoyed spending time with you in the past, and i may want to spend more time with you in the future. perhaps we could spend some time together one-on-one and get to know each other better. would you like that too?” 
i know, i should not blame only the males. i can already hear the protest: “girls can ask guys out too!” yes, they can. but for the majority of history, men have had to be the initiators. some girls are fine with taking on that role, but others worry that they will come on too strong or that the guy wants to be the chaser. 
so if that beautiful sweet girl hasn’t asked you out, maybe you could ask her out. it could be a disaster. it could be a dream. either way, you will learn more about yourself than if you stayed home and watched netflix. instead of watching people go on dates, you could go on one yourself. 
so you did it? you asked her out? hooray. Thanks, males. i knew you could do it. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at  ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

That awkward moment when you transfer 
my first heartbreak came the fall of my senior year of high school in the form of an email from the northwestern university admissions office. i stopped reading at the word “regret” and then proceeded to cry in my basement bathroom. five minutes and half a box of tissues later, i hopped on the treadmill to the opening chords of maroon 5’s “payphone.” for a first heartbreak, i recovered after all of ten minutes. 
in the shadow of graduation, i decided to enroll at saint mary’s college, my mother’s alma mater and site of the only summer camp i attended in my preteens. saint mary’s became my closet, my coffee mug and the text beneath my name in the yearbook. 
part of the experience at college orientation is stock­ing up on school merchandise so that every literate hu­man being will know you are the proud dad of a [insert mascot here]. i became an expert at selling the idea of an all-women’s college, correcting anyone who thought it was where rudy went and mentioning how awesome it was i lived just a brisk walk away from the fighting irish. i practically sang “The belles of saint mary’s.” i was de­termined to make my time there the defining four years of my life. 
This is where it gets awkward. 

northwestern was my first heartbreak. saint mary’s was my first breakup. “it’s not you, it’s me,” took on an alternate translation when, during fall break of sopho­more year, i concluded saint mary’s was not a proper fit for what i wanted to pursue. 
The idea of transferring lingered when i went to dinner with my parents for my 2oth birthday last fall. somewhere between the basket of bread and the house salad, i asked/mused out loud, “mom, dad? do you think i’m smart enough to get into notre dame?” before i could pick up my fork, they answered, “oh no.” 
i had anticipated this much of a response. northwestern humbled me in my application ambi­tions and my math grades mocked me. i took a sip of water before posing another inquiry. “do you think i’m as smart as the kids who go to notre dame?” They answered as quickly as they responded to my first ques­tion, “absolutely.” They were probably being parentally biased, yet this exchange marked a pivotal change in my outlook on my academic career. 
if we’re sticking with the relationship motif, transfer­ring from one school to another is not unlike going into a new relationship with a refined perspective based on what you learned from the previous one. aside from my own experience, i know several smicks who, though they loved saint mary’s, ultimately decided to transfer schools for various, well-intentioned reasons. my answer is solely academic. however, the more pressing matter when transferring is what do you do with all that old col­legiate merchandise? The oversized sweaters? The bum­per stickers? The yearbook? if you are like me, you keep them, but every time you wear that saint mary’s ballcap your sister reminds you, “you can’t wear that. you don’t go there anymore. you’re not a smick chick.” 
she is not wrong, but i was there for two years. That should count for something, right? i still feel like i was a part of both the saint mary’s and notre dame communi­ties through campus ministry, social events and espe­cially this newspaper. 
The saint mary’s woman is whoever she aspires to be. in this sense, i identify as a belle, but technically i will not graduate as one. if i was still enrolled at saint mary’s, i would graduate on time with a bachelor of arts degree in english writing. my mom and i would have the same reunion years. we would wear matching class rings. That said, i would not have the same opportunities i now have at the savannah college of art and design. 

however, this is not a letter of comparison or justifica­tion. This letter is a tribute, a thank you, to the beautiful campus that did not simply observe my beginning steps of adulthood, but helped me grow. 
in the dorm rooms of mccandless, le mans and holy cross hall, i befriended fun, adventurous, strong women who helped me at my worst to make me my best. 
in the basement of the saint mary’s student center, i attended my first observer meeting my inaugural week of freshman year. i owe much of my development as both a writer and a person to the group of intelligent, gifted and supportive young women i came to know through my time with The observer. every one of you was and continues to be my reason for writing, though i am no longer able to attend those weekly meetings. you were my team, and whether you knew it or not, you gave me a purpose. for that, i am forever grateful. 
in the noble family dining hall, the hallways of spes unica, lafun (and starbucks), The observer office; wherever i went and whoever i met: Thank you for mak­ing my time in south bend so memorable. 
saint mary’s, though you were not my perfect aca­demic match, thank you for the lessons, opportunities and friendships with which you blessed me. as sung in your alma mater, “your chimes will forever/ bring sweet memories of you.” 
Editor’s Note: During her time at Saint Mary’s, Emilie Kefalas was a News Writer and Scene Writer for The Observer. 
Emilie Kefalas 
former belle nov. 23 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: use your leadership qualities, but do so in a humble manner and you will gain the sort of recognition that will make you proud. being a crusader for a worthy cause and finding unconventional solutions to problems will play in your favor. keeping the peace will be in your best interest. a moderate approach to life will lead to greater stability. your numbers are 8, 13, 21, 24, 33, 41, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): cut your overhead and save money. if you give yourself incentives, it will be easier to go without some of life’s little luxuries. Take an active role in making your personal relationships work. work to please others and the return will be high. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): spend time with people who can help you out professionally. someone will make an offer that appears flawless. Take a closer look before getting involved in a joint venture. Take an unusual approach to romance. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll be tempted to take on too much or indulge in things that are not realistic. do whatever you can to raise your profile. increase your qualifications and update your portfolio, resume or appearance. work hard to find solutions. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): be willing to accommodate others and you will end up getting your way. a personal relationship will improve with a little tender loving care. do something that makes you happy. if you feel good, you will do better and attract attention. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get out with friends or engage in something that will bring you more knowledge. look for information that will lead to new pursuits or prospects. don’t fall short because you are sulking over a personal situation. change what isn’t working for you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look around and see what’s going on in your neighborhood or with friends, relatives or your peers. showing interest in others will help you come up with ideas and sort out the problems you’ve been facing in your personal life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): do whatever it takes to motivate yourself to get down to business and finish what you start. Joining a group that adds excitement or adventure to your life will bring about positive changes to your friendships and hobbies. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): your emotions will be in flux. find a creative outlet, and you will advance personally. a change regarding your professional goals will help you make an important decision. consider all the possibilities and take a leap of faith. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll be criticized if you approach situations with a “me first” attitude. distance yourself from people who encourage self-indulgence. be more aware of how you can help others and less concerned about acquiring unnecessary luxuries. use your energy wisely. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): go above and beyond the call of duty and you will give your reputation a boost. your kindness, generosity and eagerness to share and contribute will separate you from any competition you face. an unusual connection looks promising. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let a love interest lead you astray. a realistic look at your situation will help you see your position clearly and encourage you to make the right choice. There is much to be gained if you focus on professional goals. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make improvements to your home or living arrangements. honesty may hurt, but it’s the quickest route to solving any existing problems. know what you want before you negotiate and you will make a good deal. romance is highlighted. 

Birthday Baby: you are intense, steadfast and loving. you are outgoing and goal-oriented. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Control your children 


Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
The following are quota­tions from stephen curry’s post-game press conference on may 27, 2015, after his golden state warriors de­feated the houston rockets in game 5 of the western conference finals to ad­vance to the nba finals. 
“steph, when you talk to the rick barry’s and the for­ty years ago championship team, what did you learn from the…” 
“wooohheayyy.” 
“when it was just you guys, was it…” 
“yahhhhh yah, i feel best.” 
no, stephen curry wasn’t drunk. instead, his two year old daughter, riley curry, decided she was going to answer the questions for him. 
since that press confer­ence (which garnered more than six million views on youTube), riley’s career has taken off. a video of her do­ing the “nae nae” at a birth­day party tallied another two million views and the camera locks onto her every time her dad makes a shot. her agent must be so proud. 
however, society pays a price for riley’s curry’s fame. children of other fa­mous athletes, fearful of missing out on the atten­tion, have joined in on press conference antics. 
recently, cooper arrieta saw fit to upstage his fa­ther Jake arrieta’s cy young acceptance interview by making faces and offering sterling commentary such as “maybe that was a fire­fly” and “i’m gonna pull my hair off.” 
This is all well and good if you’re looking for new real­ity show ideas, but as a cubs fan, i actually wanted to hear papa arrieta’s thoughts on winning arguably the most hotly-contested cy young in history. 
now, i am not saying chil­dren shouldn’t be allowed at press conferences. riley and cooper are objectively cute and their antics could help draw in fans who would otherwise go to “honey boo boo” for their daily intake of that stuff. besides, profes­sional athletes are ridicu­lously busy, and who i am to begrudge any parent from spending time with their offspring? it’s just an added bonus the players don’t ac­tually have to talk to their kids during the press con­ference, and the cameras capturing the kids’ every move will make a great vid­eo christmas card for free. (i clearly have parenting down already.) 
however, certain steps need to be taken to protect the viewing public from inane shenanigans. 
Thus, i propose whenever an athlete wants to bring his or her child into an inter­view, a series of tests should be administered to deter­mine whether the child will be admitted or not. 
The first test will be to hold a microphone up to the child. if the child punches, kicks, eats or touches the microphone in any manner more violent than a gentle stroke, the child shall not be admitted into the interview. 
The second test will be whether or not the child is able to sit in their parent’s lap for four consecutive minutes without forcing the parent to put them down. 
The third and most impor­tant is the test of cuteness. as i mentioned above, i am not completely immune to the charm of these kids, and i believe cuteness is indeed a necessity for all children in press conferences. for instance, derrick rose Jr., age three, with an oversized bulls hat: yes. lebron James Jr., age 11, not so much. 
These three simple rules provide the fans with the best of both possible worlds. The players can have the op­portunity to increase their child’s brand, and the fans get to see their idols as up­standing family men. 
granted there will be skeptics. and certainly some sports children will not pass these three tests, but it has been done before. 
Tim duncan’s press con­ference following the spurs’ 2014 nba title featured not one, but two children. and though nothing the nba accomplishes at this point should be surprising, his kids passes all three tests with flying colors, proving that your children will never respect you unless you have five nba championships. 
so to the stephen currys of the world: you may be able to facilitate the best fast break in the nba. you may shoot over 40 percent from 3-point range, but until you can control your child in a press conference, there is work to be done. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Hockey 
conTinued from page 12 
rosters are announced dur­ing the break. 
“i think they [the us coaching staff] already have a pretty good idea based on the summer camp,” Jackson said. “i think that [bjork’s] performance in the summer helped him, and i think he’s had a decent first half. i think they’re looking at him as a depth player, like a third or fourth line guy that maybe has the potential, if some­body was to get hurt, to may­be step up and play on one of the first two lines. 
“so i think they look at him as being a little bit more of a utility guy that can kill pen­alties. i don’t think he’ll be a powerplay guy, just based on the other guys they have. he’s still gotta make that team, and they’ll probably be there Thursday night watch­ing, because they have a lot of candidates between anders and boston college. i think they’re still evaluating this week before they get to the camp next week.” 
The summer camp Jackson mentioned refers to bjork’s participation in usahockey’s national Junior Team’s evaluation camp, which took place in lake placid, new york, in early august. so far this season for notre dame, bjork ranks second on the team with 15 points on five goals and 10 assists. 

before his spot on the preliminary roster was an­nounced monday, bjork said it had been a challenge to remain focused on his team while also trying to earn his spot on the world juniors team. 
“it’s been on my mind a little bit,” bjork said last wednesday. “i try to keep it off my mind and just focus on winning games and con­tributing to our team, but, i mean, i think about it every once in a while. Just talking to other people, they tell me to focus on winning games and things like that, which i’ve been trying to do. Just be the best i can for our team and everything else will work out.” 
while bjork was named to the preliminary 29-man ros­ter on monday, the final 23­man roster is expected to be announced by usa hockey before christmas. The team still has a training camp from dec. 14-18 in boston and then from dec. 19-23 in vierumacki, finland, in order to finalize the roster. 
bjork will also participate in two exhibition games for Team usa before the final rosters are released. The first will be dec. 18 against massachusetts, the team bjork and his irish team­mates swept at compton family ice arena over the weekend, and the second will be dec. 22 against Team finland in vierumacki. 
if bjork makes it onto the final roster, he will partici­pate in the 2016 international ice hockey federation world Junior championships in helsinki, finland, from dec. 26 through Jan. 5. 
bjork still has one more game with the irish, a trip to boston college on Thursday, before closing out the first half of the season and re­porting to training camp for Team usa on monday. 
notre dame coordinator of hockey operations nick siergiej and equipment man­ager dave gilbert will also join Team usa’s staff for the tournament. siergiej was named the squad’s video co­ordinator while gilbert will hold the same position he does with the irish. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued from page 12 
in blocked shots per game (1.8). 
instead, depaul features a smaller rotation of almost entirely guards, and the blue demons lead the nation in steals per game and rank 16th in 3-pointers per game. 
“i expect they’re going to shoot 25 to 30 [3-pointers], and they want an up-tempo game,” mcgraw said. “They like to press, they like to wreak havoc defensively. 
“offensively, they like to shoot, but all five of their kids can shoot 3s, so that’s a challenge for our big kids to get out there and guard them.” 
for westbeld, guard­ing depaul senior forward megan podkowa may be a challenge, but it certainly can’t be any harder than her previous assignment: uconn senior forward and two-time ap player of the year breanna stewart. 
in notre dame’s 91-81 loss to the huskies on saturday, westbeld collected just three points and eight re­bounds, but her perfor­mance since Turner and reimer went down has been strong, mcgraw said. 
“kathryn is playing great, she’s having a great year,” mcgraw said. “i’m really happy with everything she’s doing, and she can continue to do more. she’s our only post presence right now, so we’d like to use her a little bit more. i don’t think we gave her enough opportunities in the past few games because we were shooting the three so well. but at some point we’re going to have to look inside and really try to work the inside out a little bit more.” 
westbeld is the only re­turning post player with any extensive experience for notre dame, but she is play­ing even more minutes as of late, and that combined with an august surgery has made mcgraw wary of over-using the sophomore, she said. 
a year ago, westbeld fouled out against the blue demons in just 11 minutes of play, and the irish need­ed a program-record-tying 41 points from Jewell loyd to edge depaul, 94-93, in overtime. 
without loyd, mcgraw said the irish must rely on its captains and senior lead­ers to bring intensity to the matchup, notre dame’s fourth in a row against a ranked opponent. 
“[graduate student guard madison cable and senior guard hannah huffman], in addition to [senior guard michaela mabrey and junior guard lindsay allen], have teams in a row, so that has made a really big difference been quite challenging for just in terms of the over-us with our depleted bench, all attitude,” mcgraw said. but i think it can only help “That fight and that willing-you,” mcgraw said. “This ness to battle comes from time of year, it’s all about those four players.” how you play and what you 

conference play is still can do, not so much wins three weeks away for notre and losses.” dame, but mcgraw said notre dame and depaul nonconference stretches square off wednesday at such as the current one will purcell pavilion. Tipoff is pay dividends for the irish scheduled for 7 p.m. later on in the year. 
“i didn’t realize we would Contact Greg Hadley at  be playing four ranked ghadley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Mabrey 
conTinued from page 12 
just everything. so i think a lot of my competitive nature comes from my family.” 
mcgraw said mabrey can usually be found on the team’s practice court in the pit even on an off day, “work­ing up a sweat, getting shots up,” and there’s no ceiling to what she can accomplish with the combination of that work ethic, competitive drive and talent. 
“i think she just has unlim­ited potential because of the way she plays offensively,” mcgraw said. “she can hit the three, but she can han­dle the ball, she can pass, and she can drive the ball, so she has a really complete of­fensive game. she can really be a tough matchup for our opponents.” 
That’s held true for most of notre dame’s eight games so far, with mabrey’s highlights coming last week against uconn, when she shot 10-of­13 from the field and 3-of-3 from behind the arc, and on nov. 23 against valparaiso, when she became the first irish player since diggins in 2013 to record a triple-dou­ble with 18 points, 10 assists and 12 steals. The triple-double was just the fifth in program history, only four games into mabrey’s colle­giate career, while the num­ber of steals set a new team record. 
“a lot of times as fresh­men, it’s hard to get confi­dence,” mabrey said. “you’re not really sure what to do, what you should be doing, what your role is, but coach mcgraw has really set out a place for me, telling me what to do, where to do and be­ing really patient, which has allowed me to get all those great accomplishments, and it’s really boosted my confidence a lot and made me feel a lot more comfort­able within the team.” 
while mabrey always pos­sessed a strong offensive skillset, mcgraw said she’s improved “dramatically” on defense to help round out her game. 
“her work was on the de­fensive side, so i think that she’s somebody that we can count on to defend a good player, which is something that we didn’t know early on,” mcgraw said. 
mabrey said her defense is something she’s been work­ing to master at notre dame. 
“it’s not just cement; there’s so many rotations that i haven’t heard of, and i think as i come along, and as i get older and keep prac­ticing, defense will become just as strong as my offense,” she said. 
mcgraw said mabrey’s ability to guard — she was matched up with last sea­son’s ncaa leader in scor­ing, kelsey mitchell, against ohio state last week — is one of the reasons she and fellow freshman arike ogunbowale have earned significant minutes so far. mabrey has averaged 21.9 minutes on the floor per game, while ogunbowale is at 19.5 
“i think that the trust comes more on the defen­sive side and the shot selec­tion,” mcgraw said. “i think those are the two things you look at. i want to know ex­actly what they’re going to do, good and bad, and so i want to be able to trust them defensively, that they’re go­ing to be in the right spots, that they’re going to rotate, they’re going to rebound. and then offensively, the same thing — they’re going to be in the flow of the of­fense, doing basically what their job is, but hopefully just doing all the little things right.” 
while she’s earning that trust, mabrey said she tries to bring her usual competi­tiveness to with her every day to practice for the irish. 
“i always want to compete with everyone, even with my teammates, because i know it’s making everybody bet­ter,” she said. 
“i can’t even stop being competitive if i tried. it’s bad. i can’t.” 
Contact Mary Green at  mgreen8@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | The observer 


paid adverTisemenT 


M Bball 
conTinued from page 12 
showcased his extended skill set with a pull-up shot from 12 feet, a block and then a massive dunk that put the irish up 64-46 with nine min­utes to play. 
That dunk was part of a 25-4 run for the irish in the middle of the second half that opened a 71-46 lead. The irish defense forced the seawolves to shoot just 2-of­14 from the field during the pivotal run. 
“our guys are learning to play together,” brey said. “i like how they played defen­sively tonight. we improved defensively man-to-man wise. now we did a heck of a job in zone. and tonight, for about seven possessions, zone gave us good stuff, be­cause i think they missed six of seven shots when we were in it.” 
while auguste had team highs in points and re­bounds, four other players hit double digits. Junior guard demetrius Jackson dropped 19 points while dishing out 10 assists and junior forward 
v.J. beachem scored 14 points while sophomore forward bonzie colson and junior guard steve vasturia each finished with 10. Jackson in particular impressed brey as someone who is translating his strong play into more of a leadership role, the coach said. 
“demetrius Jackson looks like he’s running the build­ing like Jerian grant used to run the building,” brey said. 
brey also stressed how in order to lead effectively, Jackson must see extended time on the floor every game, like the 36 minutes he logged Tuesday. 
“when i ask him to run the building, you’ve got to be on the floor to run the building,” brey said. “no breaks, i need you out there.” 
with the game in hand, brey was able to make use of his bench. he confirmed after the game that his first three off the bench moving forward will be junior for­ward austin Torres, sopho­more guard matt farrell and freshman forward matt ryan. 
“we want to keep develop­ing those three guys,” brey said. “right now, those three guys are the guys, but it’s a long haul.” 
notre dame now has a chance to pick up one more win this weekend before tak­ing next week off for finals. 
“we’d like to win three in a row and then go to exams,” brey said. 
The irish next welcome loyola chicago to town, taking on the ramblers at purcell pavilion on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at  bplamond@nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 86, sTony brook 61 
FOOTBALL 

Smith named best LB 
irish win behind 

Observer Staff Report 
The short list of accom­plishments and honors Jaylon smith has yet to earn got a little shorter Tuesday, when he was named the winner of the butkus award, given annually to college football’s top linebacker. 
smith led the irish in tack­les this season, with 113, which ranks him 22nd in the fbs. he also recorded nine tackles for loss, five pass breakups, six quarterback hits, one forced fumble and two recovered fumbles. 
smith is the second irish linebacker to win the award, both in the past four years, alongside manti Te’o in 2012. notre dame is now one of eight programs to win the trophy two or more times since it was first awarded in 1985. 
usa Today also released its all-american teams Tuesday, and smith gar­nered first-team honors. senior defensive lineman sheldon day, who leads notre dame with 14.5 tack­les for loss and 13 quarter­back hits, joined him on the top squad. 



By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
led by the duo of demetrius Jackson and Zach auguste, notre dame rolled Tuesday night over stony brook, 86­61, at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (6-2) opened the game shooting 6-of-8 from the floor, using a 7-0 run to build a 13-4 lead. 
“what a great night for us, and what a great last week for this team as we’re try­ing to figure ourselves out,” irish head coach mike brey said. “To win in champaign at illinois, and to come back and methodically beat a good team — a team i think is go­ing to be a championship team in their league and pos­sibly an ncaa tournament team.” 
while stony brook (4-3) 
closed the gap to four points 
later in the half, the outcome 
receiver will fuller passes, tied for sixth in the 

never appeared in doubt with earned second-team all-country, and racked up 1,145 
seawolves’ top player, senior american status after a ju-yards at a 20.4 yard per catch 
forward Jameel warney, lack­nior campaign in which average, both of which rank 
ing a presence, particularly he caught 13 touchdown 15th in the ncaa. 
in the first half. warney (who 

Jackson, auguste 
averaged 18.2 points and 13.2 rebounds per game entering Tuesday’s action) shot only 1-of-6 in the first half before finishing with 16 points and eight rebounds on the night. 
brey said he was especial­ly proud of senior forward Zach auguste’s handling of warney in the post. 
“i thought he was re­ally looking forward to the matchup the last two days,” brey said. “it was kind of neat because there’s a buzz around this kid, and Zach’s like, ‘wait a minute, i’ve played against some pretty good big guys.’” 
“ … he prepared for it like here comes [Jahlil] okafor. here comes a big dude from kentucky. here comes carolina’s front line — all five of them — and bring them on, let’s compete against all of them.” 
auguste, who finished with 23 points and 11 rebounds, was particularly strong in the second half, where he 
see m bball PAGE 11 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

nd looks to rebound against depaul 

By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
The blue demons are back, once again catching the irish fresh off their first loss of the season. 
no. 3 notre dame will play a no. 18 depaul squad in early december fol­lowing a loss to archrival connecticut — for the sec­ond year in a row. 

The irish (7-1) will even be without sophomore forward brianna Turner due to in­jury, just like they were last season. 
notre dame will also be without junior forward Taya reimer, who is battling a nagging achilles ailment, leaving the irish to run a four-guard lineup, with ei­ther sophomore forward kathryn westbeld or junior forward kristina nelson acting as the only players in the post. 
irish head coach muffet mcgraw doesn’t see a big problem with that, though. 
“i love four guards,” mcgraw said. “we’ve done that in the past quite a bit. The offense just flows better when you have four perim­eter players out there who can all score. it’s a good thing for us, we just need to rebound better, and that’s probably the biggest weak­ness of it.” 
The blue demons (6-2), however, have not domi­nated their opponents on the boards or in the paint this year. They rank 128th in the nation in rebound­ing margin (2.8) and 313th 
see w bball PAGE 10 

Younger Mabrey finds early home 

By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
freshman guard marina mabrey has been drawing some pretty strong com­parisons to past irish play­ers recently — and no, they weren’t to her sister, michaela. 
instead, after mabrey put up 23 points, 21 in the first half, of her eighth collegiate game saturday against no. 1 connecticut, head coach muffet mcgraw said she possessed a type of swagger she hasn’t seen on her roster since skylar diggins laced up for the irish. 

it’s something mcgraw said she’s seen in the belmar, new Jersey, native from the first time she saw her play. 
“absolutely,” mcgraw said Tuesday. “she is very feisty. i think she typifies what one would think a Jersey guard would play like, and i love it — being from philly, i know what that looks like. i just love her attitude.” 
while marina will often be compared to michaela, especially with the two of them together on the team this season, mcgraw said that trait is one of the fac­tors that differentiates them. 
“it is very much in her personality. very different from her sister, actually,” she said. 
while michaela might not possess the same attitude as marina, the younger mabrey said she has her old sister to thank for it — along with her three other siblings, roy, dara and ryan. 
“i’ve always been like that, even since i was young,” marina said. “i al­ways wanted to be, not the best, but i didn’t want any­one to beat me, and i think a lot of the hard work that i’ve put in, and even within my family. my family is re­ally competitive. There’s five kids, you had to com­pete for everything — who­ever wanted to get the most rice at dinner, whatever, 
see mabrey PAGE 10 

HOCKEY 
Bjork makes prelim roster 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
as the no. 18 irish prepare for their final game of the first semester — a rivalry game against no. 3 boston college on Thursday — one member of the team got some good news this week in his search for a spot on Team usa. 
irish sophomore anders bjork, a left wing from mequon, wisconsin, was named to Team usa’s world Junior championship prelim­inary roster monday, and he will continue to work towards making the final roster over the coming week. 
at his weekly press confer­ence, irish head coach Jeff Jackson discussed what bjork needs to do before the final 
see hockey PAGE 9 



