The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 125 | monday, april 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint mary’s raises more than $600,000 
Third annual Donor Challenge Day exceeds goal of 3,000 donors in 24 hours, secures anonymous gift 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s hosted its third annual donor challenge day last Thursday and raised over $600,000. 
according to a college press release, two anonymous donors pledged $175,000 to the annual Fund if 3,000 donors made gifts within 24 hours. by midnight, 3,486 alumnae, friends, fac­ulty, staff and students invested $425,881 in saint mary’s, secur­ing the $175,000 gift, totaling $600,881. 
director of annual giving 



nd unveils The shirt 2015 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
slightly before 6:57 p.m. sunday evening, notre dame fans who gathered in front of hammes notre dame bookstore for The shirt unveiling ceremo­ny caught their first glimpse of The shirt 2015. This year’s shirt is green and features an image of two football helmets on the front and the words “here come the irish,” along with a picture of a running football player on the back. 
Former indiana state police 
see shirT paGE 5 




Fisher hosts 25th annual regatta 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
despite temperatures in the 40s and blustery winds, turnout at the 25th annual Fisher regatta was higher than ever saturday afternoon at saint mary’s lake. 
approximately 45 boats reg­istered to compete in the racing bracket, most of them sponsored by dorms across campus, ac­cording to regatta commis­sioner, junior billy cheely. he said the 45 boats were a record for the regatta, which usually 
has around 30 different student-made boats. (Editor’s note: Cheely is an ads salesman at The Observer.) 
The regatta is noted more for its fun antics and displays of dorm pride than its serious com­petitive nature, cheeley said, highlighting that roughly half the boats sink during their races every year. 
Fisher hall president, soph­omore cory Jbara, said the regatta is a great way to build community in Fisher 
see regaTTa paGE 5 


Improv troupe Second City visits SMC classes 
By NICOLE CARATAS and MARTHA REILLY 
news writers 
students and faculty alike took center stage as second city troupe members taught them the principles of improvisa­tion at saint mary’s on sunday afternoon. 
associate professor of dance and Theatre Katie sullivan said the workshops hosted by second city, an improvisation­al comedy group with head­quarters in chicago, took place over four days and the levels ranged from beginning to ad­vanced. The session’s topics included writing, comedy, mu­sical improv and how to make a living from improv acting. some sessions were reserved specifically for theatre majors and minors, while others, in­cluding the basic improv work­shop, were open to students and faculty. 
in the basic improv session, participants engaged in various activities, such as word asso­ciation, name games, physical 
see improv paGE 5 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Second City troupe member Ali Barthwell hosts one of a series of workshops teaching the principles of improvisation to students and faculty in Regina North Lounge on Sunday. 

news paGE 3 viewpoinT paGE 6 scene paGE 8 booKsTore bball paGE 16 men’s lacrosse paGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the worst place to study for finals? 


Nora Pinder 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“anywhere.” 

Joe Driano 
junior 
Knott hall 
“second floor of Fitzpatrick, where joy goes to die.” 

Christine Joseph 
junior 
welsh Family hall 
“anywhere near the basilica on a sunday morning.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Sam Rack 
junior 
badin hall 
“o’rourke’s” 

Casey Ryan 
freshman stanford hall 
“Feve.” 

Ryan Jones 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 
“The bookstore.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 





Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: andrea vale rachel o’grady martha reilly 

Graphics Scene Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake Jimmy Kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

Spring Concert Snite Salon series Thanking Mom Mindful Meditation Grounds and Hounds 
caitlyn Jordan Tabitha ricketts 
Washington Hall Snite Museum of Art Hesburgh Reflecting Coleman-Morse Brownson Hall 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Pool Center 2 p.m.-4 p.m. A cappella concert by Collegial discussion 2 p.m.-6 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. De-stress with dogs 
Corrections 

Halftime. and exchange. Celebration of moms. Practice in meditation. and free coffee. 
Friday’s paper wrongly attributed a quote to bri o’brien. in response to a question 
Notre Dame Day Baseball Grotto Trip Grey Gardens (1975) Baseball 
on the relationship between catholic 
campus-wide Frank Eck Stadium Bond Hall  DeBartolo Performing Frank Eck Stadium 
social responsibility and immigration, 
All Day 6:05 p.m.-8:05 p.m. 10 p.m.-11 p.m. Arts Center 6:05 p.m.-8:05 p.m. 
angge roncal said the u.s. conference 
Celebration of the The Irish take on Hosted by the Asian 7 p.m.-9 p.m. The Irish take on 
of catholic bishops believes it is the 
University’s founding. Michigan State. American Association. Free for ND students. Northwestern State. 
church’s duty to respect all who come the u.s. for safety. The observer regrets this error. 


Juggling club offers campus entertainment 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
associate news editor 
on warm Friday afternoons, among the hammocks, grill-outs and Frisbee games, the notre dame Juggling club gathers on north Quad with bags of tennis balls, clubs and plastic rings. They put on impromptu juggling perfor­mances for passersby and teach anyone who is interested how to juggle. 
The club welcomes students who “wish to advance their juggling skills and those skills associated with juggling, i.e. unicycling,” according to the student activities office web­site. club president and ju­nior steven brill said 15 to 20 people come to meetings regu­larly, depending on the time of year. when the weather is cold, the group meets Friday after­noons at the racquetball courts in rockne memorial gym; when it’s warm, they “gener­ally just hang and juggle” by stonehenge, brill said. 
“people like walking by and seeing us,” he said. “Kids are a lot of fun. we were juggling at the outdoor sports festival thing on south Quad that not many people knew about ear­lier, and a bunch of kids walked by, and the kids loved watching the juggling, so that’s pretty fun.” 

The club also performs at various events throughout the year — they’ve performed at holy cross intramural basket­ball all-star game and a parade at the irish Fest of manhattan, 
illinois.  on  sunday, they jug­ 
gled  at  the  unveiling  of  The  
shirt.  

people join the juggling club with a range of levels of expe­rience — some have only a ba­sic knowledge of the craft and learn through the club, start­ing with a single ball and going from there. 
“There are people who will say, ‘oh, i’ve tried this like once, so i have a little bit of knowledge on how to do it but i haven’t learned how,’” sopho­more mark Kinney said. 
others knew how to juggle before coming to notre dame and use the club as a way to practice. sophomore cate devey said she learned how to juggle in order to one-up her brothers. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“i hate not being able to be better than them at things, so i taught myself how to juggle,” she said. 
sophomore andrea ringer said she unsuccessfully tried to teach herself with a book but was able to learn eventually. 
“in high school, i went on a trip, and one of our leaders was in the circus, so he actu­ally taught us how to juggle, and it finally stuck,” ringer said. “so i learned, and i thought it was really cool, so coming here, i just went to the Juggling club meeting, and i enjoyed it.” 
brill said he and his broth­er started juggling when he was in fifth grade, and he kept up the hobby through high school, where he was his school’s juggling club president. before he went to college, he worked for the cincinnati circus company, which performs at events in the city. 
“i started working there, which made me better at juggling, and then i learned how to do balloon animals and stilt walking and things like that,” brill said. “Then i came here, and i’ve been pretty outspoken in trying to get people to juggle.” 
some members can juggle four or five objects at a time. They use different tech­niques — there’s the normal cascade, and there are more complicated patterns like mill’s mess, chops or the 5-3­
1. some can juggle clubs or rings as well as balls. others, like brill, have graduated to juggling knives and torches, something the club hopes to use next year. 
brill said juggling per­formances can vary in style — there’s what he calls “strolling juggling,” or walking among the audi­ence while juggling. There are more comedic routines and artsier, more musical performances. 
most of the equipment the club uses belongs to brill, he said, and next year, the group hopes to raise money to buy its own equipment so it can still have a range of gear af­ter brill graduates. brill said juggling and the process of learning new techniques is a stress reliever. 
“i use juggling in between studying; i just leave [my stuff] in my backpack just for fun,” he said. “it’s something fun, and it is a very tangible way to see progress from repetition and see learning, where you start with one trick, and then you can keep learning new ones.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
saint mary’s panel remembers rwandan genocide 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Twenty-one years ago, rwanda was plagued by a hutu-led genocide against the Tutsi, two rwandan ethnic groups. in honor of those who were killed and the families they left behind, saint mary’s student diversity board (sbd) held a panel discussion Friday. 
senior aneth batamuliza, originally from rwanda, intro­duced the panelists, who in­cluded president of the rwandan diaspora network in u.s. and survivor gaetan gatete, survivor Kizito Kalima, president of the global diaspora network alice cyusa, and Joint appointment in Kroc institute for international peace studies ernesto verdeja. 
each panel member shared sto­ries on a specific topic, including their personal testimonies. 
gatete said there are many who will deny the genocide happened. They will claim the number of Tutsis killed is a lie or that the en­tire genocide never happened, but gatete said it is important not to allow those who deny to affect how history is remembered. 
“as we gather here beyond rwanda’s borders, we must unite with the people of rwanda,” gatete said. “especially with the survivors of the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi, to renew our commitment to never again [al­low] genocide in rwanda or any­where in the world. we must learn from what happened in rwanda.” 
gatete said the rwandan geno­cide impacted many people. 
“it is [our] own children, to many of us, it is our parents, a mother or a father,” gatete said. “it is our sisters and brothers. it is someone very dear to us. when we talk a million rwandan killed in genocide, it is easy to think of genocide as one single act of bar­barism. … The reality is that the genocide was made up of so many individual atrocities.” 
Kalima offered his personal tes­timony of what it was like to be a teenager during the genocide. he ran away when the hutu forces came and hid for three months, living off grass, dirty water and anything he could find. 
“i call myself the luckiest be­cause of what i’ve been through and what i was able to overcome,” Kalima said. 
Kalima said he came to america on a basketball scholarship and has since dedicated his time to healing through helping other survivors, going as far as adopting two survivors he found who were alone in america and needed his help. 
“i had everything, but i could not find happiness,” he said. “i decided to forgive those who hurt me, who abused my family. … i became a mentor to everybody.” 
cyusa focused on Kwibuka, which means “remember” in Kinyarwanda, rwanda’s lan­guage. Kwibuka is also the name of a global initiative to remember those affected by the rwandan genocide. she said Kwibuka is a time to remember and com­memorate the lives of the people and loved ones affected by the genocide. 
“we commemorate, we re­member to give them a voice be­cause they no longer have a voice. we speak for them,” cyusa said. “Kwibuka is also a time to show solidarity with genocide survivors … and to support them and pray with them. 
she also focused on the role of rwandan women after the genocide. 
“rwanda did not choose to fol­low revenge,” cyusa said. “The path of unity and reconciliation and peace-building, rwandan women embarked on it 21 years ago. 
“in rwanda, women represent more than half the population. The genocide against the Tutsi left hundreds of thousands of women widowed and traumatized, and the fight for equality for those women actually became second to survival. There were thousands of women who were victims of rape, trauma and other unspeak­able physical injuries. The major­ity of survivors of the genocide were women, experiencing seri­ous economic deprivation.” 
after the genocide, the govern­ment set up a special fund to help women and other survivors have access to healthcare, education and other necessities, cyusa said. after the genocide, the govern­ment appointed women to posi­tions of power and amended the constitution with a minimum re­quirement of 30 percent of women in all decision-making bodies. rwanda has the highest percent­age of women in parliament in the world today. 
gatete closed the panel by re­flecting on how far rwanda has come since the genocide. 
“after 1994, the journey of rwanda is not just a journey of genocide. it is a journey of recon­ciliation,” gatete said. “rwanda is now a peaceful country, a beauti­ful country. The cleanest country in africa, a country where every kid has access to primary school, a secular country, a country where people can walk day and night on the street. … a country where the economy is booming every single year, a country of good gover­nance, a country of democracy, a country with 63 percent women in parliament. a country that is striv­ing to become a model for africa.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Shirt 
conTinued From page 1 
sgt. Tim mccarthy, who re­tired this year from his role giving safety tips at home foot­ball games, introduced the new design with his traditional catchphrase, “may i have your attention, please.” 
“may i have your attention, please,” he said. “This is Tim mccarthy for the indiana state police. irish fans, today’s un­veiling of The shirt marks a notre dame tradition that is worn with great pride. The best part is, the more The shirt is worn, the better it looks, and the better you look. and re­member, today it’s a little bit chilly, but wearing this shirt makes you look hot.” 

in addition to mccarthy, sev­eral other prominent notre dame figures participated in the ceremony. director of media productions for Fighting irish digital media Jack nolan em­ceed the event, and notre dame football public address an­nouncer mike collins and for­mer irish starting quarterback ron powlus both spoke briefly before The shirt was revealed. 
“There’s nothing that unites the university like The shirt does on game day,” powlus, current director of player development for the football team, said. 
nolan added that The shirt is “the largest selling piece of col­legiate athletic apparel in the world.” 
nolan said since its debut in 1990, The shirt has raised over 8 million in proceeds, which each year are split between The shirt charity, student clubs and orga­nizations and the rector Fund. 
according to The shirt’s web­site, this year marks the 26th year of The shirt and the 27th shirt — two shirts were released the first year. This year’s design, created by a small team of stu­dents who were present onstage at the ceremony, has a similar fabric to last year’s shirt. 
accompanying the actual unveiling of The shirt were a number of performances from campus groups, includ­ing the glee club, the a cap­pella group harmonia, the irish dance team, the Juggling club, pom squad, the swing club, acousticafé performers, the bagpipe band and the marching band. 
The glee club, harmonia and the two bands performed tradi­tional game day songs together for the crowd to commemorate the unveiling. 
also present at ceremony were several vendors from the south bend community such as let’s spoon and barnaby’s pizza, both of which gave away free food samples. among the more popular attractions at the event was a number of coca-cola ma­chines, which custom-printed an individual’s name onto the side of 7.5-oz. coke cans. 
The unveiling ceremony, which was part of the notre dame day celebrations, was broadcast live on notredame­day.nd.edu for those unable to attend the event. 
The shirt will be available for purchase at the notre dame bookstore for the coming foot­ball season. 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
improv 
conTinued From page 1 
acting and responses to dr. Know-it-all — an improv game in which participants had to answer a question one word at a time and form a coherent response. The session focused on ensem­ble, emotion, an exercise called “yes and” common­ly used in improv acting and responses to changing situations. 
“This one is fun because we’ve opened it up to any­one who answered the email on time,” sullivan said. “There’s faculty, staff and students, which is very fun.” 
Troupe members casey whitaker and Jasbir singh said their goal was to im­prove everyone’s improv ability while hosting an en­joyable workshop. 
“we have to be completely open to whatever is going to happen,” whitaker said. “The main goal of improv is to have fun.” 
during one portion of the basic improv workshop, whitaker and singh paired up participants and encour­aged them to talk about their days. singh said this exercise helped them learn how to carry on a conversa­tion through constructing thoughtful but rapid an­swers to questions. 

“if someone does some­thing, you have to respond,” singh said. “That’s a basic of improv. eye contact and listening and affirming are very important here.” 
another exercise involved groups of three partici­pants acting out assigned 
“We have to be completely open to whatever is going to happen. The main goal of improv is to have fun.” 
Casey Whitaker 
troupe member 
Second City 

situations and demonstrat­ing complex relationships. participants were instruct­ed to demonstrate ranges of emotions in this activity. 
“we all kind of know what a best friend relationship would feel like,” whitaker said. “you need to use some of your own personal expe­riences to act this out. This helps everybody.” 
according to whitaker, actors can generate responses by applying dif­ferent scenarios to their lives and by building from past experiences. 
“The best thing to do when you feel lost is to turn inward to your part­ners and to make it about the relationship,” whitaker said. “commitment is a big thing that makes improv successful.” 
whitaker said she was im­pressed with the improve­ments students and faculty made within the two-hour workshop. 
“you guys are no lon­ger beginners,” whitaker said. “so much of the work is not about trying to be funny and make a joke. The humor finds its way in. it only comes because you’re committed.” 
The duo left one lasting piece of advice for aspir­ing actors: continue the conversation. 
“if you don’t know what to say, say anything,” singh said. “it doesn’t matter. when you hear yourself say something, you’ll feel some­thing. Just do something. say anything you want.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu and Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
donor 
conTinued From page 1 
operating budget. 
“[The annual Fund] takes gifts of all sizes and com­bines them to create re­sources for scholarships, programs, professors and everything else that directly 
impacts  the  students,”  she  
said.  
promotion  for  the  do­ 

nor challenge was handled mostly through social me­dia, Frey said. 
“alumnae, parents, stu­dents and friends were in­vited to remember and share the impact saint mary’s has had on their lives,” she said. “They rallied their friends and family to give back to saint mary’s to allow cur­rent and future students to experience the same opportunities.” 
Frey said an eight-day so­cial media campaign high­lighted important aspects of the saint mary’s experience including “#sisterhood” and “#professors,” and pro­gressed towards the day of the donor challenge. 
“The photo-a-day project brought in a flood of cre­ative photos that brought the saint mary’s experience to life in a powerful way,” she said. 
according to Frey, the amount of support speaks highly of the education at saint mary’s. 
“To have so many people, even entire families, step forward in such a big way for saint mary’s is a very visible sign that they are committed to saint mary’s and the edu­cation provided here, and they want to be a part the college’s success,” she said. 
saint mary’s concluded it’s “Faith always, action now” capital campaign at the end of december, raising $105 million, according to a college press release. 
vice president of college relations shari rodriguez said in a college press re­lease it’s extraordinary to see the saint mary’s com­munity come together to support to college. 
“on the heels of our suc­cessful ‘Faith always, action now’ campaign, it’s heart­warming and encouraging to see how many alumnae value their education and years spent at saint mary’s and wish to give that same experience to future genera­tions of students,” rodriguez said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
regatta 
conTinued From page 1 
and across campus because of the good-natured com­petition the event inspires between dorms. Freshman andrea vale said said this dorm rivalry was her favor­ite part of the regatta expe­rience. (Editor’s note: Andrea Vale is a news writer.) 
“The regatta really brought out the hardcore believers this year because of the weather,” vale said. “everyone that was there really wanted to be there and put their heart and soul into it. it was awesome being surrounded by all that dorm spirit.” 
regatta festivities start well before the actual race, Jbara said, with Fred and sally week commemorating the two donors who un­derwrote construction on Fisher hall. The annual tra­dition of the regatta began 25 years as the brainchild of Fisher residents who wanted a major event to celebrate their dorm while bringing campus together. 

“i think it started off as a joke. why don’t we build boats and go race them out on the lake? and from there it just kind of took off,” Jbara said. 
despite these humble origins, the regatta has become a huge event on campus and requires a sub­stantial amount of work. cheeley said the process to prepare for the regatta be­gan as early as december of last semester. 
with a staff of 22, cheeley had responsibility for a range of functions essen­tial to the regatta including fundraising and advertising. cheeley said all proceeds from the regatta are going towards a fund to re-floor the gym of st. aldabert’s, a local catholic school and parish. 
in prior years, cheeley said the regatta raised money for a variety of causes such as the brother andre house. 
cheeley said this year the rector of Fisher hall, rick mazzei, set a goal of rais­ing $5,000. cheeley said he expects the regatta com­mittee will meet or exceed their goal, but they don’t have a total yet because they will continue to sell bro tanks through the end of the semester. 
Jbara said he enjoys see­ing how the regatta impacts freshman who get to experi­ence it for the first time. 

“The freshmen came in and we talked about the regatta all year, but until this week they didn’t understand what it’s about and the amount of brotherhood it builds,” Jbara said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 


inSidE Column 

On escaping fundamentalism 
The value of life 
Gabriela Malespin 
news writer 

whenever finals come rolling around, there are several things i tend to keep in mind. i try to remember that, despite how awful final exams are, i’ll soon be back home, lying on the beach in my beloved puerto rico. i’ll remind myself that i should probably get my laundry done by reading days. and somewhere at the back of my mind, i remember the following phrase from the british television series “doctor who”: “nine hundred years of time and space, and i’ve never met someone who wasn’t important.” 
it’s probably one of the most beautiful phrases of the beloved sci-fi show because it reflects an oft-repeated theme within the series: the monumental importance of individual people. Throughout the show’s run, the doctor recruits companions for his adventures, normal people who, when given the adventure, prove themselves capable of incredible acts of heroism. They are secretaries, shop girls, med students, nurses and models who ride space whales, inspire vincent van gogh and save entire civilizations. They are people plucked from a mundane existence who gradually reveal their extraordinary capacity for compas­sion, self-sacrifice and bravery. 
it’s a quote that stems from a genuine be­lief that each individual person is integral to the fabric of time and space, whether they are presidents or prisoners, celebrities or sinners. it’s a quote that reiterates how much people matter, as they provide some­thing intangible and unique to the human experience. people are important, not be­cause of their social or historical contribu­tions, but because of their inherent value. 
i like to remember this quote around finals week because, quite honestly, i’m pretty sure plenty of students (includ­ing myself) forget this message once the avalanche of exams and term papers hits. heck, sometimes, we forget this the entire year. we forget that we are important. That people matter more than grades and pos­sess an innate uniqueness and value that can neither be given nor taken away by anything as flimsy as a test average. often, there’s an unhealthy tendency to sacrifice health and happiness for a couple of extra percentage points because at the moment, what matters is a test, a score, a scribbled number at the top of a page. it is honestly very, very hard to remember at this time of year. 
For a brief moment, i’ll forget i matter. i’ll do the unhealthy things students tradi­tionally do around finals week like stack up on caffeine, go without sleep and cry over my inability to produce a decent essay. but i’ll remember. i’ll will eventually stop typ­ing, turn off my room light and remember that i am far more important than a final paper. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at       gmalespi@nd.com 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ethan Clendening 
guest columnist 

growing up in a conservative protestant farm town, you learn from an early age that there is right and there is wrong. you sit in church unflinchingly, defend your faith unshakably, love god unwaveringly and hate sin unapologetically. you are convinced of your devotion and love others who are as well. you do not question. you are going to heaven. and so you are right. 
but there are those who are wrong. now, they are not wrong because they steal or cheat or swear. (after all, everyone is a sinner!) Those are mere slip-ups, barely registering on the sin scale™, really. (This must be the case if even the right struggle with such mishaps!) To lie is not wrong; it is human. 
no, the wrong are the divorcees. The partiers. Those who teach evolution in schools or choose to lead godless homosexual lifestyles. The muslims. The lutherans. The anglicans. The atheists. The wrong are the heavy hit­ters on the sin scale™, the men and women who have allowed satan to infiltrate their lives so entirely so as to make them (shockingly) (threateningly) disagree with your worldview. and though you may mask it with sim­pering kindness and feigned concern, you hate them. and so they are wrong. 
yet even after growing up inundated by such views, doubt inevitably creeps in. “wait,” you begin. “how ex­actly are we choosing which sins are worse than others, again? doesn’t god want us to love everyone? who’s to say — ” 
but then mortifying, gut-wrenching guilt razes you. what is happening?! you are doubting, thinking like someone who is wrong! “stop it,” you tell yourself. “lord, forgive me!” you pray. and you retreat back into your prideful self-righteousness, your hesitations smothered. 
but your inner well of faith you have been filling for years with holiness and right and steadfast certainty has now begun to leak: slowly, at first, but one day, you wake up and realize there’s no water left. you are tired of clinging to a divinely ordained supremacy over those who think differently. you are tired of believing that even though god “loves everyone,” he loves only a frac­tion of them enough to actually save them. and you are tired of trampling on others’ beliefs in order to convince yourself of your own. right becomes right and wrong becomes wrong. 
of course, at this point, friends and soccer moms and your chill, jeans-clad pastor (right comes in many shapes and sizes) will begin doing everything in their power to shame you back into submission. They will shake their heads sadly. They will label you as lost. They will tell you they will pray for you. They will seem so kind and genuine and concerned and sure, that it is impossible not to wonder, sometimes, if they have in­deed been right all along. 
it is then you discover that fundamentalism is like chronic asthma, never quite going away, always lying in wait for just the right moment to attack and suffocate. because even though you do not (cannot) (will not) be­lieve religion based on damnation and disgust is what god had in mind, there remains a fear instilled long ago that since you do not agree with a certain interpretation of a certain biblical passage or hate people that sin in certain ways, you have strayed from the Truth. you wor­ry you have become the butt of some supernatural joke, the kind of wicked person your sunday school teacher helped you learn to loathe when you were 8. 
you worry you are wrong. 
and herein lies the chilling reality of contemporary fundamentalism: you are doomed from the moment you step inside. you believe for so long that the bible-thumping iv jammed into your arm is nourishing you that when you finally have the courage to take it out and live a life of compassion, you are left afraid you are dying. 
but you see, making the decision to remove the iv does not mean you have been cut off; it means you have been set free. you can step out of the hospital and into the sun. and there, basking in the light, are the multi­tudes living for Jesus without operating under the as­sumption that it is in their holy job descriptions to hate muslims or argue that evolution is a conspiracy. you help each other grow in faith. you seek to be like christ in love, not judgment. and you finally recognize that those who will try to convince you most vehemently that you are wrong might be doing so out of fear that they have failed to do the same. 
congratulations, friend. you’re free. and i, for one, am glad you’re here. 
Ethan Clendening is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. He lives in Duncan Hall and can be contacted at dclenden@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Editorial Cartoon 


The observer | monday, april 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
living too much in one’s head: a danish excursion 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

here’s a fun game to play: who is responsible for this line — existentialist philosopher søren Kierkegaard or shakespeare’s prince hamlet? 
“This earth seems to me a sterile promontory.” 
“life has become a bitter drink to me, and yet it must be taken in drops, counted one by one.” 
“my sorrow is my castle. many consider sorrow one of life’s comforts.” 
“what is a man if his chief good and market of his time be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.” 
you get the picture. brooding, lugubrious, crip­pled by indecision and father issues — the two danes bear striking similarities, despite one be­ing a fictitious character. you would think there really is something rotten in the state of denmark with the self-reflexive pessimism of two of the country’s best known sons. or so i thought. 
motivated almost exclusively by my inter­est in søren and hamlet Jr.’s contemplations, i took the opportunity for some group travel to copenhagen, denmark, where Kierkegaard se­questered himself for most of his life, and nearby elsinore, the site of hamlet’s Kronborg castle. i wanted to read “Fear and Trembling” beside a bust of the philosopher and recite hamlet’s so­liloquies in Kronborg’s courtyard. 
as it turned out, though, Kierkegaard statues were hard to come by in the danish capital. The running joke of our four-person group became: “Kierkegaard who?” had the danes forgotten their most beloved cultural icon? 
all about were smiling, fair-haired nordics, ref­erences to the gleeful children’s stories of hans christian andersen and the fervor of the booming culinary scene jump-started by noma, four-time winner of restaurant magazine’s world’s best ac­colade, for serving, among other things, foraged flowers, live ants and moss. where was the brood­ing? where was the thought? 
near the end of the trip — and following some pessimistic brooding of my own — we finally stumbled across some Kierkegaard references: a small square with a quotation enameled along­side, and not even an angst-filled one, just a throw-away line about living life forward but un­derstanding it backward. 
later, i discovered that two years prior the city had celebrated Kierkegaard’s 200th birthday with a forum held at the royal library. i scoured the internet for records, only to find that the man who took center stage at the forum was not the memorialized Kierkegaard but rené redzepi, the head chef of … noma. in a moment of double-overshadowing, redzepi was introduced as “the most famous dane since hamlet.” 
in the subsequent discussion, redzepi ex­plained his inability to read Kierkegaard, whom he felt lived “too much in his head.” redzepi went on and on about “deliciousness,” about how it makes life worth living (Kierkegaard, on the other hand, said the same thing about loving one’s neighbor, though i imagine he didn’t interact with them much). he said he had once collected herbs that grew around Kierkegaard’s grave, so he had, in a more literal sense, consumed some of Kierkegaard. 
while Kierkegaard spent his life in a study, redzepi spends his out in the world, trudging through mud and taking bites out of any fresh thing he can find, sucking the marrow dry. The chef did mention, though, that in less adventur­ous moods he enjoys sitting in the courtyard of the royal library by a statue of none other than søren Kierkegaard. 
and then i understood. 
i had passed that courtyard many times during our stay in copenhagen. not once did i think to look for Kierkegaard’s likeness there. if anywhere, he would be inside the library, enshrined with the books through which i knew him. each time we passed, i was trapped in my own thoughts. 
i have a tendency to live too much in my head. it’s why i’m drawn to Kierkegaard and hamlet in the first place, though it’s not so much as a kin­dred spirit but as someone who wants to know how i live in the world. That’s Kierkegaard’s big question, after all. but i do think — ha, think! — all that pondering prevents me from truly being in the world. 
in his final soliloquy, hamlet criticizes “think­ing too precisely on th’event” as a “thought which, quarter’d, hath but one part wisdom for every three parts coward.” This, however, comes after he’s stabbed his lover’s father in a thought­less act of rage. 
we need to make ample use of our contempla­tion, too, for hamlet also laments in the same soliloquy that “godlike reason” might “fust in us unus’d.” how can we establish a balance of thought and action, finding that perfect point where forward living and backward understand­ing converge? 
i think i’ll consult Kierkegaard on the matter. in “either/or,” a book whose title relates to balanc­ing opposites, the philosopher writes, “There are situations in life in which it would be ridiculous, or a kind of insanity to apply an either/or.” The dilemma of living in one’s head or living in the world seems to be one such instance. 
at any rate, the choice between when to think and when to act is a difficult one, about as dif­ficult as differentiating the words of hamlet from the words of Kierkegaard. The existentialist in me begs to end on the note: The choice is yours. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Toni Morrison (English) and Gnter Grass (German). He is trying not to be trapped in his head. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr to tHE Editor 

Wednesday Lunch Donation success 
since 1974, the world hunger coalition has been dedicated to helping alleviate hunger locally and around the world. we would like to express our thanks to the hundreds of students who partici­pated in the wednesday lunch donation this year. 
when students opt out of eating dining hall lunch on wednesdays, notre dame dining services donates the money saved from producing less food to us, the world hunger coalition. we then allocate this money to domestic and interna­tional organizations that combat hunger. 
This year, with more than 470 wednesday lunch donation participants, we raised more than $22,500 for hunger relief efforts. we donated a portion of this money to mary’s meals to provide a full year of school lunches to the school we spon­sor in malawi. 
after partnering with steve reifenberg’s intro to international development class, we are making a $5,000 grant to ecova mali and smaller dona­tions to holy cross missions in Kenya and project peanut butter. 
domestically, we have partnered with alumni clubs to match donations to worthy hunger re­lief organizations, including catholic charities in lake county, illinois, and house of bread in hartford, connecticut. 
locally, we have donated to monroe park grocery co-op, a wonderful organization address­ing the food desert in downtown south bend. we are excited to see these donations make an impact in the year to come. 
Thank you to all those involved in the campaign this year, and thank you especially to notre dame dining services for their continuing support — because of your generosity, we are able to take small steps toward fighting hunger in our commu­nity and around the world. 
if you didn’t sign up for the wednesday lunch donation this year, please consider signing up in august. we invite you to join us in our efforts. 
if you have any questions about the world hunger coalition or the wednesday lunch donation, please contact club president Zoe rae rote at whc@nd.edu or zrote@nd.edu. Thank you all for making this year a success; we are looking forward to another great semester in the fall! 
Zoe Rae Rote 
junior april 25 


The observer | monday, april 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

despite some fairly substantial hurdles, the spring sub concert did go on, and all things consid­ered, probably went far better than what was realistically expected. of course, for me, the fact that it hap­pened at all already meant it was off to a rather unbelievable start. 
Technically, the show’s headlin­er was cher lloyd, but since she’s only really known in the u.s. for her 2011 hit “want u back,” most of the crowd bought their tickets for the opener: middle school heart­throb Jesse mccartney. 
The excitement in stepan center prior to mccartney’s appearance on stage was palpable, and the crowd appeared to be made up of mostly women. it was a bit what i imagine going to a one direction concert would be like, as ev­ery time a technician walked on stage in the half-hour after doors opened, loud screams echoed through the hall. 
The crowd remained intensely excited throughout the entirety of mccartney’s set, as he sang his way through his greatest hits from the past 11 years. This included “leavin’” and “how do you sleep” from 2008 and his second ever single, “she’s no you,” from all the way back in 2004. he even includ­ed a slowed-down, almost acoustic version of 2008’s “body language,” which was good but didn’t quite match up to the original track. 
between songs, mccartney oc­casionally took the time to speak with the crowd a little. he didn’t have to do much to pump them up, and therefore, did a little bit of self-promotion. before playing “superbad,” he reminded everyone of his 2014 album, “in Technicolor.” he also revealed that he’d just fin­ished filming the second season of the Tv show “young and hungry.” 
as a side note, perhaps my fa­vorite part of mccartney’s perfor­mance was the fact he came out wearing a black jacket embossed with a giant pink flamingo. i’m afraid i was never the biggest Jesse mccartney fan, but when i saw that, it felt like the most appropri­ate article of clothing for him to be wearing. 
he told the audience good night and left the stage to an audience literally screaming for more. The chant went up fairly quickly for him to come back out and play “beautiful soul.” responding to this fervent request, he came back out for the only encore of the night. 
after a brief interlude of radio play, the main act came on stage. unfortunately for cher lloyd, a certain percentage of the crowd left immediately after mccartney finished his set. even among those who stayed, a decent number were far less interested in her and really only stayed to hear “want u back.” 
To her credit, she did just about everything she could to keep the crowd engaged, but it seemed a fairly impossible task. it’s not easy to play to a crowd that has only heard one of your songs, if you’re lucky. 
after playing a couple of her own tracks, she slowed it down a little and did a cover of the arctic monkeys and another of sam smith. while her voice shone on these particular tracks, they did little to amp up the feelings of the crowd. 
perhaps her greatest strength was her ability to actually con­verse with crowd members during the breaks between her songs. she called out particular crowd mem­bers and clearly tried to develop a bit of repertoire. it wasn’t entirely successful but possibly the best she could do. 
even if the crowd wasn’t nec­essarily responding, her perfor­mance was enjoyable, especially if you knew a couple of her songs. she was fun, dancing across the stage, and more than willing to make a bit of a fool out of herself. it was everything you’d expect from the girl who brought us the more-than-a-little-silly “want u back.” 
The highlights of her set were probably her cover of usher’s “omg” and the hit from her most recent album, “i wish.” both songs are upbeat and fun to dance to, and the cover had the added ben­efit of being known by the entire crowd. 
while the crowd stayed pretty down throughout most of her set, they certainly perked up when she played her closer, “want u back.” For all the energy they lacked through most of the show, it quick­ly became clear many had stayed just to hear this one song, and the wait seemed to be somewhat worth it. 
once she left the stage, the crowd pretty quickly dispersed, and there were no cries for her to come back on stage. The dramatic difference between her exit and mccartney’s underlined one very clear fact: sub would have been better off switching the order of the two performers. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at  cmoriari@nd.edu 

The observer | monday, april 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

with the recent T-pain resurgence, due to a bomb south by southwest showing and (grossly untrue) rumors that he was going to play legends, i have been reflecting on one of the most un­derrated and, as of late, underused mu­sic strategies: introducing your song as if it is airing on the radio. 
a recent listen to “Kiss Kiss,” a chris brown/T-pain anthem, sparked my in­terest in this strategy. what better way to gather hype than to act like your song, no matter where or how it is played, has been selected by a dJ and introduced with aplomb. 
i have compiled a few of the most stra­tegic radio introductions to date. 
“Kiss Kiss” — Chris Brown feat. t-pain 
This 2007 club/middle school dance banger starts out with an introduction to nappy boy radio, an ode to T-pain’s label nappy boy entertainment. The caller expresses his excitement to “be on the radio with T-pain” and when he addresses concerns that his girl “ain’t doin’ her things she used to do, at all,” T-pain shamelessly and without hesita­tion plays “just what he needs” — his own track. so, we are 26 seconds in, the song hasn’t even officially started, and T-pain has already hyped his label, him­self and his track. That is what market­ing dreams are made of, folks. 
“protect ya neck” — Wu-tang Clan 
The intro to this track was taken from an actual call into a city college of new york radio station. The dJ asks the lis­tener what he wants to hear, to which he responds, “i wanna hear that wu-Tang joint.” “wu-Tang again?” the dJ asks. “ahh yeah, again and again,” the listen­er/wu-Tang hype-boi responds as the track fades into the clan’s debut single. 
“B.o.t.S. radio (featuring i-20)” 
— ludacris 

in this radio interaction, callers dis­cuss their relationship problems with a dJ who calls on ludacris to play “love doctor.” Fitting with the theme and title of this album, the track focuses on a “battle of the sexes” mentality with back and forth between luda and shawna and a rebuttal by i-20. 
“radio” — Eazy-E, dr. dre and mC ren 
a scan of channels spanning techno to caribbean beats is followed by a listener’s call into K-eaZy-e radio. The listener re­quests, but of course, eazy-e’s “radio.” The lyrics that follow can only be described as legendary, and i wish i could quote them all, but due to lack of space, here’s all you get: “eazy-e rockin’ nonstop on the radio with the funky fresh hip-hop in stereo.” and also, a self-hype verse to rival Kanye himself: “so just kick it and listen to the station playin’ my music, it’s hard to lose it / it’s constantly on request cause you choose it.” 
“Workout plan”/“the new Workout plan” — Kanye West 
This song may not fit the “radio intro” bill exactly, but it is undoubtedly one of the most important rap song introductions oF all Time and therefore needed to be on this list. “workout plan,” a discussion amongst female friends surrounding one of the friend’s success with Kanye’s workout plan, acts as the intro to “The new workout plan” on “The college dropout.” important fact: This in reference to a vhs tape. a vhs tape Kanye wants you to pop in and get fit to for free.99. 
“The new workout plan” picks up where the intro left off, delving into Kanye’s vhs audio which will instruct you in how to pull yourself a rapper or an nba player — ap­parently Kim K followed the workout plan exactly. Kanye continues to count out your sit-ups and encourages you to eat salads and skip desserts so that you can pay your phone bill, quit your mall job and date out­side the family. don’t say yeezy never taught you. 
make sure these tracks are on your iTunes; don’t trust the cloud with precious cargo such as this. with the increasing prev­alence of streaming, radio is in dangerous territory. already places like norway have scheduled the end of Fm radio. video didn’t kill the radio star, but streaming just might. Thankfully, if radio were ever to go extinct in the u.s., we have these tracks to encapsu­late its essence and force our grandchildren to listen to. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 

Emilie Kefalas 
scene writer 

[Editor’s note: This article is part of a series called “Weekly Watch,” in which a Scene writer reviews a movie or show available on an instant streaming service each week.] 
The scattered focus of human frenzy and fact is beautiful. we forget this miracle in ourselves, an un­usually animated motherboard of intense intellect and confusion. it is so because we are governed by our inability to control it. so we, as tragic heroes, suc­cumb to the ecstasy we give ourselves through pride, confidence and doubt smoked to incense. 
nothing better justified this hyperactive muse than my recent rendezvous with baz luhrmann’s delec­table whorehouse of humanity, “moulin rouge!”. condemn its quickness of camera angles and music video flashiness, “moulin rouge!” is my guilty plea­sure of sex-driven fantasies, cinematically capturing the beauty we’ve dreamt in once-upon-a-times loos­ened to adult excursions (behold the kinky Tinker bell). 
if one interprets the film’s sexual splash as a bank­roll for the sake of pure eroticism, “moulin rouge!” would simply be a pornographic production shelled of its pearl. our hopeless romantic dreamboat, obi — i mean christian (ewan mcgregor) — is a chess piece for biblical symbolism, because why not find comfort in the implication of faith? his is the perfect identi­fier for good, hearty hero qualification luhrmann­style. This basis bears relation to Quentin Tarentino and martin scorsese’s lads-before-ladies signature archetype, sans the nosebleeds. however, there is tuberculosis, which brings us to the fulfillment of luhrmann’s good/evil dynamic, satine (nicole Kidman). 
she is the human embodiment of lust lost in love’s trying tug-of-war; satine is christian’s complete other. in her career as a courtesan for the black ties and top hats that thrust themselves her way, she is temptation from sanity, from faith and from christian. undoubtedly considered amongst her “sisters” to be the “brightest diamond” of the moulin rouge, satine’s beauty, call it a gift, serves as her bane, her weapon, because that’s the empowerment of the prostitute, her ability to slither in and out of as many men as possible while making a killing only to be killed by her screenwriter’s creativity in the end. 
The film has luhrmann’s unmistakable essence embedded in every camera angle. he is the glorious rule-breaker of hollywood romance, forgoing the usual cliché for the unusual, and at times overused, banality. one can only imagine an employee from 20th century Fox reading an early draft with his cof­fee in one hand and the script in the other, wondering whether or not his drink had been induced with pot. experiencing “moulin rouge!” could be paralleled to a number of humorous metaphors, all scooping to the cheap equivalents of getting high in your local bar­ber shop. The film is categorized as an australian­american pastiche-jukebox musical, and the collage of musical accompaniment provides a distinct foun­dation for its unique approach. The action literally flashes itself in your face as though to secretly show its unmentionables, the tale of two lovers trapped in the quicksand of truth, beauty, freedom and above all, love (the word “love” and all its variations appear in the film over 100 times). 
The standard secret lovers plot is a welcome sim­plicity in a film much about the raving visuals. pleasantly, both christian and satine are a beautiful pair of well-intentioned and developed characters, as they both commence their journeys separately searching for sustenance in front of romanticism’s favorite canvas, turn-of-the-century paris. no other actor can embody the thirst and starry-eyed gaze of promise than mcgregor, who manages to breathe life into a typecast who could have very easily fell be­tween the cracks of serious and sappy. sporting a red-haired wig throughout the film, Kidman owns satine with a beautiful yet vulnerable inferno. Together, they emote authentic feeling of life and love’s obsta­cles, pitfalls and realities within this far off dream of the montmartre quarter of paris. 
what luhrmann excels at in his work as a direc­tor and producer is his method of translating period pieces into relatable, contemporary works of art. The most memorable of the film’s taglines, “The greatest thing you’ll ever learn is just to love and be loved in return,” summarizes how christian and satine’s re­lationship casts away its sensibility.  when one falls in love, the world is never flawed; everything on the street is outrageously colored outside of the lines like an engulfing pop-up book. “moulin rouge!” is the representation of passion in the lives of the hopelessly romantic, not just in terms of relationships, but as the spirit of creation to the extent of salvation. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at  ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SportS autHority 

Making a giant fool of myself 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
ever since birth, i dreamed of having hair like mel Kiper Jr. it’s where he keeps his draft secrets and behind-the-scenes nFl knowledge, both of which i have none of. wish me luck and feel free to mock my draft. 
Tampa bay: Jameis winston, Qb, Florida state. They like him, and they haven’t been subtle about it. he’s nFl-ready. 
Tennessee: marcus mariota, wb, oregon. mariota goes second overall; the question is whether or not Tennessee trades the pick to someone else. 
Jacksonville: dante Fowler Jr., lb, Florida. Quarterback value is high and so is getting to the quar­terback. Jacksonville needs a pass rusher, and Fowler is the best in the draft. 
oakland: amari cooper, wr, alabama. cooper is nFl-ready, and oakland is dying for consis­tent offensive weapons. 
washington: leonard williams, dl, usc. best football player in the draft is picked fifth. welcome to the need-driven nFl. 
new york Jets: bud dupree, lb, Kentucky. a head scratcher be­cause dupree is so raw. still, he has the potential to be special in this system. 
chicago: Kevin white, wr, west virginia. Jumping with joy, chicago gets its top receiver pros­pect to replace brandon marshall. 
atlanta: vic beasley, lb, clemson. need for a pass rusher is too high not for them to target one here. beasley is a workout wonder. 
new york giants: brandon scherff, ol, iowa. easy, smart and safe pick. scherff is the best line­man in the eyes of all 32 teams. 
st. louis: devante parker, wr, louisvile. if the rams don’t move up to take white or cooper, they snag parker. They want offensive line help but don’t reach after the giants break their heart. 
minnesota: Trae waynes, cb, michigan state. waynes is the most complete corner in the draft and falls to the secondary-hungry vikings. 
cleveland: breshad perriman, wr, central Florida. This year’s 40-yard dash pick goes to the cleveland browns. 
new orleans: shane ray, lb, missouri. somehow ray ends up as the forgotten pass rusher. he’s too good to pass on this late. 
miami: la’el collins, ol, lsu. he can play guard or tackle, and miami needs help up front. 
san Francisco: danny shelton, dl, washington. The 49ers really want an inside linebacker, but they make the smart pick and don’t reach. 
houston: Kevin Johnson, cb, wake Forest. corner depth is still needed despite locking up Kareem Jackson. Johnson is pro-ready. 

san diego: Todd gurley, rb, georgia. gurley is a special talent. he feels right for a team looking for a running back. 
Kansas city: andrus peat, ol, stanford. The chiefs have mul­tiple holes to fill, and peat is ready to start coming from a pro-style system. 
cleveland: arik armstead, dl, oregon. armstead might be bet­ter than people think. he is strong against the run, which was a weakness for the browns. 
philadelphia: byron Jones, cb, connecticut. cornerback? check. exceptional athlete? check. most importantly, chip Kelly likes him. check. 
cincinnati: randy gregory, lb, nebraska. The free fall stops here. he’s gifted but with character con­cerns. marvin lewis can handle it. 
pittsburgh: landon collins, s, alabama. plug-and-play replace­ment for a retired legend, Troy polamalu. 
detroit: cameron erving, ol, Florida state. erving is a special player who is flying under the radar. 
arizona: Jalen collins, cb, lsu. They need a running back but don’t seem crazy about melvin gordon. i think they trade back, but some secondary depth makes sense, too. 
carolina: ereck Flowers, ol, miami. he’s ready to start, and carolina is desperate for offensive line help. 
baltimore: melvin gordon, rb, wisconsin. baltimore doesn’t draft for need, rather picks the best play­er available. gordon is that player. 
dallas: malcolm brown, dl, Texas. They want melvin gordon and will try to jump baltimore. if not, brown has the talent to be picked well before this and can’t fall any further. 
denver: T.J. clemmings, ol, pittsburgh. he’ll push people around in denver’s new run-fo­cused offense. plug-and-play right tackle. 
indianapolis: d.J. humphries, ol, Florida. not the mauler other tackles in the draft are but moves well in pass protection. makes sense in the andrew luck offense. 
green bay: marcus peters, cb, washington. They need a corner. he has huge character concerns, which usually don’t fit in green bay, but i can see them trusting their locker room to get the best cover corner in the draft. 
new orleans: nelson agholor, wr, usc. agholor can do special things with brees. Über-talented slot receiver. 
new england: eddie goldman, dl, Florida state. vince wilfork is remembered but replaced. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
roWinG | dale england cup 
Irish place third in final tuneup before ACCs 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
despite an unexpected change of schedule, notre dame battled to a third place finish this week­end at the dale england cup. 
due to the possibility of in­clement weather, the event schedule at the cup was ad­justed to allow for a more rapid race schedule, moving from a split-session format saturday to a single-morning regatta that involved four active race lanes in each heat. 
The irish adapted to the change of schedule, encounter­ing the likes of no. 13 indiana and no. 14 Texas throughout the day and remaining competitive in each heat. standout perfor­mances on saturday morning included the second varsity eight, where the irish finished just four seconds behind Texas for second place in the heat and the second varsity four final, where the irish finished second once more to Texas. 
Junior Katie skorcz saluted her teammates’ efforts but admitted that the competition performed to a high standard this past saturday. 

“i think that our team raced well this weekend but that other teams just raced better,” skorcz said. “however, we still have time to practice before [the acc championship] and to pick up more speed with more training.” 
Junior Joanna mulvey also praised the quality of the com­petition at saturday’s regatta. 
“we were lucky to see some very competitive teams at the dale england cup because it gave us an opportunity to see where we will stack up against various other teams throughout the country,” mulvey said. 
The irish finished third overall in their final regatta of the regu­lar season. now they set their sites on may 15 and 16, when they travel to clemson, south carolina, for this year’s acc championship meet. The win­ner of the acc championship earns an automatic bid to the ncaa tournament. 
scorcz described a shift in focus in the team’s training leading up to the postseason, emphasizing a renewed focus on competition and drive. 
“as we prepare for the acc championship, we are prepar­ing to become excellent racers,” she said. “we have already built our fitness through training, and we have been working all spring long on perfecting our stroke. at this point, it is about channeling a competitive attitude and push­ing each other to become men­tally and physically tough.” 
mulvey echoed her team­mate’s sentiments, claiming that the irish had not yet peaked and expected their best perfor­mances of the season in south carolina. 
“after this weekend, the team knows that we have some work to do over the next three weeks in preparation for accs,” she said. “but i think we are really prepared to make the necessary improvements to have our best performance of the year there.” 
The irish have three weeks to improve on their goals prior to the acc championship may 15 and 16 in clemson. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne@nd.edu 

SmC GolF | miaa auTomaTic QualiFier 
saint mary’s finishes fourth to conclude season 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s competed in the final two rounds of the miaa au­tomatic qualifier at The ravines golf club in saugatuck, michigan, on Friday and saturday, finishing fourth with a three-round score of 1,058. 
The belles, who were one of four teams to qualify for the sea­son-ending tournament, posted a score of 348 in Friday’s second round, finishing third on the day, before lowering their score by three strokes in saturday’s final round of action. 
belles head coach Kim moore said she was pleased with her team’s improvement throughout the tournament. 
“i was happy that our team’s scores dropped every round of the three-round event,” moore said. “i felt that everyone gave it their all and that we definitely have some work to do for next year, but i feel with some work 

FOR SALE 
Full size mattress, box spring and frame. desk, desk chair, dresser. Desk 

during the summer, we could definitely improve on our spring finish.” 
in the second round, sopho­more courtney carlson finished with the best score of all belles golfers, carding an 80 on the day. Freshman Kelsey conkright fin­ished with a score of 86 on the day, while senior Janice heffernan posted an 87. Freshman Kaitlyn cartone finished with a score of 95, while junior Katie Zielinski finished with a score of 101. olivet and hope tied for the low team score on the day, each posting a score of 329, while Trine finished last with a team score of 355. 
in the third and final round of the tournament, Zielinski finished with the best score out of all belles golfers, card­ing an 84. carlson shot an 85 on the day, while cartone shot an 86. heffernan shot a 90, and conkright finished out the belles’ day with a 96. 
playing as an individual, fresh­man lydia lorenc finished with a score of 104. 
hope won the automatic bid to the ncaa tournament, finishing in first place with a third-round 319 and a three-round total of 
973. olivet finished in second place, 15 strokes back, while Trine placed third with a three-round 1,040, 18 strokes ahead of saint mary’s. 
as the belles failed to win the tournament, their season is over. moore said her team has things to work on heading into next year. 
“For next season, my team needs to focus on keeping up their competitiveness and never settling for mediocracy,” moore said. “all of the players i have coming back have great talent and skill and can shoot the scores we need to compete. we just need work on our consistency. also, working on course management and short game will be extremely helpful next season.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
lamp, storage bins. $350 for all, nego­tiable. Chris 914-419-718 
“I don’t want another pretty face, I don’t want just anyone to hold. I don’t want my love to go to waste, I want you and your beautiful soul. I know that you are some­thing special, to you I’d be always faithful. I want to be what you always needed. Then I hope you’ll see the heart in me.” 


mEn’S tEnniS | georgia sTaTe 4, nd 0 
Notre Dame upset by Georgia Tech at ACCs 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame’s stay in the acc championships started and ended Thursday, as the irish fell to georgia Tech, 4-0, in the first round in cary, north carolina. 
The 10th-seeded yellow Jackets (14-12, 4-8 acc) earned the doubles point to start the match, winning the nos. 1 and 2 flights over seventh-seeded notre dame (14-11, 6-6). 
irish head coach ryan sachire said his team didn’t perform up to his standards in the match. 
“we didn’t play very well,” sachire said. “give georgia Tech a lot of credit — they played a great match. Their win over us was sandwiched between wins over duke and virginia Tech, so they were clearly playing some good tennis, but we didn’t do what we needed to do to be suc­cessful in the match. we’re clear­ly disappointed in the outcome, but the beautiful thing about our situation now is that we have one more opportunity to make it right.” 


in singles, georgia Tech domi­nated notre dame’s bottom three singles starters, winning in straight sets at the nos. 4, 5 and 6 spots. 
yellow Jackets sophomore cole Fiegel won at no. 5 singles, 
paid adverTisemenT 


defeating irish senior billy pecor, 6-0, 6-3, before senior eduardo segura put georgia Tech on the cusp of a win with a 6-1, 6-3 win over irish junior Kenneth sabacinski at no. 6 singles. 
Freshman michael Kay sealed the deal, defeating notre dame junior alex lawson, 7-5, 6-2, to complete the upset victory. 
georgia Tech came into the match the lower seed, but the yellow Jackets faced notre dame on the heels of an upset against no. 9 duke in their regular-sea­son finale. 
despite notre dame’s decisive 6-1 victory in the first meeting between the two teams, georgia Tech shut down the irish and sent them home from the acc tour­nament without a single match win. Following their victory over the irish, the yellow Jackets up­set second-seeded virginia Tech on Friday before falling to wake Forest in the semifinals. 
“make no mistake, georgia Tech’s a good team,” said sachire. “like i said, they had the capa­bility to beat duke and virginia Tech, so it’s not a surprise that they were good enough, skilled enough and talented enough to beat us. i think the difference in both of our matches with them were some pretty key points ear­ly on in doubles and the first cou­ple of games early on in singles. The first time we played them, we were able to be successful in those key moments, and i think the same thing can be said in re­verse this time around.” 
Following the loss to the yellow Jackets, notre dame will await the announcement of the ncaa tournament field Tuesday evening. 
“we’re focused on our prepa­ration,” said sachire. “we’re not worried about who we play, where we play, when we play, but more making sure we’re the best notre dame tennis team we can be going into the tournament.” 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus@nd.edu 
nd WomEn’S tEnniS | Florida sTaTe 4, nd 3 
Florida state upends irish 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish capped off their regular season with a 4-3 loss against Florida state in the second round of the acc tournament on Thursday in cary, north carolina. 
The tenth-seeded seminoles (16-11, 6-8 acc), 
coming  off  a  first-round  
victory  over  pittsburgh,  
squeaked  out  the  win  

against seventh-seeded notre dame (14-10, 8-6) in a closely-contested match. 
The win gave the seminoles revenge after a loss earlier in the sea­son against notre dame; the irish won the regu­lar-season meeting 4-3 in Tallahassee, Florida, on march 20. 
notre dame took an early lead by winning the doubles point. 
after the notre dame tandem of junior Quinn gleason and sophomore monica robinson cruised to victory over seminoles senior daneika borthwick and junior yukako noi at no. 1 singles by an 8-2 mar­gin, the seminoles knotted up the doubles flights with a win at no. 2 singles, dur­ing which freshmen emily Fanning and gabriella castaneda defeated irish ju­nior Julie vrabel and fresh­man allison miller 8-4. 
The point came down to the no. 3 doubles flight, where sophomores Jane Fennelly and mary closs gave the irish an early lead, defeating Florida state se­niors mia vriens and Kerrie cartwright 8-4. 
Florida state, however, bounced back and quickly took a 3-1 lead with a trio of quick two-set wins in the singles flights; gleason, vrabel and Fennelly all fell at nos. 1, 3 and 6. 
robinson (6-4, 6-3) and closs (7-5, 6-1), however, pulled out straight-set vic­tories of their own at nos. 2 and 4, to bring the match to a 3-3 tie. 
The match came down to a tight match between vriens and miller on court 5, which went to a long third set. ultimately, vriens pulled out the rubber match, and the win, for the seminoles with a 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 victory. 
The seminoles went on to knock out the second-seed­ed miami in the quarter­finals before falling in the semifinals to sixth-seeded georgia Tech. virginia, who was seeded fourth, ulti­mately came away with the crown. 
The irish now turn their focus away from the acc tournament and toward the ncaa title rounds, with re­gionals kicking off may 8. if they make it through the first two rounds, they will earn a spot in the round of 16, which will take place may 14 in waco, Texas. 



The observer | monday, april 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

traCK & FiEld | draKe relays and gina relays 
notre dame finds success at drake 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
with an eye on the acc cham­pionships in two weeks, notre dame athletes split up between the drake relays and gina relays, the former being one of the largest and most competitive events of the outdoor season. 
six relay teams and six indi­viduals represented the irish at the drake relays in des moines, iowa, which attracted tens of thousands of fans over the course of the weekend. between the pro­fessional and collegiate athletes, 10 world-best times for the year were recorded. 
“The atmosphere at the drake relays is great,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “it’s one of the major and premier meets in the country. meets like this certain­ly prepare my athletes for the pressures and competition of the acc, regional and national championships.” 
several of the notre dame relay teams had success in iowa, with the women’s 4×200-meter relay of senior Jade barber, senior Kaila barber, freshman parker english and junior margaret bamgbose finished first in 1:34.82, the fifth best time nationally this season. 
“it was a thrill for [them] to take a victory lap and conduct a post race interview on center stage,” Turner said. 
english and bamgbose also competed in the 4×400-meter re­lay alongside senior amber lalla and freshman Jordan shead, where the team finished third. 
despite their success in the other two relays, a botched ex­change between english and bamgbose on the final leg of the 4×100-meter relay caused it to be disqualified after sitting second. 
Just as on the women’s side, the men’s 4×200-meter relay team ran well, finishing fourth. 
Jade barber, who currently has the fourth-best time in the coun­try in the 100-meter hurdles, competed individually, finish­ing fourth in that event. while in second place, she hit a hurdle as she attempted to overtake the eventual winner, michigan ju­nior cindy ofili, setting her back by a split second. 

“There’s very little that sepa­rates the top eight girls in the country,” Turner said. “had she not [hit the hurdle], i think she would have won or been very close.” 
The athletes in field events struggled somewhat, with the top performer, senior emily morris, finishing ninth. 
“it was a rough weekend for field events,” Turner said. “The weather the entire weekend was either raining or very cold … but even still i was expecting a little higher in the standings for those individuals. 
“They’ll get it together though; all these athletes are going to be big point-scorers for us in the acc meet coming up here in a few weeks.” 
The irish also sent 24 athletes to the gina relays in hillsdale, michigan. 
“The goal for the hillsdale meet was to get some of our non-first­stringers to compete,” Turner said. “it was a good opportunity for them to get some good races in and improve on their times.” 
Junior mikaila chamblee did just that, winning the 400-meter hurdles in 1:03.51. 
in the same event on the men’s side, irish runners junior aaron dunn and junior ben harvel took second and third, respectively. both ran season-best times that are currently top-20 in the acc, and Turner said he hopes they can perform even better to lock in qualifying spots. 
The irish will return to the track next weekend when they travel to columbus, ohio, for the Jesse owens Track classic. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
nd WomEn’S laCroSSE | norTh carolina 18, nd 4 
Tar Heels rout Irish in ACC semifinal 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
in the acc semifinals Friday, no. 14 notre dame did not come close to unseat­ing no. 2 north carolina in its bid for the acc title, fall­ing 18-4 at Klockner stadium in charlottesville, virginia. 
The irish (10-8, 3-4 acc) were seeded fifth in the acc tournament and pulled off a 7-6 upset of fourth-seed­ed virginia on Thursday, the second time this month notre dame took down the cavaliers on their home turf. 
They were unable to repli­cate their Klockner stadium success against the top-seeded Tar heels, however, as north carolina (15-3, 6-1) never looked back after a 9-0 run in the first half. 
“i think they had a similar game plan to us,” irish head coach christine halfpenny said. “it was a game of runs and momentum, which they dominated. it was disap­pointing that we couldn’t recover.” 
Two goals by junior attack rachel sexton and one by junior midfielder stephanie Toy were all the irish could manage in the first half, and freshman attack abi cullinan tacked one on in the game’s final minute to make the final score 18-4. 
sophomore attack cortney Fortunato, by far the team’s leading scorer in the regu­lar season, had no points for the second game in a row. The absence of injured sophomore midfielder casey pearsall also hurt the team’s offense. 
The margin of defeat tied for the largest notre dame suffered in the regular sea­son, with the 14-point dif­ferential matching that of a 17-3 loss to duke on march 1. The irish had no double-digit losses since then until Friday’s matchup. 

“losing by 14 is not some­thing that our program is accustomed to. it’s not something that we plan for,” halfpenny said. “it’s not something that we’re go­ing to accept. it happened, but we’re going to move for­ward, and we have to focus on the two areas of game that were not there: low shooting percentage and the motion offense.” 
The most lopsided sta­tistic of the day was shoot­ing accuracy; the irish were 4-of-20 while the Tar heels went 18-of-26. 
north carolina sopho­more goalkeeper caylee waters recorded 13 saves. notre dame sophomore liz o’sullivan had one before being relieved by sopho­more Jennifer blum, who had three. 
halfpenny said the team’s shooting failures were the result of minimal offensive movement. 
“our focus is going to be on getting back to mov­ing off ball the way that we were at points this season,” halfpenny said. “i think we got caught in holding space too much in game after game after game where we saw zone defenses. coming up against carolina, a team that plays outstanding high-pressure 1-v-1 defense but can also play a disciplined shell, you’ve got to move.” 
Though they struggled to find the back of the net, the irish had just six fewer shots than north carolina, which halfpenny said she saw as a good sign. 
“The huge positive is that we still did generate 20 shots on an off day, but the downside is there were just 
paid adverTisemenT 
too many low-percentage shots,” halfpenny said. “we have to get back to do­ing what we do, and i have no doubt in my mind that our team will be better next time out. The beauty is that we were still taking shots — earlier in the season when we were down, we stopped shooting. we’re going to keep on attacking our im­provement there.” 
outside of scoring suc­cess, the stat sheet did not reflect north carolina’s rout of notre dame. The irish committed just one extra turnover, tied the Tar heels in draw controls and picked up five more ground balls than north carolina did. 
north carolina, who beat virginia Tech in the quar­terfinals before taking down notre dame, played sixth-seeded syracuse on sunday in the acc champi­onship and lost 9-8 in dou­ble overtime. 
The irish now look toward the ncaa tournament, which begins may 8. 
“[we’re focused on] com­ing back here and recover­ing from what was a huge push in the month of april,” halfpenny said. “we had lots of games and obviously important games that add a lot of magnitude to our re­sume to bring forth to the ncaa committee. 
“we get to focus on our­selves for an entire week, which is a luxury not a lot of teams have going into the nca as.” 
notre dame expects to have a berth in the ncaa tournament, and will find out its seeding in the selec­tion show next sunday at 9 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 





Bookstore 
conTinued From page 16 
baskets for his team, to give Finnigan’s the lead once more. 
after each team traded sev­eral baskets, Finnigan’s was able to pull away and take a 19­17 lead. as the end of the game neared, both teams increased their defensive efforts and scor­ing momentarily stalled during the game. during this time, the teams missed a combined five free throws and committed sev­eral turnovers. 
however, Finnigan’s was able to finish the game strongly, as junior brian spahn scored the game’s final basket — one of his six points — to bring his team to a 21-17 victory. 
seniors senior captain Zoe bauer said it was that stretch in the second half that swung the momentum of the game into Finnigan’s favor. 
“in the second half, they went on a little run and went up two,” bauer said. “That got the crowd into it [for them], and they just kept their foot on the gas pedal. [i give] a lot of credit to them. They moved the ball around very well, their defense was very good, and they wanted it pretty bad tonight.” 
spahn said he believed it was the defense his team played throughout the game that ultimately made their late-game run possible. 

“we just kept the defense up the whole game and never stopped defending them,” spahn said. “They got two guards that are tough to stop. but we strapped in and locked them down, and that was the difference.” 
The seniors were unable to end their careers undefeated in bookstore basketball, which dis­appointed the team, bauer said. 
“This is our fourth year in a row being here,” bauer said. “it’s a lot of fun and a good atmo­sphere, but we’ve played close to 50 games in our four years and this is the first one we’ve lost. it kind of stinks graduating as a loser.” 
For Finnigan’s, however, spahn said that this was their best chance to come away with a championship and the team was happy to be able to come out on top. 
“it’s incredible,” spahn said. “This was the year for us because we were the [no. 2 seed]. can’t wait to tell the grandkids.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
Semifinals: no. 1 Holy Cross Seniors 21, no. 4 the drones 17 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
despite a spirited performance from The drones, the three-time defending champion holy cross seniors headed back to the finals once more, defeating the fourth seed Friday, 21-17. 
The seniors received an of­fensive outburst from senior alajuwon edwards, who poured in 11 of the team’s 21 points. 
“i just wanted to be aggres­sive and try to put points on the board, and my team trusts me, so i put the ball through the hoop,” edwards said. 
The seniors also received several big buckets from senior captain Zoe bauer, who gave the team a jolt whenever it fell flat. right before half time, he caught fire from deep and hit three long shots in a few min­utes to send the seniors into the halftime break up 11-7. he also iced the game with a long shot from 3-point range just as The drones were starting to gain a bit of momentum. 
The game shifted dramatically early in the first half after an in­jury forced on of The drones’ players from the game. after a brief medical stoppage, it was declared the player would not be able to continue, and, in the in­terest of fairness, the seniors de­cided to remove a man from the court to play four-on-four. 
“when we went four-on-four, we really tried to attack the paint more, because there’s one less defender, and they can’t crowd the paint,” edwards said. 
edwards in particular took ad­vantage of the less crowded court, as he cut to the basket again and again. however, his shot was fallin,g too, and he made many midrange jumpers that hurt The drones. 
defensively, the seniors start­ed out in a zone but moved to a man-to-man defense when The drones started hitting perimeter shots. 
“we wanted to start off in the zone and then eventually go man, but we really just wanted to pres­sure the ball and get stops and get out in transition,” edwards said. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at  skilmer@nd.edu 
Semifinals: no. 2 Finnigan’s 26, no. 3 Boil a Cardinal Sagehen into an irish Cavalier 24 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
For a while, it seemed like the semifinal between Finnigan’s and boil a cardinal sagehen into an irish cavalier would not end. 
after Finnigan’s started the game by building a 10-3 lead, cardinal sagehen scored seven straight, tying the game up before Finnigan’s pulled back ahead at halftime, 11-10. 
much of the second half was back-and-forth, but cardinal sagehen had several chances to win the game toward the end. Finnigan’s relied on its defense to get stops, and the game reached a 21-21 tie, forcing extra action. 
“we’re big defensively,” Finnigan’s sophomore connor colpoys said. “[cardinal sagehen is] really good on offense. They share the ball really well. we made a couple of adjustments with the ball screens, and they missed some shots, so that helped us down the stretch. it was just a war. we just tried to climb back in possession by possession and get stops.” 
after the game was extended, cardinal sagehen had a few more chances to win the game but could not convert. 
Finnigan’s finally won the game, 26-24, on a free throw. 
Finnigan’s had a decisive height advantage and focused on feeding its frontcourt en route to the win. 
“[our size] helps a lot out here especially,” colpoys said. “it’s tough outside when a little bit of wind can throw your jumper off. The height helps both on defense because we can get up and pres­sure and on offense because we can feed down low and get dou­bles, which opens us up for driv­ing lanes and jump shots.” 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus@nd.edu 



m lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
just seven of 24 faceoffs and were outshot 26-10 during duke’s run in the second and third quarters. 
guterding, who is duke’s team leader in goals, scored a hat trick to contribute to the blue devils’ victory. on the defensive side, sophomore goalie danny Fowler con­tained notre dame’s offense to just two goals through three quarters. 
despite the 10-goal deficit, the irish made a last-quarter push in an effort orchestrate an impressive comeback. 
in a seven-minute stretch, notre dame scored six con­secutive goals, trimming duke’s lead from 12-2 to 12-8 with 4:14 to play. sophomore midfielder sergio perkovic tallied a pair of goals in the run, while senior midfielders Jack near, will corrigan and nick ossello and junior at­tack matt Kavanagh also con­tributed in the goalscoring department during the rally. 

however, that was all notre dame would manage, as guterding completed his hat trick with 1:28 left to end any hopes of a second straight comeback victory for the irish. 
duke ultimately lost 15-14 to no. 4 syracuse in the acc tournament championship game. 
The irish will conclude their regular season may 2 when they travel to west point, new york, to face army prior to the ncaa tournament. 

Softball 
conTinued From page 16 
“i’m just really proud of the way we hit,” gumpf said. “we hit, hit, hit. Thank god we did because this is one of those days when your pitcher gives up five, you find a way to get six. when your pitcher gives up six, you find a way to get seven. That’s what we didn’t do in the first game.” 
Junior first baseman micaela arizmendi notched a pair of hits and three rbis in the game, while wester notched three hits and two rbis as the irish dominated the offen­sive production in the second game. 
nasland started the second game and allowed five runs in just 1 2/3 innings of work, forc­ing gumpf to make a change, bringing in rhodes. 

The junior allowed four earned runs over the remain­ing 3 1/3 innings, finishing the day with just five runs surren­dered in 8 1/3 innings of work. 
“i think allie [rhodes] gave everything she had today,” gumpf said. “she was just running out of gas towards the end of that second game, but i am super proud of the way she performed. They hit the ball hard on her, but she always found a way to get herself out of it. i think she was definitely the leader on the mound.” 
notre dame will return to action Tuesday when it plays michigan state at 4 p.m. in east lansing, michigan, in the last game of the regular season. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmaurek@nd.edu 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
wake Forest broke the dead­lock one inning later, when sophomore second baseman nate mondou hit a single to right field to score freshman shortstop drew Freedman. The demon deacons added an insurance run later in the seventh on a fielder’s choice by freshman third baseman Justin yurchak. 
The irish managed just five hits saturday, with two of them coming against demon deacons sophomore starter connor Johnstone. notre dame freshman right-hander brandon bielak gave up nine hits and two runs in 5 1/3 in­nings in the matchup. 
notre dame won Friday’s opener after jumping out to an early 5-0 lead against wake Forest senior right-hander matt pirro. biggio got the scoring started with a home run to right-center field in the first frame. The irish also took advantage of early mistakes by pirro, with lidge scoring on a wild pitch in the second inning and senior right field­er robert youngdahl scoring on a wild pitch in the fourth. youngdahl, who finished the game with four hits, added an rbi double in the fifth inning. 
in addition to biggio’s home run, the irish add­ed two other four-baggers Friday night. Junior shortstop lane richards homered to left-center field in the eight inning, and Fiala added a solo shot to left in the ninth, one of three runs the irish scored that inning. 



Kerrigan earned the win for notre dame after pitch­ing 3 2/3 innings in relief. The irish starter, sophomore 
paid adverTisemenT 
right-hander ryan smoyer, surrendered four hits and one run in 3 2/3 innings pitched. 
notre dame will return to action Tuesday night, when the irish host michigan state at Frank eck stadium. 



CroSSWord | will shorTZ 


HiGHly punliKEly | chrisTopher brucKer 
SudoKu | The mepham group 

domE nutS | alexandria wellman 

HoroSCopE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: carefully assess every move you want to make this year. it will be easy to get caught up in situations that can end up costing you more than you anticipate. being conservative doesn’t necessarily mean being boring. avoid impulsiveness, stick to your budget and set goals without giving in to temptation or pressure. choose stability over extravagance. your numbers are 5, 7, 22, 31, 35, 43, 49. 
Birthday Baby: you are precise, practical and intelligent. you are family-oriented and conservative. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): engage in activities that offer adventure. challenge yourself to do better. don’t let critical individuals bring you down or hold you back. believe in your abilities, negotiate on your own behalf and make your dreams come true. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): problems at home will escalate if someone has spent too much money or behaved selfishly. Try not to let your emotions take over. staying calm and looking for workable solutions will bring the best results. use brains over brawn. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): love is on the rise, and romance will help your personal life flourish. socializing and sharing your ideas will lead to a positive lifestyle change. don’t pass up an opportunity someone offers. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): living in the past will not propel you forward. reminiscing may take your mind off something you are avoiding, but eventually you will have to deal with the changes you are facing. put problems behind you instead of running away from them. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will face temptation. it’s good to take action, but don’t overdo it, or you’ll face criticism and setbacks. Focus on what you do best, and you will secure your position instead of jeopardizing your chances to get ahead. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Find out all you can about the people who can influence your life, position or future. a problem with someone close to you will limit your ability to do what you like. preparation and organization will be required to avoid disappointment. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): step things up a notch. it’s up to you to exhibit your beliefs, ideas and plans to bring about change. your dedication, loyalty and intelligence will help you overcome any negativity or opposition you face. love is highlighted. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): emotional situations will escalate rapidly, leaving you in a precarious position. don’t try to cover up for a mistake someone else has made. stick to the truth and offer suggestions that are clear-cut and doable. stay calm -- anger will get you nowhere. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel, learning and engaging in interesting pastimes will lead to positive lifestyle changes. don’t be fooled by a slick sales pitch. do your research, and you will get the most for the least. love is on the rise. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): share your ideas with those who will be affected by your plans. a change will frighten someone who is comfortable with things the way they are. use all the information you have gathered, and you will get your way. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a situation between yourself and a friend, relative or lover will spin out of control. don’t get angry or overreact. give yourself some time to rethink your strategy. Focus on personal pampering, not criticizing or trying to change others.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): pick up the knowledge, experience and skills required to get ahead. embellishing what you have to offer will lead to disappointment. be honest about your capabilities and your willingness to learn, and you will be given greater consideration. 


JumBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | monday, april 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd SoFtBall | nd 7, norTh carolina 3; nd 17, nc 9 
BooKStorE BaSKEtBall | Finnigan’s 21, holy cross seniors 17 
Finnigan’s knocks off  
unc ends irish 
Holy Cross Seniors in final 
win streak in split 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
Finnigan’s defeated the three-time defending champion, holy cross seniors, 21-17 last night in the two-hour, marathon cham­pionship game of the bookstore basketball tournament. 
The game went back-and­forth throughout, especially in the first half, as the teams matched each other point-for­point throughout the contest. in fact, the largest lead of the game did not come until its conclusion. 
in the first half, junior patrick mazza led Finnigan’s in scor­ing with four points, includ­ing three from from foul shots. The seniors were led by senior darrell mcintyre, who scored five points in the first half and finished with a game-high eight points. Finnigan’s entered half­time leading the seniors 11-10. 
The first half set the tone of the game, as several hard fouls led to players from both teams becoming chippy throughout the rest of the game. at one point, as both teams fought for 


By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame’s 24-game win streak came to an end sunday, when the irish split a double­header with north carolina, losing 7-3 in eight innings be­fore notching a 17-9, run-rule win in the second game. 
irish head coach deanna gumpf said the difference be­tween the two matchups was how well the irish (39-12, 17-6 acc) closed out the game. 
“i’m not satisfied with the things that we could have done better,” gumpf said. “i’m super proud of the way we performed in the second game. i feel in the first game, we let a lot of ways to finish the game go. so we didn’t finish it.” 
in the first game, the irish scored early by tallying two runs in the second inning to take a 2-1 lead before stretching 
possession of the ball, senior the first basket of the half to 
that lead in the bottom of the alajuwon edwards was brought immediately tie the game at 
sixth, when senior third base-to the ground, forcing the refer-11-11. mazza then answered for 
man Katey haus hit an rbi sin­ees to break up the two teams. Finnigan’s, scoring two straight 
gle to drive home sophomore in the second half, seniors 
left fielder Karley wester. senior Tommy waytula scored see booKsTore paGE 13 
but north carolina (35-13, 16-5) scored twice in the top of the seventh inning to send the game to extra innings. 
The difference came in the top of the eighth inning, when Tar heel freshman second baseman Taylor wike hit a grand slam off irish sophomore rachel nasland to give north carolina the win. 
Junior allie rhodes started in the circle for notre dame, giving up just one run on eight hits. Freshman Katie beriont relieved her in the sixth inning and gave up two runs in 1 2/3 innings of work before sopho­more rachel nasland entered the game with two outs in the seventh. 
nasland surrendered the grand slam, taking the loss to fall to 16-7. 
in the second game, the irish bats came alive right from the start, as notre dame scored 10 runs in the first inning and never looked back. senior out­fielder emilee Koerner led the irish at the plate, tallying seven rbis on four hits. 
see soFTball paGE 14 

BaSEBall | nd 9, waKe ForesT 5; nd 4, wF 2; nd 5, wF 4 (11) 
nd drops series at wake Forest 
Observer Staff Report 
in a series that went down to the wire, notre dame came up on the losing end, dropping two of three games to wake Forest at wake Forest baseball park in winston-salem, north carolina, over the weekend. 
The irish (28-15, 12-12 acc) won 9-5 in Friday’s opener but lost 4-2 to the demon deacons (25-20, 11-13) on saturday and fell 5-4 in 11 innings sunday afternoon. 
notre dame played into ex­tra innings for the fifth time this season sunday. The irish surrendered four runs over the first three innings in the rub­ber game, as junior right-hander nick mccarty was tagged for six hits and allowed all four runs in just 2 1/3 innings pitched. The irish added runs in the second, third and fifth innings to keep within striking distance and then tied the game in the sixth when junior first baseman Zak Kutsulis lined a double down the left field line to score sophomore catcher ryan lidge. 
The notre dame trio of freshman right-hander brad bass, senior right-hander scott Kerrigan and sophomore left-hander scott Tully kept the demon deacons scoreless over the course of seven innings, but wake Forest finally broke through against Tully in the 11th inning. with freshman cen­ter fielder stuart Fairchild on second base, demon deacons redshirt freshman catcher nick bisplinghoff hit a line drive to left-center field that landed just out of the reach of irish junior center fielder Kyle richardson, allowing Fairchild to rush home for the winning run. 

Trailing 1-0 in the third inning of saturday’s game, notre dame tied the game on an rbi single by sophomore third baseman Kyle Fiala and then took the lead when the next batter, sophomore second baseman cavan biggio, grounded into a fielder’s choice. The irish held that lead until the sixth inning when demon deacons sophomore designated hitter will craig hit a home run to right field. 
see baseball paGE 14 

mEn’S laCroSSE | duKe 13, nd 8 
Matheis leads Duke upset of No. 1 Notre Dame 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 1 notre dame suf­fered just its second loss of the season Friday in the acc tournament, falling 13-8 to no. 6 duke in a semifi­nal contest at ppl park in chester, pennsylvania. 
neither team was able to find the back of the net dur­ing the first quarter, but the fourth-seeded blue devils (11-5, 1-3) unleashed a scor­ing barrage in the second and third quarters, going on a 10-1 run to take a com­manding lead. 
in their regular-season matchup earlier this month, the irish (9-2, 4-0) beat the blue devils in durham, north carolina, 15-10. in that contest, four different notre dame players scored hat tricks, and sophomore goaltender shane doss re­corded 17 saves. on the oth­er hand, duke’s top three scorers, junior midfielders deemer class and myles Jones and freshman attack Justin guterding, were held to just four goals total. 


but Friday, the script was flipped, and notre dame was on the receiving end of anoffensive thrashing. Junior attack case matheis was the catalyst for duke’s offensive output. he scored his first of four goals to break the stalemate 51 seconds into the second pe­riod on an unassisted effort, and scored again two min­utes later to lengthen duke’s lead. 
notre dame found it hard to get offensive momentum brewing, as the irish won 
see m lacrosse paGE 14 






