The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 35 |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students reflect on withdrawal experience 
Undergraduates facing issues with mental health have option to return to campus after leave of absence 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the fifth installment of a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame in recognition of Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
“The reason i was going home, was so that i could come back.” 
For students like senior maggie skoch, the university’s voluntary withdrawal process can allow them the opportu­nity to put school temporar­ily on hold while they work to become healthy enough to re­turn to campus. 
while students may with­draw for a number of reasons 
— including financial and academic — dr. erica Kelsey, a care consultant in the division of student affairs, said mental health is the “most common reason” a student chooses to take a voluntary withdrawal. 
“in high school i was di­agnosed with [obsessive compulsive disorder] and [generalized anxiety disor­der], and i managed those well until my second year of college when i started having anxiety attacks, which were something that i hadn’t 
see wiThdrawal PaGe 7 




TEDx speaker relates struggles 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
after almost taking his own life at 17, Kevin breel turned to stand-up comedy and writing to spread aware­ness for mental health issues. 
“i was 17 years old and i reached a real rock bottom point. ... The past few years of my life hadn’t really felt like a life — it felt like a lie,” breel said in a talk Thursday night in debartolo hall. “i knew i needed help but i had no idea what help would look like because we just didn’t have conversations like this.” 
breel, who spoke as part of irish state of mind week, is now 21, and a canadian 
see Tedx PaGe 6 


smc holds dance for navy 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 

saturday night after the lights go out in the stadium, 291 saint mary’s students and 150 students from the united states naval academy will gather in the angela athletic Facility for the navy social, sponsored by the student government association (sga), residence hall association, student activities board and the class of 2017 board. 
Junior emma mccarthy, an sga mission co-chair, said the event celebrates the heritage between the navy and the sisters of the holy cross. 
“during the civil war, there was a need for nurses to cater to the sick and in­jured on both sides and the sisters of the holy cross responded to this call and became the first naval nurses,” mccarthy said. 
“This established a spe­cial relationship between our two schools and is why the social has continued to occur.” 
The event was called navy ball when it was last held in 2013, but has since been changed to navy social be­cause the event will not be held in a formal facility that would denote the need for participants to dress in 
see social PaGe 7 

fOOtball friday feature 

Pilots to entertain fans with pregame flyover 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
This weekend, the midship­men of the u.s. naval academy will travel to notre dame for the 89th meeting of the notre dame and navy football pro­grams, and the game will begin with a rare flyover. 
The theme for this football weekend is military apprecia­tion, director of operations and assistant professor of naval science major regan Jones said. he said the theme is es­pecially significant given the storied relationship between the naval academy and notre dame. 
“in the ‘40s ... world war ii kicked off and all the fighting-age men — at the time notre dame was an all-male institu­tion — went to war,” Jones said. “notre dame was really in a financial crisis and one of the things that saved the university was the fact that the u.s. navy ... set up an officer training pro­gram at notre dame, ... where thousands of young men were trained and commissioned as officers in the navy. 
see Flyover PaGe 6 


Observer File Photo 

Navy pilots fly over Notre Dame Stadium in 2013 in commemoration of the historic relationship between the Irish and the Midshipmen. This exhibition will recur this Saturday before the 89th meeting of the two teams. 

news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 9 scene PaGe 11 irish insider wiThin 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

Which professor has the best attitude? 

Bridget McClain 
freshman lyons hall 

“professor brown, chemistry.” 
Ryan Markovitz 
junior sorin college 

“professor ackermann, Finance.” 
Therese Messina 
freshman pasquerilla west hall 
“professor collett, sociology.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Anna Poteraj 
senior 
howard hall 
“professor mcKenna, anthropology and Tap dance.” 
Maureen Tracey 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“professor payne, psychology.” 
David Cholak 
senior 
sorin college 
“professor Faeges, sociology.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

matthew mcKenna ryan Klaus martha reilly Zach Klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

A “Divine Comedy” Hindustani Concert Women’s Soccer vs. Exponential-Family Lecture
sarah drumm Tabitha ricketts 
Flashmob Hesburgh Library Boston College Graph Models Hesburgh Center for campus-wide 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Alumni Stadium Hayes-Healy Center International Studies 2 p.m.-5 p.m. A blend of Indian 1 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m.
Corrections 

A lecture will follow the and Western violin The Irish take on the Lecture hosted by the “Vulnerability over 
The observer regards itself as performance. techniques. Eagles. Department of ACMS. Violence.” a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Notre Dame Football Football vs. Navy Softball Exhibition Violence Awareness Prayer Service 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Pep Rally Notre Dame Stadium Melissa Cook Stadium Month Presentation LaFortune Student
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center 3:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-4:15 p.m. Hesburgh Library Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. The Irish take on the The Irish take on 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 8:30-9:30 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
A home game Midshipmen in a rivalry Loyola and Butler in a Lecture by founder of Pray for those
we can correct our error. 

weekend tradition. game. fall exhibition. Catharsis Productions. affected by violence. 


smc club spreads awareness of blindness globally 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
on Thursday, saint mary’s participated in a global event known as world sight day. The saint mary’s Toms club, under the leadership of club president emerald blankenship, hosted the event. 
“The whole premise of world sight day is to raise awareness of global blindness and to get people involved, to make peo­ple aware of what they can do to contribute to the solution,” blankenship said. 
To promote world sight day, the Toms club set up a table in the student center atrium with information on blindness in different parts of the world and what students can do to help. The club also let students try on goggles that simulated what it’s like to have cataracts, blankenship said. 
“cataracts [are] the lead­ing cause of blindness glob­ally and [they] can actually be fixed with a 15-minute surgery,” blankenship said. “so you see, it’s just getting people to be aware. people who have sight don’t realize what it’s like for people who don’t.” 
students shared their pictures from world sight day under the hashtag “#givesight” and were also invited to wear sunglasses throughout the day to spread the word about the event, she said. 
“it’s a conversation piece,” blankenship said. “people ask, ‘why are you wearing your sunglasses at 7 p.m. in the eve­ning?’ you can reply ‘well you see, there’s this really cool thing called world sight day … ’ 
"it’s a way to initiate conversa­tion,” she said. 
This is the second academic year for the Toms club as a rec­ognized club on campus, and their second world sight day. The Toms club has a direct con­nection to the Toms company, blankenship said. 
“The Toms mission is one-for-one,” blankenship said. “originally they started out as 'buy a pair of shoes, give a pair to a child in need in a developing country.' They then expanded that to eyewear, so when you buy a pair of Toms sunglasses someone in a developing coun­try will receive perspective glasses, corrective surgery or medical treatment in general for their vision.” 
since then, Toms has also expanded to selling coffee, which provides clean drinking water and has added a bag line which provides safe birthing kits to women, blankenship said. however, world sight day is not necessarily about promoting the Toms company, she said. 
“world sight day is a global movement through the Toms community,” blankenship said. “it is a day to raise awareness and make people more socially aware of the things they can do to make a difference." 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

Game Day program promotes recycling at tailgates 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
This saturday, as fans crowd the parking lots surround­ing legends and notre dame stadium for tailgates, they may encounter some environmentally conscious companions. 
immediately before the home game against navy, dozens of students will be walking through the parking lots, distributing blue recycling bags and answering questions about recycling as part of the office of sustainability’s game day recycling program. 
linda Kurtos, notre dame di­rector of sustainability, said the practice started in 2008. 
“at the time, there were no good opportunities to collect all of the recyclable material that was being generated by fans dur­ing tailgating, so all of it was going to the landfill,” Kurtos said. “The office [of sustainability] initiated the program to make recycling at home football games possible and convenient for our fans and visitors.” 
according to Kurtos, the game day recycling program involves a lot of logistical planning, starting before the football season begins. 
“To make as many recycling bags available to our fans and vis­itors, we also have recycling bag dispensers secured to light posts throughout the Joyce, legends and library parking lots,” she said. “The dispensers are re­furbished newspaper vending boxes that hold additional blue recycling bags that visitors can use as needed. prior to the start of the football season, we have each of the bag dispensers cleaned and distributed throughout the tail­gating parking areas where they will stay for the entire football season.” 
Kurtos said the sustainability efforts themselves start the day before the game, during football Friday events. 
For the past two years, Kurtos said, senior max ducey has worked as the program’s intern, in charge of recruiting and man­aging volunteers. volunteers are students from university-authorized groups or clubs, which are compensated by the office of sustainability for the total num­ber of hours that members work during the game. 
“max and other interns and staff go around the parking lots to check to make sure that all of the bag dispensers in the parking lots are fully stocked with recycling bags,” Kurtos said. “They also put up lawn signs around the sta­dium to help provide additional information about recycling.” 
Kurtos said the game day recycling team will start early on saturday. max ducey will meet with student volunteers and as­sign them to certain areas on campus, particularly focusing on tailgate-heavy parking areas and white Field. 
“each student group is asked to provide four students from 10 
a.m. to noon,” Kurtos said. “on night games, we usually add an additional shift of student vol­unteers from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. to make sure we get bags to some of the later arriving fans. 
"The student volunteers are not involved in any pre-, dur­ing or post-game clean up. The university hires an outside group to do the actual clean up. instead, the student volunteers focus on increasing recycling activities during pre-game activities. The volunteers walk around the tail­gating areas and pass out recy­cling bags and information on what can be recycled on campus. max and the office staff spend the morning making sure that all of the tailgating areas are adequate­ly staffed and getting the bags that they need.” 
senior charlie ducey has volunteered in the game day recycling program on behalf of the creative writing club mustard. 
(Editor's note: Charlie Ducey is a Viewpoint columnist for The Observer.) 
“game day recycling is actu­ally one of my favorite things to do on game day,” charlie ducey said. “i get to tour the whole range of tailgates for two hours, hand­ing out bags and riding on a golf cart. so long as it isn't raining, it's an exceptionally pleasant experience. 
“volunteering with game day recycling helps me to get a feel for the amount of material that gets used during game day while also curbing the amount that goes to waste. Though helping the en­vironment is a reward in itself, volunteering also raises funds for my club or student organization of choice.” 
Kurtos also said the program has added a new practice to ex­pand sustainability efforts. 
“in a partnership with ndsp, athletics and the office of sustainability, we now hire addi­tional temporary parking lot staff to hand out recycling bags and trash bags to each car as it enters the Joyce lots and other busy tail­gating areas," she said. "This new practice helps ensure that we are able to get bags to even more fans and visitors as soon as they arrive on campus. in an effort to help keep the campus looking good, this is also the first year that we are passing out trash bags in ad­dition to recycling bags. each guest gets two recycling bags and one trash bag as they enter the parking area.” 
according to Kurtos, volun­teers last season distributed about 3,000 blue recycling bags per game and 6,000 for the night home game, for a total of approxi­mately 21,000 bags distributed during the entire season. 
with this year’s distribution of recycling bags and trash bags to incoming cars, Kurtos says the game day recycling team is dis­tributing more bags than ever, with more than 35 tons of recy­cling already collected during the first two home games of the season. 
“we are very proud of the pro­gram,” Kurtos said. “not only has it increased recycling on campus and diverted more material from landfills, it has helped keep notre dame clean and beautiful during football games.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 



The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Festival aims to encourage dialogue on abortion 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
For the right to life club, the most important thing is conversation. 
emily burns, the vice pres­ident of events for the club, said the club focuses on pro­moting an open dialogue about abortion and other pro-life issues. burns said the club attempts to promote this dialogue through events like lifeFest, a festival that will be held oct. 9 on south Quad and include balloons, inflatables, lawn games, a photo booth and free frozen yogurt. 
burns said lifeFest, which is open to both notre dame students and the surround­ing south bend community, is simply a way to include everyone in the pro-life movement. 
“[lifeFest] is for anyone who wants to celebrate life. we use events like this to show that our message is really not something that should be a polarizing thing, a political thing or a reli­gious thing. it’s very much just about the idea that life is something to be celebrated and we want everyone to be able to participate in that,” burns said. “we hope to reach out to everyone here, no matter what their views are. we just try to encourage conversation and education. but, for those people who are pro-life, we help them un­derstand, explain and defend [their views].” 
burns also said the festi­val is a way to celebrate the end of respect life week. in addition to lifeFest, respect life week contains numer­ous different events, such as on-campus speakers, prayer masses and displays of support for the pro-life movement. 
burns said the club holds respect life week during the month of october because it is national respect life month. 
“[Throughout respect life week] we want to bring out the elements of our move­ment that everyone can agree with," burns said. "i think with any cause or or­ganization there is always an underlying basis that most people agree with. we are trying to show that the ba­sis of our organization is to show love, and that overall that is a good thing for every­one to strive for.” 
according to Janelle wanzek, the president of the right to life club, lifeFest is a way for the club to promote the numerous service op­portunities that the club has throughout the year. 
“we are not just focused on saying ‘anti-abortion,’ we are focused on providing ser­vice opportunities and ways for students to act on their pro-life views," wanzek said. "we want to promote these opportunities to the entire student body and show them that there are many different ways that they can put their pro-life views into action.” 
according to burns, the club provides numerous ser­vice opportunities that aren’t directly connected to the club’s anti-abortion work. 
“we work with a vari­ety of groups that just fo­cus on defending human dignity,"burns said. "For ex­ample, we work with hannah and Friends which is an orga­nization for adults and chil­dren that have special needs. people don’t think of that as something that is a contro­versial pro-life issue, but it is about how these people have dignity.” 
burns said that these com­munity partners are what sparked this year's respect life week theme, “love them both.” This theme refers to loving both the mother and the baby, and is directly con­nected to a pro-adoption, pro-life view, burns said. 
“we were approached by someone at the begin­ning of the year who works for holy Family adoption agency in south bend, and they brought up the idea of bringing these speakers [on adoption to campus]. we re­ally liked that idea, and so we built the whole week around these speakers,” burns said. 
burns said the selection of this topic was just another way for the club to reach out to and include many differ­ent people who may hold varying views. 
“we wanted to pick a topic that would draw people in. most people can agree that [loving them both] is a good goal. maybe people have dif­ferent ideas on how to achieve that goal, but that goal is something that everyone will agree with. we tried to pick a theme that wasn’t going to drive anyone away,” burns said. “overall, we wanted to get people thinking, and wondering and maybe even drive away some of the stig­ma or misconceptions about the pro-life movement." 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Folk choir to raise funds for holy cross missions 
By MADDY DEL MEDICO 
news writer 
The talent and range of the notre dame Folk choir will be on full display Friday evening at its annual char­ity event, the concert for the missions. 
The concert for the missions is an annual con­cert held in order to raise money for holy cross missions, a foreign mis­sion established by the congregation of holy cross. Folk choir president ellyn milan, a senior at saint mary's, said it is the premier fall event for the choir. 
“it’s a way for people to engage in prayer and song in a unique way with a unique focus,” Folk choir senior secretary marisa Thompson said. 
according to the congregation of holy cross’s website, the congregation began sending missionaries to international locations as early as 1840, just three years after its founding. as of now, holy cross has missions in several inter­national locations, includ­ing chile, east africa, peru, mexico and bangladesh. 
milan said she esti­mates that over the years the concert has raised more than $100,000 for the missions. Though she said she could not predict how much money the choir will earn this year, milan said she is optimistic the funds will provide significant aid to the missions. 

The money collected from the concert will be used by holy cross missions to help needy children on three dif­ferent continents. 
milan said this event, which has been a part of the Folk choir's schedule for more than 22 years, began as a result of the choir’s de­sire to promote its goals of giving and outreach. 
The choir also has a spe­cial connection with the missions, milan said, as choir director steve warner holds personal relation­ships with many holy cross priests who have dedicated their lives to the mission’s effort overseas. 
she said the music played at the concert each year var­ies according to the con­cert’s theme. This year, the choir drew inspiration from the visit of pope Francis to the united states. as a re­sult, milan said, the name of this year’s concert is "in the words of pope Francis." 
paid adverTisemenT 
Thompson said the songs are taken directly from the choir’s repertoire or piec­es written by the choir’s director. 
“we have quite a bit of mu­sic that has to deal with cre­ation, the beauty of creation and songs about peace and unity.” Thompson said. 
in addition to the support it provides to the missions, the concert also holds a spe­cial place in the hearts of its performers, milan said. she said she chose to join the Folk choir after attending the concert her freshman year. 
“That resultant decision [to join] has been one of the most profound of my life," milan said. "The concert for the missions is our biggest event of the fall semester and a way to share with the larger community the joy we find with each other in song. it is a beautiful way of using the gifts we have been giv­en by god for a really good cause.” 
The 22nd annual concert for the missions will be held at 8 p.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. admission is free and open to the public. 
Contact Maddy Del Medico at mdelmedi@nd.edu 

Forum examines energy policy 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
as part of energy week at notre dame, the “policy for a new energy Future” forum was held in washington hall on Thursday night. This fo­rum focused on both pub­lic and private solutions to energy problems and put­ting these problems in the context of a governmental framework. 
bruce huber, associate professor of law at notre dame, began the forum with a discussion of the legal con­text of energy policy. huber said energy policy is not an easily-defined topic. 
“it is really hard to talk about energy policy because we don’t have anything re­sembling a unified energy policy in the united states,” huber said. “'policy' con­veys the idea of some sense of governmental control. it would be far more accu­rate to talk about energy 'policies.'” 
according to huber, this lack of a coherent policy is a result of the institution of private property, which is ingrained in our govern­mental and legal system. 
“There are these back­ground principles of law that delve even as deep as our constitutional text," huber said. "[The principles] es­tablish certain defaults on energy policy.” 
after huber’s discussion, James mueller, chief of staff for the city of south bend, talked about energy poli­cy from the public sector’s perspective. 
mueller said there is little debate over the necessity of energy policy. 
“The central question of tonight is whether policy is needed,” mueller said. “i would say fundamentally that policy is absolutely needed.” 
in discussing the success­es of energy policy, mueller pointed to the national en­ergy bills of 2005 and 2007. These bills were passed with bipartisan support and in­troduced renewable fuel and energy efficiency standards. 
according to mueller, “the policies that have tradition­ally driven energy policy are tax policies.” 
These policies, which in­clude production tax credits for wind and investment tax credits for solar and wind power, provide the basis for governmental action relat­ing to energy policy and lim­iting the carbon footprint of the united states, he said. 
The final speaker at the forum, vice president and treasurer of exxonmobil corporation robert n. schleckser, presented the private sector’s view on mat­ters relating to energy policy. 
schleckser stressed the middle ground that could be reached between govern­ment and private goals in achieving effective energy policy. 
“while [mueller’s] de­scription of the problem and mine will feel like they’re coming from two different angles, the objectives of the process are the same from his side of the picture and mine,” schleckser said. 
schleckser said market-based solutions are the most effective way to implement an energy policy which lim­its the carbon footprint yet still produces an efficient outcome. schleckser said he supported a revenue-neutral carbon tax. 
“The point of a carbon tax should not be to raise addi­tional government revenue.” schleckser said. “[it is nec­essary to] offset other taxes from what you raise with the carbon tax.” 
according to schleckser, “technology and market forces will cause the right choices to be made.” 
despite the fact that “there is no silver bullet in energy policy,” huber said there is optimism from both the public and private perspec­tive that given time, the united states can create a coherent economic policy which benefits both parties. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 




The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

supportive of the roTc, es-

bottom and nearly took his sharing this story was about 
flyover 
pecially the military, and if 

tedx life when he was home alone the least funny thing i could 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
we created [a] military ap­

one February night, breel do.” 
preciation event for the foot-

said. shortly after, breel gave a 
“That injection of money ball game, it would serve as 
comedian, author and men-“The next day, i sat down talk for TedxKids@ambleside. 
basically saved notre dame an opportunity not only for tal health activist, made fa-with my family, and we had breel said he was surrounded 
and kept them from going the university to recognize all mous by his 2013 Ted Talk, a very real conversation, and by kids talking about their 
bankrupt.” the accomplishments of notre “confessions of a depressed that felt like a huge weight was parents and “how field trips 
Though the u.s. navy only dame alumni that have served 
comic.” he spoke Thursday lifted off of me,” he said. gave [them] imagination.” 
authorizes 40 flyovers per year [and] wounded warriors, but night as part of irish state of at his parents encouraged “it was so awkward, no one 
due to budget constraints, just service people in general,” mind week. him to, breel began to go to knows how awkward that is. i 
notre dame will have its sec-Jones said. “[it would] serve as “i grew up in canada. i grew counseling once a week, and mean, i’m 6-foot-6 and there’s 
ond flyover of the season for an opportunity to also lever-up in a home where men-then decided to pursue a ca-an eleven-year-old genius 
the game on saturday, Jones age national assets like the tal health issues were close reer in stand-up comedy. backstage doing a rubik’s 
said. he said he thinks the military flyover to get other in my life. my dad struggled “i was living in these two cube, and it’s like, where am 
reason notre dame was au-military-type things onto with depression and dealt very bizarre worlds of stand-i?” he said. 
thorized a second flyover is campus for one particular day with that through alcohol-up comedy and going to coun-his talk quickly went viral, 
because of the historic rela-of the year.” ism,” breel said. “The way my seling,” he said. getting over two million hits 
tionship between notre dame Jones said the planning family interacted with that — months into his career, one in the following weeks. 
and navy. of the weekend has been a dealt with that — was that we of his fellow comedians took “instantly, i saw that this 
The pilots who will complete team effort. The band, the 
weren’t supposed to talk about her own life, which caused talk was a way for people to 
the flyover are from two differ-athletic department, game it. we were very secretive.” him to reconsider mental share their story. it created a 
ent squadrons out of norfolk, day operations and the ush­breel said when he was 13 health awareness. small ripple effect for people 
virginia, and will be flying four ers have all been supportive of years old, he lost a close friend “i started to become ob-to talk about it, and all of a 
twin-engine fighter jets known and excited about the weekend in a car accident and for the sessed with researching this, sudden two million people 
as super hornets in a diamond and what it stands for, he said. first time experienced feelings and i realized ... the number had seen it,” he said. 
shape over the stadium. Jones nate stone, senior and navy of deep grief. one cause of death for people breel said the talk in-
said the pilots will receive rec-roTc student, said this week­“i didn’t want to let anyone my age wasn’t car crashes, it spired him to go on to write 
ognition at halftime and notre end is very exciting for roTc into that. ... i think that’s a wasn’t illness — it was sui-his childhood memoir, “boy 
dame roTc students will have students too. popular narrative, that we’re cide,” he said. meets depression,” where he 
the chance to meet them on “i’m always excited by this supposed to look shiny and Frustrated with the stigmas explores the ways depression 
sunday. game because it gives us better, and put everything surrounding mental illness, entered his life as a child and 
The university is also bring-an opportunity to interact 
aside, so it was a very con-he said he turned to his coun-how he continues to cope with 
ing in wounded warriors and with academy midshipmen scious decision to keep other selor for guidance. it today. 
several alumni to campus for who will one day be our col-people out,” he said. “i would “he said there are two ways “This one thing kept on 
recognition, Jones said. he leagues,” stone said. “we’re re-keep everyone on the outside, to go — you could share your coming up — you don’t get 
said the military appreciation ally honored to have them here and i got really good at putting story or you could be ashamed over it, you get through it,” he 
theme will extend into Friday’s and also excited.” on a social face for everyone. i of your story,” breel said. “at said. 
had this fear of other people that time in my life, that was 
pep rally as well. 

“The idea was notre Contact Emma Borne  
finding out.” my worst nightmare. i mean, Contact Rachel O’Grady at  
Four years later, he hit rock i did stand-up comedy and rogrady@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

dame has always been very eborne@nd.edu 



Withdrawal 
conTinued From page 1 
experienced before,” skoch said. “Those were very de­bilitating, and within a cou­ple weeks i had missed a ton of class, i wasn’t making up class. 
“ … i was kind of a mess. i elected to take a withdrawal maybe two weeks into the semester.” 
Kelsey said students who have elected to withdraw are assigned one of the division of student affairs’s care con­sultants, who remain their point of contact throughout the withdrawal period and again during the readmission process. 
“The care consultant works with the student from the time they decide to take a withdrawal,” Kelsey said in an email. “we are able to connect with the student while they are away from the university, answer questions they have about the readmission pro­cess, remind them of appli­cation due dates and provide general support. 
“over the past few years, the care consultants have taken a more active role in supporting the withdrawn and readmit­ted students by providing the communication mentioned previously and by meeting with the student upon their return and helping them with the transition back to campus life.” 
skoch, who withdrew from the university in sept. 2012, leaves the university for men-said improvements made to tal health reasons, they are the care consultants program asked to work with university in the last two years have con-counseling center (ucc) as tributed positively to the pro-part of the readmission pro­cess since she went through it. cess. a counselor at the ucc 
“a huge thing that was im-will speak with the student’s proved is the care consul-treatment provider to deter­tants,” skoch said. “… They mine their readiness to re-walk the journey with [the turn to the university and to student], which i think is very determine what continuation crucial and a really excel-of care is needed upon their 
“I also know that if I hadn’t withdrawn and gone through the process of readmission, I would not be the person I am today. It allowed me to reflect and ultimately realize that I should be able to enjoy life and strive to do something meaningful with my life.” 
Mary Mecca junior 
lent part of what notre dame has to offer, that a lot of other schools actually don’t offer. we’re one of the only schools to my knowledge that has a care program in this capac­ity. “ 
once students and their care providers feel that they are ready to return to campus, they can begin the readmis­sion process. 
Kelsey said the process in­volves a number of differ­ent departments on campus, including admissions and counseling. 
“all students complete an electronic application submitted to the office of undergraduate admissions,” she said. “… if a student return. 
“The goal of the readmis­sion process is to ensure that the student will be successful academically and in a good place in terms of their overall well-being and happiness at the university,” she said. 
an aug. 31 memo  states the deadlines for readmission ap­plications are apr. 15 for the fall semester, and oct. 1 for the spring semester. 
Junior mary mecca, who withdrew in december 2014, returned to campus this se­mester. she said completing her application four months before she would return to 
campus  was  a  “daunting”  
task.  
“That  was  the  most  

paid adverTisemenT 
daunting part when i was in therapy, discussing [applying for readmission],” she said. “what’s the progress that we have made to this point, and would they take me back at this point? i don’t know. i don’t know if i’m going to get better, i don’t know if between apr. 15 and aug. 24 when we come back if i’m going to take another dive.” 
mecca said, however, she saw both positives and nega­tives to an april deadline for fall semester readmission. 
“what was nice about the early deadline was that it forced me to take action as soon as i got home,” she said. “i couldn’t sit around and it forced me to get very serious about my health very quickly. 
“… however, the system would most certainly benefit from a longitudinal approach to readmission. i made quite a bit of progress between apr. 15 and June 15 [when she was no­tified of her readmission], and i cannot imagine that others who may not have been de­nied did not also make prog­ress worthy of readmission.” 
skoch said she thinks with­drawal is often a good deci­sion for students who need it, but encouraged anyone con­sidering it to work with others to make their decision. 
“if you’re someone who’s considering taking a with­drawal, my first piece of ad­vice is talk to everyone who cares about you,” she said. “Talk to your family, talk to your friends, talk to the 


Social 
conTinued From page 1 
formal attire, mccarthy said. 
“it is merely a social event between students from saint mary’s and the united states naval academy to get together and celebrate our longstand­ing traditions between our two campuses,” mccarthy said. 
she also said the event is different than two years ago because participation has increased. 
“it is very exciting to see that there has been a renewed inter­est in the social desire to con­tinue the positive relationship between our two campuses,” she said. “The event will still be a great opportunity for stu­dents from both campuses to mix and mingle and enjoy a fun night together.” 
mccarthy said a lot went into planning such a big func­tion. coordinating volunteers, sending emails and attending planning meetings and were necessary to plan the social. 
“working with administra­tion is crucial to having a suc­cessful event and making sure that every last detail has been accounted for,” she said. “There resources on campus, talk to a care consultant. Just because you’re seeing a care consul­tant doesn’t mean you’re withdrawing. if you’re seeing a counselor or a medical pro­fessional, talk to them. 
“don’t rely solely on your own decision-making, be­cause it’s a very emotionally charged decision. i would never have wanted to make it alone. 
“if the only thing holding you back is fear of the un­known, fear of what life will look like when you come back, fear of what life will look like when you leave … in most sit­uations i’d say do it,” she said. 
mecca said withdrawal does not mean a permanent remov­al from the university. on the contrary, she said, it allowed her to come back and more fully experience her time in college. 
“i know i would have ben­efited from hearing that with­drawal from notre dame isn’t the end of the world by any means, but rather, a chance to breathe and find a new and healthier perspective on one’s future,” she said. 
“i also know that if i hadn’t withdrawn and gone through the process of readmission, i would not be the person i am today. it allowed me to reflect, and ultimately realize that i should be able to enjoy life and strive to do something meaningful with my life.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
are a lot of key players that all have to be involved in order to have a successful event, so it is a great opportunity for stu­dent leaders to gain the experi­ence of planning and executing events.” 
wednesday night at 6 p.m., saint mary’s students began lining up to get tickets. once ticket sales started at 8 p.m., 291 student tickets were sold in 12 minutes, mccarthy said. 
The goal is for this to become a traditional event after the navy game, she said. 
“nothing has been officially decided but if student interest continues the way that it has, it can be anticipated that the tra­dition will continue,” mccarthy said. 
“we’re super excited that the event is happening this year and are thrilled with the amount of interest that has been demonstrated thus far during our ticket sales and we look forward to the same ener­gy and excitement continuing on saturday night,” mccarthy said. 
There will be a dJ, light snacks and refreshments provided. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
inSide cOlumn 

My “Drum Fill Friday” 
Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

npr has a semi-regular feature on their “all songs considered” web section that i always anticipate called “drum Fill Friday.” in these posts, npr music writer robin hilton tests readers’ ears with five-question quizzes chal­lenging drum fill aficionados to identify songs through short snippets of their drum sections. hilton often gets guest drummers to create their own quizzes for the fea­ture, showing their influences and appreciation for their peers. being a regular reader, and an amateur drummer, i sometimes find myself thinking of the songs i’d include in a drum Fill Friday quiz. 
however, neither being a famous drummer nor having access to posting on npr’s website or using their intel­ligent property, i don’t expect to be compiling one of these quizzes anytime soon. still, with access to a publication in which i can write, i’d like to use this space to — not unlike Fred armisen on rachel ray’s talk show a few years ago 
— praise my favorite drummers and their finest recorded performances. 
i’ll begin with an intro, like beginnings usually consist of. on “race: in,” the first track off of experimental rock outfit battles extraordinary debut album “mirrored,” tech­nically-astute John stanier opens the song holding a quick, tapping riff between hi-hat and snare rim. The alternating syncopated and straight pattern ushers in the rest of the band, crescendoing into a skittering hi-hat rhythm and a mathy melody i still can’t completely comprehend. 
Keeping with this pace, i’ll turn next to a piece of su­preme drumming that comes in just after its song’s intro ends; “Fake empire,” the beautiful, piano-led track by in­die mainstay The national contains one of the most inter­esting drumming decisions in music history. working off of a difficult, syncopated piano melody, bryan devendorf fully comes into the track with a quick fill around the kit and establishes a straight disco beat to match the piano. seemingly out of place, but exactly appropriate for the rest of the song, this piece of drumming astounds in its creativity. 
moving along to the next logical component of a song, i’ll move on to the chorus. in the otherwise standard cho­rus of the police’s “next to you,” stewart copeland rede­fines what the use of the usually rhythmically relegated rock drum can be. dancing around his kit’s cymbals and toms during the song’s choruses, copeland leads the song through busy variation and a genius ear for complemen­tary timbres. 
last, of course, is the outro. christopher bear, drummer and one-fourth of grizzly bear, often exhibits a creativity similar to devendorf and an ear tuned into copeland’s distinctive cymbal work. at the end of his band’s biggest hit, “Two weeks,” bear changes up his tempo and works a ride cymbal and ghostly snare ditty that almost completely eclipses every other aspect of an already fantastic song. 
The final performance in my five-question quiz is hard to neatly fit into the constructs of a song structure, much like the drummer who performs it. it is impossible to pick one moment from death grip drummer Zach hill’s prolific career, but a fill in “hacker,” off of their critically acclaimed album “money store,” is perhaps most emblematic. hill rapidly flies all over the snare and toms, gaining pace but never sacrificing tightness. This fill, connecting the two halves of the song’s first verse, are so blistering in pace they sound like they could only be executed by a computer, which leads me to believe that hill is at least part machine. 
This has naturally turned into my attempt to be featured 
— in any capacity — on npr’s own “drum Fill Friday;” i’ve got plenty more of these snippets floating around in my head, so hopefully, for my sanity’s sake, you’ll see me there soon. 
Contact Matt McMahon at  mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
philosophy and football 
April Feng 
storytime 

“courage is not defined by those who fought and did not fall, but by those who fought, fell and rose again.” — anonymous. 
when i first came to america two years ago, there were a couple of things about this culture i did not understand, chief among them foot­ball. after my “pitiful absence” from the first notre dame home game, my friends started to tirelessly persuade me to go to the second one. They told me it would be one of the best college experiences, i must go to at least one football game as a notre dame student, they would even buy me a ticket. i was very firm in my decision until one of them was out of persuasive reasons and threw out the most random line: “april, you must go. Football is a great catholic tradition.” either because of the bizarreness of that reason, or because of my weird passion of elevating triv­ial things to the philosophical level, i found his argument surprisingly persuasive. 
one week after, i found myself standing with 80,000 people in the stadium, watching a foot­ball game for the first time in my life. i was fo­cusing on the player (whom my friends later told me was the quarterback) behind a line of other players. he got the ball. he took a few steps back, looked around the field, raised his arm, he was ready to pass the ball and — all of sudden he was hit very hard by a player from the other team. The quarterback almost fell to the ground. when he looked up again, his teammates were already out of reach, so he dragged himself up, held the ball close to his chest and ran forward, by himself. another opponent rushed to him, but he dodged them. Three opponents tried to encircle him, but again missed him. he then lost his balance. every inch forward became a strug­gle. Finally, he was brought down by five oppo­nents. he fumbled and all of a sudden, the ball was in the hands of the opponents. There were boos in the crowd. The quarterback lowered his head and lay on the ground, and after five seconds, he stood up and continued fighting. surprisingly, tears rushed to my eyes. i cried, uncontrollably. 
From that moment on, football had a mysteri­ous power over me. i went to every single game and stayed from the beginning until the end. every time i came back from the stadium, i felt empowered by what i saw. 
during christmas break, i went back to china. i shared with my grandma a video that i had tak­en during a football game. “why are these young people fighting with each other all the time?,” my grandma asked me. “and whoever gets the ball will be smashed to the ground! look,” she pointed at the quarterback, “he gets the ball and people start to attack him, and … ah! That must hurt!” after watching the video, my grandma asked me a serious question. “if you will defi­nitely fall if you get the ball, then why do you still try to get it? i would stay away from it.” why do you still go for something when you know it will make you fall hard? That’s a good question. i did not know the answer at that time. i just felt there was something tragically beautiful in foot­ball. maybe that is why i cried during my first game. 
in my sophomore year, i continued to go to every football game, tearing up when i saw play­ers being tackled and rising from the ground, again, again and again. Then one night i had a conversation with my friend max, the safety on the team. 
“when you get the football, do you know that you will soon be smashed to the ground?” i asked. 
“do you mean if we are prepared to be brought down if we have the ball? of course,” he said. 
“Forgive my ignorance, but … aren’t you afraid to fall down? doesn’t that hurt?” 
“afraid? That’s not what matters.” 
“why do you still get the ball?” 
he laughed and thought for a while. 
“because you want it.” 
“but you basically fall down right after you get it!” 
“yes that is true, but you want it.” 
For some reasons, those words stayed in my mind for a long time. because you want it. 
pondering on max’s words, i was reminded of the many heartbreaking trials i had encoun­tered in my life. in china, a country with 1.3 billion people, even if you are the top 0.1 percent in the entire country, there are still more than one million people better than you are. That is a terrifying thought. Failure is omnipresent in chinese culture. There were many occasions when i had tried with all that i had, as hard as i could, and still failed. i remembered my mom would tell me it was not my fault; it was simply the reality of china, a place where people are reminded of the unforgiving realities of individ­ual limitations every single day. i would cry and unwillingly give up the fight, trying to persuade myself that maybe surrendering to the reality was the right thing to do. maybe avoiding falling down is smart. Then, in the dimly-lighted base­ment of laFun, the quarterback from my fresh­man year, who also tried as hard as he could but was sacked in front of a crowd of 80,000 and yet chose to rise up again, came back to me. There was something strangely empowering about that. 
last saturday night, i watched the 30th foot­ball game in my life. The game once reached a point where our team was so behind that many people lost hope, and some audience mem­bers started to complain about specific play­ers: “seriously, he was not good at all. he gets tackled every single time right when he gets the ball!” somehow, their frivolous comments of­fended me enormously. i wanted to ask them if they had been “sacked” before, if they had had the experience of trying as hard as they possibly could, and still not making it. strangely enough, i had the feeling that they were blaspheming something extremely beautiful. Five minutes until the end, my friend whispered to me, “april, do you think they will give up? victory is out of reach.” suddenly, max’s word started to echo in my head. you want it. “no, they won’t.” That mo­ment, i thought i finally understood football. 
we ended up losing the game. The Fighting irish fought as hard as they could and still lost the battle. yet, i still felt strangely empowered. it was in this moment i realized it is not winning, but the courage and faith humans still possess when confronted with failure that is empower­ing. whenever we see players on the football field, falling down and courageously standing up again and again, we are reassured that there is something worth rising up for, even in the darkest times. in watching football games, i can sense that there is something so valuable that it can overcome fear and reveal beauty even in the face of self-destruction. maybe my friend was right when he told me that football was a catholic tradition. 
Thank you notre dame football, for giving me the courage to fail. you are invincible. 
Author’s Note: Thanks to Max Redfield for giv­ing me the inspiration. 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior political science and economics double major. She is from Beijing, China, and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Seeking Sgt. McCarthy’s successor 

EDITORIAL 

respect. honor. Tradition. Those words have been repeated over and over in the run-up to this weekend’s football game between notre dame and navy. 
For both schools, that last word, tradition, matters immensely. starting with Friday’s pep rally and extending all the way until the alma maters at the end of saturday’s game, this weekend will be packed with tradition upon tradition. 
but unfortunately, one of notre dame’s most iconic institutions has come to an end. at the most recent home game against massachusetts on sept. 26, sgt. Tim mccarthy of the indiana state police delivered his final safety message before the fourth quarter to thunderous applause. 
after 55 years reminding fans to stay safe after the game in the form of quips, puns and jokes, mccarthy has now retired. For two other home games this sea­son, notre dame has played recordings of mccarthy’s old tips. 
no one will ever truly replace sgt. mccarthy, but notre dame still needs some­one to deliver safety reminders to fans. so, with deep respect for the rich legacy mccarthy leaves behind, here are a few of The observer editorial board’s sugges­tions for his successor. 
lou Holtz: 

perhaps he can impart some “shafetee teeps” every home game now that he has left espn. one of the greatest coaches in notre dame football history, holtz would get the crowd going for the fourth quarter like no other. 
ted Williams: 

Former homeless man Ted williams is famous for his “golden voice.” he was recognized through a youTube video of him speaking in his clear, booming, re­fined radio voice on the streets of columbus, ohio. he may not have adjusted well to fame his first time around (falling into depression and alcoholism), but he’s excited to give his voice another shot. That shot could be before the fourth quar­ter of notre dame football games. 
brian Kelly: 

sgt. mccarthy gave his final safety tip from the field, and it seemed to work out well. so why don’t we just keep a mic down on the sideline and let coach Kelly say a few words about driving safely after the students salute him with the 1812 overture? in the middle of a game, Kelly might be a bit too tense to give a light­hearted safety tip, but people would take the message seriously coming from ev­eryone’s favorite purple-faced football coach. 
Joe biden: 

as the “man behind the man” (quite literally, most of the time), the current vice president has been “biden” his time in deciding whether to run for the presidency. The safety message consistently energizes all of the fans in notre dame stadium, and there is no better way to “wake up the echoes” than with a cuppa Joe. 
ms. frizzle: 

who better to impart zany bits of safety wisdom than everybody’s favorite teacher from The magic school bus? ms. Frizzle and her lizard-and-school­bus entourage have long been favorites in the “edutainment” industry, enjoyed by children and adults alike since the mid-80s. with a track record of making education fun, ms. Frizzle would have no trouble maintaining sgt. mccarthy’s lighthearted air while reminding those in the stadium to “take chances, make mistakes, get messy and drive saFe!” 
letter tO tHe editOr 

taylor Swift: 
let’s be honest, no one will ever be the same as our beloved sgt. mccarthy, so maybe we need to take it in a slightly different direction, and Tay is nothing short of a wordsmith. imagine what the girl could do with safety puns. nd’s got a blank space, baby, and we’ll write your name. 
Justin bieber: 
what at first may seem like an awful joke gone even more horribly awry would actually make a lot of sense. bieber is around the student body’s average age, and he has had more than his fair share of run-ins with the law. who better to warn us against reckless, drunk driving than he? The lone problem is bieber’s availability; perhaps he could pre-record his warnings. not ideal, but his voice is recognizable enough. 
university President fr. John Jenkins: 
Fr. Jenkins isn’t particularly well-known for his punning skills, or just humor in general, but that’s exactly why his move to the press box on saturdays makes perfect sense from a pr standpoint. what better way to show off the human side of the man? granted, he is a trained philosopher, so you can probably expect his jokes to be a little on the dry side and way above everyone’s heads. 
lisa Kudrow: 
because she killed it with her single “smelly cat” as phoebe in “Friends.” she’s got a way with words, and it’s obvious she could share a safety pun to rival mccarthy in the same vein of creativity that brought us “smelly cat, smelly cat, what are they feeding you … ” 
morgan freeman: 
Freeman is the voice of god — at least in the movie “bruce almighty.” who wouldn’t want to listen to god? accidents will undoubtedly plummet to zero. plus, if someone were to narrate your life, wouldn’t you want Freeman to be the one to do it? and since notre dame football is life, he definitely should be a part of it. 
a student from the “drunk tank”: 
every game, students who have had a little too much fun tailgating prior to kickoff find themselves in the confines of the police force’s “drunk tank.” what better individual to share words of wisdom regarding the implications of drinking on a person’s safety than someone who is directly experiencing the consequences? 
Jon Stewart: 

you didn’t honestly think one of the greatest comic minds of a generation was going to simply retire to a farm in new Jersey, did you? no, his words — and grunts and wheezes and whatever other noises he makes — will fit perfectly into the game day atmosphere. besides, his arrival will demand a definite upgrade in the concession-stand pizza game. 
a hologram of Sgt. mccarthy, à la the hologram of tupac at coachella 2012: 
Tupac is to rap what mccarthy is to safety puns: the best ever. notre dame stadium crowds can enjoy an authentic performance from mccarthy while mccarthy enjoys retirement from the comfort of his own home — though his ho­logram will be undoubtedly more family-friendly than Tupac’s was. Keep ya head up, irish fans. 
The wrong use of adjectives 
as mental illness awareness week draws to close, i realize so many more of us are affected by these emotionally devastating issues than we would like to think. it bothers me just how much of our own student population feels like they can­not express their realities without being stigma­tized or made to feel less. 
something we do not criticize enough is the use of language our generation deems acceptable. while there are plenty of words that are used in­correctly in our society, i would argue using men­tal disorders as adjectives tops the list. 
“my teacher is so bipolar.” 
“you look so anorexic!” 

“you almost gave me a panic attack.” 
“oh my god, she’s so psycho.” 
“wow, you’re being retarded.” 
how many times have we heard these phrases on a daily basis? we joke about these issues without even being aware of the fact that we are making light of these serious situations. 
i know we do not actually mean to offend or dis­respect those living with these conditions, but the fact is a classmate or hallmate may be suffering and you really do not know the pain they are going through. it may seem like it is not a big deal, but it really disrespects the impact these conditions have on real people. we are taking people’s experi­ences and turning them into something that does not accurately reflect the struggles they are facing. 
as a generation, we need to become more ac­countable for the words we use. Try to think about what you say before you say it, because the strength it takes to get through a day while dealing with something so all-consuming is not a joke. 
Eun Young Lee 
sophomore off-campus oct. 8 


The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

“you have 24 hours to celebrate a win or 24 hours to grieve over a loss,” irish captain sheldon day said, following the heartbreaking loss against the clemson Tigers. “but once those 24 hours are over, you look forward to the next game.” 
This week’s episode of “a season with notre dame Football” put the team’s collective frustration, disappointment and anger at death valley on full dis­play. and as hard as it is for notre dame Football fans to relive last weekend’s loss, it is important to separate the feel­ings of the game from the reception of the latest installment of showtime’s series. 
The fact of the matter is, this week’s episode was really, really good. coming back strong after a so-so, dull episode following the massachusetts game, this week truly fulfilled everything i could have expected from the series ever since showtime announced it would 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

if the popularity of shows like “breaking bad,” “weeds,” “The wire” and netflix’s most recent hit “narcos” have proven anything, it’s that drugs fascinate america. whether it’s the ta­boo nature of illegal drugs or the op­portunity to live vicariously in the drug culture, drug-themed television shows entice their eager viewers with the tu­multuous, dangerous and above all else lucrative world of illegal drug trade. 
like many, i too have fallen victim to the drug world fascination. after de­vouring the entirety of breaking bad — and loving every second — a few years back, “narcos” has seized my attention. “narcos” traces the meteoric rise of infamous columbian drug lord pablo escobar and his relentless american dea agent pursuers. with enticing vi­suals and vivid characters, “narcos” excels way past it’s enthralling subject matter. 
be following notre dame football. in a beautiful synthesis of “hard Knocks,” “Friday night lights” and “30 for 30” essences, this episode fired on all cylin­ders and covered the team’s preparation against the Tigers in a way that allowed viewers to appreciate the team as both football players and as student-athletes 
— something the previous two episodes seemed to try to force to mixed criticism. 
The 28-minute episode honestly felt much longer, taking viewers along for a roller-coaster of a ride, capturing the entire week’s worth of practices and build-up and allowing the audience to appreciate just how fast the game moves, both on and off the field. 
what truly impressed me about this episode was how much we get to see the team grow week to week, emphasizing the fluid, dynamic nature of college foot­ball that forces players to remain focused while consistently pushing to become better. in particular, watching deshone Kizer mature as the starting quarter­back has been special — especially 
with such a compelling period of his­tory as a foundation, the show regularly enlists the help of historically accurate photos and factoids to create a more re­alistic feel. unfortunately, though, the show can only provide so much histori­cally accurate insight into the chaotic period of history. luckily for us at notre dame, the snite museum’s newest ex­hibit, titled “counter archives To the narco city,” aims to shed light on a dif­ferent aspect of the drug war. 
Through stunning visuals and instal­lations, artists adriana corral and alma leiva “offer alternative views to the media spectacle of narco-violence in the americas,” according to the exhibit›s snite museum website. Focusing on the counter-archives of two cities — ciudad Juárez, mexico and san pedro sula, honduras — corral and leiva strive in their emotional perspective. while the drug war is typically portrayed through images of bloody murders and grue­some criminals, the exhibit instead provides a intimate view into the lives coming off of his admissions of how sur­real it has been for him ever since he has been thrust into the spotlight of college football. in the face of a hectic clemson home crowd, and against unbelievably awful weather, Kizer seemed poised and confident, playing the role of one of the team’s leaders to near perfection. 

at the same time, it was just as inter­esting — if not even more so — to see the irish defense and chris brown featured in this week’s episode. The defense has been under constant scrutiny, as they have seemed amazing at times and frustratingly underwhelming at others. seeing the coaches work closely with them and pushing them to be better added a human component to the game of football, giving the viewers a chance to understand how hard it is to be con­sistent. Keivarae russell was featured, where his determination and conviction to come back after his academic sus­pension was underscored by his solid play and leadership. meanwhile, it was a homecoming of sorts for chris brown, 
of those who must constantly deal with the violence and chaos that comes with the drug war, as well as their struggle of resistance against it. 
alma leiva presents her exhibition through a series of provocative imag­es, each representing a violent tragedy from her home country of honduras. scenes of children’s play areas and im­ages of the dead haunt the gallery in an eerie presentation. leiva titles her col­lection of pictures “celdas” (cells), a comment on the incarcerated setting many latin americans face due to the ongoing drug wars. leiva’s most in­triguing aspect to her work is her ability to juxtapose images of rich honduran culture with the looming presence of tragedy, crafting a very poignant feel to her art. 
The poignancy continued with the “celdas” companion, as artist adriana corral presents her work through two impressive pieces. The first installation is a large geographical representation of cuidad Juárez made from the ashes as he came back to south carolina and showed a determination and spirit fit­ting for the “leader of the wide receiver corps,” as head coach brian Kelly puts it. The attitude and confidence he exuded leading up to the game really seemed to inspire and invigorate the team. 
however, it was difficult to watch this episode knowing the inevitable end. after all the hard work, preparation and confidence that permeated the team’s preparations, the cameras cap­tured the frustration and heartbreak in the locker room. The episode left on an air of unease and mystery, much like the irish season to date. but, as day said, all that there is to do is to look for­ward to the next game. hopefully it’s a lighter note on next week’s episode, but either way if it’s of the same quality of this past week’s edition, then it is sure to be another quality installment in the series. 
Contact Miko Malabute at               mmalabut@nd.edu 
of a list of names, each representing a victim of a mass murder, a central theme in corral’s work. The second piece uses the same names to craft two circles coming together in attempt to display the cyclical pattern of drug re­lated violence. after speaking to corral it became clear that using names to create her art was more than just a trib­ute, but a intended as a rather profound comment on the institutionalized pat­tern of killings 
while “narcos” may be a well-craft­ed show, it is important we remember what the robust characters truly repre­sent: human suffering. even today, mil­lions suffer from drug-related violence, and the end is nowhere in sight. i’m not saying to miss “narcos;” however, if we keep neglecting the cries of help from our southern neighbor, the list of names in corral’s instillations will con­tinue to grow. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                            aramos6@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



SPOrtS autHOrity 

Questioning ESPN’s rankings 
Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
as some of you avid nba fans may be aware of, espn is cur­rently in the process of releas­ing its fifth-annual ranking of the top-400 players in the league. now, as you could ex­pect with any list of rankings this comprehensive, there are sure to be controversial deci­sions as to who’s above who and where a particular player is ranked. however, espn has drawn a lot attention for its rankings this year, and deserv­edly so, as it has left many in­cluding myself scratching their heads. 
of course, the first name that comes to mind is Kobe bryant’s. The five-time champion was somehow dropped all the way to no. 93 in the rankings this year. while i can concede a drop is fair — largely in part due to the health concerns, as he has missed 123 games over the last two seasons — i can­not believe there are 92 players in the nba better than Kobe bryant. 
The simple fact of the mat­ter is the talent drop-off has not been nearly as steep as his decline in health has been over the last few years. in 35 games played last year, bryant aver­aged 22.3 points, 5.7 rebounds, and 5.6 assists per game last year. many people point to his career-low in shooting percent­age of 37.3 percent and say his numbers are inflated by the fact that he shoots so often, but that is overlooking the fact that the los angeles lakers as a team lacked talent around him last year and were more inept as a unit with him off the court than on it. and you cannot ignore the fact that he has five championship rings, which adds experience, leader­ship, and drive to the declining yet significant level of talent he still offers. There simply are not 92 other players who give you that skill set in the nba, and there are certainly not 92 players anyone would pick for their team for just this season over Kobe bryant. 
despite the attention he’s re­ceived, bryant certainly isn’t the only player who’s being clearly overlooked. shooting guard Tony allen is a key com­ponent that keeps memphis together as a playoff contender year-in and year-out. his of­fensive output is by no means significant, but he is undoubt­edly the best defensive player in the nba. ranking him at no. 100 is disrespectful not only of his talents, but the importance of defense in today’s nba. 
no player is game-planned for opposing coaches more on the defensive end of the court than allen, and the numbers certainly back this statement up. when allen was on the court last season, the grizzlies led the nba with a 94.9 de­fensive rating. individually, he’s contributed an additional three wins for the grizzlies each of the last five seasons, as he’s averaged a mark of 2.92 de­fensive-win shares during that time period. in the playoffs alone in the last three seasons, allen has contributed an aver­age of 0.5 defensive-win shares per season, or just under one additional win per postseason for the grizzlies. considering Taj gibson came in at no. 84 and is simply a role player off of the bench for the bulls, there’s a clear lack of respect for allen’s impact on the game. if we asked steph curry how it felt being hounded by allen this past postseason, i’m sure we’d agree to allen’s playmaking is deserving of a higher ranking. 
There were certainly several other problems with espn’s evaluation of players, but bryant and allen were the big ones. it underscores the lack of respect for experience, com­petitiveness, and defensive im­pact that exists in today’s nba game. Talent and contribu­tions extend beyond how many points a player can score on a given night, or how much po­tential a player has to grow into a superstar. when you rank the players for 2015, think about what impact they can or will have that season, not beyond. marcus smart is a promising talent, for example, but his play last year was far from warrant­ing a spot in the top 100. espn disrespected bryant, allen and many others thus far in their rankings, and it remains to be seen where they will go from here. 
one thing is for sure, though: i do not want to be the guy who crosses either of those guys. and neither should you. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ncaa fOOtball 

northwestern-michigan headlines big Ten matchups 
Associated Press 

some things to watch in the big Ten conference dur­ing week 6 of the season: 
game oF The weeK: no. 13 northwestern (5­0, 1-0 big Ten) at no. 18 michigan (4-1, 1-0) matches the nation’s top two scor­ing defenses, so keep an eye on game managers clayton Thorson and Jake rudock. neither quarter­back has been spectacu­lar, but they’ve been good enough to keep their teams on track. playing in the big house will be the big­gest challenge to date for northwestern’s Thorson. rudock has thrown six in­terceptions, tied for most in the big Ten, and will go against the best secondary he’s faced. 
best matchup: 

penn state defense vs. indiana offense. The nittany lions (4-1, 1-0) come into this key east division game against the hoosiers (4-1, 0-1) struggling on of­fense. The pressure is on their defense to hold down a high-scoring offense that had Qb nate sudfeld and rb Jordan howard leave the ohio state game with an­kle injuries. Their statuses were uncertain. The lions are giving up 284 yards and 
15.8 points a game, and carl nassib has eight of their big Ten-leading 21 sacks. 
inside the numbers:  

Joey bosa of ohio state (5­0, 1-0) had 2.5 sacks against indiana last week and has 
21.5 in his career, second among active Fbs players. he figures to be a disruptive force against maryland (2­3, 0-1), whose Qbs are com­pleting 45 percent of their passes with 15 intercep­tions. ... c.J. beathard is the first Qb for iowa (5-0, 1-0) to win his first six career starts since matt sherman won his first seven over the 1994-95 seasons. ... The last three times wisconsin (3-2, 0-1) lost its big Ten opener, the badgers went on to win at least a division title (2014) or the conference championship (2010, 2012). 
long Shot: 
rutgers (2-2, 0-1) will be a two-touchdown un­derdog when hosts no. 4 michigan state (5-0, 1-0), which is leaving the great lakes state for the first time. rutgers had an open date after beating Kansas and got a rare piece of good news Tuesday when an as­sault charge against star wr leonte carroo was dropped. carroo, suspended for three weeks, was reinstated to the program wednesday. 
Player to Watch: 
wr and punt returner de’mornay pierson-el, who missed the first four games for nebraska (2-3, 0-1) with a foot injury. he was eased back into action against illinois last week and has been declared fit for a heavier workload against wisconsin. 

mlb | rangers 5, blue Jays 3 
Rangers take Game 1 of ALDS from Blue Jays 
Associated Press 

ToronTo — a big day by the bottom of Texas’ bat­ting order helped the rangers overcome an injury to slugger adrian beltre in the start of their postseason run. 
robinson chirinos hit a two-run homer against david price, rougned odor added a solo shot and the rangers beat the blue Jays 5-3 Thursday in their al division series opener as postseason baseball returned to Toronto for the first time in 22 years. 
“it means a lot to the team to come to Toronto and win that first game against a great pitcher,” chirinos said. 
both starting third baseman left with injuries: beltre came in the third with a strained muscle in his lower back and Toronto’s Josh donaldson in the fifth after he was kneed in the head while sliding in an attempt to break up a double 

FOR RENT 

Beautiful home 1 mile from ND. 2 furnish rooms 4 rent $650 each 
play. 

rangers manager Jeff banister said he wasn’t sure whether beltre would be avail­able for game 2 on Friday. in an effort to remain in the series, beltre had a cortisone shot. 
“obviously we want adrian in there,” banister said. “he’s the heart and soul of this ballclub.” 
after going for tests at a hos­pital, beltre returned to the clubhouse about an hour after the game and walked gingerly. an mri confirmed beltre had a strained back but no structural damage, general manager Jon daniels said. 
“we haven’t ruled him out of tomorrow’s game,” daniels said. 
Texas will have Joey gallo and ed lucas travel from its arizona Fall league team in case beltre needs to be re­moved from the roster, a deci­sion that also would rule beltre out of the al championship series. 
blue Jays manager John gibbons said donaldson felt light-headed while playing defense in the top of the fifth, forcing the al mvp candidate to come out of the game. 
“They check for concussions, and apparently he passed all the tests. so that’s good news,” gibbons said. 
yovani gallardo (1-0) al­lowed two runs and four hits in five innings. 
“That’s what we really need­ed from him,” banister said. “i think he did a great job.” 
gallardo is 4-0 with a 1.78 era in four career starts against Toronto. 
“we got in some good hitter’s counts and he wouldn’t give in,” blue Jays catcher russell martin said. “he didn’t make those mistakes that we capital­ize on.”. 
Keone Kela, Jake diekman and sam dyson finished, with dyson getting a save. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
949-292-1200 must see.  deposit. Call 574-386-0882  
3 BR 2 BA house with pool. Georgetown sub. Close to ND. 52162 Pickwick Lane. $1200/mo +  Beat the Cardinals. Beat the Cardinals. Beat the Cardinals. Beat the Cardinals. Beat the Cardinals.  



interhall 
conTinued From page 13 
Howard vs. lewis 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
lewis will take on howard in a game with playoff im­plications for both teams on sunday. 
both the chicks (2-0) and the ducks (2-1) have had strong seasons so far and are looking to secure positions toward the top of the leader-board. both teams have also learned to adjust as the sea­son has progressed. 
chicks’ senior captain penny vorissis emphasized her team’s ability to adjust to whatever an opponent brings to the field. 
“we’re just going to have to make some very astute observations up front and be able to adjust our plays ac­cordingly,” vorissis said. 
ducks senior captain stephanie peterson also dis­cussed the importance of having a flexible game-plan. 
“once we figure out what an opponent is like, we try to make adjustments, such as playing two safeties instead of just one,” peterson said. 
peterson is also ex­cited about her team’s accomplishments this season. 
“we’ve got good chemistry and have learned to celebrate everything,” peterson said. “we have good leadership and great commitment.” 
both captains know where their teams need to improve if they are going to come out on top of this match-up. 
peterson said the ducks have been working on their defense. 
“we’ve been working on flag pulls,” peterson said. “it’s actually really difficult.” 
vorissis said the chicks are working to get more plays in their playbook. 
“we’re slowly learn­ing which plays work un­der which circumstances,” vorissis said. “we’ve really been working on getting our offensive plays on lock.” 
despite any improvements that need to be made or any successes so far, both cap­tains said they know this will be an important game if they are going to achieve their goals of reaching the championship. 
lewis and howard will face off at 4 p.m. on sunday at labar practice complex. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

interhall 
conTinued From page 20 
“in the last year or two, we’ve become a lot more serious, be­cause they’re definitely a good team,” Koller said. “There’s not any hatred between us, but it’s a fun rivalry. our focus is kind of to just keep doing what we’re doing, and maybe go a little harder than we have before.” 
babiak said the griffins’ dedi­cation is their greatest skill this year. 
“every team is able to find ath­letes, but we really have a group of dedicated players who come to practice ready to get better,” babiak said. “That has really stood out against other teams this season. Keenan can expect us to be aggressive on both sides of the ball. we’re going to be the ones making the hits.” 
The Knights look forward to some defensive momentum going into this weekend. 
“i feel like fans will see a lot of energy, especially on the defen­sive end,” Koller said. “That’s one thing that is pretty noticeable about our team.” 
only one team will survive un­defeated after the game, which begins sunday at 3:30 p.m. at reihle Fields. 
Contact  Maureen Schweninger at mschwenin@nd.edu 
carroll vs. Sorin 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
This weekend the unbeaten otters take on carroll. 
carroll (1-1) is returning from a bye week while sorin (3-0) is coming off a close win against Fisher. 
carroll junior captain and receiver anthony vallera said he looks to take advantage of the additional time his team had to prepare for this weekend. 
“sorin has been one of the better teams in our division, but we’ve had an extra week to rest and prepare with our bye and our guys are excited to play,” vallera said. 
sorin sophomore captain and safety matthew requet said he hoped he could see his team continue their winning streak. 
“i think we will play well as our offense continues to improve under our new quar­terback sophomore shane anderson,” requet said. 
requet also talked about the impact his defense has made so far this year. 
“The defense won the turn­over battle last week, and i ex­pect that to happen again this weekend,” he said. 
vallera said he was also con­fident in his expectations for the vermin. 
“if our defense keeps play­ing like they have been, and our offense takes care of the ball, then we should be able to win this game,” he said. 
The otters will strive to re­main unbeaten against the vermin on sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
Siegfried vs. duncan 
By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 
siegfried and duncan, two teams going in different di­rections, will face off sunday afternoon. 
siegfried (2-0) has started the season strong and is looking to make the playoffs. ramblers captain and senior grady schmidt noted the importance of this game for reaching that goal. 
“basically if we win we’ve guaranteed ourselves a playoff spot,” schmidt said. “we want to go undefeated, and a win this week would be the first step to getting there.” 
duncan (0-3) has lost of a couple of close games and seeks to finish its season with a strong performance. highlander captain and ju­nior stephen Treacy says this 
paid adverTisemenT 
game is big for duncan moving forward. 
“i think it would be huge to get a victory,” Treacy said. “i think the goal of the team is to put it all together for this final game.” 
Treacy also said his team does not feel much pressure en­tering sunday’s matchup. 
“we’ve been more relaxed at practice because we’re looking to have more fun and do some different stuff,” Treacy said. “we’ll experiment and see what we can build on for next year.” 
schmidt, on the other hand, said the ramblers are looking to improve in preparation for a playoff berth. 
“we’ve been working on our timing in the passing game,” schmidt said. “it really helped us last week, so we’re going to try to build off of that.” 
although duncan might try everything to pull off an upset, schmidt said he feels confident his team can clinch a postsea­son berth this week. 
“we just need to play how we want to play,” schmidt said. “we’re confident that if we can control the pace of the game, we’ll come away with a win.” 
The two teams face off sunday afternoon at 2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Joseph Evertt at  jeveret4@nd.edu 
dillon vs. Keough 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
Keough will play dillon on sunday at 3:30 pm at stepan Fields with playoff hopes for both teams on the line. 
Keough (1-2) is coming off a 20-0 win against o’neill, which captain matthew mooney said was due to a strong offense and success­fully executed plays. 
“last week we threw the ball well,” mooney said. “we’ll keep looking to do that for this week.” 
although confident in its play, mooney said the team feels the building pressure of this week’s game. 
“we need to win this to keep our playoff chances alive,” mooney said. 
dillon (1-1) is recover­ing from a close 10-7 loss to stanford, but according to sophomore captain John walsh, the big red will field a stronger team this week than last. 
“The problem last week is we had six or seven guys that were either out of town at the clemson game or injured, so this week we just have to get everybody back and healthy,” said walsh. 
see inTerhall PaGe 15 




interhall 
conTinued From page 14 
beyond players returning, dillon is also expanding its offensive playbook this week, walsh said. 
Keough will take on dillon this sunday at 3:30 pm at riehle Fields. 
Contact Molly Murphy at  mmurph40@nd.edu 
morrissey vs. Knott 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 
morrissey takes on Knott this week in a contest of teams look­ing to bounce back from losses. 
after defeating duncan in its first game, morrissey (2-1) lost a close contest to alumni. sophomore quarterback and captain declan Zidar said inju­ries and unlucky plays contrib­uted to the result. 
“we went up 7-0, but then our running back got hurt,” said Zidar. “alumni blocked a field goal and returned it for a touch­down to tie it, and then they scored late to win. it was kind of a heartbreaker.” 
losing the game was diffi­cult, but losing senior running back connor white to injury could be an even bigger loss for morrissey. white, a critical part of morrissey’s wing-T offense is questionable for sunday’s game after receiving stitches in his hand following the injury. Zidar said if white cannot play, morrissey may be forced to alter its strategy. 
“we have a good freshman running back,” Zidar said.  “but we’ll probably pass more if connor can’t go.” 
Knott (1-1) knows the impor­tance of a win in this game, se­nior captain and running back casey mccaffrey said. 
“morrissey won it all last year so it’ll be a tough game, but we really need a win,” mccaffery said. 
as for how Knott is planning to get this win, the Juggerknotts will rely on a combination of different offensive looks and solid run defense, mccaffrey said. 
“we play both out of a pro-set and a spread pretty equally well, and they are pretty heavy-running, so we will try to stop that first,” mccaffrey said. 
The Juggerknotts will at­tempt to rebound from last weekend with a win over the defending champion manor on sunday at 2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 
farley vs. mcGlinn 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
Farley takes on mcglinn sunday in a tale of two seasons. 
Farley has gotten off to a hot start this season, and The Finest are heading into sunday’s contest with a 3-1 record, including a win last week against pasquerilla east. 
senior Farley captain ali buersmeyer said she believes this game could truly be a game of inches. 
“all of our games have been pretty evenly matched, so we expect a close one in this game, too,” buersmeyer said. “we’re hoping to stay strong and continue our momen­tum and do what needs to be done.” 
mcglinn (0-4) has yet to get that coveted first win, but has put up a fight in every game to this point and hopes to continue that attitude in this matchup, senior captain megan Fabry. 
while wins have been tough to come by for mcglinn, se­nior captain megan Fabry said the effort has always been there. 
“our team has a lot of heart this year,” Fabry said. “we haven’t won a game yet, but everyone is still very upbeat and having fun. despite our record, i am so pleased with the season and effort the girls have put in. in this game, i expect everyone to go out and play their hardest. we’ve been doing that all season, so it shouldn’t be a problem.” 
Farley looks to solidify its playoff position while mcglinn seeks its first win of the year at 5 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Alex Bender at abender@nd.edu 
see inTerhall PaGe 13 

paid adverTisemenT 

WOmen’S SWimminG 

irish set to begin season at dennis stark relays 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

The irish begin the 2015­2016 season Friday when they host the annual dennis stark relays. The relays, which will be held at rolfs aquatic center, are in their 51st year but will be with­out a special guest for the first time. dennis stark, for whom the meet is named, died in december at the age of 92. he was the first coach of the irish women’s swimming and diving team in 1981 and an annual guest at the relays. 
The irish are led by first-year head coach mike litzinger, who comes to notre dame from acc foe north carolina. while with the Tar heels, litzinger coached seven runner-up finishes at the acc cham­pionships in addition to top-20 finishes at the ncaa championships in his last four seasons. litzinger said he wants to use this week­end’s meet as a benchmark to assess where changes need to be made and how ef­fective team strategy is. 
“my goals for the first meet are certainly to win, but more importantly to observe and evaluate how the women react in a com­petitive situation,” litzinger said. “developing a team dynamic, evaluating per­formance, individual race strategy will always be on my list of meet goals.” 
several key contribu­tors from the 2014-15 sea­son return for the irish season, and although the graduation of all-american emma reaney left a big void in the roster, younger swim­mers are ready for their turn to step up and contribute, litzinger said. 
litzinger  pointed to ju­nior catherine mulquin, who swims the backstroke and freestyle, returning for the irish on the back of two top-20 finishes in the “b” finals at the acc champi­onships in march. litzinger said he believes the upper­classmen for the irish will be a great asset for them in their first meet. 
“our upperclassmen women have been tremen­dous,” litzinger said. “The divers and swimmers have communicated with the team and staff extremely well. we will have strong leadership this year.” 
sophomores sherri mcintee and molly Treble, the only irish freshmen to compete at the acc cham­pionships, also return this season ready to build upon their impressive freshmen campaigns. Treble finished the 2014-15 season with a career-best performance in the 200-yard freestyle at the acc championships (1:50.65). mcintee fin­ished 23rd in the “c” finals in the 200-yard breast­stroke (1:03.92) at the acc championships. 
in addition to returning talent, irish newcomers look to make an impact on the squad immediately com­ing off of illustrious high school and prep careers, litzinger said. Freshman sofia revilak, a butterfly and free-style swimmer, swam a career best 1:01.41 in the 100-meter butterfly at the 2015 pan-am games, for example. 
The irish may need to work out some kinks re­garding their execution, but litzinger said early season meets are so valu­able because they give the team time to practice be­fore the acc and ncaa championships. 
“we will always be work­ing on racing. competitive fire in practice and ex­ecution of skills will be a premium,” litzinger said. “however, early in the sea­son our weakness will be executing race strategy and detail work, like underwa­ter kicking and turning. but that is why we swim and dive the meets, to get ready for championship execution.” 
last year, the irish took second place in the dennis stark relays, behind ohio state. This year, litzinger said he feels the depth of the team will help them bring home first-place at their season-opener. 
“we are pretty deep in [butter]fly, back[stroke] and breast[stroke],” litzinger said, “our medley-relay teams should be good and in the diving end we have some good experience as well.” 
The irish kick off their season in the dennis stark relays on Friday. The events will begin in rolfs aquatic center at 5 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore Sherri McIntee competes in the 200-yard medley relay during the Shamrock Invitational against Cleveland State on Feb. 7. McIntee finished with a time of 1:25.73. 

The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd VOlleyball 

Irish prepare for match with Tigers 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
spors writer 
The irish will look to right the ship and put an end to their current six-match los­ing streak when they head to south carolina for a match with clemson on Friday night. 
coming off a heartbreak­ing 3-2 (26-28, 25-21, 27-25, 21­25, 15-13) loss to syracuse on sunday, the team is trying to stay positive, freshman libero ryann deJarld said. The irish will have a couple more chanc­es to get their first conference victory this weekend. 
notre dame (5-11, 0-4 acc) will get its first chance Friday when it visits fellow winless conference opponent clemson (5-12, 0-4 acc) before it heads to atlanta for a match with georgia Tech (11-5, 2-2 acc) on sunday afternoon. 
deJarld, fresh off an im­pressive 28-dig performance against the orange last week­end, said the team tried to keep the focus on the positive after the frustratingly close loss to the orange. 
“i feel like we definitely took a step in the right direction on our side of the net,” deJarld said. “we felt a lot more aggres­sive, more in sync. it was obvi­ously a really tough loss. when you lose that closely, you tend to look back at a couple plays that could have been made, so going into the next game we just have to make those couple plays i think.” 
sophomore outside hitter maddie plumlee, who led the team with a career-high 14 kills on sunday, echoed that senti­ment by citing head coach Jim mclaughlin’s mantra each game is part of a long process on the road to success. 
“Jim talks a lot about it be­ing a process, and, you know, there’s no way around it,” plumlee said. “you just have to go through it, and so right now we’re battling through it and it’s going to take some time. it’s not just going to happen over night. i think syracuse was definitely a step in the right direction, but just building on our techniques is important. we can’t go back to our old habits, we have to keep going through with Jim’s way — trust in him — and i think syracuse reflected that and was a step forward.” 
The irish are in the middle of a long season, and their first long winless drought of the current campaign, but neither plumlee or deJarld said they were bothered by the stretch. instead, both underclassmen said they are focused on the little things that will bring suc­cess in the near future. 
plumlee and deJarld both said the team has emphasized continuing to take care of indi­vidual assignments. 
“our coaches put a lot of em­phasis on doing our own job,” deJarld said, “Just thinking about ourselves, and some­times when we’re worrying about the whole team or about someone else doing their job, we forget to do our own, and going into the next match, we just have to remember what our job is.” 
“Today [mclaughlin] talked a lot about ‘self-demand,’ and i think that’s very reflective of ‘do your own job,’” plumlee said. “For me, self-demand, i have to demand this every play, every day. That’s our motto, and we have to go back to it, refer to it, just keep being aggressive and continue this forward.” 
deJarld, plumlee and the rest of the irish will look to break their recent losing streak and get back to their winning ways when the face clemson on Friday at 7 p.m. and georgia Tech on sunday at 1 p.m. notre dame next plays at home when it welcomes duke and wake Forest to campus next weekend. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at  hmcdani1@nd.edu 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 

senior center and team cap­tain steven Fogarty said during the team’s media day this past Tuesday. 
“it’s been a while since we’ve all been on the ice,” Fogarty said. “we can only go against each other so much in practice.” 
Fogarty is joined this year by a strong contingent of new leadership, headlined by a cadre of senior alter­nate captains. senior wing­er Thomas dipauli, one of those new alternate cap­tains introduced this week, said the veteran core of the squad wasted no time in ac­climating the team’s fresh­men to their new home — as well as explaining to them the rules that he and his fellow captains had come up with during the long offseason. 
“There are some strict rules this year that we came up with that we think are going to help our team win,” dipauli said. “hockey’s a long season — you’ve got to have fun, you’ve got to work hard, but you’ve also just got to relax or you’ll drive yourself crazy.” 
when asked about spe­cific rules that he and his fellow seniors had come up with, dipauli said those were team secrets. however, he said that they were necessary. 
“They’ll make us a great team,” dipauli said. “not just a good team. we’re tak­ing this [leadership] role very seriously.” 
if senior left wing and alternate captain mario lucia’s own personal goals are any indication, the team overall does indeed have lofty aspirations. 
“Just being more consis­tent — being the same play­er night in night out, being the best player on the ice,” lucia said. “being a leader on my team. being a guy that coach can rely on.” 
lucia also listed a few 
more  boxes  he’d  like  to  
check  during  his  senior  
year.  

“i’d like to be an all­american and help my team to a national champion­ship,” lucia said. 
of course, any road to the national championship will have to be paved from the net out — and though the team hasn’t named an outright starting goal­tender yet, eyes will be trained on sophomore cal petersen. petersen won the starting job as a freshman, and is the likely candidate to man the crease for the irish in the coming sea­son. petersen said he feels confident heading into his second year. 
“a lot with goaltending is experience,” petersen said. “once we started win­ning some games last year, i think everything kind of clicked for the team and we worked off each other, and i think that’s something that we can carry on — having success against very good teams last year.” 
so with big ambitions and high hopes across the board, the irish turn their attention to their first test Friday. head coach Jeff Jackson said the game is a great opportunity to get some live experience for the squad. 
“For us it’s about evalu­ation,” Jackson said. “we want to evaluate some of the young guys, line combi­nations, power play combi­nations, defensemen pairs. it’s a good tune-up for us as far as getting our game legs and hitting someone oth­er than ourselves. playing guelph is like playing some of our college teams be­cause they are going to be older and physically more mature.” 
The irish start their sea­son against guelph on Friday, when the puck drops at 7:35 p.m. at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 

senior forward anna maria gilbertson, who already ranked sixth in the country in shots per game, took seven shots overall on the night, with two finding their way on goal. 
The irish nearly extended the lead late, getting a pair of shots off in the final two minutes of the game that sailed just wide of the post, the first by junior for­ward emily geyer and the sec­ond by gilbertson. 
“i felt like we went out and took care of business,” romagnolo said. “we scored a great goal. we could’ve had a lot of other ones, but we generated a lot of attack.” 
The other leader on attack for the irish against syracuse (4-9-1, 0-5-0 acc) was sophomore mid­fielder sabrina Flores, who had five shots. romagnolo praised the production and effort from all of the irish midfielders. 
“i was happy with our mid­field,” romagnolo said. “we shook it up and had some differ­ent faces in there. [sophomore midfielder] ginny [mcgowan] did a great job of moving the ball for us, [sophomore midfielder] Taylor Klawunder was very ac­tive, and sabrina was connect­ing and making runs beyond the forward line very well.” 
The irish defense kept the orange locked down for all 90 minutes, not yielding a single shot until there were 11 minutes remaining in the match, when syracuse got one off that flew high over the bar. romagnolo said her defenders’ ability to 

m Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
weeks where they’ve had to make a quick turnaround and play in games in a three-day span, so they un­derstand what they need to do to get around that chal­lenge, clark said. Their two losses of the season against Xavier and north carolina came on both ends of one such turnaround. The team was forced to turn their fo­cus quickly from a game played in the middle of the week to traveling to a hostile environment just two days later. 
“at the time, Xavier was the first mid-week game where classes were in ses­sion,” clark said. “i think that traveling to north carolina after was tough, but i think the guys are right into beat of the season. we’re into the rhythm of the season, so i think we’ll be ready for whatever comes. we knew this was possibly the hardest week of the sea­son, and we know what the load and volume should be work the week. we’re pretty well aware of what we have to do for saturday’s game.” 
against michigan, notre dame struggled with turn­ing the ball over in the first half before it was able to pick things up in the sec­ond half and overtime. The irish controlled the time of possession while outshoot­ing the wolverines, 10-6, after the first half. against duke, clark believes the irish will have to minimize turnovers to walk away with the victory. 
“we have to do a better job of not turning the ball over because we caused our prob­lems [against michigan],” clark said. “we eventually lost a goal, and we could have lost more goals. we played very well, but that was the one area that caused us a big bit of trouble.” 
not only will this game be important in terms of seeding in the acc tourna­ment played next month, but saturday will be the second-to-last home game for the seniors who hope to extend their post-seasons all the way through the december in the national championship game. 
“if we want to go where we’d like to go, this is about half way through the sea­son,” clark said. “There’s a lot of work to do before we can make that happen, but that’ll be the aim. There’s a lot of games to play, so we want to keep things one game at a time. ... The se­niors have done a really good job. They’re an outstanding group of young men aca­demically and athletically. They’ve done it well all the way through, and this year is no exception.” 
The irish will look to fin­ish their two-game home stand with a victory before heading off for their next three games on the road. notre dame will host duke saturday at alumni stadium at 12 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
clear the ball was key. 

The shutout was the seventh of 2015 for notre dame and its first against an acc opponent. 
notre dame was coming off two consecutive 1-0 losses, the first a home defeat at the hands of no. 2 Florida state on sept. 27 and the second an up­set loss to miami on the road one week ago. romagnolo said she saw several improvements Thursday. 
“The last couple games we didn’t get the passing rhythm that we got today,” she said. “i was happy to see us just moving better today, and i want to con­tinue to see that.” 
next up for notre dame is boston college on sunday at 
paid adverTisemenT 
home. Finishing on attack will be a point of emphasis enter­ing the conference matchup, romagnolo said. 
“i think we can maybe move it a little quicker in the back, but other than that we just need to finish our chances,” romagnolo said. “you never know how many chances you’re going to get against acc opponents, so i’d like to see us convert more.” 
Kickoff against the eagles is 1 p.m. sunday at alumni stadium, when notre dame will aim to string together consecu­tive acc wins for the first time this year. 
Contact Renee Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 




crOSSWOrd | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 34 ___ Mustard 67 Planet invaded (Clue character): in “The War of 
1 “Shoo, kitty!” 

Abbr. the Worlds” 5 Minus item on a 
35 Not naughty 68 Given for a time
balance sheet 69 Cincinnati team
39 Good grounding
10 “Man, that was 70 Full of nerve

close!” 43 Building block ofmolecules 71 Exploring the
14 One’s equal bounds of 

15 Harden (to) 44 Gibbon, for one propriety, as humor
16 Jewish wedding 45 Heavy zoo dance 
critter 

17 Et ___ (and 46 Lack of DOWN 
others) hardships 

1 Involuntary 18 Luxury craft 48 Employee’s pay twitch crossing the 2 Instrument
50 Recipe amt.

Atlantic, say played with a53 Spooned-out bow
20 Hog’s food 
Nestlé product 
3 Vowel run21 ___ sequitur 
58 Many a South 
4 Rhythm for a22 Give the most Seas island minuet or waltz 
votes 

60 By way of 5 “Walk On By” 23 Paris cabaret singer Warwick 
61 Slangy greeting27 Hog’s home 6 “Again! Again!”
62 What this 28 Weapon for crossword is, in 7 Good, in fencing a way? Granada 8 Levin or
29 Shekel : Israel :: 65 “Step ___!” 
Gershwin

___ : Mexico (“Hurry up!”) 9 “Perfect” number
31 Letter before 66 Having settlediota the score 10 Punxsutawney___ (annualspring
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
forecaster) 11 Sharpens 12 Posture-perfect 13 Like a witch’s 
nose 19 Cask dregs 24 Portable Apple
device 25 “___ my honor!” 26 Desex, as a
stallion 30 Considered from all sides 31 Org. conductingairport searches 32 On a streak 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Puzzle by Gareth Bain  
33 “Livin’ Thing”rock grp. 34 Pool stick 36 “East” on a grandfatherclock  41 Oil cartel 42 Jason’s ship 47 Rights grp. 48 What belts wraparound 49 Lack of interest  54 In broad daylight 55 Enjoyed a banquet 56 Looking at 57 Run-down  
37 Jailbird 38 Rock producerBrian 40 Burkina ___  50 Circus employeewith a whip 51 Barrel support 52 Prodded with a  59 Periscope part 63 Item to hang your hat on  
(African land)  finger  64 Greek cross  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JuSt add Water | eric carlson  & John roddy 
SudOKu | The mepham group 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOrOScOPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you have more going for you than you realize. get involved in your community or with issues that concern you. you will make a difference if you speak up. changes can be made personally and professionally that will improve your life, but you have to be the one to initiate what you want to see unfold. romance is highlighted. your numbers are 8, 13, 21, 25, 34, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): raise the bar and take a stab at something that excites you. don’t let anyone take over or push you around. use your ability to adapt to whatever goes wrong and you will excel if you keep moving. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): socialize, travel and learn all you can about the people you encounter. your outlook will change and positive events will start to unfold. romance is encouraged and will be instrumental when it comes to pushing you in a new direction. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): use caution when dealing with personal and professional matters. problems based on poor information will surface. do your own fact-finding. an investment that promotes a better living arrangement can be put into play if you are careful not to exceed your budget. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): learn as you go. say little and concentrate more on the physical aspect of what’s required to improve your life. problems at home will develop. don’t let anyone push you in a direction that counters what you are trying to accomplish. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): strut your stuff and you will make an impression on someone who has something to offer you. greater security will be yours if you speak up about the way you want to implement change. Travel and communication are highlighted. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): go over any last-minute changes when dealing with contracts or agreements you have with a personal or professional partner. you have to make sure you are both on the same page before you make a commitment. strive for equality, not running the show. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): express your opinions and put your plans in motion even if you have to do so alone. build greater security by implementing changes that add to your peace of mind as well as your bank account. romance is encouraged, and favors will be granted. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): if you take a unique approach, doors will open and offers will be made. it’s up to you to put a little pressure on your peers and force your will in order to get what you want. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): participation is key, but so is staying within your means. pick and choose what fits your interest and your budget. someone you want to impress will dare you to take on too much physically, emotionally or financially. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t be too quick to give in or to take on someone else’s responsibilities. don’t be too willing to do things for others. charity begins at home, and that’s where your interests should lie. don’t make unnecessary changes. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep a close watch on those you love. speak up and make your point heard. protect your interests and stand firm when it comes to dealing with loved ones. use something from your past in order to get ahead now. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an opportunity will surface through someone you work with. be ready to express your interest and your suggestions to improve whatever situation you face. you will stand out if you are aggressive and forward-thinking. 


Birthday Baby: you are patient, practical and forthright. you are helpful and motivated. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
CTIYH  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NUGWS  

 
 
 
 
 

NEEDSS  

 
 
 
 
 
 

DAACEF  

 
 
 
 
 
 


A: 



(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: ROYAL ABOUT GASHED SUPERBYesterday’s 
Answer: The photo shoot for the Beatles album cover turned the street into — “GABBEY” ROAD 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer |  friday, OctOber 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd WOmen’S SOccer | nd 1; syracuse 0 
Notre Dame rebounds with ACC win over Syracuse 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
with a 1-0 victory over syracuse at alumni stadium on Thursday night, no. 16 notre dame earned its second confer­ence win of the season after two consecutive losses last week. 
The game-winning goal came 15 minutes into the game when irish sophomore defender monica Flores directed a pass into the box to junior midfielder sandra yu, who headed the ball past the orange goalkeeper for her third score of the season. 
“what i loved about the goal was the courage to get on the end of the ball in a crowd and go up for it,” irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said. “That’s some­thing we talk about, just finding a way and showing that grit and determination. sandra really showed that with the goal. she showed that in how she played.” 
notre dame (9-3-1, 2-3-0 acc) failed to score after that, though it had a number of chances, to­taling 18 shots, including six on goal. 
see w soccer PaGe 18 

men’S SOccer 

irish, blue devils ready for matchup 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after tying against visit­ing michigan on wednesday night, no. 7 notre dame will face a quick turnaround as it prepares to host duke on saturday. 
The irish (7-2-3, acc 2-1­
1) are in the middle of one of the toughest stretches of games as they will play in their third match in five days when the blue devils (5-4­2, acc 0-3-1) visit alumni stadium. despite having to quickly change their focus from one opponent to the next, irish head coach bobby clark said the players are ex­cited for the challenges they face every game. 
“i know our guys will be ready for it,” clark said. “duke is in a situation where they played on monday, so they’ve had time to recov­er, but our guys are fit and sometimes you’re better off playing games than not. i’m comfortable that we’ll be ready for it.” 
The blue devils are coming off a 3-2 double-overtime vic­tory against no. 23 hofstra. led by senior midfielder Zach mathers, duke was able to rally from a 2-0 deficit to take down the pride. mathers was the catalyst to the of­fense as he drilled a free kick for duke’s first goal of the game to eventually push the team to overtime and rally to a victory. he also had a cou­ple of assists, including the pass that went for the game-winning goal by sophomore midfielder brian white. 
despite being winless in conference play, clark said he understands duke is a tal­ented team that should not be taken lightly. 
“They started the season very well,” clark said. “it’s easy to start losing a couple of games in a row when you start playing a tough sched­ule. once you get into con­ference games, it’s not easy. They’re very talented and have very good players. i know that.” 
The irish had a couple of 
see m soccer PaGe 18 
interHall 
griffins to face Knights 
Keenan vs. Stanford 
By MARUEEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
stanford faces Keenan this sunday in the only shared-building rivalry on campus. 
griffins senior captain and linebacker dan babiak said the competition is friendly but focused. 
“we have a connected chapel with them, so we’ve dubbed it ‘The battle of the chapel,’” babiak said. “everyone’s ready to go out there and hit some Keenan guys. we’re ready to beat them.” 
Keenan (2-0) has rallied to win against stanford (2-0) for the last four years. however, Knights junior captain and receiver michael Koller said the griffins have become an increasing threat. 
see inTerhall PaGe 14 
HOcKey 

ND set to begin exhibition schedule with new leaders, confidence 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The irish open their 48th season of varsity hockey on Friday as they host the university of guelph for an exhibition game at 7:35 
p.m. at compton Family ice arena. 
Following a season in which notre dame failed to qualify for the ncaa tourna­ment, the irish are a year old­er and hoping to start their third season in the competi­tive hockey east conference on a high note. 
The irish finished just out­side the top 25 in the first poll of the year, but the team garnered 45 votes in the sept. 28 poll. Though the game against guelph on Friday will not affect the team’s standing in the ncaa rank­ings or in their conference, it will provide an opportunity for the irish to shake off the 

MONICA VILLAGOMEZ MENDEZ | The Observer rust in a real game setting, 
Senior center Steven Fogarty fights for a loose puck during a 2-0 loss to Boston College on Feb. 28 at Compton Family Ice Arena. Fogarty tallied nine goals and 12 assists during the 2014-2015 season. see hocKey PaGe 16 




