ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg ThE TRuTh NOTRE dAME ANd ANd REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCuRATELy 

VOLuME 49, ISSuE 2 | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND, SMC welcome freshmen to campus 
Welcome Weekend promotes inter-dorm activities 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
News Writer 
The class of 2019 spent its first days at Notre dame participat­ing in events organized by the university and its 29 residence halls during this year’s Welcome Weekend, formerly known as Frosh-O. Over the course of the weekend, freshmen partook in a variety of activities alongside their classmates and older student am­bassadors, which were designed to make the first-year students feel comfortable as they adjust to life away from home. 
Freshman Andy Nelson said he felt a sense of belonging within the Notre dame community when he pulled up to Morrisey hall for the first time. 
see ORIENTATION PAGE 5 



Saint Mary’s first-years experience Belles Beginnings 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
News Writer 
Over the weekend, Saint Mary’s class of 2019 participated in Belles Beginnings, the College’s orienta­tion program, to help ease students into college life along with the peer mentoring program. 
Student body president Kaitlyn Baker said Belles Beginnings pro­vides students with resources and knowledge to help them move from high school students to college women while giving them the op­portunity to meet other first years. 
Belles Beginnings commenced Thursday when the newest mem­bers of the College moved into their residence halls, Baker said. A ma­triculation ceremony, small group meetings hosted by Peer 
see BEgINNINgS PAGE 5 



SMC unveils new abroad program 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Pending final negotiations with John Cabot university (JCu) in Rome, the Saint Mary’s study abroad program will have a “new home in Rome,” the Rome pro­gram director Portia Preybs said. 
According to a press release, Prebys, who has worked with the College’s Rome Program since it 

began in 1970, personally recom­mended the JCu program as the best fit for Saint Mary’s students af­ter much research on her part. 
Mana derakhshani, Associate director of the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership (CWIL), said the new program will of­fer students a different kind of experience, immersing them more in Roman culture. 
The current program began 45 years ago, according to a press re­lease, and the new collaborative program will offer students the op­portunity to study abroad even as a junior or senior. 
“[The new program] will offer Saint Mary’s students a richer in­tercultural experience, because they will be in classes with Italian students as well as students from 70 other countries,” derakhshani said. 
“Saint Mary’s students will have the experience of creating commu­nity because they will be living to­gether in one apartment building,” derakshani said. “They will also experience more of an immersion experience because they will need to interact with their neighbors and other classmates.” 
Junior Kate FitzMaurice said she spent her entire sophomore year abroad in Rome and is excited about the new program. 
see ROME PAGE 5 



FYS hosts quilt tribute for Rebecca Townsend 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
Associate News Editor 

Students gathered in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center on Sunday afternoon to honor the memory of Rebecca draper Townsend, an incoming member of the Notre dame class of 2019 who died July in a traffic accident before she arrived on campus. 
Between 1:30 and 5:30 p.m., members of the class of 2019, as well as students from all classes, wrote messages on 4-by-4-inch squares of fabric as part of the Rebecca Townsend Tribute Quilt Project, a Welcome Weekend event sponsored by the division of Student Affairs and First year of Studies (FyS). 
Junior Maggie Mcdevitt, a member of the student-run Orientation Steering Committee involved in planning the pro­gramming for Welcome Weekend, said the squares, when stitched together, will form two quilts – one to be presented to the Townsend family and the other to remain in Badin hall, Townsend’s designated dorm. 
“It’s part of a solidarity thing, to remind [Townsend’s] family that no matter what, she’s still part of our Notre dame family, and she’s part of the class of 2019,” Mcdevitt said. “We’re missing her as well.” 
Mcdevitt said there was con­siderable turnout from students of all classes for the event, which was originally scheduled to be held on North Quad, but which moved to LaFortune Student Center at the last minute due to rain. 
“We’ve had lots of people. And especially a lot of dorms have done walkovers for other fresh­men to come in, so we’ve had whole dorms coming in,” she said. “And students that aren’t fresh­man too.” 
Cecilia Lucero, an academic advisor in FyS who helped come up with the idea for the tribute quilt, said the project was meant to introduce incoming freshmen to the importance of community and service at Notre dame during their first weekend on campus. 
“[It’s] a nice way to bring people together, connect people and do it in remembrance of somebody that is important to people,” Lucero said. “We wanted to get students thinking about serving others and doing good and being kind.” 
Lucero said part of the inspira­tion behind the project was the number of recent deaths in the Notre dame community, includ­ing those of university President emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh, associate dean in the College of Engineering Cathy Pieronek and three students during the spring semester. 
“In the spring there were so many tragedies,” she said. “Some of that was still very raw.  And I think anytime there is a death in the Notre dame community it affects everybody. Because you know people who are connected in some way.” 
Although Townsend passed away before she was able to attend 
see QuILT PAGE 5 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack Rooney                    Cristina gutierrez Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin 
News Editor: Margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha Ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach Llorens Graphics Editor: Erin Rice Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Online Editor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 
Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 


News Sports 
Margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Andrea Vale Renee griffin Nicole Caratas hunter Mcdaniel 

Graphics Scene 
Erin Rice Kathy Minko 

Photo Viewpoint 
Caitlyn Jordan Austin Taliaferro 


Corrections 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What class are you looking forward to this semester? 

Chip Blood 

Abigayle Rhode 
Sorin College 
junior 
junior 
Walsh hall 
“Ethics.” 
“PLS opera.” 


Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Erin Hart 
junior Le Mans hall 
“Sculptural knitting and crocheting.” 

Connor Parker 
junior Alumni hall 
“hydrology.” 



Thomas Seitz 
junior 
Stanford hall 
“Colonial America.” 

Holly Backstrom 
junior 
Walsh hall 
“Application development.” 
Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
First Day of Classes  “The Winter’s Tale”  Dante and Blood in  Women’s Soccer vs.  Biathalon  
for Undergraduates  DeBartolo Performing  the Medieval Context  Santa Clara  Boat House  
Campus-wide  Arts Center  Hesburgh Library  Alumni Stadium  10 a.m.  
All day  7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m.  4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.  7 p.m.  Half-mile swim and  
Classes start for all  Part of the Notre Dame  A lecture and Italian  The Irish take on Santa  two-mile run race for  
students  Shakespeare Festival  research seminar  Clara.  individuals and teams  
Opening Mass and  Feed Your Faith  National Theatre  Graduate Student  Outdoor Movie  
Picnic  South Quad  Live: Everyman Mass  South Quad  
Joyce Center  7 p.m.-9 p.m.   DeBartolo Performing  Basilica of the Sacred  10 p.m.  
5:30 p.m-8:30 p.m.  A chance for students  Arts Center  Heart  Outdoor screening  
Annual kickoff  to learn more about  7 p.m.-9:15 p.m.  5:15 p.m.  hosted by Student  
activities for the year  faith development  Screening of play  Weekly Mass  Activites Office  


NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 



Galvin replaces Crawford as College of Science dean 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this article appeared online June 18. 
Mary galvin, director for the division of Materials Research in the National Science Foundation (NSF) since 2013, assumed the role of William search for a new leader of the College of Science. 
“After a nationwide search, Mary galvin rose to the top from among many outstand­ing candidates as the person to lead our College of Science impact on research within the College of Science. 
“Mary galvin has a wealth of research, teaching and mentoring and leadership experiences in academia, in­dustry and government,” he said in the press release. “She combines these with high 
standards, an impressive work 


Alumnus makes $35 million gift 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this article appeared online June 4. 
Alumnus Richard Corbett has gifted $35 million to the university to endow the head football coach position and to classrooms, the press release said. 
The department of Anthropology will reside on the second floor, and the third through fifth floors of the new hall will house the department of Psychology and will include teaching and research labs, 
fund the construction of a new classrooms and departmental 

into the future,” Jenkins said in the press release. “She brings leadership experience in various realms, an entre­preneurial spirit and a com­mitment to Notre dame’s mission, all of which make her an ideal leader for the College and the university. 
“We welcome her and look forward to many years of close collaboration.” 
Thomas Burish, the university’s Charles and Jilly Fischer Provost, cited her re­search experience as having the potential to have a large 
K. Warren Foundation dean of 
the College of Science on Aug. 
17, the university announced 
over the summer. 
Before working at NSF, 
galvin previously served as member of the technical staff of Bell Laboratories, a profes­sor of materials science and engineering at the university of delaware, as well as the technical lead for the develop­ment of new electroactive or­ganic products at Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., accord­ing to the press release. 
A fellow in the American Physical Society, galvin will also be appointed professor in chemistry and biochemistry. 
university President Fr. John Jenkins said galvin’s wide range of experiences helped distinguish her in the 
ethic, the ability to relate to building that will house the offices, according to the press 
disparate disciplines and re- psychology and anthropology  release.  
search areas and a strong be- departments, as well as a new  The top three levels will have  
lief in Notre dame’s Catholic  media center, according to a  hospitality space for football  
identity. I speak on behalf of  Notre dame press release in  games, including food and bev­ 

the entire search committee in expressing our enthusiasm about and gratitude for her agreeing to serve as dean.” 
galvin reiterated the impor­tance of scientific research and its broader impact. 
“Fundamental science is critical to solving many of the problems faced by society and the nation,” she said. “I believe the College of Science faculty will play a signifi­cant role in producing this knowledge.” 
galvin replaces gregory Crawford, who took on the role as vice president and as­sociate provost on July 1. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
June. 
Twenty-five million dollars of the gift will be put toward the new Corbett Family hall, locat­ed on the east side of the reno­vated Notre dame Stadium, while the remaining $10 mil­lion will endow the coaching position, the press release said. 
Construction of the new building will begin in November and will be com­pleted in August 2017, the press release said. The digital me­dia center will occupy the first floor of the building and will include a main studio with au­dio/visual control rooms, ed­iting and mixing studios and erage service, a press box for media, premium seating and open-air terraces, the release said. 
“This remarkably generous gift will help the university continue its commitment to provide its students with the finest college experience,” director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said. 
Irish head coach Brian Kelly will be the first Corbett Family head Coach; the head football coach position is the third ath­letic coaching position to be endowed at Notre dame, after women’s basketball and men’s lacrosse. 


PAId AdVERTISEMENT NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 




Rome 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
“The new program also offers an extensive amount of classes from all different majors includ­ing nursing and accounting, and it also offers upper level courses and internships, which means juniors and seniors have the opportunity to study abroad,” FitzMaurice said. 
FitzMaurice said the program will allow more students to enjoy the sights, culture and events in Rome. 
“This program makes all of the wonders of Rome available to so many more girls,” she said. “It makes me so happy to think that so many more girls can now have the opportunity to call Rome their home.” 
One major change to the Rome Program is that there will be no surcharge for students, derakhshani said. They will still be required to buy their own flights, but there will no longer be a $2,500 additional fee to partici­pate in the program. 

Another change is in the Rome semester calendar, derkhshani said. In the current Rome pro­gram, students’ program offi­cially ends before Easter, whereas in the new arrangement the pro­gram ends in early May just like at the College. 
derakhshani said JCu offers an expanded curriculum both in general education and some ma­jor level courses, which provides students with the opportunity to study abroad during their junior or senior year instead of taking only general education classes in Rome during their sophomore term. 
Additionally, derakhshani said, an affiliation with JCu will provide students with the option of studying in Rome during the summer, an option that was not available before. 
If interested, both Saint Mary’s and Notre dame students can speak with their academic advi­sors or contact umberto Tacheri at taccheri@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Beginnings 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
Mentors, and the presentation of Sex Signals took place Friday, followed by different presenta­tions regarding campus life, study abroad and other important topics on Saturday. The evening culmi­nated in PlayFair and domerfest on Saturday night. 
“The events throughout the weekend allowed students to meet each other in large group settings to bond as a class and in smaller groups to get to know each other as individuals,” Baker said. 
Senior Maranda Pennington works as a peer mentor to first year students. As a mentor, she helps the first-year students transition to the College by offering advice and answering any questions they might have about academics, stu­dent life or anything about Saint Mary’s, she said. 
Pennington said she hopes stu­dents learn that “it’s more than okay to ask questions and feel a little clueless at times.” She also hopes students learned Saint Mary’s students are surrounded by wonderful peers and professors who want to help them become successful women. 
“It helps so much [to have a peer mentor] because they’re actually getting a student perspective on everything rather than just being preached at by staff,” Pennington said. “It’s easier for them to relate and talk to someone who has gone through it and is closer to their age. … The first few weeks of college are such a stressful and vulner­able time. having a peer mentor to support you in any way they can through that process is vital.” 
during the weekend, students split their time between their peer mentors and various other pro­gramming sessions. With their peer mentors, first years partici­pated in small group discussions and ice breakers to get to know each other, Pennington said. 
“Overall, I tried to keep the en­vironment very relaxed because I know how nervous they probably were,” Pennington said. “I’m really excited to show my students why I love Saint Mary’s so much and also help them be successful and happy here.” 

Nina hartman, also a first year, said she learned more during ori­entation than she thought she would. 
“Not only have I learned im­portant information like how to stay safe and take care of myself, I also learned what the greatness and importance of being a Belle really is through getting to know new classmates during peer men­tor meetings, Mass, domerfest and many more fun activities,” hartman said. 
hartman said she is excited to join the community at Saint Mary’s. 
“Not only is the campus beau­tiful, but the people here are beautiful as well, inside and out,” hartman said. “Everybody is so kind and welcoming, which I love. I really can’t imagine myself any­where else but here for college. The Saint Mary’s community is one that I’ve been wanting to join for a long time now, and I’m ecstatic that I can finally be called a Belle.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


Orientation 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
“Everyone helped take my stuff to my dorm room,” Nelson said. “It helped me feel welcomed. Everyone had Morrisey T-shirts on and when I got mine, I just felt like part of the group.” 
Nelson said he enjoys the en­ergy, community and faith that he has experienced at Notre dame. 
“I went to a Catholic grade school and high school, so I’m kind of used to Catholic school­ing,” Nelson said. “I liked how faith is an important part of school here at Notre dame. Over Welcome Weekend, we had a lot of stuff centered around faith, like the opening Mass and the visit to the grotto.” 
Welcome Weekend was led in everyone’s feeling the same way.” 
Junior Jay dawahare, the Welcome Week captain in Alumni hall, said his favorite part of the weekend was teach­ing Alumni’s serenade songs to the first year students. 
“Every year we teach the Pups ‘My heart Will go On’ by Celine dion,” dawahare said. “The words are easy enough to teach, but the emotion behind the song and dance takes a skilled and passionate staff. usually the Pups laugh at us at first, but by Sunday night you can see a few Pups serenading the women.” 
dawahare said Welcome Weekend was a success, al­though he said he felt some of the changes this year have hin­dered the ambassadors’ abili­ties to welcome new students. Alumni hall was unable to host its traditional dawg Run across campus, according to dawahare. 
“In general, there is too much emphasis on one individual, in­stead of the group,” dawahare said. “Because a couple people might not want or be able to fully participate, they shut down the whole event. There are carts as an option for people unable or unwilling to run so they are able to ride alongside.” 
dawahare said he presented Alumni hall as a home and fam­ily to its new residents. 
“My goal was and still is to fos­ter the sense of brotherhood and community that Alumni hall is known for, and that has been in­tegral to my experience at Notre dame,” he said. 

Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 




Quilt 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
Notre dame, Lucero said she was nonetheless a valued member of the Notre dame community. Lucero said she hopes the quilt project will aid in the healing pro­cess of all who have been touched by Townsend’s death. 
“I think people have been very affected by the fact that Rebecca Townsend died this summer, and we just wanted to commemorate that in some way,” she said. 
Lucero said the time and effort invested by students into the quilts astonished her. 
“I was thinking people would just sign their names, or say what dorm they were in,” she said. “But people got really artistic and it was really cool. 
“I was just touched by how peo­ple really put their heart into creat­ing something.” 

Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
the dorms by staffs consisting of current student ambassadors who worked to help the first year students move in and transition into their lives at Notre dame. 
Junior Maggie Blake, Walsh hall’s Welcome Weekend cap­tain, said she thought this year’s Welcome Weekend was the best one yet. Blake said an event called “Ice Cream on Ice” was her favorite. 
“We did an event with Keenan where we went ice skating at Compton and ate ice cream,” Blake said. “It was so much fun. Everyone was having a blast and everyone skated, even the peo­ple who didn’t really know how to or went in not wanting to.” 
Blake said she wanted to high­light the sense of love and com­munity within Walsh for the first year students. 
“I remember when I was I freshman, I was really nervous coming in,” Blake said. “Just coming to this place, where people love each other so much, made me feel way better.” 
Freshmen Kimberly Faust and Caroline Forlenza, roommates in Farley hall, said their resi­dence hall’s Welcome Weekend staff made them feel comfort­able and excited to begin their time at Notre dame. 
“They were really helpful just while moving us in and help­ing us organize our furniture,” Faust said. “I didn’t expect them to carry all our stuff for us.” 
Forlenza said she felt a sense of unity with her new classmates after the weekend. 
“When we were all at the grotto, we were holding candles and they read aloud some of the concerns I’ve felt,” Forlenza said. “It was nice to hear that 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Coming home again 

Jack Rooney 
Managing Editor 

Before last Wednesday, it had been 243 days since I set foot on Notre dame’s campus (yes, I counted). 
In that time, I have been to seven different countries, at least 19 dif­ferent cities (I have lost count) and spent a total of three weeks at home in Chicago. 
For a while during my nine-month journey, I wasn’t sure I could still le­gitimately call any one place “home.” But when I drove up to Main Circle six days ago, I had my first senior year realization. Notre dame is, and al­ways will be, home. And coming home again is always good. 
I was only able to travel everywhere I went because Notre dame gave me the opportunities to do so. I was only able to meet the people I did and learn the things I did because I call this place home. 
Now, I’m not one for giving unsolic­ited advice to freshmen, or really any­one. But as I begin my final year at this incredible home, I can’t help but share what I have come to learn about this place and the people who live here. 
Notre dame exists for its students. Without us, there is no Notre dame. But for as much as this fact is a great blessing, it is also a heavy burden. It is our responsibility as Notre dame students to take full advantage of our four short years here — to solidify our convictions and determine how our passions can combine with our talents to be a force for good. 
We all chose to come to Notre dame, to call this place home for four years and really the rest of our lives. In return, we have to give nothing but our best. Anything else is failure. 
That’s an objectively frightening no­tion, but in the context of this campus, this small dot on the map in north­west Indiana, it becomes less intimi­dating. giving our absolute best all the time is daunting, but when everyone is tasked with the same responsibility, it becomes a little more attainable. 
Everyone here at Notre dame wants everyone else to succeed, and for the most part, will do whatever they can to help those around them flourish. I truly believe that, and I think that’s a big part of what makes Notre dame so unique. 
So as we begin another school year, and we come home again, or for the first time, do not forget why we are here. To borrow from my favorite por­tion of the mission statement, as I of­ten do, “the aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at       jrooney1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Neil Joseph 
Viewpoint Columnist 
As the Notre dame Class of 2019 starts their first day of classes today, they do so with the (correct) idea that Notre dame is the best college to be at in the united States. Their entire recruitment to Notre dame has told them how they are the smartest class to ever enter (newsflash: next year’s will be better) and about the incredible place that Notre dame is. Their summer has been filled with “31 Reasons Why Notre dame is Better Than your College” and “15 Reasons Why you Should be Excited to be a domer.” Welcome Weekend showed freshmen the best of their dorm and of the Notre dame experience — and understandably, they’re excited to be here. We all are. 
As a tour guide and as someone who believes that Notre dame is the best university to be at, I know and I appreciate everything that Notre dame has to offer. An on-campus living experience that no other univer­sity can compete with, the No. 1 business school in the country, an unexplainable connection with any person that you meet who went to Notre dame, the friendliness of every single person on this campus and rectors and professors who truly care about students. 
I could go on and on, but the point is that we have so much to celebrate as a school. Notre dame’s incredible ability to create a place that students can cherish forever is an example for every university.  At the same time, we have so much to improve upon. We’re not perfect — no one is. But we shouldn’t settle for merely enjoying every­thing that makes us great. 
Above, I mentioned our No. 1 business school ranking. It’s not the only ranking we do well in. We’re consistent­ly the top Catholic university, a top-15 college nationally and the best place to go to school in the Midwest. But last year we also had another ranking — the No. 9 un­friendliest place for LgBTQ students. how come no one talks about this ranking? It’s something that we need to change — and we have a unique place as the premier Catholic university. Pope Francis called all of us to re­spect and love all people regardless of the different clas­sifications that each person is subjected to. Catholic or not, all of us need to recognize that Notre dame should be an example to the world of openness and respect to all people, and as students we need to work towards that. 
Consistently, we hear how Notre dame is an incred­ible place for students, especially in comparison to other top-tier universities (Catholic and otherwise). We are great for so many things — our student satisfaction, job placement and dorm life make us equal with top univer­sities or even set us apart from them. yet, we still don’t have a sensible policy that protects students who are in danger from alcohol as hundreds of other colleges do. The university doesn’t provide detailed class reviews from our peers like most other colleges. Our clubs and organizations don’t get nearly as much money as do those at other schools. On these issues (and more), we have to be at or above the standards set by our peer institutions. 
On other issues, we must demand that Notre dame lead, not follow. Student debt is the biggest concern for our generation, and no college has any effective plan to make it easier for students. We’re the 12th-richest university, can easily fundraise $400 million on luxury boxes for the stadium (okay, it’s more than just luxury boxes) and are among the top 100 most expensive uni­versities. In spite of this, our average student debt is around the average of every other college in the united States. We’re Notre dame — we shouldn’t be “like every other average school” when it comes to this issue that is so important to college students. With some of the smartest and most innovative students, administrators and professors in the country, we should be at the fore­front of solving this issue. 
don’t get me wrong — there’s no place I’d rather be than Notre dame. The amazing things about this uni­versity far outweigh the bad. But greatness breeds com­placency. So what’s the solution? As students, sometimes we are so engulfed in the best four years in our life that we forget to acknowledge that there are things we can improve for ourselves and for future Notre dame stu­dents. We have to work with administrators, professors and other students to identify where and how we can improve. All of us at Notre dame are working toward a better future by acknowledging our flaws and refining our strengths. We should demand the same of our school and of each other. That’s what being the best requires. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He can be reached at njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Just freshman things 
Michael Fliotsos 
Retained Reflections 

Another summer has come and gone, meaning those of us returning to campus will experience once again the drawstring-bag toting, loaded-cargo-shorts wear­ing, staring-at-the-Notre-dame-mobile-app-map freshmen. Before you ask, no, this is not going to be a ‘freshmen are the most annoying thing ever’ column. Trust me, I would not have accepted an RA position if these things actually bothered me that much. 
Rather, this column is intended to both inform our beloved freshmen about their tendencies that make us chuckle or sigh and provide gentle guidance from the upperclassmen who have already walked the walk of freshman year. 
First, don’t buy more than a couple Nd shirts. A simple random sample of seniors or juniors walking around this campus reveals an important fact for any freshman’s wallet: aside from buying “The Shirt” at the bookstore and assorted hoodies and long sleeves, you are almost guaranteed to graduate from this university with an inordinate excess of Nd t-shirts. From Mental health Awareness Week to AnTostal to that one club you randomly paid dues for, I wish my freshman self had known that I now literally have too many Nd shirts to bring to school and wear. hey, at least that means that trips back home for breaks are very Irish. 
Secondly, know the bi-directional dining hall lines. While this one usually works itself out by the end of the first several weeks of school, let’s get it out now: the food lines at both South and North have one side where you enter, and another side where you exit. The frustrated upperclassman that got cut in line by an unknowing freshman thanks you. 
don’t have a Welcome Weekend-stereotype for one dining hall over the other. yes, we get it — in terms of convenience and location, there will be an inevitable preference for one dining hall over the other for the first couple months or years of school. don’t let that discourage you from exploring what the other side of campus has to offer, though — as a three-year resident of duncan hall and Jordan hall of Science, I am fortu­nate to have had the opportunity to benefit from the fine selection offered by both dh’s. Seniors: don’t be one of those people who relentlessly disparages North dining hall because of the one time the spinach on top of your pizza got a little crispy or the Rec Room was out of dippin’ dots. 
don’t believe that providing an email at Activities Night signifies any sort of commitment for a club or student organization. On September 1, SAO will cram every student organization on this campus into the JACC, providing one of the best avenues for both new and current students to get involved in the myriad clubs available at Nd. After singing up for the email ListServ of approximately fifteen organizations, how­ever, I found myself worried about not being able to make it to the callout meetings for each (spoiler: I didn’t.). The one club I did stick with, however, ended up being one of my most meaningful experiences that I’m still involved with today. The key takeaway here: keep an open mind at Activities Night, but also know that the club officers realize everyone else is just test­ing the waters like you, so their feelings will certainly remain in tact if you stop showing up. 
Please don’t talk in terms of ACT’s/SAT’s/AP’s/ gPA’s/class ranks. If there’s one thing we upperclass­men know, it’s that we’re the dumbest generation of Notre dame students yet. Every year, the Office of Admissions ensures that the entering class is smarter and cooler than ever before. That being said, though, you will soon find that the high school where you found taking 5 AP’s while being involved in seventeen clubs to be a breeze is drastically different than Our Lady’s university. 
Lastly, don’t be afraid to reach out for help. Notre dame, as amazing as it is, can often be overwhelming. due to the perception that everyone else has his or her stuff together, it can be embarrassing to admit that you need help in any area, let alone pursue that help. As someone who personally benefited from tutoring in general chemistry my freshman year and eventu­ally tutored the course two years later, I know that admitting you need help is difficult. But at the end of the day, asking for help is nothing to be ashamed of whatsoever. From your RA to your first year advisor to the university Counseling Center, there are so many resources available to help you transition to college as smoothly as possible. don’t let pride get in the way of you getting the resources necessary to succeed. 
Michael Fliotsos is a senior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely  appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for fu­ture topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
This column are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 
Tim Bradley 
guest Column 

On June 26th the Supreme Court held that same-sex marriage is a constitutional right; no state may deny a mar­riage license to a couple because they are the same sex. For many, this represented an enormous victory for love and equality. 
We all want all marriages to be treated the same. Talk of marriage equality, then, simply begs the question of what marriage is. 
Those who cheered the Supreme Court’s ruling say that love makes a marriage. I’m confident that no one has ever believed that slogan as stated. The love that is shared between father and son, brother and brother or teacher and pupil is real love, and yet no one thinks that such love makes a marriage. 
So, those who cheered the ruling speak of “stable, com­mitted” relationships. But brothers and sisters love each other in a committed, stable way and no one would call them married. 
To most, it seems sex has to be involved. So, if you want to be together with someone you love — and you’re having sex — you can marry, and there’s an end to it. But this will not do. If one wants to claim that love makes a marriage, or that love plus sex makes a marriage, one must identify what is distinctive of marital love and the kind of union it seeks. 
Marital love is about total union with the one I love. A marital lover seeks union with the beloved on all levels of his or her being: we can call this thing a comprehensive union. Importantly, one level of our being is bodily: my body is me, part of who I am. So any union that is total or comprehensive would unite lovers at the bodily level (as well as the mental and emotional levels). 
Such a union cannot be constituted (though it can be en­hanced) by feelings, because feelings are inherently private realities. Feelings of affection may be simultaneous, but they are not truly shared. What really does unite people is sharing a good, and such sharing can only be realized through action. All reasonable action aims at some good, and calls for a commitment appropriate to that good. 
At the bodily level, comprehensive union is constituted 
Did love win? 
by active coordination toward a single bodily end of the whole. My heart, lungs and other organs are one flesh and comprise a true bodily union in that they are actively co­ordinated toward a single bodily end — my biological life — of the whole — me. Bodily union typically takes place within a person, but it’s possible between two people in only one respect: coitus. In coitus a man and a woman can participate in a bodily coordination for a single end — re­production — of the whole — the couple. No other kind of sexual act is capable of achieving true bodily union. 
It’s worth noticing one implication of the bodily union just described: it exists in the very moment of coordinated activity. If two people coordinate their action toward re­production, they unite in a bodily way whether or not they end up bringing about new life. 
Of course, bodily union alone does not make a marriage. Just as the existence of mutual love alone does not mean that we have a marriage, neither does having sex make us married. What does make a marriage — a comprehensive union — requires a bit more explanation. 
As mentioned above, marriage is a comprehensive union of whole persons — all of whom we are. I’ve stressed that this includes our bodies, but it also includes our minds (and our emotions). We achieve a union of minds when we choose to commit ourselves to the same end in marital vows. 
Being comprehensive in uniting partners on all levels of their being, marriage is also comprehensive with respect to the goods that the partners participate in. Because the act that achieves bodily union is the kind of act that is capable of reproduction, marriage unites partners in a wide ranged sharing of domestic life appropriate to family life. Not all marriages will produce children, and not all marital acts will result in conception, but all marital intercourse is par­ticipated in as the first step of the process that is oriented towards the conception of a new human being, and thus is not only valuable in itself but is inherently oriented to new life and the sharing of domestic life. 
Recall that the commitment appropriate to a relation­ship follows from the goods that are pursued in and through that relationship. Marriage — comprehensively uniting partners on all levels of their being and with respect to the widespread sharing of the goods of do­mestic life and procreation — calls for comprehensive commitment: through time (permanent) and at each time (exclusive). This commitment is made through the mar­riage vow, which does not represent a generic sort of com­mitment, but a commitment precisely to do certain things. Spouses commit to permanence and exclusivity with respect to the comprehensive cooperation that is instanti­ated by the marital act (made marital by their consent to permanence and exclusivity) and that unfolds into wide­spread sharing of domestic life. 
Those who commit themselves to shared action toward procreation and domestic life, to the union of body and mind, commit themselves to married life. Those who dedicate themselves to other noble purposes — sisters who run an orphanage or lifelong friends who decide to share retired life together — are not married. In general, two men or two women may love each other, may desire to share all aspects of domestic life, and may make a pledge of perma­nent and exclusive commitment to each other. But those commitments are distinct from the marital commitment, which must include bodily union, something that unites two persons of the opposite sex (on equal terms). 
Comprehensive union makes sense of the norms of mar­riage that most of us agree on: that it should be permanent and exclusive and monogamous. Arguments for redefining marriage to include same-sex couples cannot make sense of these norms in any principled way, and thus cannot adequately explain what marriage is, or, consequently, why the state is interested in protecting and promoting it. Love, as such, does not make a marriage. If it did, would it not be inherently unjust to limit marriage to only two people, to only sexual relationships or to require permanence when love fades? 
Equality demands that like cases be treated alike, not that different cases be treated alike. A marriage policy that excludes same-sex couples in no way violates equality. So rather than proclaiming, as if the debate was over, that love and equality have won, we should — and will — continue to think about what marriage is, why it matters and why the state has an interest in regulating it. 
Tim Bradley is a senior and the president of Students for Child-Oriented Policy. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 


ERIN RICE | The Observer 
ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene Editor 

So as you may or may not have seen, I spent the better part of the past sum­mer watching and reviewing the sec­ond season of “True detective,” with all-star names like Rachel McAdams, Taylor Kitsch, Colin Farrell and Vince Vaughn. In a nutshell, it was very hit and miss — too often “miss” rather than “hit.” hBO usually has high stan­dards for their weekly shows (“game of Thrones” immediately comes to mind), so it was flat-out a disappoint­ment that the second season of “True detective” wasn’t something consis­tently better, especially for a show that prides itself on intricate plot-lines, deep character development and witty dialogue. 
So how does hBO make sure that their next show succeeds? do the ex­act opposite of “True detective.” Enter season one of “Ballers.” The show — starring dwayne Johnson (The Rock) and Rob Corddry — not only seems to ignore, but glorifies their shal­low plotlines, predictable character development and borderline corny dialogue. 
But let me make one thing clear: I don’t write that to sound ironic or con­descending. I absolutely love “Ballers.” The show follows Spencer Strasmore (Johnson) as a freshly retired NFL great converted to a financial manag­er and informal sports agent. he works closely with Joe Krutel (Corddry), who is also a financial advisor who origi­nally brought Strasmore to their firm. Strasmore represents a link between the life of a professional athlete and life thereafter, and thus proves crucial to bringing in high-profile athletes to the firm. 
yet the show is far from num­ber-crunching and contract nego­tiations. The show is about football and the lives of NFL athletes. Think “hardknocks,” but a vastly exagger­ated — and possibly even more excit­ing — rendition. Strasmore is still very close with two star NFL players: dallas Cowboy Vernon (played by donovan 
W. Carter) and, my personal favorite, Miami dolphin Ricky Jerret. Both deal with drama on and off the field, and when rubber meets the road they turn to Strasmore and Krutel to help. 
Vernon is the stereotypical ath­lete who is too nice for his own good. When he made it into the league, he didn’t hesitate to share his success with every single person from his circle. Needless to say, with the way he takes care of everyone, the money doesn’t last. he is in deep financial trouble while also trying to secure a new contract with the Cowboys. his closest advisor is his childhood friend and risky hothead Reggie. And this is all while he is blackmailed by a scandalous photo circulated on the internet. 
Meanwhile, Jerret is the flashy su­perstar wherever he goes and he com­mands too much attention for his own good. he constantly finds himself with his foot in his mouth, stepping on his teammates’ and friends’ toes. Every now and again he finds himself in a fight, highlighted by his great­est confrontation with Miami heat basketball player Chris “Birdman” Anderson. Jerret gets the last laugh when he chides Anderson, say­ing, “And yOu, LeBron did the right thing going back to Cleveland.” But deep down Jerret is a kind-hearted, sensitive soul. Charles greene, an­other newly retired NFL player, rightly sums up Jerret as a “charmer.” As soon as you’re about done with him, he finds a way to pull you back in. 
greene, has some problems in his own right. he feels that he left his football career at “the right time,” with his head held high, body intact and right around the peak of his prow­ess. yet throughout the course of the season, he wonders if he left too early 
—
 maybe there’s still some football left in his body. 

The show is a lot of fun and doesn’t require any kind of critical thinking. But despite the shallow feel of the show, the characters are endearing and easily lovable, and the storylines all compelling. Plus, the acting — de­spite the sometimes corny dialogue 

—
 is pretty good, and the chemistry between all of the main characters is uncanny. If you haven’t managed to keep up with this first season, I strongly suggest you do, whether or not you’re a fan of football. 


Contact Miko Malabute at               mmalabut@nd.edu 


ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Learning to love another football 

Alex Carson 
Associate Sports Editor 
It’s August, and that means it’s the most wonder­ful time of the year. 
If you know me, even in the slightest, you’ll know I’m a soccer nerd — one step into my room with a wall adorned by scarves should tell you that pretty well. 
And on the whole, becom­ing a diehard fan has been an interesting transition for someone who grew up with the stereotypical American dislike of the sport — be it its low-scoring, seemingly-uninteresting games, the “flopping” on the pitch— known to soccer fans as diving — or any of the other things in the long litany of complaints so many fans have of the sport. 
As a toddler, my parents enrolled me in a youth soc­cer league, as is tradition in suburban America. It’s the perfect sport at that age; run around, aimlessly kick the ball in the general direction of the tiny, un­manned goal and blow off some steam in a controlled environment rather than in the house. Apparently I hat­ed it. For 10 years of my life, I didn’t kick a soccer ball. The sport was dead to me. 
But then a funny thing happened five years ago: I realized soccer is the great­est drama the sports world will ever have to offer us. 
The year was 2010, which mean it was a World Cup year. Such years are spe­cial; they feature the most important event the sports world has to offer, when 32 countries gather to as­sert soccer dominance. I figured, “hey, I’m a sports fan, and want something to do in the late mornings and early afternoons of an oth­erwise boring summer, so I might as well tune into the World Cup.” 
And never mind the united States had no chance of winning the tournament 
— which is an anomaly in most sports that aren’t soc­cer, rugby or cricket — I wanted to tune into the world’s biggest sporting event. I figured it’d be a fun way to kill time and to see some of the funny passion that comes along with soc­cer, from the vuvuzelas that popped up in South Africa to the massive contingent of dutch supporters who travel to every World Cup, more to simply party than to watch their Oranje play. 
The realization? That passion wasn’t “funny,” and the compelling story of that year’s American team made me realize that deep down, I had some of that. 
The yanks were drawn together with England, Slovenia and Algeria that year; a middlingly-good “powerhouse” and a couple of not-very-good countries who the u.S. was expected to beat. But after a 1-1 draw with England, the American side fell into a 2-0 hole against Slovenia. It was panic mode; this was sup­posed to be easy. 
But they fought back. down two goals, the Americans clawed back to force a 2-2 draw that should’ve been a win — ref­eree Koman Coulibaly (yes, I remember his name, and I’m never going to forget it) denied the u.S. a late win­ner, and for the first time, I got angry about a soccer match. 
When Landon donovan scored his now-famous win­ner against Algeria to send the yanks through to the Round of 16, I ran around my bedroom like a bum­bling buffoon. I was in love. 
Since then, I’ve dived in. Sure, I have my clubs I’m passionate about, Aston Villa the most prominent, but it’s also a beautiful thing to watch from afar. 
More than any sport we’re familiar with here in the States, soccer (er, football) means everything to so many people. The reason? It’s a numbers game. 
Where we have four major professional sports leagues as well as major collegiate sports, rugby and cricket are the second- and third-fiddle sports to association football in England — and that story resonates clear around the world. 
There’s a high level of saturation when it comes to sports in America, and that’s great. But it also lets us shrug off a loss by one of our favorite teams, because hopefully one of the other ones took home a win. 
That doesn’t exist in the soccer world. 
So maybe the next time you deride soccer as “bor­ing,” take a look at the story off the pitch. It’s sometimes more compelling and beau­tiful than the game itself. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC GOLF 
upperclassmen lead Belles into fall season action 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports Wrier 
The Saint Mary’s golf team will start its fall season this weekend at the Cross Town Rivalry Tournament, look­ing to build on a fourth-place finish in MIAA play in the spring. 
“We have a great core group of upperclassmen this year starting with our two seniors, Katie Zielinski and Sammie Averill,” Belles head coach Kim Moore said. “Their ex­perience in competition as well as their off-the-course experience is so valuable to the success of our team. We also have three juniors in the mix, Courtney Carlson, Ali Mahoney and Rachel Kim, who have all come in this season with a wealth of play­ing experience that will help to guide our underclassmen.” 
Moore also said the team has brought a different edge to their fall preparations. 
“I think this year’s team is more focused than ever,” Moore said.“I think we have a lot of talented players, and I’m really excited to get the fall started.” 
September 5-6, the Belles will compete in the Olivet Labor day Invite at the Medalist golf Course in Marshall, Michigan, and the following weekend the Belles host the O’Brein National Invitational at Knollwood Country Club. 
The rest of the events on the Belles’ fall schedule are the MIAA’s five jambo­rees to determine who has a chance to claim the confer­ence’s NCAA tournament bid in the spring. Olivet will host the first jamboree September 23 at the Medalist golf Course. Kalamazoo will host the second jambo­ree September 26 at Milham Park golf Course. Calvin will host the third jambo­ree October 1 at Thornapple Pointe golf Course and Trine will host the fourth jambo­ree at Zollner golf Course on October 3. The fifth and final jamboree is the MIAA End of Season Weekend Jamboree on October 9-10. It will be hosted by Adrian at Bedford Valley golf Course. 
“I expect our conference to be tight from the top four teams, and I expect our team to be right up there as well,” Moore said. “I am really looking forward to our event in September, The O’Brien National Invite. We have in­vited teams from the top 15 in the nation to South Bend to play in our annual event that is always ranked by golfStat as one of the top five tourna­ments in the nation. I expect the field this year will not disappoint.” 
First-round play in the Cross Town Rivalry Tournament will take place at the Belles’ home course of Knollwood Country Club on Friday at 2 p.m., and second round action will be Saturday at Elbel golf Course at 12 p.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
NFL 
Patriots sign former rival receiver Wayne 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROugh, Mass. — New England Patriots players are looking forward to having veteran wide receiver and for­mer rival Reggie Wayne on their team. 
“he’s a good player. he’s played at a high level for a long time,” fellow receiver danny Amendola said Monday. “he played on some other good football teams. We’re excited to have him.” 
There was no announcement by late afternoon Monday by the team, but Bill Belichick, making his weekly appear­ance on WEEI in Boston, said, “’’I think we’ve agreed. I’ve had several (conversations) with him. We’ll see how it goes.” 
Said safety devin McCourty: “I’m a big fan.” 
Wayne, who turns 37 in November, caught 64 catch­es for 779 yards in 2014, his 

FOR SALE 
CONDO-Mishawaka, Sedgwick House, 3BR 2.5 BA. View of park 
poorest season. he wanted to play his 15th straight season with the Colts, who informed him they were going in another direction. 
There hadn’t been much movement on Wayne, sev­enth in NFL career receptions (1,070, 82 for touchdowns) and eighth in yardage (14,345), but the Patriots have been battling through injuries in the pre­season and the need was there. 
New England placed veteran receiver Brandon gibson, who had 12 catches for 97 yards in two preseason games be­fore tearing his right ACL, on injured reserve Monday. Top wideout Julian Edelman heads a list of receivers who have yet to appear in a game. 
“We’ve never had him in our system before — coaching him (just) in the Pro Bowl and all that — but we’ll just see how it goes,” said Belichick. “he’s cer­tainly had a great career and has done a lot of things for the Colt organization, primarily playing on the left, but then in more recent years being moved around to playing on the right and also in some slot situations. 
“I think he has a lot of experi­ence ...” 
Safety Tavon Wilson sees Wayne as potentially a strong influence in the locker room. 
“he’s been around for a long time, so obviously he knows the tricks of the trade,” Wilson said. “you’re going to bring an older guy to our locker room for vet­eran leadership, so we’re glad to have him and looking forward to him being on our team.” 
Added Amendola: “he knows how to get open and catch the ball. These coaches do a good job of getting guys in position where they can make plays. I’m sure it’ll be the same thing with him, and having a veteran that everyone can learn from in our room is really nice.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
and riverwalk. Secured entrance with underground parking. $95,900. Call 574-255-3862. 
Our song is a slamming screen 
door, sneakin’ out late, tapping on your window. When we’re on the phone and you talk real slow ‘cause it’s late and your momma don’t know. Our song is the way you laugh. 


NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 


MEN’S GOLF 

Irish depend on new leaders as season begins 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are set to tee off their 2015 season at the Notre dame Kickoff Challenge at Warren golf Course on Sunday. 
Notre dame takes to the green again after fin­ishing 11th at the ACC Championship in April where the Irish posted a three-day total of 911 (303-305­
303) at the Old North State Club in New London, North Carolina. With a squad full of young energy, Irish head coach James Kubinski said his team is ready to pick up where it left off. 
“We’re looking to get back to where we feel we should be,” Kubinski said. “Last year we saw several young players gain experience.” 
The young players’ experi­ences is what will push the Irish this season, as Patrick grahek, david Lowe and Tyler Wingo graduated in May. Kubinski said he’s excit­ed to see where this emerging leadership will take his team. 
“The biggest thing we missed last year was leader­ship within our locker room,” he said. “We need that to return. 
“Coaches set expectations and provide accountabil­ity but cannot be successful without team leaders step­ping up to echo their voice. We’re excited to see more leadership, from various players, develop this season.” 
Part of last season’s start­ing lineup, rising juniors Matt Rushton, Blake Barens and Liam Cox, along with seniors Cory Sciupider and Zach Toste, will spearhead the development of this new leadership. 
“We need to see those young players who competed last season come back this year having learned from their experiences a year ago,” Kubinski said. “Most every player, in any sport, will say they learned from competing. 
“They really haven’t learned, though, until they apply the lessons. We want to see our guys applying les­sons. In doing so, they’re talented enough to enjoy success this season.” 
Barens was the highest fin­isher for the Irish at the ACC Championship, closing the tournament in a three-way tie for 43rd place with a three-day total of 227 (77-76-74), while Rushton and Sciupider tied for 46th. Rushton led the Irish last season with the best stroke average, finishing with two top-five finishes, two top-10 finishes and five top-25 finishes. 
The Irish return to action with two seniors, three ju­niors and two sophomores, meaning the three incoming freshmen now compose a siz­able part of the Notre dame roster: Ben Albin, Kevin Conners and Miguel delgado. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


“I think our three freshmen have added significant depth to our program,” Kubinski said. “They’re battle-tested coming in. 
“They give us more options in terms of our lineup and will increase the competition level every day in practice.” 
These fresh faces have helped rejuvenate the Irish, Kubinski said. 
“There’s a much better en­ergy this season,” Kubinski said. “Our players are very much invested in our team and are excited to bring us back to the NCAA dance, similar to our 2011 and 2012 teams. 
“We have a locker room of team-first guys this year, which can’t be underesti­mated. To be successful at this level, given how strong the competition level now is, players must match or exceed the investment level of our competition. We have play­ers who are doing so, which is exciting.” 
The revamped Irish squad will initiate the 2015 sea­son as hosts of the Notre dame Kickoff Challenge at the Warren golf Course this weekend. The Irish took home the trophy at last year’s Kickoff Challenge to start the 2014-15 season with a team victory over IuPuI and Ball State. 
Once again this tourna­ment will ease the Irish into tournament play and test their cohesion as the play­ers combine their individual preparations from this sum­mer, Kubinski said. 
“Most of our guys went out and competed, across the country and even in other countries [this summer],” Kubinski said. “There is no substitute for competition. Casual golf doesn’t stir the emotions as tournaments do. I’m very pleased with the number of players who took it upon themselves to seek competition the last few months.” 
Notre dame begins its 2015 season as hosts of the Notre dame Kickoff Challenge at the Warren golf Course on Sunday. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




W Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
Klawunder each scored against Valparaiso as well. Irish head coach Theresa Romagnolo said that balance is key to Notre dame’s attack. 
“We have a lot of talent­ed forwards,” Romagnolo said. “On Friday [against Valparaiso] you saw six dif­ferent people score six goals, that’s pretty rare. And again [against Toledo] three dif­ferent people scored. I think we’re a team that has a lot of different people who can be dangerous.” 
With the offense setting the bar high, the Irish de­fense was able to perform as well, allowing Toledo just one shot, not on goal. 
“I think that as a group we’re pressuring the ball very well, and we’re getting a lot of numbers behind,” Romagnolo said. “So far we’ve been very organized, and I think the first weekend of real games, we’re always going to have some things that need improving, but on the whole as a group, I think we defended very well.” 
The win over Toledo came on a stormy night, as light­ning delayed the start of the game and rain caused a 30-minute suspension of play in the first half. Romagnolo said the strong play of her substitutes was key for the Irish. 
“I think whenever you have a delay like that, it affects both teams,” Romagnolo said. “It just makes for a dif­ferent kind of atmosphere. Overall I was proud of our girls. ... They kept their fo­cus and concentration, and even the players coming off the bench for me were able to come in and raise the level.” 
The team now gears up for the Notre dame Invitational this weekend, where they will host Santa Clara on Saturday and Portland on Sunday. Romagnolo said she is look­ing for her team to continue to improve and establish a team identity. 
“Our mindset is game-to-game,” Romagnolo said. “We’re just watching and as­sessing and seeing who steps up. We’re still learning about ourselves as a team. When we get to the ACC, we’ll have more games under our belt, so we’ll know more about ourselves.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

Volleyball 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
the all-ACC Freshman Team. As she begins her sophomore year with the Irish, Fry will transition from middle hitter to the outside, a change that will see her taking on some additional responsibility and leadership. 
“It’s been a tough adjust­ment,” Fry said, “But with good coaching and the sup­port of the girls on the team, it’s been getting a lot better. I’m just hoping to keep im­proving my game, and I’m ex­cited that I’m improving not only at my position from last year but also a new position.” 
Notre dame faces a chal­lenging schedule in 2015, with matches against seven 2014 NCAA championship quali­fiers. The marquee matchup of the season is a home clash with two-time defending champion Penn State on Sept. 12. 
Both McLaughlin and Fry have lofty goals for the season ahead. 
“Our goal is to win a cham­pionship,” McLaughlin said. “Every day we just have to make a little bit of improve­ment, to get better, to learn how to learn and be able to measure it. We’ll be a very, very good team, and we hope to be a great team in November. That’s always been my goal, and we’re on our way.” 
Fry also emphasized the importance of daily improve­ments in search of long-term success. 
“Our team goal is to win the ACC, and it’s a very re­alistic goal, based on our improvement and the coach­ing,” Fry said. “Obviously the main goal is to win a national 
championship, but a goal for  to Murfreesboro, Tennessee,  
every day is just to get better,  for the Blue Raider Bash with  
even if it’s one percent better  matches  against  Bowling  
every day, and just to be good  green, Cleveland State and  
teammates.”  Middle Tennessee State.  
The  Irish  will  officially  
start  the  McLaughlin  era  Contact Hunter McDaniel at  
Saturday when they travel  hmcdani1@nd.edu  

PAId AdVERTISEMENT PAId AdVERTISEMENT ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 







Football 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
This offseason, Irish head coach Brian Kelly hasn’t been shy about his excitement with the position and the potential to use multiple tight end sets. Smythe, Weishar and Jones are expected to contribute the most in the passing game, while hounshell and Luatua — better known for their blocking skills — could see time in short-yardage situations. 
“I think there is that sense of competition, but I think that helps all of us,” Smythe said. “And there are guys that come in and have strengths in cer­tain areas of the game. If those strengths are strong enough, and you can play and help the team, then sure we’ll find a role for that. That competition only goes back to how talented this group is as a whole.” 
The most talented of the group might be the incoming freshman Jones. Rivals.com’s fourth-rated tight end in the class of 2015, Jones has the frame and the hands to compete right away. 
“he’s a good, athletic tight end,” Luatua said of Jones. “Especially in the passing game, catching some crazy balls. I feel like he’s going to play a lot for us this year.” 
Even with Kelly releasing a depth chart next week before the Texas game, the battle for playing time will be far from over. Although Smythe is cur­rently the No. 1 option, things could change in an instant. And each tight end is ready for his opportunity. 
“I feel like we can put any com­bination of tight ends out there and do whatever we have to do,” Luatua said. 
despite high praises from Kelly, the tight ends know they must step up and reignite a po­sition of pride for Notre dame in the past. Last year, the since-graduated Ben Koyack totaled only 30 receptions and two touchdowns. This season, being reliable targets for junior quar­terback Malik Zaire and finding the end zone will be key for the tight ends. 
“As a tight end, one of the main things we need to focus on is being viable threats in the red zone,” Weishar said. 
With all the excitement around the group, it’s easy to forget that they only have one total recep­tion between them — Smythe’s seven-yarder during a loss to Arizona State. The lack of experi­ence may come into play at some point down the road, but for now, Kelly is confident in each and ev­ery one of his tight ends. 
“We know their strengths and what they can do,” Kelly said. “We think we’ve got some roles for each one of them.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

M Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
Townes. 
The second half started with strong Irish pressure just out­side the Saint Louis box, which was eventually rewarded with the goal from harris in the 50th minute. From there the Irish were quick to push on with gallagher forcing a save from Billikens goalkeeper Sascha Otte less than a minute later, and harris striking the crossbar soon afterwards. 
Late in the game, the Billikens forced some important saves from senior goalkeeper Brian Talcott, who was returning from a concussion that saw him miss the opening two games of the season. Talcott couldn’t hold onto the first shot he faced, but got down to save the rebound. Not long after he stretched across his goal to save and hold onto a close range shot from Billiken junior midfielder Joe Saad, while he also man­aged to claim multiple crosses under pressure. Clark said he was impressed by Talcott’s performance. 
“he made couple of really good saves,” said Clark. “We brought on all the young guys and were a little less solid at the back but he did well. he did very well actually.” 
Referee Lance Vanhaitsma showed three yellow cards and opted to not show a card to Billikens midfielder Tyler david after an incident with gallagher, but Clark said he felt the correct call was made. 
“There was a little bit of pull­ing and pushing,” said Clark. “Their guy fell, and I think Jon fell into him, and I don’t think he realized what had happened and thought Jon had done it intentionally, and maybe he punched or pushed Jon, but it was handbags at dawn. I don’t think there was really anything in it. I thought the referee han­dled it very well.” 
The game was also a return to Alumni Stadium for former Irish forward Vince Cicciarelli, who transferred to Saint Louis after three seasons with Notre dame. Cicciarelli, who scored eight goals in 44 games for the Irish, was greeted with a warm reception from the Irish sup­porters but had little impact in his 45 minutes. 
Clark said this exhibition game was the brightest perfor­mance so far this year for the Irish and was impressed by his team’s control of the game. 
“I think it took us maybe 10 minutes to get a grip on the game, but then we got a good handle on it,” said Clark. 
“It was the third of our pre­season scrimmages, and the first where I think we got a really good handle on the game. We’ve still got some things to work on and there’ll be harder games, but Saint Louis are a good team, they’ve won both their scrim­mages, it was a good test. There were more positives than nega­tives which is always good.” 
The Irish return to the field Friday at 5 p.m. when they face Maryland in the Adidas/ Iu Credit union Classic in Bloomington, Indiana. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 



NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 


CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 
HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: uncertainty will prevail this year if you let emotional matters take over. Step away from any trouble that arises until you feel you can see your situation more objectively. Changes should be made only if you have a practical plan in place. Motives are best checked first when dealing with partnerships. don’t expect everyone to be honest or to honor promises. your numbers are 9, 12, 17, 25, 37, 41, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): use creative expression to reach your goals. It’s how you approach others and the way you present who you are that will bring you closer to the success you are searching for. Make romance a priority. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Try to keep things running smoothly at home. Now is not the time to rock the boat or take on physical tasks that are too challenging. Concentrate on gathering facts that will help you gain respect and popularity. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Indecision will surface due to conflicting options. don’t make a decision based on what other people want. Consider what will make you happy and feel your best about who you are and how you look. Love is highlighted. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): An open mind will lead to knowledge and future prospects. Set up a place at home that is conducive to developing the projects you want to pursue. An encounter with someone with similar goals will result in a trusted alliance. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Mix business with pleasure and you will advance. Express your feelings and show passion in all that you do, and people will take note. A proactive approach both personally and professionally will separate you from the competition. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you will face opposition at an emotional level. do your own thing and forget about discussing your plans until you feel certain that you can do so in a practical manner. Walk away from any situation that leaves you feeling vulnerable. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): An emotional situation will cost you if you are impulsive or give in to manipulation. Stand up for your rights and make sure you do what’s best for you. Concentrate on personal improvements and being with the people you love. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Revisit your past goals. get involved in an event or activity that will bring you closer to your dreams. Keep an open mind and develop a creative strategy and you will bring about a positive change. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll find it difficult to make up your mind. don’t act hastily just because someone puts pressure on you. Step back and do your best to physically prepare for any challenges you see coming. Avoid emotional disputes. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The less said about your plans, the better. develop your game plan and initiate what you want to see happen. It’s important to remain in control if you want to reach your goals. A financial gain will come from an unexpected source. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take charge and do your thing. don’t let uncertainty creep into your head when it’s important that you follow through with your plans. A positive change in an important relationship will unfold if you exhibit confidence. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make sure you have your facts straight before you share information with someone you want to partner with. It’s important that you are open to suggestions and willing to compromise. honesty will play a major role in your ability to find success. 

Birthday Baby: you are practical, determined and stubborn. you are resourceful and inventive. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 






Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 


ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
FOOTBALL 

Reviving tradition 
Irish tight ends compete to restore position to glory 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 
Over the last decade, Notre dame has had arguably the best crop of tight ends in all of college football. From Fasano to Carlson to Rudolph to Eifert to Niklas, the Irish have churned out top pick af­ter top pick at the position. 
While most Notre dame seasons have produced household names at tight end, the 2015 preseason has seen no one tight end break away from the rest of the pack — but that doesn’t mean the talent at the position isn’t deep. 
As of now, junior durham Smythe is penciled in as the opening day starter. he fac­es stiff competition, how­ever, from sophomores Tyler Luatua and Nic Weishar, freshman Alize Jones, and even graduate student and converted defensive lineman Chase hounshell. 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | Nd 1, SAINT LOuIS 0 
harris’ goal earns Notre dame win 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Bobby Clark didn’t see junior midfielder Oliver harris’s goal that gave No. 4 Notre dame a 1-0 win over No. 22 Saint Louis on Monday. But whether he saw it or not, he knew it was a wonderful strike. 
As harris flicked the ball up un­der pressure from a Billikens de­fender almost 25 yards from goal, turned and hit a right-footed shot just beyond the reach of the Saint Louis goalkeeper, off the post and into the goal, Clark was working on preparing his substitutes. 
“It’s been well described to me,” said Clark. “I actually missed it, because I was talking to our fitness coach about getting the next group of guys ready, but it sounded like a really great goal. Now he’s got to do it again so I can see it.” 
harris’s goal livened up the game after a quiet first half in which neither side had a shot on target. The Billikens held much of the early possession and showed promise down the wings early on but failed to create many clear chances. Clark said their inability to create any serious early scoring chances was a testament to the work of the Irish off the ball. 
“To be fair, they started well, but they didn’t penetrate,” said Clark. “They just had a lot of the ball. I think that’s good because we showed good shape without the ball, and we didn’t leave any holes where they could penetrate. 
“Once we could get into the game and started pressing we got a hold of the ball, and once we got the ball we could start playing our game and we certainly had some opportunities.” 
The Irish created the better of the chances in the first half, with sophomore midfielder Jon gallagher hitting a pass from se­nior defender Michael Shipp nar­rowly over the bar. gallagher also showed promise early on by beat­ing two defenders in a run down the right wing, before his pass was cleared for a corner. 
Also in in the first half, gradu­ate student Max Lachowecki fought hard to make it into the box and send the ball towards se­nior midfielder Evan Panken and sophomore midfielder Blake 
see M SOCCER PAGE 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Coaching change inspires hope 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
As Notre dame begins an­other season in its long and storied history, the Irish kick off a new era under first-year head coach Jim McLaughlin. 
The only coach to win na­tional championships on both the men’s and women’s sides, including the 1989­90 men’s title for uSC and the 2005 women’s title for Washington, McLaughlin led the huskies to a 31-3 (18­2 Pac-12) season last year en route to earning a No. 3 seed in the NCAA championship. 
McLaughlin brings excite­ment as well as experience to his new home. 
“I think it’s one of the few universities where you can be excellent at what you choose to do – as a student, as an athlete – it offers the best of both worlds and more,” McLaughlin said. “And then, my wife went here and her family is close by, but I believe that this place can recruit at a very high lev­el and we can win a champi­onship here.” 

however, he inherits a team that ended last season with a 6-23 (3-15 ACC) record, its second losing season in a row. But with a mix of return­ing veteran leadership and a number of exciting newcom­ers, things are looking up for the Irish, McLaughlin said. 
“We’re changing every­thing: the way we think, our emotions, behavior,” McLaughlin said. “All of our movement patterns are new. Our eye-work, what we look at and how long we look at different things. The systems are different, and so we just have to get these things in place, it has to become a part of us. The girls are working every day to do that. We’re making progress, we just have to keep going.” 
One of the bright spots on this team a year ago was Sam Fry, who earned a spot on 
see VOLLEyBALL PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | Nd 6, VALPARAISO 0; Nd 3, TOLEdO 0 
ND records two shutouts over opening weekend 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame was clicking in all aspects of the game Sunday at Alumni Stadium, as the No. 9 Irish beat Toledo 3-0, improving their season mark to 2-0-0 after topping Valparaiso, 6-0, on Friday. 
Junior forward Kaleigh Olmsted scored the first goal of the game 12 minutes in with assists from sopho­more midfielder Sabrina Flores and freshman forward Natalie Jacobs. Just five min­utes later, junior midfielder Sandra yu added another tal­ly on a cross from Olmsted. 
Sophomore midfielder Taylor Klawunder scored the final goal for the Irish in the 74th minute on a header off a corner kick from senior de­fender Brittany Von Rueden. 
The Irish have a total of nine goals from seven dif­ferent players through their first two games; yu and 
see W SOCCER PAGE 12 






