The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 58 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND community explores next steps 
Looking forward, students, administration continue to work to improve sexual violence conversation 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Editor’s note: This is the fifth and final installment in a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s story focuses on the next steps to fight sexual violence. 
The conversation on sexual as­sault is changing. 
in the last three years alone, the university- and student govern­ment-supported initiatives have transitioned from those of aware­ness and education to advocacy and bystander intervention with the one is Too many, it’s on us and greendot initiatives, student body chief of staff dan sehlhorst told The observer in october. 
launched at notre dame ear­lier this month, green dot is a national program that teaches bystander intervention to stu­dents to help prevent sexual as­sault in their own communities. The program draws its name from crime maps, in which red dots “typically suggest the spread of some terrible epidemic with each dot representing an individ­ual case. Together, these red dots are the accumulation of individ­ual decisions, moments, values and actions that contribute to a culture of violence and bystander inaction,” according to the stu­dent affairs website. on the 
see FuTure PAGE 3 



smc hosts fiction writing conference for high schoolers 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Teens from a number of high schools in the michiana area will come to saint mary’s to let their creative energy flow during the third year of the “get inked” Teen writing conference on saturday. 
Kathy higgs-coulthard, the director of student teach­ing at saint mary’s, said the conference is a partnership between the college and the michiana writers’ center. 

“we started ‘get inked’ as a way to celebrate all the wonderful young authors in 
our  local  schools,”  higgs­ 
coulthard  said.  “Teachers  
are  doing  so  many  great  

things in their classrooms, and we are noticing a whole crop of students who are writing amazing poetry, fan fiction and even entire novels. we wanted to give them a space to come togeth­er with other young writers.” 
higgs-coulthard said the conference’s main event is a keynote from speaker Jonathan ryan, who is the author of the young adult series “3 gates of the dead.” other workshops will be of­fered by author laura wolfe, who will help teens learn 
see wriTing PAGE 3 




CSLC announces new minor 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
The center for the study of language and culture (cslc) has announced a new minor for the 2016 spring semester: The Teaching of english to speakers of other languages (Tesol). according to denise ayo, assistant director for aca­demic programs, the cslc ran a Tesol boot camp for two years before the minor was of­ficially announced. 
see cslc PAGE 4 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


Students travel to Shamrock Series 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
A group of students cheers on the Irish against Purdue in the  Shamrock Series at Lucas Oil Stadium on Sept.13, 2014. 
COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
notre dame students, alumni and fans will be ship­ping up to boston this week­end for the 2015 shamrock series. 
The no. 4 Fighting irish will take on boston college on saturday at Fenway park in boston in the seventh annual shamrock series game. senior leprechaun John doran said the series is a great opportunity for fans who might not be able to make it to south bend to see a notre dame football game. 
“i think the shamrock series does a good job of get­ting the people that maybe 
see bosTon PAGE 4 


news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 irish insider wiThin 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com Describe your favorite color in seven words or fewer. 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Evelyn Martinez 
greg hadley 
sophomore 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
holy cross hall

                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
“royalty. oceans. sky.” 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens 
Abigail Lynn 
Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao 
sophomore 
Online Editor: michael yu 
holy cross hall 

Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“sky. Jeans. Jolly-ranchers. slushies. hadycap-sign. eyes.” 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Kristhel Torre 
Editor-in-Chief 
sophomore 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
holy cross hall 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
“nature. money. Tea. 
Assistant Managing Editors 
sustainability. poop.” 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 

Ambar Varela 
senior holy cross hall 
“Forest. money. clover.” 
Yaqi Song 
junior holy cross hall 
“rudolph’s nose. santa’s hat. Fire. blood.” 
Nohemi Toledo 
sophomore le mans hall 
“barney. plums. lavalamp. Tinky winky. ” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 

hehmse01@saintmarys.edu Friday Saturday     Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Labor Café Men’s Basketball ND Volleyball Shakespeare Festival Research Event 
Systems & Web Administrators 
Geddes Hall vs. UMass-Lowell Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall 
(574) 631-8839 

5 p.m.-6 p.m. Joyce Center 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Arts Center 8:30 a.m.-9:30 a.m. Policies Talk about social 2 p.m.-4 p.m. The Irish take on the 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Discuss intercultural 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
justice issues. Clemson Tigers. Information session. friendships. 

in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the ND Volleyball vs. “Little Shop of Cello Fest Common Good Our Universe administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
Georgia Tech Horrors” DeBartolo Performing Initiative Revealed 

the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Geddes Hall Jordan Hall 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
The Irish take on 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Concert featuring cello Information session on Electromagnetism 

managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
the Yellow Jackets. Musical production. chamber ensembles. immersion programs. demos. 

letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Author examines WWI outbreak 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
clark said the couple was driving along “sophie, sophie, don’t die, stay alive for 

Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer the road by the river in sarajevo when a our children.” 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday bomb was hurled at their carriage. “The speed at which his last words 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one when europe went to war in 1914, it shortly thereafter, clark said, the man were last publicized was incredible — 
semester. 

The observer is published at: was not as theatrically dramatic as the who threw the bomb was captured by a it reminds us how globalized the world 
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 
history books make it seem, according to policeman and a barber with a pistol. was already. he wasn’t JFK, but his death 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer sir christopher clark, winner of the 2015 “where did these guys go? we need did trigger an immense wave of emo-
send address corrections to: The observer 
laura shannon prize in contemporary more barbers with pistols,” clark said. tion. we mustn’t understate the emotion 
p.o. box 779 

024 south dining hall european studies. “so these guys jump into the river to generated by the assassination,” clark 
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. “The story of how this war came about get the guy who threw the bomb. The said. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
was not a James bond movie,” clark said. archduke saw him and told him to get Though it was an act of terrorism, “This kind of thing does not happen in him to an asylum, you know, business clark said it is important to clarify the 1914. it was not an agatha christie mur-as usual. and they decided to go on with difference between Ferdinand’s assassi­der. it’s not that kind of story. it was an the day as planned.” nation and recent acts of terrorism. intensely interactive crisis [where actors after the couple stopped briefly to “This act was not carried out in ex-


News Sports 

clare Kossler alex carson were] willing to take risks — that’s the meet with some of the leading men of treme cruelty; it was not an act of ter­matthew mcKenna marek mazurek 
core cause here: all the key actors were the city, they decided to reroute their rorism in the way we see in paris,“ clark 

martha reilly maureen schweninger 
all willing to take risks in this war.” original path, he said. said. ”it wasn’t that kind of unmeasured 
Graphics Scene 
clark, who received the award for his “They didn’t want to go through the extreme murders. it doesn’t excuse these 

Janice chung matt mcmahon 
book, “The sleepwalkers: how europe narrow streets in the bazar district, and murders, but it helps to qualify them. 
Photo Viewpoint 
went to war in 1914,” delivered the it was proposed that that would be dan-There’s a difference between them and 

annmarie soller Tabitha ricketts 
2015 laura shannon prize lecture on gerous, that it may be filled with assas-the terrorists we see in events like 9/11 Thursday evening, focusing on the out-sins. so they decide to change the route, or the attacks in london.” break and preceding events of world and it was fine, and it was all agreed. and Though on the morning of June 28, 
Corrections 
war i. that was fine, but someone forgot to tell europe was at peace, clark said mere 

The observer regards itself as “it seems to me that there’s a theatri-the czech driver that plan,” he said. “so days later europe erupted in war. a professional publication and 
cal intensity that repays revisiting these then car number two comes to a com-“if you had asked anyone if they strives for the highest standards 
events. so i’d like to start by introduc-plete stop in front of schiller’s store, and thought a major war was on the brink, 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
ing a couple that was about to have a that’s when the assassin had the perfect they all would have said no. it globalized 

however, recognize that we will make 
very bad day. of course, that’s archduke opportunity to take his shots.” at a really dazzling pace,” clark said. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Franz Ferdinand and sophie chotek, it was there, in front of the store, that 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so who were visiting sarajevo on the 28 of Ferdinand and his wife were killed, Contact Rachel O’Grady at 
we can correct our error. June,” he said. clark said. Ferdinand’s last words were, rogrady@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | The observer 


Future 
conTinued From page 1 
contrary, “green dot behaviors” represent instances where red dots were avoided or combatted through behaviors like bystander intervention. 
christine caron gebhardt, director of the gender relations center (grc) said choosing a prevention program to imple­ment at notre dame proved challenging because data is lim­ited, and each program must be tailored to individual institu­tions. she said green dot does, however, have a target number of students to reach for reducing sexual violence on campus. 
“green dot’s measure of suc­cess is when you hit critical mass, which is 15 percent of your stu­dent body bystander-trained,” she said. “That is the point where you will see sexual assault de­crease, both in your non-con­fidential resources and in your confidential resources.” 
danny Funaro, chair of the department of gender issues for student government, said the campus community is making strides to hit the 15 percent point. 
“The last greendot extend­ed training was full,” he said. “There’s definitely a good amount of very involved people willing to go through these processes.” 
according to aimee herring, lead deputy prosecutor at the svu of saint Joseph county, the media have reported an increase in sexual assaults. however, she said, an increase in reported 
paid adverTisemenT 

assaults does not necessarily reflect an actual increase in the number of assaults. 
“i think that that tells us we have victims who know that they have been violated, and know what to do when they have been violated and what options they have because they are seek­ing help if they need it, they are reporting if they want to, they know who to go to if they want to report,” she said. 
herring said continuing that work would be an important task moving forward, to help edu­cate victims and the community about sexual assault. 
“i think it is working,” she said. “i think that our college campus­es in this community in general have come out and have spoken out about sexual assault in gen­eral and specifically saying we don’t want to see this in our com­munity. … This community will not stand for that.” 
annie Kuster, a senior and part of the grc’s Fire starters pro­gram, said improving university policy and awareness has been a positive but that the conversation about sexual assault requires the community to go further than that. 
“i think there has to be a little bit of a culture shift because i think right now there are still some areas that are particularly vulnerable,” she said. “ … so now, maybe people are starting to understand what’s going on, but people might still leave their girlfriends at a party and go on to the next one because she wants to stay. … or, everyone’s drinking heavily, and we don’t have a sober friend to make sure that every­thing’s under control.” 
she said promoting a culture that does not tolerate sexual as­sault would require “putting steps together of what does it actually mean to respect some­body, and get to know somebody, and have these conversations that foster a healthy relationship instead of one that could lead down a potentially negative path, for both parties.” 
echoing that idea, abby palko, associate director of the gender studies program, said because faculty and administration are not present in situations where sexual assaults are more likely to happen, change must come from students — with help. 
“my hope is that you all who are here now as students are able to create the kind of campus cul­ture you want to be in, and that is healthy for everyone, and that is a space where people can flourish and grow,” she said. “There are supports that the administration can put in place, but a lot of it has to come from students deciding what’s acceptable and what’s not acceptable. and the faculty are here to support you. in some ways it sounds silly, but we’re al­most completely powerless here. 
“we can advocate for change to the rules, we can advocate for accountability, but we don’t actu­ally create that. and we’re not at the parties with you, and we’re not there to say, ‘hey, do you re­ally want that seventh drink?’ or “you two don’t really look like you know what’s going on right now, maybe you should separate.’ we’re not there to do that. it feels like all we can do is say, ‘yes, we’re behind you,’ as you work to bring about this change, and there are lots of faculty who want to do that.” 
senior skyler hughes, a pro­ducer for loyal daughters and sons, said talking candidly about sex and other gender is­sues would also be a necessary part of the conversation moving forward. 
“being this catholic, relatively conservative campus, there’s a lot of silence around sex in gener­al,” hughes said. “and by exten­sion, there can be a lot of silence around sexual assault. i think that there’s been a little bit of a breaking of the silence on that issue — on specifically sexual as­sault — because people are now willing to talk about that, but peo­ple are still very uncomfortable with talking about some of the other issues. 
“but these other issues are not unrelated to the issue of sexual assault. when you’ve got differ­ent gender dynamics, gender relations, they can contribute to certain power dynamics that can promote a culture that allows sexual assault to happen.” 
in the context of a catholic uni­versity, caron gebhardt said it is important to realize that the idea of consent is relevant not only in relation to sexual assault but in any acts of physical intimacy. 
“so all the ways a catholic in­stitution would hold firm to our value that sexual activity would remain within the marriage context, we also recognize that there’s layers, levels of sexual activity that occur between our students — and there should be consent at all of those times, in all of those ways,” she said. 
From the perspective of pre­venting sexual violence, caron gebhardt said, consent requires looking at how each person in the relationship is being valued. 
“it’s really about how each per­son is being treated with dignity, which is inherently part of who we are a catholic institution,” she said. “now i know as students, it’s like, you want to know, ‘is this consent? is that not consent?’ because there are procedural questions. but more important­ly, what i’ll say to students is, if you can’t talk about it, then how could you possibly do it? 
“ … students are going to make choices, and if they choose to engage at that level of sexual in­timacy, that’s fine, but hopefully they’ve laid a ground where if that were to happen, each person would be treated with respect.” 
Managing Editor Jack Rooney, Associate News Editors Clare Kossler and Catherine Owers and News Writer Katie Galioto contributed to this story. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
Writing 
conTinued From page 1 
how to make their work stand out to agents and editors; english professor aaron moe, who will teach a workshop on poetry; and three saint mary’s senior education ma­jors who will present on a va­riety of topics. 
senior education and english literature major lauren wells is one of the stu­dents giving a workshop on the black-out poetry move­ment, which takes pages from previously written works and uses them to form a poem by blacking out parts of the page and leaving only certain words. 
“poetry and writing don’t have to be super intimidating if you just look for inspiration in your everyday life and the world around you,” wells said. “These students signed up be­cause they already like writ­ing naturally. we’re working with the cream of the crop as far as student writers. it’s cool to workshop their ideas and hear what today’s teens are interested in writing about.” 
higgs-coulthard said the conference is a good opportu­nity for students to network. 
“There is nothing as en­ergizing as being in a room full of people who share your passion,” higgs-coulthard said. “The workshops will help them add to their writ­ing tools and give them ideas on how and where to send their work if they hope to get published.” 
moe said his workshop, “There is an animal in That poem,” will focus on the shape of a poem and how form and content go hand-in-hand. 
“we’ll be taking a look at how there’s an animal, not just as in the content and so forth, but rather how the form of the particular poem ends up reenacting or imitating that animal’s way of being,” moe said. “i want them to delve into the inner play be­tween form and content and think of writing a poem not just on the level of content but the decision of the form and how the form can play with the content.” 
moe said he hopes young writers feel a surge of energy to want to write. 
“i think [the conference] plants a seed in the high schoolers’ minds that they can see writing as some­thing bigger than just the high school experience,” moe said. “hopefully by coming to a college and having the conference, it might motivate them in ways that are difficult in the classroom. often times, the classroom is governed by the tyranny of the grade. … There’s many reasons why someone would write beyond a grade.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



Boston 
motto is, ‘how do we leave own or through a Fulbright interested in teaching a lan­boston a little bit better, a lit-CSLC english Teaching award,” she guage, maybe your ultimate 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
tle bit brighter, a little more said. goal is not to be an english 

cared for, because that’s ayo said the cslc teacher but you are inter­can’t get out to notre dame who notre dame is,’” angie hana Kang, associate pro-worked with the center for ested in learning a foreign but are huge notre dame appleby purcell, the alumni fessor for second language undergraduate scholarly language. you will learn the fans,” doran said. “we’ll association’s spirituality acquisition, said Tesol is a engagement (cuse) in re-theories on how language ac-bring it to them. There are program director, said. “The catch-all term that includes sponse to the amount of quisition occurs, so you can thousands of notre dame shamrock series has always teaching english as a sec-students applying for the understand your own learn-fans in the northeast, so be-been a very integrated type ond language and teaching Fulbright english Teaching ing process and come up with ing able to have a notre dame of weekend, so that really, by english as a foreign language. assistantships, and two indi-a better learning strategy game there — when there’s the time you hit the football “There is a bifurcated idea viduals involved in the Tesol which fits you. so you can, more tickets available than game so much has happened of teaching english as a sec-program received english by knowing that background the 5,000 we would get if we that reflects the university’s ond language and teaching Teaching assistant awards. theory, hopefully learn your played at syracuse or if we larger mission academically, english as a foreign language. “it gives you a leg up when foreign language better,” played at bc — it’s pretty nice spiritually, in terms of ser-The difference between those you’re going for Fulbright or Kang said. to be able to fill up a stadium vice and care for others.” is if you are teaching english just going to an individual The minor is meant to be with that and give people according to the notre as a second language, you country, saying you want to inclusive for any student who more access.” dame game day website, the are teaching english in an teach english. you can say plans on interacting with 
because Fenway park is a service project was originally area where english is the pre-you are trained to do that. not non-english speakers after smaller venue, there weren’t limited to the first 85 volun-dominant language. but, if only do i speak english, i un-graduation, ayo said. as many student tickets avail-teers, but because of the high you are teaching english in derstand know language ped-“This is great preparation able this year, and students interest in the event, appleby china, where the predomi-agogy, i understand language for anyone who wants to go who did receive a ticket in purcell said that number has nant language is chinese, methodology, i’ve studied the into a teaching occupation the lottery were all the more been raised to 140 volunteers you are teaching english as a theoretical backings behind either in the united states or excited. with a wait list of about 40 foreign language,” ayo said. it,” she said. abroad. peace corps, Teach 
“i’m a huge boston sports more people. “with Tesol, we’re teaching ayo said as english be-for america, a lot of these peo­fan, so being able to go watch “i am not at all surprised students to teach english as comes the dominant global ple are going to be interacting notre dame play in Fenway that we have this wonderful another language, whether language, more students are with individuals whose native park is going to be awesome,” situation because our alum-it’s in china teaching english interested in teaching the language is not english but sophomore Kate davin said. ni, and our parents and fans as a foreign language or in language. are who either need the lan­“as i found out last year that very much want to serve, they america teaching english to “also, english is becoming guage or are interested in the the game was going to be want to make a difference in immigrants.” the major language of com-language,” she said. “whether against bc in Fenway i was the world,” appleby purcell The program was fueled by merce, it’s becoming the go they need it to pass their like, ‘wow, i’d love to go to said. “i’m always humbled student interest in teaching to language for laws, money, classes, or they need it to get a that,’ but i didn’t think i’d be and just so proud that our english to non-native speak-government everything is job, join the workforce or any-able to get tickets. … so [when community has priorities in ers, ayo said. typically done in english. so thing. having this knowledge i did] i was really excited, terms of giving of their time “students want to per-as a consequence, individuals to how best to approach help-and i didn’t shut up about it and talent to serve others fect their second language are needing to learn english if ing these people acquire the for a couple days. i just love who are in need.” — whether it’s german, they want to become a global language. it’s not just, ‘i speak boston, it’s my favorite city, The final event before the Japanese or whatever. They player in their field. Therefore, english, therefore i can teach and so i’m really excited to tailgating begins is a mass want to go that that coun-you need individuals teach-it,’ there is a whole science be able to go back and be in presided over by Jenkins try, they want to live in that ing english,” she said. behind it and a methodology Fenway, see my family and on saturday morning at the country. a good way to sup-The minor is not only for that is important to learn.” stuff. so just the whole expe-cathedral of the holy cross. port yourself while you are in those interested in teaching rience, the atmosphere is go-“This is the heart of the another country is to teach english, Kang said. Contact Jenna Wilson at  ing to be great.” university in terms of who we english, whether on your “it is not only for those jwilso01@saintmarys.edu 
doran also said he’s excit-are as a catholic university ed about the atmosphere in and our spiritual life,” boston. appleby purcell said. “The 
“it’s a great sports town; mass is just another appro­they have a ton of passion for priate way in which we come their teams, and i think that’s together as a community, a obvious for anyone who’s community of faith to pray ever even been to the city,” he and to worship.” said. “The city is going to be appleby purcell said be-insane, and i can’t wait. The tween the game itself and atmosphere in the city is go-the activities surrounding it, ing to be buzzing.” there is something for every 
in addition to the football member of the notre dame game itself, the shamrock family to enjoy. series includes several other “we could just look at this academic and service events, as a football game, but at the such as a reimagining of end of the day, what’s impor­the boston massacre trial tant to the university is that by notre dame and boston we come, that we share who college law students on we are and we offer our re-Thursday night, a welcome to sources — whether that be boston party and the alumni academic and intellectual re-association service project sources, spiritual resources, held at Fenway park on Friday labor resources to help others afternoon. and to make people feel wel­
“when the university de-come wherever we go,” she cided to create this idea of said. “it’s not just about the taking our team on the road as football, although that’s fun a home game — the shamrock and part of it, but it’s more series — [university for us as a university, and we president] Fr. John Jenkins want to make sure it’s experi­said, ‘if we’re going to do this, enced by everyone.” we’re going to take all of nd with us, not just the athletics Contact Courtney Becker at side of our university.’ The cbecker3@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

This week, scene has exhumed a series of albums from decades past in a resur­rection of “The Kickback” series. it’s a fun exercise — revisiting the annals of music’s beautifully tumultuous history is always rewarding. yet it seems my turn to look back is bit different: my kickback period encompasses only the past five years. as i wrestled with the concept of “revisiting” a relatively recent album, i ended up just settling on my favorite from the period: vampire weekend’s “modern vampires of the city.” aside from the fact i have never covered the “fab four” (an ambitious comparison i know, but they are, like, my favorite band), this is an album i hope to be revisiting for a long time, so why not start now? 
“mvoTc” plays like an ethereal dream, a beautiful little haze of ezra Koenig’s philosophical poems enveloped by a quilt of masterly woven harmonies, courtesy of musical genius, rostam 
By ROBERT WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

a storm is a-brewin’, and everyone needs to prepare themselves. music has had an unreal year in 2015 thus far, with incredible records already released by artists like Kendrick lamar, grimes, disclosure, Tame impala, björk, lana del rey and Justin bieber. seriously, the list of hit 2015 albums goes on and on and on. however, we are not done quite yet. everyone loves a good comeback, and before the epic year of 2015 comes to an end, a series of comebacks are ex­actly what we’re going to get. several artists are allegedly planning to change the music game by reemerging into the industry after taking brief, but all-too­long, hiatuses; and, as we would hope, they’re coming back swinging. 
after shocking the nation by mak­ing a surprise appearance during Katy perry’s 2015 super bowl halftime show, missy elliott put her name back on the batmanglij. it is in this paul-John dy­namic (oK, last beatles comparison, i promise) that the magic happens. both musically and thematically, the album stands as vampy weeks’ most ambitious and dynamic work to date. 
beginning with the opening track, “obvious bicycle,” a subtle song with muffled percussion and a simple pia­no refrain dancing in the background, “mvoTc” proves the band is on ambi­tiously building on the past. Tracks like “Finger back” and “diane young” feature the classic head-bobbing choruses and crisp production, but there’s a new sense of identity. it seems it took three albums for the columbia grads to fully establish their sound. songs like “step,” “hannah hunt” and “young lion” feature a much more relaxed ambiance than their previ­ous works; peacefulness seems to per­meate the entire production. Though, to clarify, this is not to say the album is dull 
— in fact, it’s anything but. 
still, all is not well in dream world, the final addition to the album trilogy is the 
map. if we’re being real, the ferocious rapper’s name never even left the map 
— but you get the idea. watching Queen elliott steal the performance immedi­ately brought me back to the wonderful days of “lose control” and “get ur Freak on,” reigniting my faith in humanity, or at least my faith in hearing some new missy material. 
now, months after her unanticipated return, she released her newest single “wTF (where They From),” featur­ing contemporary megastar pharrell, on november 12, 2015, three years af­ter her last single. The comeback track hits a perfect blend between old school missy and fresh creativity, delivering an ambitious, bass-filled beat and stellar bars; and, as you would have guessed, the music video is filled with the rap­per’s signature choreography and wild wardrobe. on the heels of the single and music video, new music and, more importantly, a full missy record are ex­pected to be released in the near future. 
darkest to date. vampire weekend is no longer the band playing quirky pop dit­ties in columbia’s cramped frat houses. The whimsical frat-boy mantras so char­acteristic of the group’s first two albums are shed for a more sophisticated outfit. but with maturity comes abrasive real­ity. religious doubts, the failing of rela­tionships and the fear of aging are just a few examples of themes that hit a poi­gnant chord throughout the album. 
one song in particular, “ya hey” — a reference to hebrew word for god, “yahweh”— is particularly striking in this regard. like the existential crisis many college students experience, it seems Koenig has been through some­thing similar, as he gracefully inquires, “you won’t even say your name / only ‘i am that i am’ / but who could ever live that way?” unlike college students though, Koenig never appears pre­sumptuous with his lofty ideals; every thought comes off just as genuine as it is stimulating. 
lucky for me, i had a chance to catch 
next we have erykah badu. The ri­diculously talented and creative r&b artist recently delivered one of the best covers of drake’s “hotline bling,” seem­ingly out of nowhere. badu has essen­tially been m.i.a. for quite some time, having not released any new mate­rial since the debut of “new amerykah part Two: return of the ankh” in 2010. shortly after the release of her unique cover, erykah graced the world with an original song, “phone down,” early last week. she also revealed that her upcom­ing, drake-inspired mixtape, titled “you cain’t use my phone,” would be coming out this Thanksgiving. 
ladies and gentlemen, last but cer­tainly not least, ms. lauryn hill. although hill had a swift run with The Fugees and a relatively brief solo career, she is definitely one of the most ground­breaking, appreciated artists to ever walk into the music industry. her 1998 grammy award-winning album “The miseducation of lauryn hill” is known these philosophical groovesters live back in my high school days, right before the release of “mvoTc.” The show was an installment of the “amex unsTaged” series and was directed steve buscemi, a supposed relative of bassist chris baio. opening the show was snl great Fred armisen performing under the nom de plume, “ian rubbish,” a sex pistol wan­nabe whose interests include putting his boot in the faces of policemen and prais­ing margaret Thatcher. 
if anything about the show seems a bit strange, that’s because it was — but that was one of the appeals. Throughout three critically and publicly acclaimed albums, vampire weekend is a band that, at its core, refuses to take itself too seriously. The juxtaposition of this in­nocent bliss and the deeper, provocative messages in “mvoTc” is exactly why i always have, and always will be able to “kick back” to this wonderful album. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                            aramos6@nd.edu 
as one of the best albums of all time, ex­hibiting both incomparable musicality and social relevance. after its release, hill waited another four years before debuting “mTv unplugged no. 2,” a live album recorded at mTv studios. Then, unceremoniously, she practically disap­peared. over a decade later, ms. lauryn hill is beginning to reemerge. she per­formed at this summer’s new york leg of afropunk Fest to an enormous crowd of die-hard fans and even made an appear­ance on “The Tonight show with Jimmy Fallon,” performing a tribute to nina simone’s “Feeling good.” 
at a time in which politics, racial is­sues and pop culture are all colliding with incredible force, the world could use missy elliott, erykah badu and ms. lauryn hill’s authentic, activist voices to deliver contemporary, unforgettable pieces of art. 
Contact Robert Wozniak at               rwozniak@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

God’s creatures 
Rosie Biehl 
photographer 

it has been two years since i eliminated all animal products from my diet and lifestyle. it was the right decision for the well-being of animals, the environment and my health. we know that animal agriculture is responsible for over half of all water consumption in the country and that dairy is not healthy for human beings. however, the ethical side for choosing a plant-based lifestyle is debatable; not everyone is going to agree killing animals is wrong, and i understand that. That being said, i commonly hear the responses, “god put animals on the world for us to eat,” and, “Jesus ate animals and was a fisherman, so i should eat ani­mals.” These are ideas i have been struggling with recently. 
rather than reading verses from the bible i agree with, consider whether god himself would be happy with what we do to the animals he created, all in the name of foods that have no biological need to be consumed. 
consider if a just god would be impressed that we: artificially breed them into existence in their billions, confining them in awful and un­natural conditions; take their lives when (in almost all cases) they are still babies; cram them onto transport trucks where many suffer slow, painful deaths in transit; force them against their will into slaughter­houses, where we hang them upside-down and cut their throats; throw day-old male chicks into grinding machines or gas chambers (because they don’t lay eggs); take day-old calves from their mothers and kill them (so that we can drink the milk intended for them); destroy god’s air, oceans, lakes, rivers and forests with destructive and unsustainable animal agriculture. 
These are all acts that would get you arrested if you did them to a cat or a dog, or indeed any animal not arbitrarily classed as “food.” if god’s will, together with morality acquired from the bible is what causes us to criminalize animal abuse, why do we then choose to turn a blind eye to the torment of a few unfortunate species whose flesh we have no need to consume? 
god created these animals with the ability to feel pain, form social bonds and elicit emotions, as well as with a strong will to live and the instinct to fight to stay alive. why would a kind and loving god create animals with these traits if he then wanted us to confine, enslave, hurt and kill them? is this the act of someone who is kind and just? or is it perhaps we who have misinterpreted his intentions? we’ve twisted ideals into “thou shalt not kill (unless we like the taste of the animal’s flesh)” and have used our dominion to hurt, abuse and kill vulnerable animals, when we should really be using that responsibility to show peace, love and protection to all of god’s creatures. 
Contact Rosie Biehl at rbiehl@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
our lost Thanksgiving 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
Two weeks ago, my brother-in-law — notre dame class of 1981 and former st. edward’s hall resident — passed following his 19-month battle against can­cer. originating in his colon, the cancer crept to his liver, leaped into his lungs and seeped to his spine. his final days had been ones of excruciating pain before his body shut down with a quiver and then a whimper one early morning on an october sunday. what had been planned as our last Thanksgiving with him next Thursday has become my family’s lost Thanksgiving without him. 
our upcoming hollow holiday is not unlike those of countless other american families who recently lost loved ones — most notably the gonzalez family who lost their daughter, nohemi, during the paris terror attack last week. but while my family anticipat­ed a bittersweet final feast, the gonzalez family was stunned with a sudden, permanent empty seat at their table. our lives are void. our hearts are empty. Future Thanksgivings will forever be ones affixed to our memories and the past. 
Thanksgiving began as a means for the pilgrims to celebrate survival, accomplishment and fellow­ship while pausing to commemorate those who were absent. each of us venerates what we hold dear in our hearts from serious adult life-altering circum­stances to a child’s simplistic limited worldview. on wednesday, the Jimmy Kimmel live show featured lighthearted interviews with children ranging in age from six to 10 years old. They were asked to share their thankful list. one chubby-faced boy recited a long litany of foods, sometimes repeating “turkey” as he moved from main courses to desserts. a girl said that she was grateful for her brother and her dog, but preferred the dog when pressed to name her favorite. 
losing a loved one near any holiday is an extraor­dinarily cruel shock. i am uncertain whether my family will display an empty place setting at our table next week or will attempt to move forward as best we can without the obvious exhibit. we can only cling onto our past. Two Thanksgivings ago, we celebrated togetherness, good health and an­ticipated college graduations or career promotions. last Thanksgiving we hoped more than celebrated 
— that having completed the first two surgeries, the next surgical procedure would complete the cycle so that a final healing could end our ordeal. 
unfortunately, a week later tests revealed that the cancer had spread again to another organ. 
my brother-in-law’s passing near this holiday awakened a question within myself. call it my fervent imagination, warped curiosity or creative analytical writing style; i wonder what my death date will be on the calendar. might my departure be an inconvenience occurring during a winter storm or another heartbreak near a holiday? how many times have i already passed that fateful day on the calen­dar, in both good times and bad, without ever the inkling that next time it may be the end for me? 
during a cancer centers of america television commercial i watched recently, a survivor noted that for her, each day was a lifetime in itself. i am not con­fident anyone in my family shared that point of view during my brother-in-law’s ordeal. we always looked forward several months, drawing benchmarks af­ter each planned procedure had been completed. our timeline simply extended a month or two each time the doctors addressed a new complication or found another tumor. even during the weekend of my brother-in-law’s death, we always anticipated he would at least be with us at Thanksgiving. 
For those who will experience a lonely, lost or hollow holiday next week like my family, i share a poem penned by an unknown author entitled, “Thanksgiving observance.” 
count your blessings instead of your crosses; 
count your gains instead of your losses. 
count your joys instead of your woes; 
count your friends instead of your foes. 
count your smiles instead of your tears; 
count your courage instead of your fears. 
count your full years instead of your lean; 
count your kind deeds instead of your mean. 
count your health instead of your wealth; 
count on god instead of yourself. 
and from my family to you: count your Thanksgiving as a lifetime unto itself. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the 
U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. He writes every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter: @GaryJCaruso or email: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Addressing sexual assault is our priority 
The documentary “The hunting ground” tells an ap­palling story: students on college campuses assault other students in the most intimate of ways. it’s happening across america. yes, it happens in notre dame, indiana. The documentary declares that college and university admin­istrations do not care. as vice president for student affairs at saint mary’s college for 10 years, i can attest to the fact that president carol ann mooney’s administration cares very much. saint mary’s college prepares students to make a difference in the world. as leaders of this undergraduate women’s college, it is our priority to address the problem of sexual assault. we will make a difference for our students. 
before i arrived, president mooney initiated first-year stu­dent orientation programming on the dangers that come with college life, including sexual assault. in 2009, saint mary’s college was the first women’s college in the nation to apply for and receive a grant from the department of Justice to start an office on campus dedicated to violence prevention and support for women. as a result, the belles against violence office (bavo) opened in the fall of 2010. bavo provides students with education about sexual vio­lence, relationship violence and stalking; informs them of reporting procedures and resources for survivors and their friends; and engages students in community-based conversation. when the three-year grant ended, the college devoted budget dollars to sustain the office because of its demonstrated value to students. in addition, we have trained employees to assist a survivor of a sexual assault with next steps. 
in april, we screened “The hunting ground” on campus. The film struck a chord with our students in a profound and immediate way. students told us what we do is not enough. To get to the bottom of what we could do better, president mooney announced the formation of a taskforce, a move reserved for the most important issues. it is only the sec­ond time that she has formed a taskforce in her tenure as president. 
The president’s Taskforce on sexual assault, which con­sists of students, faculty, staff and administrators, will meet for the third time on Friday. we meet monthly. at our first meeting president mooney established three subcommit­tees: education, procedures and support. These subcom­mittees will help the taskforce address these issues: what steps can saint mary’s take to reduce sexual assault and other forms of sexual violence against our students? in what ways can saint mary’s improve the college’s procedures for handling claims of sexual assault and sexual violence? how can saint mary’s better support our students who have survived some form of sexual violence? 
The task force will deliver a full report to the saint mary’s community in may 2016. in the meantime, here are some subjects we are discussing: that the college look into more peer-to-peer training and that more personnel on campus be trained as care advocates; that the three campuses of saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross share procedures to simplify the process of reporting sexual assaults; that the college offer counseling services on the weekend and in the evenings in addition to the existing business hours. 
These suggestions are just the beginning of our work. 
i would like to thank the saint mary’s students who have held student panel discussions on sexual assault. i com­mend The observer’s editors and writers for taking on the tough subject of sexual assault in a responsible and mean­ingful way. i assure you administrators are listening to student voices. as i said, it is this administration’s priority to address the problem of sexual assault. we will make a dif­ference for our students. 
Karen Johnson 
vice president for student affairs saint mary’s nov. 17 


A crisis to burst our bubble 


EDITORIAL 

while the conflict in syria has intensified in the past two years, recent events have called for our at­tention now more than ever. 
First, the isis attacks in paris last Friday renewed debates over whether the u.s. should open its bor­ders to 10,000 syrian refugees, as president obama proposed. 
Then, notre dame students received an email from student government Tuesday, inviting them to a din­ner at the morris inn to learn, in light of the syrian crisis, about the trek of refugees around the world and how it has specifically affected south bend. 
but it’s also a crisis that has been on the front pages of every national newspaper for the past few years. 
while our attention was drawn to syria because of immediate events — the attacks, the email, the news coverage — the country’s civil war and its con­sequences have been an ongoing struggle for the last four-and-a-half years, leaving more than 200,000 dead and displacing 12 million more from their homes, with no clear end in sight. 
we often limit our attention to our day-to-day prob­lems, within the so-called “notre dame and saint mary’s bubble,” focusing solely on issues that directly affect this campus and its students, faculty and staff. 
There’s no doubt the university and college have their own unique problems that require our attention to address and amend, but some events require us to look beyond the scope of south bend and see how they are affecting people all around the world. 
certainly the world’s largest human rights crisis, which started in syria right now but also affects the rest of the middle east, europe and north america, qualifies as an event worthy of our attention. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

“we don’t have to just react. we can think.” yes, ben carson, i agree. The presidential candidate stated this as he explained his argument for keeping syrian refugees out. despite our admitted potential to think, in the past few days, 31 governors have reacted to the paris attacks by declaring their state’s refusal to take on any syrian refugees. 
This, despite the fact that all of the confirmed at­tackers were european nationals. There is one man, found near a fake syrian passport, who possibly used refugee status to enter europe. even if this was the case, a singular case is not rational justification to deny 10,000 people — mostly women and children 
— refuge in the united states. our vetting process is different, longer and significantly more thorough, as those seeking to enter the u.s. have to pass the un vetting process in addition to our own procedures. There are difficulties and complications, but the con­clusion that refugees suddenly pose a drastic threat to our safety is a rash overreaction. 
nor is it a thoughtful or wise strategy. The so-called islamic state intentionally seeks to isolate muslims from the west. The group constantly speaks of a “clash of civilizations,” constructing a narrative of absolute difference and incompatibility. and many americans buy that logic and reinforce it with action, as the mass refusal to take syrian refugees proves. but if we were to take ben carson’s wise advice and think, we would realize that islam is not incompat­ible with our values. many majority-muslim countries 
as an american, catholic university and college, notre dame and saint mary’s are uniquely situated to address the plight of syrian refugees in our own way. 
Joining a growing trend, indiana governor mike pence became one of 26 governors monday to refuse to accept some of the 10,000 syrian refugees allowed to migrate to the u.s. 
“indiana has a long tradition of opening our arms and homes to refugees from around the world but, as governor, my first responsibility is to ensure the safety and security of all hoosiers,” pence said. 
in september, though, pope Francis called on ev­ery catholic parish and religious community around the world to take in refugee families affected by the syrian civil war. 
“Facing the tragedy of tens of thousands of refugees 
— fleeing death by war and famine, and journeying towards the hope of life — the gospel calls, asking of us to be close to the smallest and forsaken. To give them a concrete hope, and not just to tell them, ‘have courage, be patient!’” Francis said. 
as one of the world’s premier catholic universities, “one of the most powerful means for doing good in this country,” as Fr. edward sorin said, what are we supposed to do while simultaneously located under the jurisdiction of the governor of indiana? 
how can we help the millions of refugees from syria scattered around the world from our campuses? 
how do we live out the hope of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh that, “if notre dame makes a difference in the whole world, at the heart of that difference would be our commitment to human rights, human dignity, human freedom and human accomplishment,” with human rights at the fore of that hope? 
we can start by educating ourselves about what is going on in syria — how the conflict started, how it 
will we be true? 
like Jordan and Turkey — while with flaws like every country — exemplify a humanitarian and tolerant culture. There are also more than 2.6 million muslim americans living as peaceful contributors to society. seven hundred fifty thousand iraqi refugees have resettled in the us since 9/11. none have been con­victed of violent terrorist actions. 
by refusing logic and empathy, we are giving is ex­actly what they want. we prove that there is a “clash of civilizations.” we show countless displaced muslims the west has no love for them, there is no place for them among us. we isolate our muslim brothers and sisters, our fellow citizens, by demonstrating our ha­tred and ignorance of their religion. we preach diver­sity, inclusion, openness and tolerance while refusing to allow “the other” to live with us. we talk of an american dream and our incredible immigrant heri­tage; yet we qualify both to include only christians or those who fit our definition of western. we talk of universal human rights while unabashedly placing the comfort of christians and americans over the right of syrian refugees to live in safety and peace. we talk of our strength and leadership while allowing an unproved exception (the one terrorist who may have been a refugee) to scare our supposedly cherished values into obsolescence. 
The propaganda of the so-called islamic state dis­parages refugees who venture to infidel lands. The mass exodus of muslims from syria threatens the is claim to be a safe haven for muslims, invalidating the has affected its citizens, how it is touching the rest of the world. 
some of us have known about the crisis since the civil war began, while others may not have known until the start of this school year, possibly even until the paris attacks. regardless of where you stand now, all of us can learn a bit more. 
pick up any national newspaper, and a story on syria will most likely be included in it, if not dis­played on the front page. Take a moment to read and learn about the situation. it will take some time to understand the full scope of this crisis, but we can’t help until we’re aware of what is going on. 
attend a lecture on campus about syria or about the plight of refugees in general. go to the dec. 1 dinner at the morris inn, but not just for the choco­late dome cake. go because you know you can learn more and that you can make a difference with that knowledge. 
we applaud the efforts of student government to offer such an opportunity for students to learn about this crisis and connect with those affected by forced migration, who can help us learn more about what we can do. 
send letters to your governor if he or she refuses to accept refugees in his or her state. participate in the work of clubs like human rights nd to follow through on Fr. hesburgh’s wish. Join other notre dame and saint mary’s students on social media to­day with #americawelcomes to urge pence to support refugee resettlement. 
while this conflict is one with many nuances, turns and consequences, it’s not enough for us to stop learning or do nothing because of our own problems here at notre dame. 
This is a crisis that calls for us to break out of the “bubble.” 
group’s central claim. but when we close our doors (europe is not acting much differently from us), those who would otherwise have risked the journey to safe­ty in the west will be left with no good options. most will have to survive in a war-torn region. They will likely come to see is’ anti-western rhetoric as true. Forced to choose between death or submission to the “caliphate,” many will choose submission. our pitiful cowardice will only justify that choice. 
so we must ask: where are our values now? how can we let ourselves succumb to irrational, sweeping fear? how can we refuse safety to so many when we ourselves are descendants of refugees? are we so na­ïve to believe that islam is incompatible with our way of life? shall our empathy extend only to those who look like us, who share our religion? 
i cannot merely be idealistic. safety is imperative, and we should ensure our vetting process is thorough. Fear is normal and valid. but it should not control us. we should not give the enemy what it wants. more importantly, we should not abandon out of coward­ice who and what we are. i hope we can stand up as a nation, rise beyond our fear, refuse to abandon our fundamental values and open our minds, hearts and arms to people seeking a life free from terror. will we hold fast to our shared convictions? will we be true? 
Adam Moeller 
sophomore nov. 18 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: deal with emotional matters that have been dragging you down so that you can move forward and be productive. you have plenty to gain if you can ease your stress and get back to networking and drumming up interest in your business. higher income is within your reach if you make suggestions and offer your services. your numbers are 7, 10, 22, 26, 31, 35, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The partnerships and relationships in your life are undergoing changes. be careful not to let anger take over. life is short and can be dealt with in a fashion that is constructive instead of destructive. love conquers all. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t be afraid to ask for favors. your ideas will spark some interesting comments and could lead to help from an unexpected source. you can accomplish a lot if you are willing to listen, learn and incorporate what you discover into your plans. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a demanding individual will try to lead you in a direction that isn’t practical. engage in something that will bring about positive changes and make you more appealing to someone you’d like a closer relationship with. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): live and learn. Take part in events that will give you a better view of the way other people live. a new venture or business trip will require a lot of time, imagination and input in order to turn a profit. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): approach sensitive subjects cautiously. not everyone will be willing to go along with the changes you want to make. offer positive responses to people, but give them room to add their own creative input. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Question everything before you take action. it will take a significant amount of thought and deliberation to make the right choices. not everyone will be up-front and you may have to pry to find out where you stand. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t give up on a dream, but try to have a practical approach in place. you can make positive personal changes and achieve greater happiness if you are honest about how you feel. Try to stay away from people who bring you down. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): be true to yourself and you will have no regrets. a variety of people you have worked with and trusted in the past will help you now. your passion and dedication will spark a greater interest in your projects. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t leave yourself open to criticism or emotional scrutiny. you’ll have to move quickly if you are faced with deception or unexpected setbacks. uncertainty is the enemy. don’t mince words or mislead others. Fairness is a must. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): lay out your financial plans. put your ideas on paper and go over details with a fine-toothed comb. Talk to people who have experience in your field. steer clear of anyone showing inconsistency. don’t let your ego cost you. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): be careful not to become too dependent on anyone. you’ll be fed false information if you are gullible. ask questions even if someone gives you a hard time. make personal and financial changes based on your needs. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): schedule some time for an interview, meeting or just to talk about possibilities with someone who can help you with an idea you want to pursue. Favors will be granted as long as you offer incentives. 

Birthday Baby: you are gracious, giving and aggressive. you are adaptable and outgoing. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | The observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

mls playoffs make the grade 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
i used to hate the mls cup playoffs. 
soccer is an inherently fluky sport. one bounce, one touch or one wrong call can be the differ­ence between a win and a loss on any given day for any given team. 
when scoring is low, there’s bound to be a higher amount of variance in results. 
as a statistics nerd, i’ve always had a love-hate relationship with the nature of the game. on one hand, it’s pretty neat that smaller teams can grab results against much better sides, simply because that element of luck or execution is on their side on any given day. 
on the other hand, it leaves open a wider door for the oppor­tunity that the best team doesn’t win any individual competition, especially one that concludes in a knockout tournament. 
it’s why i’ve always admired the way the premier league, bundesliga and other top european leagues have de­termined their champions: whichever side has the most points at the end of the year wins the championship. simple as that. 
The system allows soccer’s shocks to be felt — like when swansea city topped manchester united in august — but affords the best teams the opportunity to redeem themselves for their worst defeats, as evidenced by united’s position, just two points back of manchester city and arsenal. Teams are rewarded for being consistently good over the course of the season and won’t get punished for any one result. 
but major league soccer’s champion-determining system is nothing like it. 
of the 20 teams in america’s top division, 12 make the play­offs. Forget about rewarding teams for consistent performance over a 34-game regular season 
— mls simply rewards them for getting there, which 60 percent of teams do, and then playing well in november. 
From the parallels to soccer’s other top leagues, it’s particularly dumb. in the premier league, that would’ve meant crystal palace and west ham united in a “playoff” last year. 
For anyone that follows the league, that’d clearly be a mistake. 
but mls isn’t like the premier league at all. it’s chiefly gov­erned by a salary cap, unlike the high-spending epl, instituting a certain level of parity to proceed­ings. where chelsea amassed 87 points to lead the premier league last year in 38 games, the new york red bulls finished top of the regular-season standings in mls this year with just 60 in 34 — a much weaker pace. 
so these playoffs, i started to take a different look at the league’s playoff system. 
and they’re the best thing in soccer. 
Turn the clock back to oct. 29, when my beloved portland Timbers hosted sporting Kansas city in an elimination match to open the playoffs. Tensions were high, and after a 2-2 draw, the match went to penalty kicks. 
Kicking second, sporting had a couple chances to win the match — including one where the ball struck both posts but never crossed the line — and the penalties entered the 11th round. as any soccer fan knows, that’s when penalties get interesting: it means the goalies step up with the game on the line. 
Timbers goalie adam Kwarasey first scored, then saved his opponent’s spot kick, sending the Timbers through to the next round. 
Fast-forward a couple weeks, and the drama of the playoffs showed once more. 
after notching a 2-1 win in the first leg of a two-match playoff, the seattle sounders were sitting back, looking to kill off a 0-0 game at Fc dallas, a result that would send the sounders through to the next round. 
but in the 84th minute, dallas forward Tesho akindele scored to put the hosts ahead 1-0 on the game, a result that would qualify them for the conference finals. game over, right? 
Far from it. 
seattle’s chad marshall scored from a corner in the 90th min­ute, putting the sounders back ahead on aggregate with just a couple minutes left in the match. seconds later, they had been crashing out, but now they were moving on. 
at least for a few seconds. 
straight from the restart, dallas went after getting another goal to send the match to extra time — and walker Zimmerman stepped up. within the span of two minutes, both dallas and seattle were in a position to ad­vance, before settling on the one result that brought up extra time, where after 30 scoreless minutes, Fc dallas won on penalties. 
it was the kind of crazy drama that can only be created by a knockout tournament. 
i still love the consistency it takes to win a title in the premier league, undoubtedly. 
but the mls cup playoffs are the best thing in soccer. hands down. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
cable are all averaging 10 or more points per game. 
defensively, however, the irish have been far better than the Jackrabbits. while the Jackrabbits have allowed 137 points over the first two games of the season, the irish have held their opponents to a mere 93. 
in particular, the irish are coming off a defensive per­formance against Toledo in which they held the rockets to 39 points. after the game, irish head coach muffet mcgraw credited much the improve­ment defensively from the win over bucknell to junior forward Taya reimer’s return to the lineup. 
“i think the big thing with Taya is her experience,” mcgraw said. “she has big game experi­ence. she has the defensive abil­ity and is a good communicator. with everything she does, she makes us a little bit more confi­dent because she has done it all before. having that experience in the lineup is really important for us.” 
while the season is still young for notre dame, the matchup on saturday is the toughest the irish have had thus far on paper. south dakota state has been looking forward to welcoming the challenge the irish repre­sent for a while now, mcgraw said. 
“i think it’s a sellout,” mcgraw said. “From what i’ve heard, the tickets have been gone since august or september, so they really like their women’s basket­ball in south dakota.” 
as a result, the irish expect the environment to be a hos­tile one. with it being the first road game of the year for the team, mcgraw said preparing the younger players for their first road game is the biggest concern for the irish. mcgraw said she hopes the team’s veter­ans will lead by example for the younger players as they prepare for their first game in a hostile environment. 
“it’s our first road game, so that’s always a challenge,” mcgraw said. “it’s our first hos­tile arena, [but] we have a vet­eran group starting, so we hope they’ll be setting the tone. 
“Then, after that, [it’s about] getting the freshman adjusted on the road. everything’s new, so that’s always a concern.” 
The irish and Jackrabbits are set to tip off at 3 p.m. saturday at Frost arena in brookings, south dakota. 
Contact at Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | buTler 93, missouri sTaTe 59 
Butler offense shines in second win of season 
Associated Press 
san Juan, puerto rico — butler coach chris holtmann already knew his team could run and score at a pace most teams will struggle to match this season. he’s eager to see how the no. 22 bulldogs re­spond when the offense doesn’t come so easily. 
Kelan martin scored 18 points and no. 22 butler put on another offensive show to beat missouri state 93-59 on Thursday in the first round of the puerto rico Tipoff. 
andrew chrabascz also had 18 points, and the bulldogs (2-0) flirted with cracking the 100-point mark for the second time to open the season. butler scored a program-record 144 points last weekend in the opener against The citadel, then rolled again by getting out in transition at full speed and sharing the ball against the bears (0-2). 
“it’s a really small sample size,” holtmann said. “i would caution into reading too much into two games. i think we’ll know more at the end of this week.” 
maybe, but this much is inar­guable: butler has started the season in a full-speed sprint on offense. 
butler shot 60 percent and made 8 of 17 3-pointers, yet committed just eight turnovers in a clean offensive perfor­mance. The bulldogs also had 23 assists on 33 baskets. 
“Today we got out in transi­tion and just started going,” point guard Tyler lewis said. “and we have great playmak­ers on this team who can know to make the right play at a fast speed.” 
The bulldogs certainly got off to a fast start in san Juan and led by 24 points by halftime. They didn’t need a big day from pre­season all-big east picks Kellen dunham and roosevelt Jones, instead finishing with plenty of balance behind martin and chrabascz. 
“They’re an offensive ma­chine at this point,” missouri state coach paul lusk said. “you’re not going to beat many people when you let them shoot 60 percent.” 
dequon miller scored 15 points to lead the bears, who fell to 6-35 against ranked op­ponents. They shot just 34 percent, including a 2-for-15 showing behind the arc, and couldn’t keep up once butler got rolling. 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 
That’s their system, but it’s also their goaltender, and it seems like they’re right back there again with [boyle] in net.” 
The irish are off to hot start in hockey east play as well, as they still have yet to lose a game and current­ly sit in third place in the conference. 
Jackson placed the focus for his team on improving consistency and on retain­ing leads. 
“we’ve been all over the place; we’ve had games where we generate a fair amount of offense, and we’ve had games where we’ve been kinda stymied,” Jackson said. “i think that, again, is just the inconsistency that comes from our youth in some ways. we have to get to the point where our guys play the same game every night.” 
Jackson also discussed sophomore left wing anders bjork, who he thinks has sometimes been an example of the inconsistency that comes from youth. 
“i think he’s been press­ing,” Jackson said. “but he’s been pressing more because he’s trying to make the na­tional junior team, which has hurt his penalty killing and his game without the puck. he cheats a little too much offensively, and then he gets caught. he’s such a skilled and great skater, he has the potential to be a great player. he just has to find that balance right now. understanding that if he does things the right way then his skills and speed show up even more because the way he’s doing things right now, if he’s cheating or trying to do too much, then he’s forced to play defense all the time, and that’s not his game. we want him with the puck, not without it.” 
bjork and the irish will continue their play in hockey east with a pair of games against umass lowell at the Tsongas center in lowell, massachusetts, on Friday and saturday nights. They will then return home for the shillelagh Tournament, which kicks off nov. 27 with a game against no. 8 harvard. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
head coach bobby clark said. “you want a high seed because, provided you keep winning, if you’re a top-four seed, you will play at home at all the way though until the final four, and if you’re a top-eight seed you play two home games and get a bye in the first round. it saves you one game, but it doesn’t guaran­tee you anything. you still have to win.” 
despite the competitive­ness of the tournament, clark said the team expects to make a deep run in the tournament, so he’s advised the team to prepare every day as if it’s going to play through december. 
“The thing is that with a very busy college schedule playing two games a week, and i think we had a stretch where we played 14 games in 43 days, which was very hec­tic, it can be difficult,” clark said. “This has been a week where we certainly have had the time to have a little bit of a break. our boys were able to take two days off and catch up with studies. That was one of the messages we’ve put out because if you’re go­ing to have a deep run into the tournament, and that’s the plan for us, then you will miss class, and this is a time where we really emphasize for the guys to get their stud­ies done with the anticipa­tion with a deep run into the tournament.” 
The golden hurricane (8­6-6, 2-3-2 aac) advanced to the tournament after win­ning their conference tourna­ment for the second straight year, and they defeated no. 16 Florida international, 3-2, in overtime Thursday’s first-round action. Tulsa won each of its three aac tournament games in a penalty shootout before winning Thursday in overtime in the ncaa tournament. 
clark said the team is pre­pared to take on the golden hurricane on sunday, a team that last lost oct. 21. 
“i don’t think there is any danger in our team taking [Tulsa] lightly,” clark said. “every team in the tourna­ment, the 48 teams that make the tournament of the 200­plus teams that play division i college soccer, all of them are very good and have had good seasons. every team in the tournament is feeling good about themselves. 
“[Tulsa] won their Thursday game, so they’ll be feeling extra good. … we know we’ll be in for a tough game.” 
despite notre dame com­ing off a loss last sunday to syracuse in the acc champi­onship bout, clark isn’t wor­ried about the team’s morale heading into sunday’s game. 
“i think [last weekend’s loss to syracuse] will make them very hungry,” clark said. “They’ll come out on sunday a hungry team, and that’s a certainty. especially with this senior class and the success they’ve had in their four years, they won’t want to limp out of the tourna­ment. They’ll be a focused notre dame team. all tour­nament games are going to be tough. it’s up to us to get a hold of things.” 
The irish will host Tulsa on sunday at 2 p.m. at alumni stadium in the second round of the ncaa tournament. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at  mdejesus@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | The observer 




you stretch it out a little bit?” 
W Soccer 
M Bball brey said. “That’s something we 
conTinued From page 12 

conTinued From page 12 really study. “we’ve got analytics on it; gilbertson, notched 13 goals 
even a week in, and power-five our points per possession with in the regular season, plus 
conference teams such as our-one lineup versus another, but two more in the tourney’s 
selves, many of them have taken we don’t have enough data in first round. 
bullets and have lost.” a game yet to really say, ‘man, “They’re a very organized 
no. 6 virginia, who lost at that’s definitive.’” team,” romagnolo said of 
brey’s alma mater, george early in the year, ryan has the huskies. “They’re a 
washington, on monday head-emerged as the seventh man in quality opponent with two 
lines a list of four acc teams notre dame’s rotation, edging very good strikers up front 
to have dropped an opening-out Torres, geben and senior who can score goals and get 
week contest to a mid-major forward austin burgett, but assists, so those are the two 
squad, with many other top-brey said there’s more to the primary players we need to 
tier schools having been upset freshman’s game than simply watch.” 
already. his shot. stopping connecticut’s 
The irish (2-0) are com-“There’s certainly that abil­offense will be crucial to an 
ing off a tight, 86-78 win over ity to shoot the basketball and irish win, romagnolo said. 
milwaukee on Tuesday night — shoot it from deep, to be fearless The notre dame backline, 
a game brey called “interesting” like that, it’s just such a weapon led by senior captains Katie 
— and could face more match-that we love,” brey said. “what naughton and cari roccaro, 
up issues saturday against the i’ve been impressed with — you has not allowed more than 
river hawks (1-1). can’t play him 17 minutes in a two goals in a game yet this 
“They’re small, and they’re game just because he’s a great year and has recorded six 
fast, so they can create some shooter. he’s gotta be able to do shutouts in its last seven 
matchup problems for us,” brey some things on the defensive matches. 
said. “ … They play really fast, end and rebound a little bit, and 

“we talked a little bit and they play really small, so i’ve been impressed with how about how we’re going to de-what are our matchups going he’s improved defensively, got-fend them in terms of focus-to be? and who are our big guys ten more attention to detail and ing on their two strikers, but lead. romagnolo said even continue its run toward the going to guard? [Those] are my that he can rebound some.” we’ll just try to stay in con-with a quick turnaround college cup. concerns.” against milwaukee on trol of possession and create following a potential win, “it is important to get a after starting each half Tuesday, junior forward v.J. opportunities so that they resting the starters again is good rest but also to stay Tuesday with both sophomore beachem tied a career high with have to worry about us rath-unlikely. sharp,” romagnolo said. forward bonzie colson and se-19 points, something the Fort er than us worrying about “at the end of the day, we “They’re hungry to get on nior forward Zach auguste on wayne, indiana, native said them,” romagnolo said. have to win this game, so the field again. They’re just the floor, brey made the call to was a product of the way he ap­
if the irish win Friday af-unless we have the luxury of excited to be where we are.” “downshift” about five min-proached the game. ternoon, they would play getting up by several goals, The irish face uconn in utes into each half, keeping “i just wanted to be more ag­again sunday against the our focus has to be on get-new brunswick, new Jersey, one of colson and auguste on gressive, you know, try to play winner of Friday night’s ting through Friday,” she on Friday at 4 p.m. in the the bench the rest of the way — my complete game, more than rutgers-hofstra matchup. said. second round of the ncaa something brey said had a bit to just shooting jump shots,” 
against oakland, most with the week-long break tournament. do with milwaukee’s size. beachem said. of the team’s starters rest-from last Friday to this “i love our starting group, saturday’s contest will the the ed during the second half coming Friday, romagnolo Contact Renee Griffin at  and we continue to keep getting last for notre dame before head-thanks to the substantial said notre dame is eager to rgriffi6@nd.edu them accustomed to playing to-ing south to walt disney world, 
gether,” brey said. “but i think, where the irish will compete when you’re playing a smaller in the advocare invitational. team, when you have a smaller despite the warm weather and a lineup on the floor, you’re able potential sweet 16 rematch with to match up with shooters when no. 9 wichita state, brey said he there are so many shooters, and isn’t concerned about his team milwaukee posed that.” looking past umass-lowell on 
Though it’s not just a reaction-saturday. ary move for the irish to bring “i think this group has been sophomore guard matt Farrell really mature about setting or freshman forward matt ryan their goals,” brey said. “ … i onto the floor for colson or think when they look around auguste. the country and see teams get­
“it gives us a different look ting beat by mid-majors, it offensively,” brey said. “we put gets their attention, so i really another shooter on the floor, don’t think they’ll get ahead of and we spread it out.” ourselves.“ 
brey said the irish are still beachem supported brey’s looking to find the right bal-faith in his squad to not get ance in their rotations and that ahead of itself this weekend. they’re still looking to gather “Just knowing that we’ve got more data for their analytics-to take it one game at a time based approach. [keeps us focused],” beachem 
“what we’re trying to find, said. “you can’t overlook any-what i’m trying to find is what’s body; every game we’ve got to the balance point of when the be ready to play, no matter when two big guys play together — it is, no matter who it’s against.” or two big guys play together, notre dame and umass [sophomore forward martinas] lowell tip off saturday at 2 p.m. geben, [junior forward austin] at purcell pavilion. Torres, any combination of them — and when do you put Contact Alex Carson at a ryan or a Farrell in there and acarson1@nd.edu 






The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame starts tournament journey 
By MANNY DE JESUS 

sports writer  
after last weekend’s first- 
ever appearance in the acc  
tournament final, notre  
dame is set to host Tulsa  
in the second round of the  
nca a tournament sunday.  
irish head coach bobby  
clark said notre dame (11­ 
4-5, 4-2-2 acc), seeded  
seventh, hasn’t done much  
differently to stay consistent  
and focused this week lead­ 
ing up to sunday’s match.  
after being knocked out of  
the tournament last season  
as the top seed against 16th­ 
seeded virginia in the third  
round, notre dame under­ 
stands that rankings don’t  
mean as much at this point  
in the season.  
“i think one of the nice  
things is that, of the top 16  
seeds, we were no. 7,” irish  ZACH LLORENS | The Observer  
Senior midfielder Evan Panken jumps for a header in Notre  
see m soccer PAGE 10  Dame’s 1-0 loss to Syracuse on Sunday in the ACC title game.  

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
irish face huskies in second round 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame and no. 18 connecticut will face off in a battle between two teams that each dominated their first round opponents when they meet in the sec­ond round of the ncaa tour­nament Friday. 
The huskies (18-3-0, 8-1­0 aac) shut out siena, 5-0, in their win last weekend, while the third-seeded irish (14-4-1, 6-4-0 acc) won by the same margin against oakland to open the pro­gram’s 23rd consecutive tournament appearance. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said the final score is unimportant to her as long as her team comes out on top. 
“all i care about is scoring one more goal than the oth­er team,” she said. “at this stage, everyone’s going to 
play hard. There are no easy 
ga mes.”  
notre  dame  is  just  the  
third  top-25  oppo nent  
connecticut  has  been  

matched up against this sea­son. The other two ended in losses for the huskies, first against no. 9 rutgers — the no. 2 seed, who plays host to this weekend’s matches 
— and later against no. 22 south Florida. 
The only other defeat connecticut suffered this year was a 3-2 overtime loss to cincinnati in the aac championship semifinals nov. 5. 
The huskies are led in attack by junior forward rachel hill, whose 14 goals in the regular season tied her for 17th nationally in scoring. meanwhile, notre dame’s leading scorer, se­nior forward anna maria 
see w soccer PAGE 11 
HOCKEY 

squad prepares for road trip 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
after two home weekends in a row, no. 16 notre dame will head back out on the road to take on no. 5 umass lowell in a pair of conference games. 
For the irish (5-2-3, 3-0-1 hockey east), these two games against the conference-leading river hawks (8-1-2, 4-0-2) will provide an early season bench­mark that they can build off for the rest of the year, according to irish head coach Jeff Jackson, especially since the river hawks are riding a five-game winning streak. 
“They’re a very structured team,” Jackson said about the river hawks. “They play four lines, they change quickly so they out-shift you. They’re very disciplined in the way they play. They do a lot of things really well, and they’ve got ‘heavy’ players 
— that’s the new terminology nowadays. They’re strong over the puck, they’re strong physi­cally, they get to the net hard. it’s like playing a pro team — that’s the way they play the game. Their system in the defensive zone and their transition game from it also make them tough.” 
much like some of their other rivalries that have come into fo­cus in recent years, notre dame has played umass lowell con­sistently recently. a year ago, the irish and the river hawks played a total of five games, in­cluding three in the conference playoffs, with the river hawks skating to a 3-1-1 record overall against the irish. 
“The reality is that we played them pretty tough last year in the playoffs; even the last game, which had a big score, we had some great chances in that game,” Jackson said. 
along with the system, Jackson said the reason the river hawks have been such a strong opponent over the years is because of their play in goal. They are led by senior goalten­der Kevin boyle, who currently boasts a .957 save percentage and is fresh off his third shutout of the season. 
“Their goaltender’s playing re­ally well right now too, and that’s a big factor for them,” Jackson said. “when they were really good a few years ago in goal, and they were almost impossible to score against. 
see hocKey PAGE 10 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND to host UMass Lowell 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
heading into no. 18 notre dame’s matchup with umass lowell on saturday at purcell pavilion, irish head coach mike brey is a little concerned — not be­cause of his team’s play, but of recent results across the country. 
“i get nervous when i look around and see all the up­sets in college basketball al­ready,” brey said. “we’re not 
see m bball PAGE 11 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
irish head to south dakota 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame will travel to brookings, south dakota, this weekend to take on south dakota state in its first road game of the season saturday. 
The irish (2-0) are coming off of a 74-39 win over Toledo in which they dominated the rockets defensively. now, as the team prepares for its first road test of the season, it will look to repeat that effort in order to come away with another win. 
The Jackrabbits (2-0) are by no means a big-name program, but they have come out of the gates hot this season, win­ning games over marist and arkansas in the first two games of their three-game homestand to start the season. 
offensively, the Jackrabbits have been strong, scoring 77 and 76 points respective­ly in each of the team’s first two wins. in particular, they have been led by the play of sophomore guard macy miller, who leads south dakota state with 25 points per game. 
The irish, however, have also looked prolific on offense early on. They have scored 85 and 74 points in each of their wins and feature a more balanced offen­sive attack, as freshman guard marina mabrey, sophomore forwards brianna Turner and Kathryn westbeld and gradu­ate student guard madison 
see w bball PAGE 9 




