The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 3 | WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NOVO registration replaces DART 
University registrar Chuck Hurley praises newly launched class scheduling system for students 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
in an email to students aug. 19, university registrar chuck hurley announced the former class registra­tion system known as darT would be replaced by novo registration, which stands for “new organization via online registration.” 
hurley said a number of new features designed to make the registration pro­cess easier for students, and the class search feature has been replaced by a feature in novo registration called “browse classes.” 
“‘browse classes’ has a whole different way to cut the data that didn’t exist before in class search,” he said. “one of the things for ex­ample, is that there is a key­word search. so if you search a word like ‘technology,’ any class in any discipline with the word ‘technology’ in the class title or description will pop up.” 
The novo registration sys­tem also includes enhanced error messaging, hurley said. 
“in the darT system the er­ror messaging could be quite cryptic. people didn’t always understand why they were receiving an error. you only received one error message at a time, which was a big pain,” he said. “in novo registra­tion, it allows it to 
see regisTraTion PAGE 5 



Jumbotron coming to stadium in 2017 

Observer Staff Report 
a video board will adorn the south end zone of notre dame stadium when the irish open their 2017 season, the notre dame athletic department announced in a statement Tuesday. 
The announcement, which also laid out other enhancements planned for notre dame stadium, said the construction of the vid­eo board is a part of the on­going campus crossroads project which began after the final home game against louisville last season. 

“we are confident the introduction of video will significantly improve en­joyment of every aspect of a game at notre dame stadium — including the ability to support game day introductions and presenta­tions with video elements, additional opportunities to promote the university, plus 
see video board PAGE 5 




Reports of fake calls return 
Observer Staff Report 
in mid-July, students and oth­er staff received an email from notre dame security police (ndsp) warning of a man call­ing people affiliated with notre dame and impersonating vari­ous government officials in or­der to obtain personal financial information. 
a month later, reports of those calls have started coming in again, according to university spokesperson dennis brown. 
The initial email, which was sent July 17, said caller identifica­tion indicates the man’s number as that of a legitimate govern­ment agency. he then pretends to be a member of law enforce­ment or some other government official and asks for money or financial information, according to the email. 
multiple people have de­scribed the man as speaking with a heavy accent, the email stated. ndsp urged students to not share private finances over the phone. 
“if you receive a suspicious call, we recommend that you clarify what agency the person is from, the name of the caller, the purpose of the call and the tele­phone number,” the email said. “Then look up the number for the agency yourself and call to see if someone from the agency is le­gitimately trying to contact you. if not, report to the police.” 
both ndsp and the roseland police department have received complaints about the caller. 


smc hosts activities night 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
saint mary’s students attend­ed the college’s annual student involvement Fair on Tuesday evening.  The fair, hosted by the student government association (sga) and the office of student involvement, encouraged stu­dent involvement in the college and community activities. 
The number of clubs on cam­pus has reached 87, but increas­es every year. cinthya benitez, founder of the new neuroscience 
see acTiviTies PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s soccer PAGE 16 cross counTry PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                    Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 


Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you made a club, what would it be? 

Emma Conroy 
first-year 
regina hall 
“i’d make a club for leggings, so girls who wear leggings all the time can hang out.” 
Kelsey Kopf 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“a peanut butter club.” 
Maggie Mochty 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“belle-a Fashion.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Meg Brownley 
sophomore le mans hall 
“ice cream club.” 
Miranda Reed 
junior le mans hall 
“stand-up comedy club.” 
Perla Vetel 
sophomore le mans hall 
“go green.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

J.p. gschwind ben padanilam Kathryn marshall manny de Jesus 
Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 

erin rice miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 
“The Winter’s Tale” Dante and Blood in ND Women’s Soccer Biathlon Basilica Mass 

Zach llorens Tabitha ricketts 
DeBartolo Performing the Medieval Context vs. Santa Clara Boat House Basilica of the Sacred Arts Center Hesburgh Library Alumni Stadium 10 a.m. Heart 
7:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 7 p.m. Half-mile swim and 10 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. 
Corrections 
Part of the Notre Dame A lecture and Italian The Irish take on Santa two-mile run race for Sunday Mass 

The observer regards itself as Shakespeare Festival research seminar Clara. individuals and teams a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Feed Your Faith National Theatre Graduate Student Outdoor Movie ND Women’s Soccer 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
South Quad Live: “Everyman” Mass South Quad vs. Portland 

however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred 10 p.m. Alumni Stadium 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
A chance for students Arts Center Heart Outdoor screening 1:30 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
to learn more about 7 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m. hosted by Student The Irish take on 
we can correct our error. 
faith development Screening of the play Weekly Mass Activites Office Portland. 



CSC programs offer 
opportunities to learn, serve 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
over the summer months, nearly 300 students had the opportunity to serve partner agencies and reflect on social issues through notre dame’s center for social concerns (csc), which offered the summer service learning program (sslp) and the international summer service learning program (isslp). 
andrea smith shappell, who directs the sslp, said the pro­gram is important because it offers a new depth of learn­ing and a new perspective for students. 
“students enter into relation­ships with people who live on the margins of our society and begin to see social issues from new perspectives,” shappell said. “This change of perspec­tive carries into their discern-
Photo courtesy of Alexandra Rice 
ment of how they will respond 

smc hosts mock trial camp over summer break 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
This summer, saint mary’s associate professor of com­munication studies michael Kramer and notre dame law student chase hundman taught eight high school students about courtroom procedures during a week-long camp on saint mary’s campus. 
“we tried to give some ex­posure to all the different parts of a trial,” Kramer said. “something that’s made to look really easy on Tv is a lot more complicated in real life.” 
The students reenacted what a real civil court case may have looked like, as they portrayals of courtroom procedures and increased students’ awareness of the events that take place dur­ing a trial. 
“i think they were able to get more of a real world sense of how a courtroom procedure goes,” Kramer said. “we see a lot of it on Tv and in film, but it’s not al­ways the most realistic.” 
Kramer said if granted the opportunity, he would hold the program again next summer to teach even more high school students about courtroom procedures. he said students learned many valuable skills but that one of the best parts was clari­fying common misconcep­tions about the legal system through a demonstration. 
“we talked about many 
different topics,” Kramer 
said. “The showcase where 
they actually did the parts 
of the trial went really well, 
and it was a lot of fun.” 
according to Kramer, the 
summer program provided 

Senior Alexandra Rice treats a patient  at the Roanoke Rescue 
in their personal and profes­
sional lives.” 
Mission’s G. Wayne Fralin Free Clinic for the Homeless. 

according to the csc web-“as a science preprofes-they held a talent show, swam, 
site, the sslp and isslp are sional student, i always wished fished, studied the bible and 
theology courses with eight to learn more about and help did arts and crafts. Thompson 
weeks of consecutive immer-to address the healthcare in-said the campers taught him a 
equalities in our country, but lot about himself and what he 
“Students enter into relationships with people who live on the margins of our society and begin to see social issues from new perspectives.” 
Andrea Smith Shappell 
SSLP Director 
sion; they are worth three and four credits, respectively. The csc invites notre dame clubs to sponsor students to serve in the local community of the club. 
senior alexandra rice worked at the roanoke rescue mission’s g. wayne Fralin Free clinic for the homeless in virginia where she triaged patients and worked in the of­fice. she said her experiences helped her learn about health­care inequality and connect her future career to her faith. 

never truly had the chance to do so through my coursework,” rice said. “since the bible teaches us that faith without works is dead, the sslp provid­ed a chance for me to begin to process the meaningful praxis in this area as i look forward to a career in healthcare.” 
sophomore King Fok also worked at casa Juan diego, a clinic in houston, Texas, which is a catholic worker house. he said casa Juan diego is one of the only clinics in the country that serve the undocument­ed for free, and that the sslp helped him learn more about his role in the future. 
“it was a place where not only did i learn more about the world we are living in today, but more so about my role in it and how i can use my skills to aid others,” Fok said. 
not all students worked in clinics or hospitals. Junior dan Thompson was a counselor at sharing meadows in indiana, a summer camp for adults with disabilities. he said it was simi­lar to any other summer camp; wants to do. 
“Their honesty about their vulnerability taught me a lot about self-acceptance, which i feel was a crucial first step in my discernment about what i want to spend my life doing,” he said. 
Junior isslp participant elle scott spent the summer in gulu, uganda where she worked for battery operated systems for community outreach (bosco). bosco, an organization that installs radio towers and teaches classes, was founded by notre dame alum­ni in 2007. 
scott said the isslp gives students first-hand experience solving social problems around the world. 
The application to partici­pate in next summer’s round of isslp and sslp will go live september 16 and november 15, respectively. both applica­tions can be found at the csc’s website. 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
participated in a mock trial during a showcase at the end of the week. 
according to Kramer, the camp focused on a specific case that involved film­maker Kelley wilson, who sued disney for copyright infringement because of similarities between her short film “The snowman” and the trailer for disney’s “Frozen.” 
Kramer said to simulate the courtroom process most accurately, he and hundman gave each student a role, al­lowing everyone to play different parts in the trial process. 
“we had a team of students representing Kelley wilson and a team of students rep­resenting disney,” Kramer said. “one of the students played a judge ruling on the objection. we wanted to make sure that everyone did something.” 
he said the camp clarified some of the media’s false participants with new skills, such as coming up with evi­dence, dealing with objec­tions and writing opening and closing statements. 
“we tried to, as much as we could in the context of the camp, give them some real-life, hands-on type of expe­rience,” Kramer said. “The students seemed to enjoy it a lot.” 
Kramer said the success of this year’s summer program suggests that the experi­ence heightened the partici­pants’ awareness of the legal system. 
“students with experi­ence in mock trial or in the law are interested in that system,” Kramer said. “There’s a natural curios­ity that students have, even at a younger age, about how the courtroom operates and about how these cases work their way through it and get decided.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 




Baumers endow men’s lacrosse coaching job 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online May 
class of 1990 alumnus John baumer and his wife mollie — a saint mary’s class of 1990 alumna and former varsity soccer player 
— have made a $3 million 

donation to the university to endow the men’s lacrosse head coaching position, the university announced over the summer. 
The baumers’ gift will underwrite the salary of head coach Kevin corrigan, currently in his 27th sea­son with the irish. The baumer Family head men’s lacrosse coach, as the po­sition will be called, is the second endowed coaching position at the university. Former women’s basketball player Karen Keyes and her husband Kevin made a $5 million gift that endowed the women’s basketball head coach position earlier this year. 
“i want to thank John and 
mollie  baumer  for  their  
wonderful  gift  and  their  
generous support of  notre  

dame and our lacrosse program,” corrigan said in the press release. “This is extremely meaningful to me, because i know that the baumer family, like the corrigan family, shares a great love for notre dame and for the value of the ex­traordinary experience that student-athletes have here.” 
John baumer, who earned a degree in finance from the mendoza college of business, serves as a member of the university’s advisory council for student-athletes, campaign cabinet and wall street leadership committee, ac­cording to the press release. 

originally from south bend, John baumer and his wife currently live in manhattan beach, california, where he serves as a senior partner at leonard green & partners of los angeles, a private equity firm with more than $15 billion of private equity capital raised in its his­tory, according to the press release. 
baumer cited corrigan’s character and success with the men’s lacrosse team as important aspects of his and his wife’s gift. 
“we have known the corrigan family for over 30 years and have tremendous respect and admiration for the success that Kevin has achieved in building the notre dame lacrosse pro­gram from virtually scratch into one of the preeminent programs in the country,” baumer said in the press re­lease. “The success on the field combined with the 100 percent graduation rate for the lacrosse student-athletes is a remarkable testament to Kevin’s coaching and leader­ship skills combined with his embracing of the core notre dame values.” 
sotomayor to speak on campus 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online Aug. 12 
u.s. 
supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor will speak on notre dame’s campus on sept. 2, university president Fr. John Jenkins announced earlier this month. 

nbc news correspon­dent and university trustee anne Thompson will join sotomayor in a discussion of “a wide range of issues” mod­erated by fellow trustee and 

u.s. 
court of appeals Judge ann claire williams, accord­ing to the university press release. 


according to the release, the event, which is spon­sored by the office of the president, notre dame law school and the institute for latino studies, will be free and open to the public. The doors to leighton concert hall at debartolo performing arts center will open at 6 p.m. and the event will run from 7 to 8:15. 
sotomayor will also speak with smaller groups of faculty and students while on cam­pus, the press release stated. 
a bronx, new york native, sotomayor received degrees from princeton and yale uni­versities, and has served on the supreme court since 2009 after her nomination for the position by president obama. 
paid adverTisemenT 





Registration 
conTinued From page 1 
display all the error mes­sages at once, and they give get a much more robust ex­planation. additionally, within that, it shows more options at the top, so if you’re taking a class with five sec­tions, you can see all the sections.” 
a conditional add/drop feature in novo registration also improves upon the darT 
“In the DART system the error messaging could be quite cryptic. People didn’t always understand why they were receiving an error. You only received one error message at a time, which was a big pain.” 
Chuck Hurley 
University registrar 
system by allowing students to switch classes more easily, hurley said. 
“when you’re in registra­tion, there’s a box in the lower right-hand corner that says ‘conditional add/drop,’” he said. “when you wanted 
Activities 
conTinued From page 1 
club, said, “we started this club to support neuroscience since saint mary’s doesn’t have a neuroscience major. it is a great opportunity for biology and psy­chology majors to come together.” 
another new club on campus, active minds, will work to erase the stigma surrounding mental health issues and aims to reduce stress on campus through fun events and activities. 
caroline Koenig, an organizer of the new little belle/big belle program, said the initiative will allow first year students to have an upperclassman mentor. “you get paired with a person who has similar interests with you. ... it’s like a big sister program.” 
originally founded at the university of michigan, the saint mary’s chapter for the student Food allergy network plans to launch their club by working with sodexo, a company that focuses on improving health in workplac­es and schools, to to gain more options for students with food allergies. They also plan to make more people aware of the dangers of food allergies. 
won the contest,” he said. mester into the early summer Contact Catherine Owers at  
gestions of new names, and a last fall, and it was really the office of the registrar. 
“we had 384 entries for sug-discussions took place late using the system to contact 
submissions. itself,” he said. “The first with questions or difficulty 
name and issued a call for was to upgrade registration he encourages any students 
software called for a new search, and the other change interested in learning more. 
they felt a new registration one, some kind of new class 4:30pm for students who are 
test in the 1980s, and that they really asked for were debartolo hall from 3:30­
named after a student con-“The top two changes be offered on Thursday in 131 hurley said the darT sys-came from last year’s student very intuitive and user friend­
this fall.” system for the university novo registration system is 
testing with students on that to find a new registration hurley said he believes the 
on that and we’ll do more hurley said the initiative continuity.” 
place. you to go and build a sched-floating up to the top of the “That had not occurred in ule beforehand, and when list for the preponderance the past, when we had seniors your registration time comes, of the people. ‘novo’ also who were involved, but then you submit that schedule,” he means ‘new’ in latin, so it we lost that continuity. … we said. “ ... we’re working with seemed pretty straightfor-have a real advantage com-the software manufacturer ward from there.” 

to swap classes in darT, you hurley said the office of couldn’t. you had to drop a as several members of stu-the registrar is very grateful class, and then try to add a dent leadership, student gov-to the student government new class in. if you didn’t get and the students who partic­the new class and tried to go ipated in the testing of new back to the old class, your 
software. 
“The planner 
spot could be taken. … [now] “it’s so much better for 
feature is a very 
you can put in the old class, everybody when we have put in the new class, check 
nice feature; it 
students who are willing to the box for conditional add/ participate,” he said. “ ... last 
allows you to 
drop, and it will allow you to year, we really asked for stu­
go and build 
or give you an error message.” 
dent senate to provide us with 
a schedule 
hurley said they discussed 
sophomores and juniors, so and tested a new planner 
beforehand, 
that we had some continu­feature with student gov­
ity and when we came back 
and when your 
ernment that has not been this we would have a group of 
registration time 
implemented and will not juniors and seniors looking 
comes, you submit 
be available for registra­
at it, and then the following tion in november, but could 
that schedule.” 
year a group of seniors who be available in the spring of 
have been around for a three 
Chuck Hurley 
2016. 
year cycle and can see all 
University registrar 
“The planner feature is a 
the changes that have taken very nice feature; it allows 
ing back this year in terms of 
tem came into use and was government. 
ly, but a training session will 
student named erin hughes throughout the spring se­
“we had several members of that this testing took place.” 
cowers@nd.edu 
MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Saint Mary’s undergraduates visit activity stations at the Student Involvedment Fair hosted by the Student Government Association (SGA) and the Office of Student Involvement. 
many returning clubs strive the fair. mccambridge said, “our 
money for cancer research. to gain new members by offer-goal this year is to become more 
“i love getting new freshmen ing incentives for joining and active on campus than last year 
in and dedicated to the club,” promoting exciting upcoming and make our name known.” 
brinkman said. events. secretary of the college hannah brinkman, vice presi-a full list of saint mary’s clubs republican club, anna dent of the stand up for cancer 
can be found on orgsync. mccambridge, handed out free club, describes the group as hold-club novelty items in efforts to ing fun events, such as a “prom” 
Contact Megan Uekert at  
make the club more prominent at for cancer survivors, to raise 
mueker01@saintmarys.edu 
Video board 
conTinued From page 1 
replays,” university ath­letic director Jack swarbrick said in the release. 
in addition to the video board in the south end zone, the release also men­tioned the installation of ribbon boards along the east and west sides of the stadium. 
Further plans announced in Tuesday’s statement in­clude the replacement of all the wooden benches in the stadium with vinyl-clad benches that will come with an 18-inch standard width for seating. other changes include improve­ments to the stadium’s wi-Fi network and the existing sound system within the stadium bowl and renova­tion of restrooms, conces­sion stands and upper and lower concourses. 
“campus crossroads planning from the very beginning has involved a commitment to ensuring that our fans enjoy a top-quality, in-stadium experi­ence,” swarbrick said in the release. 
“That commitment in­volves everything from technology to amenities such as restrooms and con­cessions. when completed, the crossroads project will improve the experience of every fan who attends our games.” 
The university also an­nounced it will remove the scoreboard at the north end of the stadium “to en­hance the view of the word of life mural [‘Touchdown Jesus’] on the hesburgh library.” 
The release said notre dame will not show adver­tisements or commercials on the video board. 
“as is the case with the video boards at purcell pavilion and the compton Family ice arena, there will be no advertising or com­mercials associated with the use of the video boards,” the statement said. 
The university an­nounced campus crossroads in January 2014 as a means of adding academic and student life spaces closer to the center of campus. 
“notre dame stadium is one of the most tradition-rich facilities in all of col­lege football,” swarbrick said. “The campus crossroads project is indic­ative of our commitment to making even greater use of it in the decades to come.” 



INSIDE COLUMN 

The nd difference 

Wei Lin 
assistant managing editor 

over the summer, i trekked downtown to new york city with my friend to visit the school i attend­ed prior to coming here, stuyvesant high school. it was a very competitive high school, officially known as a specialized high school in new york city and, to many others, a feeder school for the ivies. The kids were the best and brightest of new york city; some broke chess records, others won intel prizes and one was a child prodigy. high stress and merciless is how i would describe it. 
going back, i felt a wave of anxiety, insecurity and despite. i was top of my class in middle school but so was everyone else. by the end of my four years, i didn’t even consider myself mediocre compared to my peers. i had chosen the school for its rigor and the opportunities it promised, but i was nowhere near prepared for what it had in store. people were cutthroat, insincere and superficial; not all, but still many. The high-stake environment led many to cheat, which was soon uncovered as i left for col­lege. The scandal led many to question the integrity of my school, and i personally believed it was for the better. needless to say, i was happy to put it behind me. 
notre dame is similar but also so different. we also have a large percentage of students who were the top of their respective high schools. we are com­prised of smart, studious and motivated students. however, the difference i found was how we built community. we look out for each other. we help each other in times of need without expecting any­thing in return. we sincerely care for each other. 
once, i was given this piece of advice: we shouldn’t compete with each other. we should be helping our brothers and sisters, hope they are just as successful as we are, if not more, and actively build the notre dame community. why? because, when we raise up our peers and help them succeed, they perfect our brand, our notre dame brand. when our friends go out into the real world, they project our school’s image to whomever they inter­act with, and in turn, they see our institution with more respect. This respect is then applied to every one of us, current students, graduates, faculty and any person having ties with our lady’s university. 
when we help our peers, we help the entire notre dame family. That’s why we are such a respected school. not because we have the smartest stu­dents — other schools have high-caliber students too — but because we have a sense of compassion and community. our alumni network is one of the most prestigious in the world, and that’s because we care for one another. it’s not enough to succeed; we must make our best effort to ensure everyone else succeeds. 
it only took me more than half of my time at notre dame to realize this, and i hate myself for taking so long. as a peer advisor for the First year of studies, i will impart this advice to all of my advisees. i hope they don’t have to wait as long as i did to realize this fact. 
with the company of my friend, i looked back at stuyvesant with a wave of ease, happy to have joined a community as remarkable as notre dame. when i first arrived on campus my freshman year, i hadn’t realized i had just joined a new family. how i wish i could relive that first moment. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
President Donald J. Trump 
Louis Bertolotti 
mr. 2016 
This past summer, i was lucky enough to have the experience of staffing the rally that launched the 2016 donald Trump presidential campaign. ever since the creation of the “draft Trump” campaign, launched by mike dunbar in 1987, the donald has flirted with a presidential run, and he finally said the magic words this week in the lobby of his iconic Trump Tower in midtown manhattan. 
whether one agrees with him or not, one has to be impressed by the spectacle Trump always creates. upon walking up to the imposing build­ing underneath the five a.m. new york city lights, i was greeted by a burly, suited doorman who refused to allow me entrance into the building until i showed him email-proof of my existence. once i passed the test, i was whisked inside and was walked through the elegant, golden lobby by a beautiful tour guide and troves of volunteers from as far away as new hampshire. we were then taken 26 floors upstairs to the Trump 2016 office, where our quick tour showed us the unob­structed view on the sun rising over central park. 
not a moment was wasted before we were set to work. campaign work is often mundane and repetitive, but it is almost always compensated for by the new relationships you are able to forge with enthusiastic, patriotic everyday americans. as we stuffed press packets, we all excitedly got to talking about our common love of the political sphere. when would christie announce? would anyone be able to effectively challenge hilary? what will the biggest issue be in the campaign? like they say, time flies when you’re putting pieces of paper into folders, and before we knew it, we were being thrown into the elevators down towards the event. 
what a difference a few hours can make. The formerly quaint and elegant hotel lobby had been transformed into a colorful, rowdy campaign ral­ly, complete with hundreds of supporters. every constituency seemed to be there, from business­men observing in suits to union workers in Trump t-shirts chanting, “we want Trump!” as the man of the hour descended the escalator stairs to deaf­ening cheers from the crowd with his lovely wife and cookie-cutter family, i found myself utterly convinced that he would be the next leader of the Free world. how did this happen? 
i went into the event out of part curiosity and part hope that it may led to opportunities on more viable campaigns, but i now saw Trump 2016 as a legitimate contender for the presidency. The shiny lights and blasting rock music had made me entirely forget his unapologetic belief that president obama was born in Kenya, his steadfast conviction that vaccines can lead to au­tism and all of the rest of his controversial views. among all the commotion and enthusiasm, i was faced with a sobering reality: in the end, appear­ance matters much more than we would like to believe in politics. 
political scientists are always quick to remind you that even though radio audiences of the 1960 debate between richard nixon and John F. Kennedy found nixon to be the winner, Tv audi­ences decisively went for Kennedy. and why was this? it was because of his appearance. similarly, it is for this reason that president obama won the democratic nomination over the formidable hilary clinton in 2008, despite his lack of experi­ence in government. he looked presidential. he sounded presidential. obama continued to ride this wave to an easy re-election in 2012, no mat­ter the unimproved status of the economy and the increasing turmoil in the middl east. 
in a nation of over 300 million people, some­times the most we can agree on is the presiden­tialness of our leader. This is anathema to our democracy. our president should not be elected because he or she looks and sounds the most like president bartlet from The west wing or president whitmore from independence day. i am crazy enough to believe that the leader of a nation as great as ours should be selected based on his ideas, not his appearance. For this reason, i implore you all not only to watch the litany of campaign speeches that you hear from the vari­ous candidates over the next few months, but also to listen to them. read the transcripts. Find out what a president chris christie would do to reform social security or what a president hilary clinton would do about isis. The presidency is too important of an office to be decided by ap­pearance. after all, such a contest would almost decidedly be won by any man with a net worth over $9 billion. and i’m not sure about you, but i’m not ready for a president donald J. Trump — he hasn’t even shown us his birth certificate yet. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



seeds on a crooked path 
Raymond Ramirez 
The crooked path 

it is insultingly obvious that your college expe­rience is likely the most important educational event of your life; what may not be so obvious is why that is so. at a major university, and especial­ly one that has attracted top national faculty and students such as notre dame, the opportunities to learn from talented and engaging instructors, as well as from fellow students, are plentiful. but let’s be brutally honest: when you finish your formal education, if things go as hoped, you will not know all you need to know to engage with the world and the challenges that will envelop you over the years. rather, you will depart with educational potential, much as a seed has the potential to be an elm or a hydrangea or a lotus. actually you will leave with many seeds, and you will see the re­sultant foliage over time. i credit, or blame, some memorable instructors for persistent habits of thought and behavior that shape my professional and private life. 
Foremost is an instructor from whom i never took a formal class, but whom i heard speak regu­larly to groups of students. Fr. John dunne, csc, was a fellow Texan; it gives me great comfort to think that such a mind could come from waco, more commonly known for branch-davidian sieges and biker-gang shootouts. Fr. dunne was a prolific teacher, writer and speaker, but i re­member him best for a simple warning about “the straight and dangerous path.” not dangerous for being morally “straight,” the path Fr. dunne warned about was a way of life that plowed ahead in a single-minded effort to reach a goal without appreciating the inevitable branching and devia­tions the world sets before us. my father used to caution us kids to “expect the unexpected.” Fr. dunne’s elaboration was to not just expect it, but to celebrate it. 

in my sophomore year, i changed majors from biology to english, and i had difficulty getting into some of the popular classes that filled quickly, such as shakespeare. There were plenty of spaces available in Fr. paul beichner’s class on fable and allegory, so i took the course out of necessity; yielding to the “crooked” path, i discovered one of my favorite courses and instructors. Fr. beichner was an eccentric and a man of many roles, includ­ing an artist whose linoleum cuts of landscapes and portraits can be seen in corby hall and other residences. he wrote (and had us write) modern fables, using short simple stories to illustrate or explain a moral or humorous lesson. a lesson learned from another instructor, richard sullivan, emphasized that the reader wanted details, and he insisted we keep that in mind as we hastily described a scene or character. “The details are not decoration,” he told us, “they give the scene life. you don’t say, ‘he smoked a pipe,’ you need to paint a picture: ‘he clenched a brown-stained ivory pipe in his teeth, its end notched and nibbled from years of use.’ now the reader can see the pipe; hell, he can just about smell the smoke.” i summon these lessons when i have to make a com­plicated point in a direct and memorable fashion. 
as an in-house corporate lawyer, i once had to explain that not every item can or should be listed in a contract, but important or material terms should always be included. The trout-like stares 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“i do not want to die ... until i have faithfully made the most of my talent and cultivated the seed that was placed in me until the last small twig has grown.” 
— Kathe Kollwitz      German painter, printmaker and sculptor 
of my audience told me the point was not taken, so i came up with a beichner-like example with sullivanesque detail. “let’s say you have paid to have 500 gallons of lime Jell-o® brand gelatin dessert (hey, i told you i’m a corporate lawyer) delivered to your warehouse. when you arrive, you see that the Jell-o has been delivered, but it was simply plopped onto the loading dock, and is covered with ants and flies. what else should you have specified?” The audience soon was a sea of waving arms, and people shouted out “contain­ers,” “refrigeration,” “not lime,” and so forth. years later, one of the attendees told me he remembered what “material” terms were because of the Jell-o story, and still re-told it when his business team had difficulties with the concept. 
These seeds of accepting the unexpected and telling stories with humor and memorable details were just a few of the educational potentialities i carry with me; i’m sure you have many others, some now known to you, others that will sprout somewhere down the crooked path. when he re­tired in 1978, Fr. beichner wrote, “i may have lived somewhat like a hippopotamus, mostly below the surface of the water, but with eyes and ears and nose above … a calm and undisturbed life.” but like so many of our best teachers, in his lessons he calmly planted seeds that continue to sprout and grow and bind our lives together. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at      patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
heeding pope Francis’ call 

pope Francis’ recent encyclical is a game changer that brings the urgency of the climate movement to a new level. The popular pope does not mince words: humans have caused climate change and it is our responsibility to fix it. he frames this fight for climate justice as a moral imperative and among the most pressing social justice concerns of our time. in a global economy driven by profits and exploitation, pope Francis urges each and every one of us to reinvest in our future, our shared well-being and our ethical integrity by turning away from fossil fuels. 
pope Francis reminds us that climate justice is at its core a social justice issue. This leaves the future of humanity, as well as some of our most compelling ethical questions, hanging in the bal­ance. who are we as a human race if we are de­stroying ourselves, and in particular our poorest and most vulnerable communities, in exchange for short-term profits? “if we destroy creation,” pope Francis warns, “creation will destroy us.” 
indeed, with each passing season we see ex­treme weather events ravage communities and magnify existing inequalities. events like hurricane Katrina and Typhoon haiyan in the philippines remind us that climate change wreaks havoc on the most vulnerable communi­ties that are least able to defend against disaster. 
The pope’s take-home message is that we have a moral obligation to address the main cause of cli­mate change, which is the burning of fossil fuel. investments in the fossil fuel industry must cease in order to speed the transition to a renewable energy based system. many faith organizations around the world are divesting their endowments from fossil fuels, including the world council of churches, the united church of christ and the unitarian universalist association. 
shifting investments from oil, gas and coal to sustainable substitutes in the energy sector can provide competitive returns over the market cycle, and reduce the risk of holding fossil fuel stock that is destined to lose value. divestment is such a powerful tactic for advancing climate justice that many institutions including colleges, universities and entire municipalities are getting on board. 
institutions like notre dame that hold invest­ments and endowments must heed pope Francis’ call. schools, municipalities and pension boards must divest from fossil fuels as we did from big tobacco and businesses invested in south african apartheid in the past. 
we must act now to avert climate disaster that, as pope Francis states, would have “grave conse­quences for us all.” 
William O’Laughlin 
class of 2012 June 18 


By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

carly rae Jepsen’s breakthrough hit “call me maybe” was not merely a song, but an inescapable phenom­enon in the summer of 2012. its suc­cess proved that in an age when music listeners have millions of songs at their fingertips, it was still possible for a pop single to facilitate a shared cultural ex­perience. what was so appealing about “call me maybe” was its innocence, a song less about love than infatuation, the giddiness of its subject matched by those midi string stabs. 
The aptly-titled “emotion,” Jepsen’s second major label album, builds on the promise of “call me maybe,” its songs possessing a remarkable specific­ity of emotion when it comes to desire and longing. when Jepsen pleads, “This is the part / you’ve got to say / all that you’re feeling, feeling,” on the opening track, “run away with me,” it encap­sulates the ethos of her songwriting on this album. “emotion” ushers in pop songs marked by their radical vulnera­bility. it’s an album that believes deeply in sharing all that you’re feeling in the moment, in giving voice to the momen­tary infatuation which so often goes unexpressed but is no less real. 
it helps that Jepsen’s songwriting is surrounded by the year’s best pop pro­duction, drawing upon ‘80s synthpop revivalism in both its Top 40 (Taylor swift, Jason derulo) and underground incarnations (sky Ferreira, solange). Jepsen smartly reached out to the pro­ducers behind those records, assem­bling a murderers’ row of collaborators that includes shellback, rami yacoub, sia, dev hynes and ariel rechtshaid. The result is a sleek sound, all bright synths and booming drums, that boasts as much in the way of critical cred as it does massive hooks. 
These songs would buckle under the weight of their expensive-sound­ing production, though, if Jepsen did not possess such a strong mastery of pop songcraft. The hooks are incred­ibly catchy, sure, but they are always grounded in the specific emotions she is conveying, each song falling along a different point in the timeline of a rela­tionship. The best of these is “run away with me,” which plays like “Teenage dream” by way of “midnight city,” re­plete with a transcendent synthe­sized sax line. “baby! Take me! To the! Feeling!” she screams on the cho­rus, sounding triumphantly in the moment and fully subsumed in the throes of desire. “i really like you,” likewise, is the giddy high of a new crush, with Jepsen breathlessly profess­ing, “i really, really, really, really, really, really like you.” 
yet, those who know Jepsen only as the doe-eyed narrator of “maybe” will be surprised by how violent and all-consuming her idea of infatuation can be on this album: “be tormented by me, babe,” “here i come to hijack you,” and “all i want to do is get into your head.” after the initial excitement of a relation­ship, the narrators of her songs are fre­quently wracked with self-doubt and constantly worried that they’ve said the wrong thing. on the chorus of “gimmie love,” she declares, “i want what i want,” before following it up with, “do you think that i want too much?”. it’s a great example of the economy of her lyricism, in which she compacts an en­tire range of emotions into a succinct turn of phrase.
 nowhere is this conflict between head and heart more clear than on the album›s final two tracks, which are among its best. The dark, pro­pulsive “warm blood,” produced by vampire weekend’s rostam batmanglij, is recklessness, about the pleasure that comes with falling hard for some­one against your better judgment. The bright “when i needed you” is the more rational flip side, on which Jepsen re­alizes she›s done changing herself for some guy who was never there for her in the first place. 
with “emotion,” Jepsen has created a cohesive work that is easily the best major label pop release since beyoncé’s 2013 self-titled album. The album’s sonic touches are in turn experimental and conventional, its lyrical concerns vacillate between confidence and in­security, but it is always crystal-clear when it comes to the beating heart at its center. 
Contact Matt Munhall at                  mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Emotion” 
Carly Rae Jepsen 
Label: Interscope 
Tracks: “Run Away With Me,” “I Really Like You” If you like: Taylor Swift 



ERIN RICE | The Observer 


By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

’Tis the season for school, parties, chilly weather and — as always — music. Throughout the year, college students of all ages, backgrounds and music interests experience similar cycles of angst and leisure. have you ever wondered how our diverse student body could possibly relate to one another? Fortunately, my glamor­ous summer job of ice cream scooping allotted me enough time to answer you all — billboard’s 2014 hot 100 hits. with songs ranging from Katy perry’s “dark horse” to Tswift’s “blank space” — all overplayed and potentially overrated, i know — the hot 100 hits of 2014 provided us the with moral support and empathy needed to endure the year. 
“The Monster” – Eminem ft. Rihanna (January 4, 2014’s Top Hit) 
eminem and riri’s January single couldn’t have come at a gloomier time in a college kid’s life. ah, January … the month without breaks and sunlight. what could be more relatable than eminem rapping about his — and maybe our own — in­sanity? “The monster,” a ballad set to bal­ance mental stability amidst fame and success, empathizes with your everyday college student’s struggle to maintain sanity during frigid weather and classes. i mean, let’s face it: we can all do without January’s bleak connotations, so why not celebrate our struggles with a rap god and pop diva? 
“Timber” – Pitbull ft. Ke$ha (February 1, 2014’s Top Hit) 
okay, so i realize this song’s upbeat nature contrasts with the cold, gray skies. however, the differences between the two provide us with a little reassurance, right? certainly we can all resonate with the fun lyrics and fast-paced tune during winter’s point of no return. February’s lull calls for a song that releases the pent-up energy of staying inside all day. Therefore, pitbull and Ke$ha’s pop beats make for a party you won’t remember with the ones you won’t forget (ha ha). 
“Dark Horse” – Katy Perry ft. Juicy J (March 1, 2014’s Top Hit) 
despite the word “dark” within the ti­tle, Katy perry’s hit single kindles a flame of dance prevalent within the month of march. march — a month filled with mockingly warm weather (those few warm days are an absolute tease), spring break and st. darty’s day (er, paddy’s day) — fills college students with some false hope for spring and summertime. with that said, Katy perry’s single ex­udes a fluctuation of fast and slow tem­pos, which mimic college kiddos’ paces through class, parties and life in general. “dark horse,” though overplayed, pro­vided us all with suave, seductive beats needed for mid-semester. 
“Happy” – Pharrell Williams (April 5 and May 3, 2014’s Top Hit) 
ah, april and may … two months of the year predominately centered on chubbies, darties and, finally, warm weather. obviously enough, americans’ moods crept their way into billboard’s hot 100 hits during the “happiest” point of the school year. The warmth of the sun and the quads mirrors this high-spirited hit’s lyrics and tempo. admittedly or not, people of all races, genders, shapes, sizes and ages — who make up the music vid­eo’s entirety, i might add — have jammed to this hit at one point, so why not during the two most optimistic months of the school year? also, did anyone else no­tice steve carell in the music video? That made me happy. 
“Fancy” – Iggy Azalea ft. Charli XCX (June 7 and July 5, 2014’s Top Hit) 
yes, this song wore on me too, after a while, but you have to admit it’s the perfect tune for the middle of summer. whether studding out at a new internship or suf­fering through a part-time job, iggy’s hit either perfectly or ironically empathizes with a college student’s midsummer life­style (or lack thereof). with that said, even though i could barely make it through the song toward the end of July, iggy’s “Fancy” rings an oh-so familiar and/or ironic bell in each of our heads. 
“Rude” – MAGIC! (August 2, 2014’s Top Hit) 
‘Tis the season, ladies and gents, for school to start yet again! Though our excitements for fall steadily increase, pieces of our heart will always long for summer. why not promote a song filled with smooth melodies and island vibes in the midst of our transition? magic!’s hit reminds college students to keep calm throughout the pre-school stressors — shout out to the freshmen leaving home 
— and enjoy life. 
“Shake It Off” – Taylor Swift (September 6, 2014’s Top Hit) 
september, filled with a beautiful sky and crisp air, brings with it football season and the mid-semester feels. while the football players play, play, played their little hearts out (not to mention 31 
- 0), we sang, sang, sang to yet another one of Tswift’s poetic justices. Friends old and new gathered around campus to shoo haters and celebrate their year-long freedom. 
“All About That Bass” – Meghan Trainor (October 4 and November 1, 2014’s Top Hit) 
simply put, meghan Trainor’s hit single lasted through the most fattening months of the school year. october and november 
— holidays and all — bring about candy, Thanksgiving feasts and home-cooked meals galore. what better way to show off all our newfound bass’s with “all about That bass?” meghan Trainor’s message throughout the song persuaded us college kiddos to indulge in that extra slice of pie. 
“Blank Space” – Taylor Swift (December 6, 2014’s Top Hit) 
with the semester’s end approaching, notre dame students young and old gath­ered to celebrate yet another one of Tay’s hits. whether through final exam ques­tions (i know i sure had a few “blank spac­es”) or nights with friends, “blank space” related to each of us in some way. its ener­getic tune and dramatic lyrics mirror the final parties, goodbyes and classes of the semester. The holiday drama obviously correlates to swift’s demeanor as well. overall, what better way to end a stellar 2014 year than with a song relating to your stereotypical college student’s mindset? 
Contact Kathy Minko at                kminko@nd.edu 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

“what’s beef?” east coast rapping legend biggie smalls, a.k.a. The notorious b.i.g., once posed in 1997. almost 20 years later, we have (un)fortunately seen it all: rappers beefin’ with rappers, rappers with r&b singers, r&b singers with athletes and — just to bring things full circle — athletes with rappers. let’s face it, as uncomfort­able as animosity and confrontations are, when we’re simply looking from afar, we can appreciate and judge the top three beefs of recent history, as such. 
Lil B vs. James Harden 

For those that don’t know, the one per­son you do not want to mess with in the hip-hop world is lil b, former member of the rap group “The pack” and current key figure to whom every athlete needs to pay homage and respect. what happens when they don’t? They get the lil b curse. silly? made up? defying the laws of physics? it absolutely does not matter. James harden of the houston rockets recently had an absolutely phenomenal nba season this past year, good enough for nbpa’s mvp and runner-up to stephen curry for the regular season mvp award. however, on a fateful night against the brooklyn nets, harden committed an act deemed un­forgivable by The basedgod himself: he stole lil b’s “cooking” dance and, when confronted about whether or not he got it from lil b, allegedly pretended to not know who lil b was. as soon as video of harden claiming ignorance of lil b surfaced, the Twittersphere erupted, warning and urg­ing harden to rethink his decision. (un) fortunately, harden’s exceptional regular season ended in postseason heartbreak and frustration. blame it on The basedgod curse. winner: lil b. 
Big Sean vs. Justin Bieber 
it’s no secret that Justin bieber is not the innocent, bowl haircut that he once was. he is a bonafide bad boy nowadays, and (un)fortunately, big sean was one of the latest victims to realize what a mistake it is to beef with the biebs. as the story goes, during a duet performance by then-big sean’s girlfriend ariana grande and Justin bieber, bad-boy biebs got a bit handsy and racy with his dancing, to which grande seemed quite receptive. big sean took ex­ception to this, tweeting out, “This kid is about to learn not to touch my girl like that. beliebe [sic] that.” however, that kind of bravado on big sean’s part did not last for­ever, as the tweet was deleted shortly af­ter. not suggesting this is what happened, but it is not difficult to imagine a scenario where ariana grande insisted big sean de­lete the tweet. meanwhile, bieber comes out of that hot mess smelling like roses. winner: Justin bieber. 
Drake vs. Meek Mill 
Finally, the hottest beef of recent history. The ali and Frazier championship heavy­weight bout of rap, if ali and Frazier were a sensitive, hopeless romantic and a b-list rapper, respectively. as everyone probably very well knows by now, meek mill recently released an album, “dreams worth more Than money,” on which drake was fea­tured. however, as time passed drake was silent on promoting his supposed friend’s album. mill took exception to this, and started the onslaught of drake attacks: mill does not want to be compared to him, and furthermore mill accuses drake of the car­dinal sin of rapping — ghostwriting, or the act where an individual has someone write their work for them. drake, to his credit, was quiet at first … and then he wasn’t. he drew first lyrical blood with his diss song, “charged up,” a humblebrag rap/spo­ken word song which was decent, though maybe a bit hit-or-miss. however, drake erased any doubt about who won the fight with his immediate follow-up, “back To back.” The internet seemed to unani­mously agree that drake was the winner of the fight, before mill even had a chance to respond. (un)fortunately for mill, he did respond with the song, “wanna Know.” long story short, not good. since the beef, mill has been the constant subject of ridi­cule and scorn by the internet, and count­less memes have consequently made at his expense. winner: drake. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NFL preseason still meaningful 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
as the leaves begin to change and the weather slowly turns cooler, the at­tention of the american sporting world shifts to the national Football league as the preseason wraps up. 
For diehard fans, the pre­season heralds the start of football festivities and many watch with interest, but for the general popula­tion the preseason is often overlooked. and as the nFl pushes for an 18-game sea­son, the value of these pre­season games comes under increased scrutiny from league officials and coaches alike. The league wants more regular season games to gen­erate more revenue and to accomplish this, the players’ union will most likely push to either reduce or eliminate preseason games entirely. 
and while replacing pre­season games with regular season ones will certainly increase revenue, there are some, including this colum­nist, who feel getting rid of the preseason would be bad for the game overall. 
Firstly, what makes pre­season contests boring to some fans is the fact that the starters play for a very small portion of the game, often only a few series. This means the games themselves are not of the highest quality possible, but giving the back­ups extended playing time is quite important for teams throughout the course of the season. 
The preseason gives teams the chance to test out rookies against nFl talent and this is vitally important. some will argue game tape from college and training camp is enough to tell how rookies stack up, but the truth is no matter how much practice these rookies get in, there is simply no substitute for game experience. This is es­pecially true for players like marcus mariota who come into the nFl not having run an nFl-style offense before. again, mariota can look great running an offense in practice or in a scrimmage, but when the lights come on, the coaches need to know what he can and cannot do in a game setting before the season starts. 
additionally, the pre­season raises the quality of the regular season. better for rookies to commit their false starts and miss their blocking assignments when the games ultimately don’t matter. 
and rookies aren’t the only ones who benefit from a few extra game time reps. veterans coming off of a summer of lighter workouts or players arriving at a new team often need preseason games to get their body ready for the season and to learn their new team’s playbook. 
and while the stars may not play much in these games, the preseason is where future stars are made. if not for these couple games to give undrafted free agents a chance to make the team, we wouldn’t know names like victor cruz, James harrison, Tony romo, antonio gates or arian Foster. all of these current standouts came into the league as undrafted free agents and now, thanks in part to the opportunities afforded them by the pre­season, they are household names for any football fan. 
while i mention these stars to prove a point, competition to make an nFl rosters is not limited to them. The compe­tition of preseason games is good for all fans of the nFl because it means that the best players will be playing on sundays whether it be a Tony romo or a third-string long snapper. 
The major complaint about preseason games is always the added risk of injuries and this is of course true; the more games you play the more chances for you to get injured. proponents of this viewpoint will undoubtedly point to the recent high pro­file injury to Jordy nelson as an example of the harmful effects of preseason games. For packers fans and those who already drafted nelson in fantasy football, his injury is certainly a blow, it is im­portant to bear in mind it’s just as likely he would have been injured in a regular season game. high profile injuries such as nelson’s give preseason naysayers ammu­nition, but the season will go on with or without nelson and the packers will prob­ably still win a lot of games. injuries happen yes, but they are more likely to happen in the regular season if there is no preseason to help get players ready. 
and to those who say the preseason isn’t exciting, what else are you going to watch? soccer? 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OLYMPICS 
los angeles optimistic about olympic bid 
Associated Press 
los angeles — anxiety over taxpayer costs helped cripple boston’s 2024 olympic bid, but organizers in potential stand-in los angeles projected Tuesday that they could stage events from santa monica beach to the hollywood hills and bank a $161 million surplus. 
los angeles, which hosted the 1932 and 1984 olympics, is viewed as the likely replacement for boston’s failed bid because the city’s many existing venues could help keep costs low. 
The los angeles plan projects spending $4.1 billion; boston’s operating budget was about $4.6 billion, but billions more could have been needed for construc­tion, security and other costs. 
The los angeles figures pro­vided the most detailed look to date on estimated expenses to run the 2024 games in california. according to the documents, the bulk of the funding would come from broadcast revenue, spon­sorships and ticket sales. 
“in los angeles, the spotlight is always on. we have the re­sources, experience and secure environment to share the biggest events with the world,” the pro­posal states. 
The los angeles city council is expected to vote Friday on a pro­posal giving mayor eric garcetti authority to execute agreements linked to the city’s bid. 
over the years olympics have been notorious for cost overruns, and studies have questioned if host cities benefit economi­cally. russia has been strug­gling with costs from the 2014 sochi olympics, which have been called the most expensive olympics of all time. 
under the plan, the los angeles memorial coliseum would get an $800 million makeover focused on seating upgrades and premium ameni­ties. The university of southern california, which plays its foot­ball games at the coliseum, would invest $500 million for the renovation, the plan states. 
nearly $1 billion more would be needed for other competition venues, according to the plan. 
The release of the cost esti­mate came about a month after the u.s. olympic committee cut talks with boston, which was initially selected as the u.s. con­tender for the games. a sticking point in boston was possible cost overruns that would have to be covered by taxpayers. 
The usoc faces a sept. 15 deadline to enter a bid with the international olympic committee. 
The los angeles proposal en­visions events taking place at locations showcasing the best of the area. 
gymnastics and basketball would be held at the downtown staples center, home to the nba’s los angeles lakers and clippers. volleyball would be staged on santa monica beach. 
road cyclists and mara­thon runners would match skills on hollywood boulevard. mountain bikers would hit the dirt in griffith park, one of the largest urban parks in the u.s. 
security costs would be picked up by the federal government, according to organizers. 
according to the documents, outside spending would reach $1.7 billion, which includes the usc funds for the coliseum and over $900 million in private fi­nancing to build the olympic village for athletes on 125 acres owned by union pacific railroad co., adjacent to down­town. union pacific’s largest shareholder is billionaire philip anschutz, whose anschutz entertainment group owns the nhl’s los angeles Kings and the downtown staples center. 
MLB | marlins 5, piraTes 2 
Marlins slow down red-hot Pirates 
Associated Press 
miami—major-league batting leader dee gordon tied a career high with four stolen bases, had two infield hits and scored twice Tuesday night, helping the miami marlins beat the pittsburgh pirates 5-2. 
miami’s brad hand (4-3) pitched into the ninth inning. he came into the game 7-20 as a start­er, worst among all active pitchers, according to sTaTs, but has won three of his past four starts. 
a.J. ramos came on with two on and no outs in the ninth and earned his 22nd save in 27 chances. 
gordon scored the marlins’ first run and reached on a bunt single to begin their three-run sixth against charlie morton (8-5). 

FOR SALE 
CONDO-Mishawaka, Sedgwick House, 3BR 2.5 BA. View of park 
gordon turned two double plays at second base, including a nifty one started by third baseman martinprado. 
gordon hiked his average to .333, and he leads the majors with 156 hits. 
The marlins had five doubles, including two run-scoring dou­bles by Justin bour. christian yelich, who was activated from the disabled list before the game, doubled home a run and singled. adeiny hechavarria added a dou­ble and a triple. 
Two pirates were hit by pitch­es monday, and hand plunked andrew mccutchen in the left foot on Tuesday. but the left-hander didn’t issue a walk while allowing nine hits and two runs. 
miami beat pittsburgh for the first time in five meetings this year, and snapped the pirates’ five-game road winning streak. 
bour hit a two-out double in the fourth to drive in the marlins’ first run. They took a 2-1 lead in the fifth with an unearned run, with yelich scoring from first when mccutchen mishandled 
J.T. realmuto’s single to center. 
prado singled home a run in the sixth, and bour and yelich each had an rbi double to make it 5-1. 
The pirates scored in the first on a two-out rbi single by aramis ramirez. 
hechavarria tried to catch the pirates by surprise and stretch a double into a triple in the third inning, and starling marte casu­ally lobbed a throw to third to get him. it was marte’s 11th assist in left field, most in the majors. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
and riverwalk. Secured entrance with photograph, we made these underground parking. $95,900. Call memories for ourselves, when 574-255-3862 our eyes are never closing, 
hearts are never broken, times We keep this love in a forever frozen still. 



Observer Staff Report 
SMC Soccer begins new era under Nuber 
saint mary’s will enter this sea­son under new leadership, as Ken nuber begins his first season as head coach of the program. 
The belles finished last season 6-11-3, including a 4-9-3 in-confer­ence record that resulted in a sev­enth-place finish. despite what their record might indicate, how­ever, the team was competitive last year, as 12 of their 20 games were decided by one goal or fewer. 
heading into this season, miaa preseason polls predict saint mary’s will finish in seventh place for a second consecutive season in conference. This is largely in part to several key losses from last year’s squad: the belles graduated nine seniors from their team at the end of last season, including all three goalies on the roster. 
also amongst the nine seniors were defensive leaders Kerry green and mary Kate hussey. green was the second player in program history to be named to the all-miaa first team three times, and hussey was a captain last year and another three-time all-conference selection. The duo led a defensive effort which ranked fourth in conference play last season. 
This season, however, marks the beginning of a new era for the saint mary’s program, as nuber brings 19 years of coaching experi­ence to the team. he first became a head coach at the university of saint Francis in 1994, where he si­multaneously coached the men’s and women’s teams until 1998. after that year, he continued on as the head coach of the women’s 

SMC SEASON PREVIEW 

Belles squads prepare to fill roles as seasons approach 

Toni elyea. 
saint mary’s will have to re­place five seniors from last year’s squad, including middle hitter melanie Kuczek, who played in every set for the belles in 2014, as well as captains Taylor etzell and Kati schneider. schneider, an out­side hitter, appeared in 104 of the 109 sets for saint mary’s last year and led the team in kills with 331, while Kuczek finished second with 275. 
senior outside hitter Katie hecklinski is the leading re­turner for the belles in terms of kills, finishing 2014 with 256 kills. sophomore middle hitter rachel bonek registered another 104 
paid adverTisemenT kills. Junior setter clare mcmillan dished out 811 assists in 2014, and junior outside hitter meaghan gibbons led last year’s belles squad with 415 digs. 
saint mary’s kicks off its sea­son with manchester at angela athletic center and then travels to the elmhurst Tournament the following weekend for four non-conference matches. a visit from calvin will start off the belles’ 2015 miaa slate sept. 9. saint mary’s will also travel to the wheaton Tournament the first weekend of october in addition to its confer­ence slate. 
if the belles finish in the top four after miaa conference play, they will qualify for a berth in the conference tournament for the third straight season. That tour­ney is held the first weekend in november, with the conference’s automatic naia tournament bid up for grabs. 
manchester and saint mary’s get their respective seasons un­derway 7 p.m. Tuesday at angela athletic center. 

paid adverTisemenT 
team until 2007. 
over the course of those 14 sea­sons, nuber led the program to over 200 wins and the women’s team to 12 consecutive winning seasons. his success earned him the distinction of mid-central conference coach of the year twice during that time. 
Following his time at saint Francis, nuber spent five seasons as an assistant coach and recruit­ing coordinator at notre dame. From 2008-2012, the irish went 94­21-8 while he was with the team. The irish also reached the ncaa tournament all five seasons that he was an assistant on the team, including a run that resulted in a national championship in 2010. 
prior to accepting the job with saint mary’s, nuber was serving as the director of coaching with the Junior irish soccer club. he will continue to hold that position while coaching the belles. 
The belles will kick off this new era under nuber when they play cross-town foe bethel college at morey Field on sept. 2 at 7 p.m. 
SMC Volleyball returns following best season since 2008 
saint mary’s gets its volleyball season underway Tuesday with a home match against manchester as the belles look to continue building on their success from last season. 
The belles finished 15-13 last year, including an 8-8 record in miaa play, to finish with a share of fourth place in the conference. The team’s 15 wins were the first time the program accomplished that feat since 2008 after going 12­15 in 2013 and were the most for a belles team under head coach 

paid adverTisemenT 




conTinued From page 16 
for us is danielle aragon,” said sparks. “she is another senior and a school record holder. one of our signees is anna rohrer, who was the gatorade national runner of the year in high school, so she should be able to step in right away and run right with molly. 
“on the men’s side, [senior] Tim ball was a pretty consistent sec­ond or third guy on the team last year and he’s coming off an im­proved track season, so we expect him to step up this year.” 
Following the season opener, the irish are scheduled to compete in two events at notre dame (the national catholic championship on sept. 18 and Joe piane notre dame invitational on oct. 2) as well as at meets hosted by big Ten schools wisconsin and illinois. The acc championships will be in Tallahassee, Florida, at the end of october before the great lakes regional, and the ncaa championship events — should notre dame qualify — take place in november. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
quieter, but he’s just as competitive. he loves to get his point across.” 
hodan has no problem getting his point across, as clark said. he led the irish last season with nine goals and 21 points in 24 matches, 15 of which were starts. For his career the midfielder has 26 goals and 65 points to his name. 
he was selected as the 2014 acc offensive player of the year and acc scholar-athlete of the year. he was also named to the national soccer coaches association of america (nscaa) all­america first team choice and the capital one academic all-america first team. 
it’s these distinct accom­plishments and individual game-time outlooks that bring the trio’s leadership to life for the rest of their teammates. 
“we all have different styles and personalities on and off the field,” hodan said. “but i think we work well together, and our differ­ent styles complement each other. we all mesh well.” 
in just three games the irish have seen the mesh taking effect, hodan added. 
“we really have devel­oped well in just these three games,” he said. “with each game we’ve gotten better and better.” 
and when it comes down to it, clark and hodan agree that for the captain trio be­ing a leader means devel­oping more than simply on-the-field skills. it’s about always being there for your teammates, hodan said. 
“it’s important that as up­perclassmen and captains we go out of our way to make the freshmen feel welcome,” he said. “it’s intimidating being a freshman, and we’ve all been there so we make sure to include the under­classmen in activities out­side of soccer and school. we’re always there if they have any questions or need any help.” 
hodan, Klekota and lachowecki will carry the irish into their regular sea­son opener against maryland on Friday at 5 p.m. at the adidas/iu credit union classic at bill armstrong stadium in bloomington, indiana. The irish contin­ue their play at the classic against indiana on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: good fortune can be yours. with plenty of opportunities heading your way, it will be important to stay well informed and ready to take advantage of whatever comes along. be wary of proposals that sound too good to be true. a practical approach and an ironclad strategy coupled with sheer determination will be your ticket to success. your numbers are 3 10, 21, 27, 36, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): pressure will lead to an emotional meltdown if you aren’t willing to turn your focus inward and work on self-improvement. Turn any negatives you face into positives by offering original solutions. romance is encouraged. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you can learn new skills by volunteering to take on new responsibilities. The way you communicate with your peers and the decisions you make will raise your visibility and set you up for advancement. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put more into the way you present and promote what you have to offer and how you look. don’t let comments or false information play on your emotions. go directly to the source and find out for yourself what’s true and what isn’t. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try something new, exciting and different. engage in activities that will provide you with unique information that can result in new projects or job prospects. an open mind and new opportunities will motivate you. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): consider a change of plans with regard to how you use your skills and talents. put more time and effort into looking and being your best. a romantic encounter will help you make a decision that will lead to good fortune. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): push yourself to get out and participate. you will discover fascinating information that will help you make wise choices about your future. someone will present you with a generous offer. negotiate and ask for a signed contract. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional confusion will pose a problem for you when dealing with friends and relatives. you will do better working alongside people you don’t know too well. offer to help an organization you believe in, and see where it leads. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): do your best to avoid physical confrontations. don’t let anyone put you in a vulnerable position. someone will offer you a chance to make an unusual move. call in favors if it will help you take advantage of a deal or proposal. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take precautions when dealing with people who overreact. an opportunity to use your skills to make money is in the stars. you can improve your standard of living if you stay competitive in your field. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take care of money matters and you will find a way to increase your income through investments, business plans or collecting debts owed to you. Taking a practical approach and finding workable solutions will lead to ongoing gains. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen carefully and don’t let anyone fool you into thinking that you are getting the whole truth. ask questions and use your charm to find out what you need to know in order to make a decision. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t fall short because you are too proud to ask for help. look to business associates or new acquaintances to pitch in and you will form relationships with people who can help you make your dreams come true. 

Birthday Baby: you are practical, detailed and progressive. you are relentless and brave. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Trio of styles produces special leadership blend 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
a joke, a positive outlook and an analytical execution are the secrets to the three irish captains’ success, but it’s their competitive edge that collectively defines their leadership on the field. 
senior midfielders connor Klekota and patrick hodan and graduate student de­fender max lachowecki will lead the irish in defending their acc championship title and begin their quest to add another national championship to their resumes. 
“connor, patrick and max are all very competitive,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “They’ve all grown as players and as people [since their freshman years], and when you’re part of the team you evolve different roles over the years. They weren’t all captains as freshmen, and it’s nice to have seen them grow [into that role].” 
while clark fully approves of his team’s tri-captains, it wasn’t actually him who chose the three. 
“we always have the other players choose, and it always works out pretty well,” clark said. “They always know who the leaders are. you see who evolves throughout the sea­son and [having the players select the captains] seems to have worked pretty well all the way up to now.” 
This season is sure to be no different. while all com­petitive in their playing style, each brings something unique to what it means to be a leader. 
“max is a bit of a joker and a very funny guy, but on the field there’s no one more competitive than max,” clark said. “There’s a light-sided part to him, which is nice to have in the locker room. 
“he lightens up the lock­er room and even before a big game you need that. he’s a friendly face who the younger boys could go talk to easily.” 
The three-time mono­gram winner has scored five goals, including two game-winning goals, and tallied four assists for 14 points. lachowecki was also named to the big easT conference all-rookie team and soccer america all-freshman team in 2012. 
Klekota plays up lachowecki’s light-sid­ed style with his positive energy. 
“connor is just a come­dian,” clark said. “he’s also so competitive and comes to play ever single day. he has such a good work ethic. 
“he gets excited and after every practice says ‘it’s been a great practice.’ he just has a very positive outlook in life, which is great to have on the field.” 
in his 44 career appearanc­es, including 28 starts, the midfielder has posted two goals and seven assists. he played in 20 games in 2014, which led to one goal and a career-high four assists. 
but it’s hodan who bal­ances out these two with his analytical approach to the game. 
“pat is the shier, more stu­dious one, but he does all the right things,” clark said. “he sums everything up and comes up with a conclusion. 
“he’s not afraid to voice his opinion. he may seem 
see m soccer PAGE 14 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Senior midfielder Connor Klekota dribbles the ball down the field in Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to Virginia in the NCAA tournament on Nov. 30. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

ND strives to become national force 

By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame men’s and women’s cross country teams will begin their 2015 seasons at the crusader invitational on sept. 4, an event which the irish men won in 2014. The beginning of the season for notre dame follows a 2014 season in which the irish raced in seven events and culminated in the notre dame women’s team run­ning in the ncaa championships in late november the under first-year head coach matthew sparks. 
on top of winning the open­ing crusader invitational in 2014, the notre dame men were run-ner-ups in the national catholic championships in september and finished seventh and sixth respec­tively at the acc championships and ncaa great lakes regional championships. The irish men did not compete as a team in the ncaa championships, although senior michael clevenger finished 92nd individually. 
“The men’s program is still in rebuilding mode,” said sparks. “one of our next steps is to get to the national meet since we missed out last year. i feel like we’ve made some positive steps in the right di­rection and we have a great senior leader in michael clevenger, so i am confident we can take that next step.” 
in 2014, the irish women won the national catholic championships and had successful finishes at the accchampionships (fifth) and the ncaagreat lakes regional (sixth) at the beginning of their postsea­son before ultimately taking 29th at the ncaachampionships. 
“The women’s team has consis­tently been represented in the na­tional meet over the last 10 years,” said sparks. “we feel like we can make a good jump on the women’s side this season.” 
a top performer for the irish throughout the 2014 season was molly seidel, who became notre dame’s first all-american since 2009 and finished 19th overall at the ncaa championships. seidel returns to the irish as a se­nior this season coming off her national championship victory in the 10,000-meter race at the outdoor Track & Field national championships in the spring. however, seidel is not the only run­ner sparks said he expects to have a big impact in 2015. 
“another returning young lady that should make a contribution 
see Xc PAGE 13 





