the iNdepeNdeNt to uNcover Newspaper serviNg the truth Notre dame aNd aNd report saiNt mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 69 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
ND to offer digital technologies minor 
Program in Computing and Digital Technologies will supplement liberal arts curriculum starting in fall 2015 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
News writer 
beginning in the fall of 2015, the college of arts and letters will offer a new minor in computing and digital technologies (cdt), which is designed to supple­ment a traditional liberal arts education with techni­cal instruction. 
charles crowell, associ­ate professor of psychology and director of the minor, said the program will pro­vide “more than a casual ex­posure to technology, which means that not only will you understand it, but you will also utilize it, and it can be­come a springboard for your job search and your profes­sional activities later on.” 
“there’s little doubt that the world is going digital and increasingly so,” crowell said. “people need to un­derstand what digital tech­nologies are and how they’re utilized.” 
he said the cdt minor was created on the recommenda­tions of an advisory com­mittee convened to review the 35-year-old computer applications program (capp) supplementary ma­jor. before the creation of the cdt minor, capp was the primary program through which arts and 
see cdt PAGE 5 




Archbishop examines Ireland and the Church 
and the catholic church. titled, and pope Francis: legacy and 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
News writer “the catholic church in ireland transformation,” the lecture was part of the annual keeley vatican 


Saint Mary’s to host film festival 
college had offered a film 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 

associate saint mary’s editor festival to the community for over 10 years, beginning with 
speaking to a large crowd 
in the mendoza college of 
business’s Jordan auditorium on 
thursday, archbishop charles J. 
brown reflected on his mission 
in serving as the apostolic nun­
cio to ireland and the intersec-


lecture series sponsored by the  the  saint  mary’s  center  a French film festival and  
Nanovic institute for european  for  women’s  intercultural  transitioning to a variety of  
studies.  leadership (cwil) will host  international films.  
brown, a 1981 Notre  dame  the  world  cinema Festival  derakhshani said the film  

graduate, addressed the cultural 

from Jan. 27-Jan. 29 in vander festival complements the 
and spiritual challenges in 

vennet theatre. work of the college to 
associate director of cwil 
tion between modern ireland 
see browN PAGE 5 

mana derakhshani said the see Festival PAGE 4 
irish dance team to perform annual showcase 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
News writer 
the Notre dame/saint mary’s college irish dance team will perform its annual showcase, titled “we got the beat,” on Friday, saturday and sunday at washington hall. 
the show, a series of dances to popular music as well as traditional irish music, is the irish dance team’s biggest fundraiser of the year, team co-president and saint mary’s senior mary kate mclaughlin said. 
“it helps us fund our trips to ireland and things like that,” she said. “we just love doing our show. it’s a lot of work. we put a lot of hours into it, espe­cially during this week, but it’s a lot of fun.” 
irish dance is known for its fast footwork, rhythmic but graceful movement and tradi­tional irish costumes. 
“if anyone has ever seen Riverdance or Feet of Flames, that’s very similar to what we do,” team co-president and Notre dame junior katy wahl said. “very high intensity, 
see daNce PAGE 5 







ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite ice cream flavor? 

Abbey Hubregsen 
junior 
howard hall 
“peanut butter cup.” 
Ashley Murphy 
junior 
howard hall 
“i don’t like to discriminate.” 
Scott Varian 
fifth-year senior 
morrissey manor 
“espresso chocolate chip .” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Stephanie Wehmeier 
senior 
lewis hall 
“Frigidarium gelato.” 
Meghan Lohr 
senior 
lewis hall 
“moose track.” 
Katie King 
senior 
lewis hall 
“chocolate brownie.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

emily mcconville mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com madison Jaros Zach klonsinski clare kossler matthew makenna 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
mary mcgraw miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Graduate Student Men’s Basketball Mass in Spanish Prayer Service to CUSE Undergraduate 
Jodi lo tabitha ricketts 

Mass Purcell Pavilion Dillon Hall Chapel Honor the Legacy of Workshop Basilica of the Sacred 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Martin Luther King 110 Brownson Hall Heart Notre Dame versus All are welcome to Jr. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
Corrections 

5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Miami. attend. Main Building Learn how to write a 
the observer regards itself as Worship service. 11:45 a.m. - 12:15 p.m. grant proposal. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Hockey Game Vigil Mass Film: The Tale of the Women’s Basketball Classic Film: 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Princess Kaguya Purcell Pavilion Stromboli 
however, recognize that we will make 

Arena Heart DeBartolo Performing 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Arts Center Notre Dame versus Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Notre Dame versus Worship Service. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Tennessee. 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Connecticut. 2014 film. 1950 film. 


Patel promotes religious dialogue 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News writer 
eboo patel, founder of interfaith youth core, discussed the importance and implications of interfaith narrative and dia­logue in a lecture titled “interfaith leadership: engaging religious and Non-religious diversity in the 21st century.” the lecture was sponsored by Notre dame’s multicultural student programs and services. 
patel, who also serves as an member of the inaugural advisory council for the white house office of Faith-based and Neighborhood partnerships, said the need for coexistence and cooperation among various reli­gions would become a defining question of our time. 
“the question of how people orient around religion different­ly, or interact with one another, whether that be based on conflict or cooperation, will be one of the most engaging questions of the 21st century,” he said. 
patel said becoming an in­terfaith leader is a process that involves viewing one’s identity as a person of faith as an oppor­tunity to create relationships among multiple communities of faith, which helps establish coop­eration and dialogue. 
“you could look to make [your faith identity] a barrier of division, you could look to make it a blud­geon of domination or you could look to make it a bridge of coop­eration,” patel said. 
patel said civil rights activ­ist martin luther king, Jr., a baptist, was an example of a suc­cessful interfaith leader because he took inspiration from the peaceful protests of mahatma gandhi, a hindu, and cooper­ated with prominent leaders of multiple religions. 
“martin luther king is many, many things, but amongst them, he is certainly an interfaith lead­er,” patel said. 
patel said interfaith leadership is developed through three key experiences or “moments.” he said these moments include be­ing inspired by a person or ideal of another faith, engaging and co­operating with people of multiple religions and observing and col­laborating in solutions to combat interfaith violence. 
“you being inspired by an ideal or a person from a different reli­gion; you recognizing and lifting up your memories of partnering with people of different religions whose endeavors are beautiful and great and holy; you recog­nizing the scourge of religious violence and thinking to yourself, ‘there has to be something done about this and i will take some responsibility’ — these are the kinds of moments that help you craft your own story of interfaith leadership,” patel said. 
patel said interfaith dialogue re­quires youth leaders who create in­spiring and innovative discussion on faith. he focused on the con­cept of storytelling in the process of developing as an interfaith leader and said interfaith leaders “tell new stories to the world and embody those stories in their lives.” 
he said storytelling involves creating narratives and environ­mentsthat are defined by similari­ties among, rather than by division of, people of different faiths. 
“part of what leaders do is shape environments that make salient the commonalities be­tween people from different reli­gions,” patel said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
paid advertisemeNt 


Saint Mary’s and IUSB host Michiana Monologues 
By MARTHA REILLY 
News writer 
in late February and early march, saint mary’s college and indiana university south bend (iusb) will team up to host the michiana monologues, a series of performances which docu­ment local women’s experiences with violence and sexual assault. 
according to the production’s website, the monologues, in­spired by eve ensler’s “vagina monologues” and written by lo­cal women, tell stories of sur­viving sexual assault, as well as “domestic violence, body image, women’s sexuality, and gender identity.” proceeds from the show will benefit nonprofit organiza­tions that combat domestic vio­lence, the website said. 
according to the website, saint mary’s performed the vagina monologues for several years be­fore crafting a performance spe­cific to the college. when iusb students began to look into creat­ing their own production in 2007, the two college communities decided to collaborate and in­clude the entire south bend com­munity, forming the michiana monologues, the website said. 
saint mary’s senior Nia parillo, co-director of the production, said the michiana monologues em­powers all people, no matter their gender. 
“there’s a sense of camaraderie in the audience with the stories that are being told,” parillo said. “some are very inspirational because they have positive messages.” 
parillo said she became involved in the production after attending the 2014 performance and person­ally related to the stories related in the monologues. 
“i went to the monologues last year as an audience member, and after i saw it i felt a great connec­tion with it,” parillo said. “the sto­ries were moving, and i was able to personally relate with some of the stories that were read. it was great to know that other women, espe­cially locally, have gone through the same things as me. i felt like that with all of the readings, whether or not i personally went through the experience that was being read. i just felt [we were] con­nected as women, and that’s why i would encourage other people to go.” 
working on the production helped parillo form new friend­ships and a sense of community within south bend, she said. 
“when i was presented with the opportunity to be a co-director, i was so excited,” she said. “because i did have that personal connec­tion with the monologues and be­cause i love the idea that women are using their voices to tell their stories, i really wanted to be a part of that.  i’ve really enjoyed meet­ing new people and being a part of something with a group of women where our ideals and passions align.” 
parillo said the michiana monologues is a “liberating, educational and connecting experience.” 
“when these women read these stories, i felt connected with them, the other audience members and the women who wrote the piece,” she said. 
parillo said attending the show will encourage students to leave their comfort zones. 
“i think the monologues would be such a benefit to students just because it is such a different ex­perience, and it could really open their eyes to new things and top­ics,” she said. 
the michiana monologues will take place Feb. 26 at the civil rights heritage center, Feb. 27 at the state theater in south bend, and march 7 in the main auditorium on the iusb campus. 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

professor examines la santa muerte 
By ALEX CAO 
News writer 
professor desiree martin, an assistant professor of english at the university of california, davis, spoke thursday in the hesburgh center auditorium about the growing following of la santa muerte, a skeletal central american folk figure whose name translates to saint death, in a talk called “borderlands saints: reflections on secular sanctity and la santa muerta.” 
“it [the current version of the following] dates from roughly the early eighties, and it kind of really gained steam in the mid-nineties during the mexican peso crisis of 1994”, martin said. “the origin of santa muerte that goes further back — there is no consensus on when belief in santa muerte first arose. … she is sometimes linked to saint paschal baylon [a spanish Friar and catholic saint from the mid to late 1590’s], and she’s linked to a saint in France who appears as a skeletal figure and another saint from oaxaca who looks like a skel­eton, so there is no real consensus, but probably the roots are pre-co­lonial as there are indigenous gods that match their beliefs and take a skeletal form.” 
martin said santa muerte controversially highlights a contemporary symbol of secular sanctity, where a profane figure is worshipped in a way that is not un­like the worship of a sacred figure. 
“since santa muerte is so strongly associated with the pro­fane, especially in relation to il­legality or transgressivity, she is a particularly extreme example of the collision between the secular and the sacred. santa muerte is famous for being very miraculous and loyal but also for being a jeal­ous, vengeful patron who requires the utmost devotion and respect,” martin said. “santa muerte is not venerated for her purity but for her accessibility and for her resistance to the powerful forces of the state, the catholic church and wealthy elites.” 
matin said the exchange at the heart of devotees’ interaction and relationship with santa muerte, however, highlights a darker as­pect of the relationship between worshipper and figure. martin showed clips from eva aridjis’s 2007 documentary “la santa muerte,” which depicted a woman praising santa muerte while in prison. 
“this woman, who paints mu­rals and images of santa muerte for her fellow inmates, situates her art as both offering and com­modity. she also openly identifies the death saint as both a provider and a guardian for her drug habit,” martin said. “the woman seems neither to expect judgment of nor deliverance from her drug hab­it. instead, she considers santa muerte a friend and companion who will not only protect her from an overdose, but will stay by her side as she gets high, perhaps im­plicitly participating in her illicit journey.” 
martin says the ambivalent and two-faced nature of santa muerte is inherently contradictory, lead­ing to her image as a disruptor of class, racial, gender and sexual hi­erarchies being downplayed in fa­vor of an intimidating image of the pagan, the satanic, or the criminal. 
“in reality, santa muerte threat­ens her critics because she helps her marginalized devotees, es­pecially migrants, poor barrio residents, and most contentious­ly, criminals,” she said. “but for the majority of devotees, santa muerte’s dark side is not exclu­sively or even primarily linked to the criminal underworld. instead, it manifests through the death saint’s purported jealousy and the price she supposedly exacts from believers who use her powers reck­lessly or who fail to pay her proper tribute.” 
Contact Alex  Cao at acao@nd.edu 



police chase ends in arrest at saint mary’s lake 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
News writer 
on dec. 22, Notre dame stu­dents and staff received an email from the university re­porting an incident that had occurred earlier that day on campus. the email reported that a suspect being pursued by mishawaka police had been pulled out of st. mary’s lake and taken into custody by police. 
“Just before noon on dec. 22, Ndsp received a call of a suspicious vehicle in the [hesburgh] library [parking] lot, and upon investigation, of­ficers learned that the vehicle was one that mishawaka po­lice had been pursuing,” Notre dame security police (Ndsp) director phillip Johnson said. “as officers from other agen­cies arrived on campus, Ndsp dispatch center received a call reporting an attempt to steal a delivery truck near the main building. officers arrived on the scene within one min­ute of the call reporting the at­tempted robbery.” 
according to a news release issued by the mishawaka police department (mpd), the suspect was 23-year-old Joshua ringle. 
upon the arrival of Ndsp officers at the library, ringle fled, Johnson said. 
“the suspect ran to the lake and jumped into the water. the man claimed to be armed but no weapon was seen, and no weapon was found,” Johnson said. “this situation was contained within two and half minutes after receiving the call reporting the attempt­ed robbery. 
“the suspect was rescued from the frigid water after about 30 minutes. officers from Ndsp, [st. Joseph] county police and [the south bend police department], using a [Notre dame Fire department] rescue boat, pulled the suspect to safety.” 
according to the mpd news release, mishawaka police had tried to apprehend ringle af­ter he had violated a protective order several hours earlier, but ringle fled. 
“ringle, while fleeing po­lice, entered a home on lowell wood, confronted the home­owner and took her gray subaru Forrester. ringle drove through the lowered garage door, refusing to stop for offi­cers,” the news release said. 
ringle then drove off with the mishawaka police in pur­suit, the news release said. the officers lost sight of ringle due to heavy holiday traffic, the news release said. 
“officers were informed by dispatch that witnesses called, stating the gray suv had been involved in a rollover crash at [the intersection of] grape rd. and douglas. the gray suv rolled over, ending upright on its wheels and left west on douglas,” the news release said. 
shortly after, officers were told a gray suv and man matching ringle’s descrip­tion were in the library park­ing lot at Notre dame, the news release said. 
“Ndsp officers, along with mishawaka, south bend and [st. Joseph] county police worked in a coordinated effort to contain the suspect and es­tablish a safe zone around the area of the st. mary’s lake,” Johnson said. “NdFd’s staff was alerted to be on standby for any emergency medical services and to provide a res­cue boat for police.” 
after refusing officers’ or­ders to come out of the water, ringle was safely pulled from the water by police and treated by fire department medics, Johnson said. ringle was then taken to a local hospital to be treated for hypothermia, the news release said. 
Johnson said Ndsp works with other local law enforce­ment entities in a unified com­mand structure. 
“there was an incredibly rapid response by officers from all area agencies, and officers performed in an exceptional manner, working patiently and safely to resolve this situ­ation without injury,” Johnson said. “i am extremely proud of the coordinated police and fire response to this incident.” 
the safety of all staff and students is the priority of Ndsp in situations such as these, Johnson said. 
“the situation was very quickly contained and a pe­rimeter was established around the scene to keep peo­ple at a safe distance,” Johnson said. “Nevertheless, out of an abundance of caution, we used the campus public address system (ippa) to ask people to stay away from the area of the lakes. 
“when the suspect was res­cued from the water, an all-clear message was broadcast. 
“based on feedback — and we evaluate our response to all major incidents as part of con­tinuous improvement — the Nd alert system using text, telephone calls, email mes­sages as well as the public ad­dress system would have been more effective than the public address system alone.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 
Festival 
coNtiNued From page 1 

to internationalize the campus. 
“[the festival] brings to campus major films from other countries that we don’t usually get to see in the u.s., particularly outside of a large metropolis such as New york or chicago,” derakhshani said. “in addi­tion, screening foreign films on campus supports the larger college-wide learn­ing outcomes of intercultur­al competence and global learning.” 
the festival will fea­ture three films in their original languages, with english subtitles, over the course of three nights. each film will start at 7 p.m., beginning with the arabic-language film “wadjda”, directed by haifaa al-mansour on tuesday. on wednesday, “Queen”, a hindi-language film di­rected by vikas bahl, will be screened. the festival will conclude with “so young”, a mandarin-language film directed by wei Zhao. 
derakhshani said she hopes students will attend and learn something about the perspective of other cultures. 
“Films are windows into particular cultures and al­low us to gain some under­standing of certain aspects of these cultures,” she said. 
derakhshani said viewing these films is a way to en­gage with the larger world and prepare oneself to inter­act with different cultures. 
she said there would be much in the films that dif­fer from the realities of saint mary’s students, though there may be some experiences that are similar. 
“these three films specifi­cally portray young women or girls’ quest for agency and voice in three different cul­tures and in three different contexts,” she said. “Noting both differences and simi­larities will increase the au­dience’s ability to encounter 


paid advertisemeNt 
difference with an ethnorel­ative perspective rather than a judgmental ethno­centric attitude. 
“seeing the world through someone else’s cultural lens helps us understand our own culture and norms better.” 
two of the films are in lan­guages taught at the college, arabic and mandarin, derakhshani said. 
“i hope students learning these languages — or want­ing to learn them — will come to hear the language in an authentic context,” she said. 
derakhshani said she hopes many students will take advantage of the op­portunity to watch the films. the event is free and open to the public. 
For the complete sched­ule and more information on the films, visit https:// w w w.s a i nt ma r y s.edu/ news-events/news-releases/ world-cinema-festival-2015 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
paid advertisemeNt 




CDT 
coNtiNued From page 1 
letters students gained ex­posure to technical train­ing, crowell said. 
“it was decided that we needed to make a few changes and what that cul­minated in was the creation of a new program that will, in essence, replace capp at the end of this academic year,” he said. 
a distinguishing feature of the cdt minor is the in­terdepartmental collabora­tion between the college of engineering and the college of arts and letters, duda Family professor of engineering patrick Flynn said. 
Flynn said the minor will consist of a two-course core sequence in the program­ming language python and three additional elective courses in a variety of dis­ciplines that will build off of the material learned in the core sequence. 
“the idea was to provide a programming foundation to everyone in the program, so that at the end, regard­less of what electives they chose, they at least have a fairly comprehensive ex­posure to a programming environment and the op­portunity to have done some interesting things with it,” he said. 
Flynn, who will teach both core programming courses, said the cdt mi­nor will provide students with technical skills that can be applied to every ma­jor and course of study. 
“motivating the cdt pro­gram is a realization that computing is basically present in every discipline in one form or another,” he said. 
according to the web­site for the cdt minor, students can specialize in one of six tracks – user interface and experience, cyber safety and security, digital humanities, digital arts, cognitive science and technology development and management. professor of english matthew wilkens, who will teach two courses in the digital humanities track next year, said the pro­gramming and technical knowledge taught in the cdt minor will prepare arts and letters students to be better scholars and pro­spective employees. 
“there’s a lot of demand for people who come out of an undergraduate program with this combination of talents — of real analytical ability, of power and effec­tiveness in communication and technical and quan­titative analytical ability too,” he said. “that’s a re­ally powerful combination for all kinds of things.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
Brown 
coNtiNued From page 1 
the vatican’s relationship with ireland and his job as the holy see’s official diplomat to ireland. 
“the apostolic nuncio has two roles: to be the pope’s rep­resentative to the local catholic community and to be the pope’s representative to the sovereign government,” he said. 
brown said when he arrived in ireland and assumed his offi­cial position in January 2012, he made it his mission to be involved in ireland’s catholic community, accepting as many invitations as possible to visit local churches, schools and other important community institutions. 
“i made it my priority to be open and accessible so that i could learn about the needs of the church in ireland,” he said. 
brown said the church’s his­torical role in ireland is “daunt­ing in its complexity.” 
he noted the dichotomy 
Dance 
coNtiNued From page 1 
more than what people would realize. it’s a real workout; it’s all with your feet. No arms — your arms have to stay by your side. it’s fun. it’s just different.” 
mclaughlin said while team members, which include about 60 women and one man, have a range of experience, they have all had some train­ing, and many have been irish among christendom, the cul­tural and social dominance of christian values and christianity itself, which he defined as faith in the person of Jesus christ and his church. he referenced a famous homily by archbishop michael Neary of tuam, which bemoaned the death of christendom in modern-day secular ireland. 
brown said the collapse of christendom, however, is distinct from the state of christianity in 20th-century ireland. From the 1930s to the 1960s, he said mass attendance was high, large numbers of men and women entered religious life and “a catholic ethos dominated ireland.” 
“ireland’s traditionally ru­ral and agrarian culture with a conservative outlook and wide­spread opposition to british dominance were both major fac­tors in this,” brown said. 
brown said by the the 1970s, irish society became more secu­lar. causes of this transforma­tion included immigration of 
dancing for a decade or more. 
“we all kind of range from different dancing abilities,” she said. there’s some of us who are really just in it for fun and for performing, and then just did it for a few years, and then there’s other girls on the team who have been doing it their whole lives, who have gone to nationals, worlds, things like that. it’s a variety of abilities on our team.” 
wahl said there are a num­ber of types of dances, both solo and team, which could use either a soft, ballet-like shoe or a hard, tap-like shoe. she said the Nd/smc team is divided into soft- and hard-shoe teams. 
“there are two shoes that you wear in irish dance, soft and hard. the soft shoe is kind of like a ballet slipper, and the hard shoe is similar to a tap shoe, but it’s a lot heavier and it has a wooden bottom. the blue team only does soft shoe, and the gold team does both soft and hard,” wahl said. 
mclaughlin said she prefers team dances because of the opportunity for collaboration. 
“i like more of the team camaraderie as opposed to solo, [which] is a lot more on your own, and you’re kind of against everyone,” she said. “when you’re on a team, it’s all people from your school that you are friends with. teams are more fun for me.” 
wahl said the benefit of solo dances is the ability to make a dance one’s own. 
“with solo steps, those steps are unique to each dance school, so everyone you’re dancing with is going to be do­ing a different step at the same time,” she said. “For me, those are really fun because it’s who can impress the judges more, who can get in their face more, whose steps are fuller and better.” 
mclaughlin said team mem­bers perform several times per american-born irish back to ireland and the introduction of their more secular lifestyles, as well as the advent of increased electrical usage, which brought the secular values of the media industry to the entire nation. 
brown said that the emergence of abuses among the clergy, par­ticularly pedophilia, damaged the church’s cultural influence. 
“No matter what the issue is, when a catholic voice is raised, the inevitable response is that they’re trying to bring back the era of clerical dominance,” he said. 
brown said pope Francis’s messages of freedom and humil­ity in christ has a broad appeal. he said he has hope for the fu­ture of the church, particularly in ireland. 
“there is a palpable desire in the irish people for meaning be­yond the merely material and the physical,” he said 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 
year, including during bas­ketball halftimes and football pep rallies. in addition, eight dancers go to the all-ireland irish dance championship every fall near dublin, where they perform a traditional ceili dance. mclaughlin said the Notre dame/saint mary’s ceili team, often the only americans at the competition, have won first place each year they competed. 
“it’s great to be able to be able to go over there and rep­resent both Notre dame and saint mary’s, and it was even better to bring back the gold now four times in a row for our team,” she said. “that was really amazing. it’s defi­nitely a nerve-racking experi­ence being there with all the other teams that were all from ireland or england.” 
this weekend’s perfor­mance will include contem­porary music by artists such as taylor swift in addition to traditional numbers and the dance that won the ceili team its first-place prize in ireland. mclaughlin said team mem­bers choreograph many of the dances themselves. 
“that’s a lot of the fun part too,” mclaughlin said. “everyone gets to be creative and come up with their own dance.” 
mclaughlin, who started irish dancing at the age of four, said she intends to be­come certified to teach danc­ing after college. 
“it’s fun — just performing in general, big events like [the showcase], that’s what i have the most fun doing,” she said. “but knowing that you put so much work into something, and then seeing the final product and getting to per­form in front of an audience and all these people, it’s really rewarding.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



the observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
observer gratitude 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
should i be a reflective, sappy senior as the semester begins? probably. 
i have, however, managed to keep the thoughts of impending graduation and good-byes to a minimum. i’d like to keep it that way. 
instead of talking about the end of the year, then, i’d like to offer a series of thanks. this isn’t a final thank you, sig­naling the end of my Notre dame career; rather, it is a sign of the work i hope this campus will continue to do together this semester. 
thank you to everyone on the observer staff for their efforts this year. we never seem to have quite enough staff to make the workload easy on any­one, but the energy and dedication of the staff keeps the paper running strong. thank you for sacrificing large amounts of your sanity for the paper, often work­ing in the office as soon as classes are over until the wee hours of the morning. 
thank you to all of our contributors: guest columnists, letter-to-the-editor writers and online commenters. your dialogue inspires healthy debate and community engagement on campus. it encourages others to speak up, to boldly demand respect and attention for wor­thy causes. thank you for setting an example and responding to one another. 
thank you to anyone who has pro­vided story ideas. your engagement with the community is much valued. 
thank you, most importantly, to our readers. without you, there is no observer. thank you for taking an inter­est in this campus — in its growth and health. 
i joined the observer staff because i care deeply about this university, its values and the concerns of its com­munity — faculty, staff, students and alumni. i was inspired by how actively Notre dame sponsored community engagement and promoted Notre dame family ties. since beginning my work with the paper as a sophomore over two years ago, i have become only more impressed. the desire to direct careful thought to complex, sensitive issues — thank you, one and all, for that. 
No matter how you’re involved with the observer — as a staff member, con­tributor or reader — i thank you most sincerely for your active involvement. it is pleasing to know how dedicated people are to sharing and hearing Notre dame voices. it energizes my work as an editor and writer for the paper. 
with these thanks comes the hope that all of you continue to work with, write for and read the observer. 
once more for good measure: thank you. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at       szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Implications of ‘interrogation’ 
Wright Smith 
harvard political review 

this fall, after significant push and pull amongst the white house, cia and congress, the senate select intelligence committee published the executive summary of its report on uses of “enhanced interrogation techniques” — considered by many to be torture — by american intelligence in the aftermath of 9/11. the revelations in the report caused shock and indignation around the world, with many allies and ad­versaries of the united states condemning the practices. the report touched off a fierce debate in the united states be­tween critics of the program and its defenders, who maintain that using enhanced interrogation allowed the united states to gain information on terrorist cells and prevent terrorist attacks. 
however, this line of reasoning is a red herring. whether or not torture is effective in securing information, it dimin­ishes u.s. diplomatic capital, lessens its moral advantage over repressive governments and weakens the influence of its condemnations and the rationale for global humanitar­ian intervention. all of these effects add up to diminished american influence internationally, which hurts america’s long-term security, regardless of the short-term gain from intensive interrogation of terrorist suspects. 
Losing capital 

multiple u.s. allies, including important Nato partners such as turkey, have publicly condemned the cia’s use of enhanced interrogation. other close allies such as the united kingdom have been heavily implicated in assisting washington in the capture, rendition and interrogation of suspects. Nations in both situations will feel burned by the united states and be significantly less willing to support similar initiatives in the future, weakening america’s global diplomatic influence. 
For allies who did not assist in the program, the extensive concealment of a major intelligence project bodes badly for 
u.s. trustworthiness on future intelligence cooperation, and will very possibly harm intelligence sharing on other sensi­tive projects. For allies who worked closely with intelligence officials on this project, the revelations will hurt their inter­national standing as well. they will thus be considerably more cautious in working with the united states on sensitive intelligence projects in the future, as they may be implicated and criticized for their role in american actions. in either case, the torture program and its subsequent concealment and release weakened the integrity of america’s diplomatic relationships with close allies, hampering national security in the long-run. 
Collaborate or criticize? 

the rendition and interrogation program also weakens american diplomatic strength due to its private collaboration with regimes it publicly condemns. among the nations that assisted the united states with the rendition and/or inter­rogation of subjects were iran, libya, syria, uzbekistan and belarus. these nations have poor human rights records and have been openly denounced by the american government for various harsh and authoritarian activities. american collaboration with these governments in such unsavory practices as the rendition and torture of terror suspects un­dermines its moral authority. 
governments such as the regime of bashar al-assad in syria, which has killed thousands of syrians with artillery, gas, bombings, torture,and executions, could even use the supposed precedent set by the torture program to argue against stiff penalties from the united states and the interna­tional community, and to reject criticism of their inhumane actions. this will also weaken the argument for international humanitarian intervention against regimes that engage in major human rights abuses of their citizens for the same rea­son; they can point to the cia torture program as a precedent for justifying harsh crackdowns on opponents. 
The moral lower ground 
Furthermore, the torture program makes the united states seem hypocritical: criticizing the authoritarian and oppres­sive tendencies of these governments on one hand, while cooperating with them on the torture program on the other. this weakens america’s moral advantage over authoritarian governments such as russia, china and iran. it makes our condemnations of those nations’ repression of dissidents and political opponents ring hollow in the ears of the internation­al community and hampers our ability to promote human rights around the world. 
the ostensible hypocrisy between america’s humanitarian rhetoric and its seeming violations of the rights of suspects and detainees will also embolden the nation’s rivals. they will almost certainly use the warped logic that the american mismatch between rhetoric and action justifies their own misdeeds, such as detention of political opponents and destabilization of neighboring countries. by emboldening america’s authoritarian adversaries and contributing to a “culture of contempt” towards human rights, the cia’s use of torture will hamper the goal of achieving a more stable and democratic world. 
the american public remains uncertain about the justi­fication and dubious legality of the cia’s enhanced inter­rogation. however, regardless of any justification, the use of torture hurts america’s image abroad. correspondingly, this damages national security by hampering u.s. diplomacy, an­gering american friends, and emboldening american oppo­nents. allies will either feel left out of cooperation on a major american intelligence program or betrayed by the publica­tion of their involvement in these activities. adversaries will be able to invoke the american use of torture as a warped justification for their own oppressions and violations of hu­man rights. 
thus, even if the use of torture did result in helpful infor­mation, it will hinder america’s longer-term security objec­tives and make the country less safe. 
Harvard Political Review is the student-run political jounal of Harvard College. Wright Smith  is a staff writer for the Harvard Political Review. He covers international relations with an emphasis on the Middle East and South Asia, and the intersection between military and diplomatic affairs, insurgencies and extremism. He can be contacted on Twitter @wrightlsmith 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


the observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
Assessing Crossroads 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 
i’m having a hard time with the campus crossroads project. 
it’s not because it displaces my graduation cere­mony or because the sight of a comically giant ex­cavator claw ripping whole trees out of the ground during my comparative politics class last semester was distracting (although it was quite distracting). these are both bad, but ultimately insignificant pieces of the larger issue — a project conceived through a flawed process, rooted in shaky logic and yielding a sub-optimal solution to a mostly imagined problem. 
the student response to crossroads has been muted, while the university’s response to criti­cisms has been skittish. most students and faculty i have spoken with dislike the idea, and nobody i’ve spoken to loves it. 
after reviewing the project website and the university’s public statements, i’ve come to the conclusion to which i think most people would come: it is unclear what the point of campus crossroads is. 
“From the beginning, Notre dame has never let convention limit our dreams,” the project’s mission statement begins. replace “dreams” in that sen­tence with “hairstyle” or “use of racial slurs,” and “unconventional” doesn’t sound as sexy. but so far a brave stand against convention is the best euphe­mism the university can contrive for an arguably imprudent use of nearly a half-billion dollars. 
it does not follow from the university’s unper­suasive word choice that the project itself is a bad thing, but the university’s inability to put together a pr effort that makes sense should make us ques­tion crossroads’ merits and wonder how strongly our own administration believes in it. if they did, university officials would be clamoring to be held accountable for the most forward-thinking idea in the history of our lady’s university. at the very least, they would have had a public groundbreak­ing ceremony with some golden shovels. 
instead administrators have flailed in response to criticism and quietly fast-tracked the start of construction. on Feb. 27 of last year, paul browne, university vice president for public affairs and communications, submitted a 1,022-word view­point gushing over an essay in america by Notre dame law school alum matt emerson, who was in turn gushing over campus crossroads. of browne’s 1,022 words, 633 were directly quoting emerson, and 116 were spent setting up quotes from emerson. maybe i’m just bitter that the vice president of communications exceeded the 800­word limit on outside viewpoint submissions, but if he were tasked with defending something defensi­ble, then a man of his qualifications wouldn’t have to lean so heavily on an essay from a guy living 2,100 miles away from the construction site. in his former role with the New york police department, browne had to defend controversial stop-and-frisk policies from immeasurably more criticism than what campus crossroads has received. he is not dumb. crossroads might be. 
the primary argument advanced in favor of crossroads is simply that it’s never been done be­fore. and that is fine. Novelty is often a positive feature, but not a logic on which to base a $400 million investment. something can be simultane­ously novel and ill-advised, and over the course of history, man has rightly shied away numerous times from such pursuits, such as a you don’t mess with the Zohan sequel or a manned mission to the sun. 

the university had an occasion to explain its reasoning in greater detail in alex herrmann’s Nov. 13 cover story for scholastic, “coming to a crossroads: a conversation with university executive vice president John affleck-graves.” the article is worth reading in full, but i will summa­rize it here. 
at Notre dame, strategic plans are developed every 10 years in consultation with the faculty, student affairs, “operating units” and athletics to set development priorities for the next 10 years. crossroads planning began in the 2011-12 aca­demic year with a “need,” as outlined in the 2008 strategic plan, “for a new student center to comple­ment laFortune.” 
the university argues the following: First, we badly need a new student center. second, Notre dame stadium is within five minutes of the flag­pole in the center of south Quad and is therefore “one of the most centrally located buildings on campus.” third, the stadium is a better place for a student center than saint mary’s lake or the mid­dle of south Quad. Fourth, symmetry is important; therefore we should retrofit completely new build­ings on the south and east sides of the stadium to balance out the student center/press box on the west side, even if doing so greatly adds to the final cost. Finally, since we are going to have three new buildings on the stadium, we should fill them with the items we listed in our strategic plan in 2008. 
having reconstructed the university’s argu­ment in charitable terms, it still sounds logically invalid. their first contention on the dire state of laFortune, if not false, at least paints an exagger­ated picture of the student center’s shortcomings. most of the people i see there seem pretty happy. 
the second contention, that the stadium is one of the most centrally located buildings on campus, is certainly false. having lived and walked on this campus as a student for almost four years, i am confident in the falsity of this statement. at best it is on the edge of a high-traffic area during the class-going hours of 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. but “stu­dent life,” the end toward which this whole project is directed, happens some distance away from the classroom buildings — in the dorms, in the dining halls, at the grotto and in laFortune. 
i accept the third contention. don’t build crossroads in the lake. 
taken together, the fourth and fifth contentions show administrators green-lighting buildings in the name of symmetry without first forming a clear idea of how to use them. 
read as a whole, the argument makes crossroads seem like the semi-inevitable consequence of building up our school. but the idea that we couldn’t meet the “needs” crossroads addresses by building on other parts of campus is belied by dr. affleck-graves telling scholastic that we could expand the campus by 40-50 percent without ex­tending beyond its current boundaries. 
a secondary argument that is more persua­sive but still unsuccessful states that the football stadium is underutilized because it is only used about 10 times per year. constructing crossroads, the website says, “is how Notre dame plans to awaken a sleeping giant and infuse it with life and learning.” 
but as any four-year-old who’s heard “Jack and the beanstalk” knows, not all giants are worth waking up. and giants with an unsurpassed 83­year tradition as a pillar of college athletics require special care. 
i am generally pro-stadium expansion. over fall break, i watched lsu ruin a season for ole miss in tiger stadium, a 102,000-seat behemoth that has been expanded eight times since opening in 1924, six years before ours did. a billboard below one of the upper decks at lsu reads, “it is the cathedral of college Football, and worship happens here.” 
but if death valley, as tiger stadium is known, is a cathedral (it is), then Notre dame stadium is at least a sacred chapel. why we would taint it by tacking on graduate student lounges, a dining area, student club offices, administrative offices, anoth­er recreation center, a new career center, a 500-seat student ballroom, another food services center, faculty offices, an auditorium, recital/rehearsal halls, a music library, classrooms, “a club/lounge,” the music department and sacred music program, the psychology and anthropology departments and (my personal favorite) “a large space that will double as a club area and flexible classroom,” is perplexing. 
ambiguous “club/lounges” notwithstanding, desecrating the football stadium with facilities utterly unrelated to football is like putting a fedora on a crucifix or a starbucks in the sistine chapel. it’s sacrilegious, whatever one’s practical reasons for doing it. why some alumni who rigidly opposed the original 1996 stadium expansion are reportedly okay with the crossroads project is just as puz­zling. at least the addition of 20,000 seats didn’t violate its integrity as a stadium. if kevin costner had put a career center on his Field of dreams, it would have totally ruined the movie. 
professor of philosophy curtis Franks spoke to this problem better than i can, saying “already [academics, athletics, and student life] are run to­gether more than i care for them to be. each might be important, but the suggestion that they have something to do with each other is probably not conducive to the flourishing of any of them.” 
he’s right. great stadiums like death valley and Notre dame stadium are great precisely because they do not pretend to be anything other than legendary institutions of higher sport. the idea that sacred music or anthropology have a home in the football stadium is a fantasy and a weird one. chasing it further confuses, rather than clarifies, the periodically strained relationship between aca­demics and athletics. 
in short, the benefits of crossroads have not been properly explained, and i think it’s because explaining those benefits is a task only achievable amidst the groupthink of the main building. the $50,000 jump in per-student spending may mar­ginally help our u.s. News & world report rank­ing, but whether it will help our students is quite another debate, one the students would have wel­comed when planning began three years ago. 
with crossroads construction in just its sec­ond of 33 months i would encourage students, alumni and other Notre dame faithful to sub­mit comments on the project website or contact John affleck-graves directly at jaffleck@nd.edu. donors can specifically earmark future contribu­tions to Notre dame for more meritorious causes like student financial aid or the center for social concerns. in a perfect world Notre dame con­structs revenue-generating premium seating and gracefully stops short of turning a sports icon into a sandals resort. absent that, i believe it is worth­while to tell those in charge your thought process, even if they won’t tell you theirs. 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall. He welcomes commentary at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

the observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015 | Ndsmcobserver.com 

By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 
stephan burnett and Zach hill had been trailblazing the brave genre of ex­perimental hip-hop since their forma­tion of death grips in 2010. in the past four years, they have gained notoriety for their bold musical statements. on recordings, the rhythmically complex accompaniments they develop feature intricately woven use of drums, vari­ous synthetic percussion sounds, and unconventional samples. they also maintain the innocence of the word “beat,” rarely straying into popular hip-hop toolkits of bass-anchored songs, hooks or anything besides the use of drums, various synthetic percussion sounds and unconventional samples. a song released on their 2013 album “government plates” titled “birds” does in fact feature a (somewhat uncom­fortable) bass accompaniment, an ac­companiment which was attributed to robert pattinson (of “twilight” fame) 
By CAITLIN DOYLE 
scene writer 
in a world where so many television shows are cancelled in their first season and where new series are few and far be­tween, it isn’t often that you find a new tv show that feels inventive, funny and just a joy to watch. For me this year, that show was none other than the cw Network’s breakout hit, “Jane the virgin.” 
i know, a cw Network show with the word “virgin” in the title looks like a reci­pe for an overly camp, moralistic, poorly-acted disaster. and, going into watching “Jane the virgin,” that’s about all i was expecting. even the premise sounds too farfetched to work: a 23-year-old virgin is accidentally inseminated and becomes 
— you guessed it — a pregnant virgin. the narrative only gets more complicated when the titular Jane finds out that the fa­ther of the baby is the handsome and rich 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 
on the back cover. in their lyricism, they employ highly explicit and quite aggres­sive motifs in the realms of sex and vio­lence, while keeping true to the ideals of self-validation, blame-seeking anger and hedonism. 
the reason for utilizing the past per­fect above being that on July 2, 2014, death grips uploaded their breakup an­nouncement to their Facebook page in the form of a picture of a note written on a napkin. this announcement came nearly a month after the release of their double-album “the powers that b,” the first disc entitled “N****s on the moon,” which features extraordinarily eerie chopped vocal samples of icelandic singer-songwriter björk on all eight tracks. the note detailed that the full al­bum would be delivered later in 2014 via the band’s own third worlds records, through which the group has been re­leasing music after being dropped by epic records for releasing their album on their website and through several file-sharing services and releasing private 
hotel developer that she shared a kiss with five years earlier, and this is his last chance to have children since his recent cancer battle left him infertile and this was his only sperm sample. 
the plot seems like something out of an episode of “the Jerry springer show”  at worst and the plotline of the world’s most chaste soap opera at best. however, “Jane the virgin” manages to tow the line be­tween over-the-top and quality comedy due in no small part to the realistic, emo­tional acting from its stellar cast. in fact, the star of the show, gina rodriguez, just won the golden globe for best actress in a television series — musical or comedy (and if you haven’t checked out her mov­ing acceptance speech on youtube, i sug­gest you do yourself a favor and do so). 
the plot of the show, actually, is based off of a venezuelan telenovela of the same name, and it pokes fun of that fact quite a bit. specifically, one character on the emails on their Facebook page. on oct. 10 of last year, death grips released the album artwork for “the powers that b,” along with the announcement that the album was finished. the second half of the double-album is called “Jenny death” and has not yet been released. 

“inanimate sensation,” a single off “Jenny death” was released dec. 9 along with its music video on youtube. the song features much stronger rhythmic singularity and forward thrust than any of the group’s work to date, while still retaining all of the energy and vo­cal intensity of their previous albums. the song features an extended ensnar­ing hook, which pulls the listener down a humming, accelerating Nascar track that ends at a banner extending a warm “welcome to hell.” it is clear on this track that death grips has lost no innovative passion or motivation for sonic perfec­tion in their breakup — they continue to impress even from the grave. 
and on Jan. 4, the band released a 14-track instrumental soundtrack 
show — Jane’s estranged father — turns out to be a famous telanovela star, and his characterization is a conscious parody of the soap opera genre and a great foil to all the realistic acting from the rest of the cast. where the show could come off as preachy since it is about a woman who has chosen not to have premarital sex, it emphasizes the fact that it’s about a young woman who is true to herself and her be­liefs in the face of adversity. though Jane herself is a virgin, the show is not devoid of sex and many of the supporting char­acters are involved in steamy affairs and other romantic entanglements. Jane her­self offers a realistic portrayal of someone who is waiting for marriage and struggles with her decision periodically throughout the show. in fact one of the show’s greatest asset is that the writers give Jane romantic interests that respect her choice and right to decide when and to whom she will lose her virginity. 
entitled “Fashion week.” an interesting art in and of itself, the soundtrack has also been taken (by this writer, at least) as a clue as to the release date of “Jenny death,” which still remains officially unannounced. the songs on the al­bum are uniformly named “runway J”, “runway e”, “runway N”, etc., and con­catenating the last letters of each song delivers the phrase “JeNNy death wheN.” this allusion to the album sug­gests the impending release of “Jenny death,” possibly at the beginning of the mercedes-benz Fashion week New york, which starts Feb. 12. and although the band (which has traditionally shirked interviews and publicly encouraged commentary on their music and meth­ods) has not confirmed or denied any hypothesized release dates, several mu­sic vendors list the release date for the physical cd to be Feb. 10, the saturday before Fashion week starts. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
the show is not all about Jane’s virginity, however. in fact, it is a credit to the show that this element of the plot — while being respectfully dealt with — is rarely the focal point. Jane’s virginity is by far one of her least-defining qualities. this is really an ensemble production with a rich, lovable cast. it harks back to “ugly betty” with its fiercely lovable main character and won­derfully diverse cast, as Jane’s family is latino and living in miami. all in all, it is a delight to watch and full of laughter; it’s one of the rare compelling, fun and ad­dictive comedy series on television today, and if you don’t believe me, the New york times, slate, the a.v. club and many more publications have given the show’s pre­mier season rave reviews. “Jane the virgin” is charismatic, funny, and self-aware — a combination i’d love to watch anytime. 
Contact Caitlin Doyle at                     cdoyle1@nd.edu 


By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 
since “the sopranos” debuted on hbo 15 years ago, sunday nights have become the preeminent time slot for prestige television. the so-called “golden age” of television has been an­chored by hour-long cable dramas from “the wire” to “mad men” that feature dark male antiheroes; these prestige dramas have forced people to take tele­vision seriously and helped make it the dominant cultural medium of the 21st century so far. 
hbo’s sunday night programming block this winter stands out for not fea­turing a single hour-long drama. with “game of thrones” and “true detective” not returning until later this year, hbo has anchored the most important night on its schedule with what the verge’s entertainment editor emily yoshida has called “mumbleshows,” half-hour series that draw on mumblecore, the 2000s independent film movement character­ized by natural dialogue and low-stakes storytelling. 
the night is anchored by “girls,” lena dunham’s series about four brooklyn 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
with syllabus week coming to a close and college football now just a memory, we proud domers will have to find something else to do with our weekends. thankfully, legends has something great in the mix for us this weekend. 
drake bell, of “drake and Josh” fame, will be rocking the stage at legends on saturday, courtesy of sao. hailing from los angeles, bell has had a lengthy and diverse career in film and television. bell’s latest album, “ready, set, go!” was re­leased last year under independent label surfdog records. 
bell has reimagined his persona and his craft with this album, working with 20-somethings finding their way, which returned for its fourth season sunday. while “girls” was often tonally incon­sistent throughout its first three sea­sons, it was among the most hilarious and emotionally affecting series on tele­vision when it succeeded. 
in the fourth season premiere, the four young women of “girls” seem to be slowly edging toward adulthood. hannah horvath has oddly enough be­come the most mature of the four, as she prepares to move to iowa to pursue an mFa in creative writing. while it is a positive direction for her writing career, she remains anxious about maintaining a long-distance relationship with her boyfriend, adam sackler. 
meanwhile, marnie michaels contin­ues to pursue a music career (even if it means performing at a noisy brunch restaurant), shoshanna shapiro gradu­ates from Nyu and Jessa Johansson becomes unemployed yet again. the premiere sets the stage for the charac­ters to continue to grow, both in their careers and as human beings. 
“girls” is followed by “looking,” a se­ries about a group of gay men navigating life in san Francisco. the excellent first 
producer peter collins and brian setzer of the band stray cats to reintroduce and re­invigorate the american rockabilly. lead single “b*tchcraft” was remixed by French electro-swing band caravan palace. the song “bull” from “ready, set, go!” peaked at No. 8 on exametro top 10 de musica chart, which charts top-10 songs in mexico. 
“ready, set, go!” is bell’s third album. previously, he released “telegraph” in 2005, “it’s only time” in 2006 and the “a reminder” ep in 2011. “it’s only time” peaked at No. 21 on the billboard u.s. rock album charts, and “telegraph” is most noted for hit single “makes me happy,” the theme song for bell’s former show, “drake and Josh.” 
Fellow domers will probably remember season had a refreshingly slow pace, which allowed it to explore the minutiae of relationships. 

the second season premiere finds the men on a weekend trip to a cabin in the woods, and the episode slowly reveals the state of each character’s relation­ship. patrick murray continues to hook up with his boss kevin matheson, dom’s open relationship with lynn means he sleeps with other men and agustín begins dating again after his breakup with Frank. these revelations come in the midst of an outdoor rave — making them seem euphoric in the moment, but leaving the consequences to play out slowly over the course of this season. 
the two returning series are joined by “togetherness,” a new show from Jay and mark duplass. the duplasses, the prolific brothers behind a number of mumblecore films, are bringing their talents to premium cable for the first time. the excellent pilot introduces what sounds like a sitcom premise: brett and michelle pierson, a married couple with two young children, are struggling with their nonexistent sex life; meanwhile, brett’s friend alex pappas, who is evict­ed from his apartment, and michelle’s 
bell most fondly for his performance as drake parker in “drake and Josh,” but since that show wrapped up, bell has made numerous appearances in other television and films. since 2012, bell has been the voice of spider-man across a wide range of media, including several televi­sion shows, video games and a movie. he has also played timmy turner in a trilogy of live-action “Fairly oddparents” movie. 
upcoming films for bell include “l.a. slasher,” a horror film about a reality tv star serial killer, “a mouse tale,” a fan­tasy animated adventure, and “it’s a rockabilly world!”, a documentary cen­tered around him. 
unfortunately, bell will most likely not be able to play his guitar in saturday’s show. bell sent out a tweet Jan. 4 stating sister tina, who decides to move to l.a., both move in with the family. 
“togetherness” avoids becoming a hackneyed sitcom, however, by es­tablishing the relationships between characters through small, lived-in mo­ments that range from funny to heart­breaking. while out at dinner, the recently-dumped tina confronts her ex-boyfriend craig, who calls her “[exple­tive] crazy.” alex diffuses the situation by taking off his shirt and imitating a monkey, making himself an even big­ger fool. it is moments like these that introduce dramatic tension before in­fusing them with humor, which point to a promising future for “togetherness.” 
along with amazon’s “transparent” and FX’s “louie,” hbo’s sunday night programming block makes the case that the half-hour com­edy-drama should be taken as seriously as the prestige drama is. after a decade and a half of shows about dark antihe­roes, these series focused on small, per­sonal storytelling make for refreshing television. 
Contact Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
that doctors told him that his recent wrist injury would force him to put down his guitar for good. 
speaking of his twitter, bell does an excellent job with it, maintaining strong relations with his 3.18 million followers, retweeting and replying to them, provid­ing updates and commentary on his life and sending out solid jokes. For instance, bell has previously promised taco bell on twitter that he will name his first child taco just for them. 
drake bell kicks off at 10 p.m. on saturday. at midnight, immediately fol­lowing the show, legends is bringing back its classic stop light party. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 

MARY McGRAW | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Jones misses NFl opportunity 

SMC BASKETBALL | calviN 92, saiNt mary’s 52 
Knights shut down Belles en route to win 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
cardale Jones is heading back to ohio state. that’s great news for urban meyer and the buckeyes. 
it is also good for Jameis winston, marcus mariota and the rest of the rather un­derwhelming 2015 quarter­back draft class. 
i’m just not so sure that’s what’s best for cardale Jones. 
yes, he’s only started three games in his entire collegiate career. yes, he has two years of eligibility left. and yes, the 2016 quarterback draft class looks positively anemic. but it is hard to imagine events beyond Jones’s control play­ing out in his favor over the next year, and his draft stock is unlikely to get much high­er anytime soon. 
For one, ohio state is slat­ed to return three of the most talented quarterbacks in the country for the 2015 season. braxton miller was an early heisman favorite this year, and J.t. barrett was the one who led the buckeyes to an undefeated regular season. Jones was the quarterback for the team’s magical post­season run, sure, but the buckeyes’ success was due as much to ezekiel elliott’s ex­plosive running as anything else. 
while some fans, still run­ning on the high of a na­tional championship, may be clamoring for meyer to anoint Jones the starter here and now the likelihood of that happening is just not that high. meyer is a bril­liant coach, and even though Jones may have NFl talent, miller and barrett have more experience in his system and make more sense as start­ers, as long as they remain healthy. and that’s the key. meyer knows he may need multiple quarterbacks to make it through the season, so having one more talented gunslinger in his back pock­et works to his advantage. of course he wants Jones to stay. 
but if Jones does not start next year and spends 13 or so games sitting on the bench, memory of his cham­pionship run will fade, and the one bit of experience he does have will be buried be­hind miller’s and barrett’s prospects. 
Jones was projected to be a second- or third-round pick if he went to the NFl draft this year. if he doesn’t start, he will only jump slightly next year. No matter how bad next season’s quarterback class is, this one isn’t much better. behind mariota and winston, things peter out quickly. Jump ahead one year, and Jones will still have to compete with miller in the draft. he’s essentially in the same place, except in the latter situation, he will have the disadvantage of basically no competitive football for a year. 
secondly, i think Jones’s lack of starting experience would not have been count­ed against him as much as some believe. what makes Jones exciting as a player and a prospect are his physical gifts, not his smart decision-making or calm presence in the pocket. he can still de­velop in those areas, to be sure, but i think at least one team in the NFl would have been willing to invest a year in helping him gain those skills if it meant grabbing him in the second or third round. 
put yourself in the shoes of the patriots, saints or most of all, the broncos. your quar­terback is getting up there in years, and it’s time to start for looking a replacement. look at what the packers did with aaron rodgers and brett Favre. Jones has the poten­tial. why not grab him before it becomes harder next year and basically have him learn at the feet of one of the best? 
if you’re Jones, you could have to spend the next year sitting on the bench. would you rather be getting paid in the NFl or doing a lot of nothing at ohio state? Jones has already reached the pin­nacle of his collegiate career. ohio state could, of course, repeat as champion next year, but with the new play­off system, that will be even harder. 
besides, not to judge some­one based on a single tweet, but Jones did send out a now-infamous 140-charac­ter missive making his feel­ings about school quite clear. so when he claimed in his press conference that part of his decision to stay was based on his desire to gradu­ate, i couldn’t help but roll my eyes. either he has had a change of heart one does not typically see in collegiate athletics, or he was using school as an excuse not to test himself on the next level. Forgive me if i tend to favor the latter explanation. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 

saint mary’s dropped a 92-52 decision to conference foe and No. 15 calvin on wednesday night in grand rapids, michigan. 
the belles (3-12, 1-5 miaa) took an early lead after the open­ing tip and led 7-4 with 15 min­utes to go in the first half. then, the knights (13-0, 6-0) made de­fensive substitutions designed to put more pressure on the saint mary’s attack. the added pressure resulted in several turnovers, which the knights capitalized on in their next few possessions. the knights went on a 17-0 run to take a 21-7 lead and never looked back. 
“there are a lot of things we need to work on,” belles coach Jennifer henley said after the game. “we had 32 turnovers and at least half were not forced. our decision making hurt us.” 
some of the key contributors for the belles on wednesday night were junior forward eleni shea, senior guard ariana paul, junior forward krista knapke and junior guard maddie kohler. shea led the belles with 16 points and seven rebounds, while paul added 13 points, five steals and five rebounds. knapke had six points and three steals, and kohler had five points and three steals. 
“i thought we had good mo­ments of basketball, but couldn’t put it all together,” henley said. we lost the battle on the boards and allowed their bench to dom­inate the game.” 
calvin had 44 points in the paint and 40 points off turn­overs, while saint mary’s had 24 in the paint and 21 off turnovers. the knights’ bench added 62 points, while the belles’ non­starters only added 12. 
“we need to learn from [wednesday] night and start pre­paring for albion on saturday,” henley said. 
the belles play calvin again at home Feb. 14. before then, the belles’ next game is saturday at 3 p.m. against conference op­ponent albion at the angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
NBA | bucks 95, kNicks 79 

Bucks spoil Anthony’s return across the pond 
Associated Press 

loNdoN — business trip or not, this certainly resem­bled a holiday at times for the milwaukee bucks. 
the bucks followed up a few days of sightseeing in london with an easy victory over the Nba’s worst team, making for a pleasant flight back across the atlantic. 
o.J. mayo scored 22 points, brandon knight had 20 points and six steals, and the bucks routed New york 95-79 on thursday night, extending the knicks’ franchise-record losing streak to 16. 
“this was a great trip for our team,” mayo said. “great team bonding, great time sightsee­ing. ... it was a pleasant trip.” 
it left a lot to be desired for the fans, though. 
with the knicks showing why they have lost 26 of 27 games and are an Nba-worst 5-36, the contest was a poor advertise­ment for the Nba in its annual london game that showcases its brand overseas. 

the knicks missed their first 10 shots — three in a 6-second span — and gave up 14 offen­sive rebounds, 10 in the first half. the bucks took a 14-0 lead, were up by 24 in the sec­ond quarter and never let New york closer than 11 the rest of the way. 
“we didn’t give ourselves much of a chance after the first few minutes of the game,” knicks coach derek Fisher said. 
the return of carmelo anthony and amare stoudemire did little to spark New york. 
anthony led the knicks with 25 points. stoudemire was scoreless in 8 first-half minutes and didn’t play after the break. anthony missed the previous six games because of a knee problem, and stoudemire had been sidelined since dec. 25, also with a knee injury. 
even after being sidelined for two weeks, anthony was sur­prised by New york’s slow start. 
“it’s just a recurring act. it’s the same thing happening over and over again,” anthony said. “we’re the only people that can control that.” 
with both coaches rest­ing their starters in the fourth quarter, New york cut it to 87­76 with 4:38 to play. but bucks coach Jason kidd put knight back in — while anthony stayed on the bench — and mayo finished off the game with a 3 that made it 92-76 with 3 minutes left. 
mayo scored 16 points in the first half on 6-of-8 shoot­ing. giannis antetokoun added 16 points for the bucks, khris middleton had 14 and Zaza pachulia 11. 
knight and mayo, mean­while, played with all the in­tensity that New york was lacking. knight did a bit of ev­erything, adding six assists and five rebounds. 
“i just try to lead by example,” knight said. “i just try to be an extension of coach kidd. but our bench also does a great job of being a calming influence.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
irish ready for badgers 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
after coming up short against No. 6 michigan and Northwestern last saturday in its first meet action in more than a month, Notre dame looks to move forward with this weekend’s matchup against No. 14 wisconsin. 
the irish (2-4) will travel to madison, wisconsin, to take on the badgers (5-2), for their third big ten matchup in a row. 
despite dropping two meets, irish coach matt tallman said he was not too concerned with the end results. 
“No, we weren’t worried,” tallman said. “we’re actu­ally pretty beat up and sick. it looks like we’re not gon­na have two guys going to wisconsin. we’ve had a lot of flu, with probably seven guys since the end of the puerto rico trip to now.” 
the two swimmers tallman is not expecting to swim this weekend are senior 
Besler 
coNtiNued From page 16 
11th in that year’s draft by the colorado rapids. 
“i am extremely excited to be joining [the portland timbers],” besler said in a tweet thursday. “can’t wait to get to portland and get to work.” 
while none of portland’s 2014 superdraft picks saw the pitch for the club this past season, besler might have an opportunity to break into the first team as Jonathan williamson, who provides depth for the irish in the freestyle and butterfly events, and sophomore tom anderson, who swims the backstroke, freestyle and in­dividual medley events. 
as a result of the near-con­stant battles with sickness, tallman said he has had to juggle around his lineup a bit. 
“we made a [lineup],” tallman said. “but now, we’ll see who gets on the bus and make the changes as needed.” 
adjusting to illnesses and lineup turmoil certain­ly makes things difficult, tallman said, and it does not help matters when fac­ing an opponent as stout as wisconsin. 
“they’re pretty similar to us,” tallman said. “they’ve got a good quality guy or two in every event. some events have depth, some events have holes, but they are very simi­lar to us.” 
because of this, tallman said he knows that there won’t be any “gimme” events in the meet. 
club captain and midfielder will Johnson will likely miss a significant part of the sea­son due to a broken leg he suffered sept. 27. 
if he is unable to stake a claim to a spot in the portland midfield, it is likely that besler would feature for t2, the club’s reserve team competing in the third-tier usl pro league. 
“t2 will be huge for us in developing young guys,” 
timbers  owner  merritt  
paulson  said  in  a  tweet  
thursday.  
besler  is  generally  

“i don’t know that we have any real ‘safe’ spots as far as events go,” tallman said. “i think we’re pretty evenly matched across the board. our breaststroke events have been our depth for the past couple of years, but they’re pretty solid at the top there. so if we don’t win it, it just negates the advantage.” 
in the end, tallman said he still expects his team to swim strong as it has throughout the rest of the season, even with the illness floating around. 
“[all they need is] to show signs of life and that the training they’re doing is pay­ing off and that they’re ready to go,” tallman said. “we just have to keep training until it’s time to rest, and then hit the accs and Ncaas.” 
the irish take on wisconsin on Friday at the Natatorium and serF in madison, with the meet continuing through saturday. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
regarded as a defensive mid­fielder, but he did record the overtime, game-winning goal for the irish against vcu on sept. 30. his other goal in an irish uniform came in the 2012 big east tournament championship game, when he scored with 32 seconds left to level the scores against georgetown. 
besler started 59 games for Notre dame, including all 21 of the team’s contests dur­ing his senior season. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 


paid advertisemeNt 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
ND prepares for Big Ten dual meet 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish freshman Molly Trebel swims a freestyle event during Notre Dame’s 170-128 loss to Purdue on Nov. 1 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
Following defeats to michigan and Northwestern in ann arbor, michigan, this past weekend, Notre dame will return to the pool today in madison, wisconsin, for a dou­ble-dual meet against No. 14 indiana and No. 24 wisconsin. 
last weekend, the irish (4­
7) were able to win five events in their first meet of 2015, but they ultimately fell to both op­ponents, losing 182-118 to the wolverines and 154-146 to the wildcats. given that the team was just coming off its annual training trip during the holiday season, irish swimmers said they believe their first perfor­mance in more than a month was a strong one. 
“i think, in my four years, this was the best meet we’ve swam right after training trip,” senior suzanne bessire said. 
“we were really tired, but we raced really hard. i think it was really positive in that way.” 
“it was a good sign that we’re in a good state right now, and we just need to keep working hard until we taper down for championship meets,” senior courtney whyte said. 
in preparation for this week­end’s two-day meet and the rest of the season going for­ward, the irish have begun to change their practice routine, putting a greater emphasis on technique and other, more skill-oriented aspects follow­ing the focus on conditioning during their training trip, they said. 
“we’ve started doing some more technical stuff, which we haven’t really worked on too much this season,” bessire said. “we’re doing a lot of relay starts, turn work and focusing on technique all for [the] acc and [Ncaa] championships.” 
the irish are looking to come away with two victo­ries this weekend, especially against two ranked opponents. however, whyte said she be­lieves it is just as important that they learn more about themselves and begin to fi­nalize positions as the bigger meets approach. 
“going into this meet, we’re really just trying to get a lot of information for ourselves,” whyte said. “[indiana and wisconsin] are two very com­petitive teams, and we want to do our best against them, but i think that at this point in the season, we need to be figuring out who’s going to fit in what events and who’s going to fit in what relays for our acc travel squad and also Ncaas.” 
the irish are set to dive in against the hoosiers and badgers in madison, wisconsin, at 6 p.m. today and finish the dual meet saturday at 11 a.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanam@nd.edu 
paid advertisemeNt 





Goalies 
coNtiNued From page 16 
until one performs at a high level for a full 60 minutes. the past weekend’s series against western michigan showed just that philosophy, as petersen the broncos (9-9-2, 2-6-2 Nchc), allowing four goals in each game. 
Jackson said he has not seen the mental fortitude he wants in his starting goalie. 
“i think it’s important you’ve got to close strong,” Jackson said. “you have to finish a game. it’s no different than a great starting pitcher going nine in­nings or even having the relief pitcher mentality. can you be [mariano] rivera in the ninth?” 
the tides seemed to have shifted from the beginning of the season, however. katunar started the season as the regular Friday night starter, and petersen would close out the weekend. more recently, petersen has had the oppor­tunity to prove himself Friday night to earn the starting spot saturday. 
over break, petersen got the first start of the Florida college hockey classic against then-No. 6 miami (ohio). after earning the 3-2 victory with 18 saves dec. 28, petersen started the next game against lake superior state, which the irish lost 2-1. 
last weekend, petersen had the same opportunity, Jackson said, but the two goals he al­lowed in the third period gave katunar the start saturday. 
“yeah, i probably would have [started cal on saturday],” Jackson said. “i did that in the tournament, and i probably would have this weekend.” 
it may be “easier to get into a groove” as a goalie and build consistency in net playing every night and not rotating, Jackson said, but he added petersen and katunar still “have to play well” with the opportunities they are given. as the irish move for­ward into hockey east compe­tition, Jackson said he will treat the two young netminders the same as he would any at other position. 
“when you have a another guy right behind you, breath­ing down your back, you’ve got to play well,” Jackson said. “it’s no different than anybody — forwards, defenseman — if you play well, you play again. most of our guys play back-to-back [nights], but if guys don’t have a great night, generally they get taken out of the lineup. it’s almost the same with goalten­ders — you’ve got to play well to earn that next night, and then you keep that going.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at            ilorton@nd.edu 
UConn 
coNtiNued From page 16 
nine — second in the nation for goals scored by a freshman, just behind boston university’s Jack eichel (10 goals). 
“they are a scrappy bunch,” Jackson said of the huskies. “it’s not going to be quite the same as western [michigan] with the size, but the compete level is going to be extremely high.” 
connecticut’s most recent outing saw it blank No. 6 umass lowell last saturday, 2-0. the huskies also sport wins over No. 10 vermont and No. 17 boston college, which, in addition to started Friday and katunar got the nod saturday. 
“cal played well on Friday un­til the very end,” Jackson said. “the last two goals were not great goals. he’s got to find a way to be the closer. he has to learn to play better in the third period, how to make sure that’s when 
umass lowell, comprise three of the top four teams in hockey east. beyond the film room, Jackson said he is looking to other ways to scout a first-time opponent and get to know its tendencies. 
“[huskies coach] mike cavanaugh is probably going to have them eventually play a similar style to [boston college] 
— that’s where he came from, and he was a big part of their success,” Jackson said. “so i ex­pect … he’s probably going to play an up-tempo style. they are going to be hard to play against.” 
part of Notre dame’s game plan against the huskies in­volves getting net traffic in front of connecticut sophomore he buckles down, doesn’t psych himself out. but, remember, he’s a freshman. 
“and then saturday night, i started chad and thought that at least two of those goals were not good goals.” 
Notre dame (9-11-2, 4-2-2 hockey east) lost both games to 


goaltender rob Nichols, Jackson mario lucia, while noting that said. Jackson praised the efforts junior left wing sam herr has of irish senior right wing austin not been getting the opportuni­wuthrich and junior left wing ties around the crease that he 

paid advertisemeNt 
used to get. 
“we’re trying to get them to be at the net … trying to get pucks to the net and create traf­fic situations,” Jackson said. 
despite their shortcomings, the irish sit just two points out of fourth place in the hockey east standings. Jackson said most of the team’s goals are still achievable if it can make a run in conference play. still, he believes it will be an uphill battle, especially with bottom-dwellers like Northeastern, New hampshire and maine starting to get going. 
“Just because we are in con­ference play, the opponents we’re playing aren’t gonna be [anything less],” Jackson said. “we are going to have to be pre­pared to compete … for 60 min­utes against a lot of good teams in front of us.” 
the puck drops between Notre dame and connecticut on Friday at 7:35 p.m. at compton Family ice arena, with the huskies playing host in the sec­ond tilt, slated for a 12 p.m. start sunday at webster bank arena in bridgeport, connecticut. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 





W Bball 
from sophomore guard lindsay however, turner and allen allen. allen scored 16 of her ca-provided the final push Notre 
coNtiNued From page 16 

reer-high 24 points in the first dame needed to take the win. 
stanza, including nine in the fi-overall, the irish shot 63 percent great shots, and she was very ac-nal four minutes. in the second half and 73.3 per­tive defensively. i was really, really “she just really managed the cent from the line on the game, pleased with her performance.” game,” mcgraw. “she ran the including several key makes 
this effort marks the third time team … and scored. she saw down the stretch. in the past four games that turner some great opportunities off the the irish also benefitted from has scored at least 20 points, and pick and roll, and she had a really the return of sophomore forward it also stands as her fourth career great floor game, too. taya reimer. reimer, who had double-double. “this year, we’ve asked her missed the team’s last two games 
“she’s exceeded our expecta-to score more. we’ve asked her due to unspecified personal rea­tion,” mcgraw said. “we expect-to look for her shots more, and sons, did not start but contribut­ed her to lead us in rebounding, she’s been doing it with very good ed 20 minutes off the bench and but to be scoring the way she is, results.” chipped in seven rebounds, sec­it’s really just what we needed. so throughout the second half, ond on the team, to go with four we’ve been able to count on her.” the irish extended their lead, tak-points. 
turner was key down the ing advantage of constant whis-“she played well. i don’t think stretch for Notre dame, but early tles that put them in the bonus we would have won the game on, down 11 with five minutes with more than eight minutes without her,” mcgraw said. “she left to play in the first half, the to play. the tar heels had eight had some huge rebounds down irish appeared to be reliving their players pick up two or more per-the stretch.” poor-shooting performance from sonal fouls and trailed by 11 half-reimer had only recently re-Jan. 8, when they fell on the road way through the period. turned to practice, and in her to miami, 78-63. at one point, the “i thought we fouled too much place, mcgraw chose to start se­squad missed seven of nine shots. [in the second half], but we also nior guard madison cable, who 
Junior guard Jewell loyd, who took advantage of getting to the played 30 minutes, scored seven leads the irish in scoring, had just free-throw line too,” mcgraw points and grabbed six boards. four points in the first half, and said. “it was a little bit of an ugly after the game, mcgraw said she the team shot more than eight game, a very physical game, and i was unsure if and when reimer percent lower from the field than was proud of the way we showed might return to the starting its season average. our resilience. lineup. 
“[Jewell] is definitely the focal “we were tough. we were down “i don’t know what we’re go-point of their defense for sure,” 10, then we fought back. we got ing to do,” she said. “we’ve got mcgraw said. “but she was just up 10, and they fought back, and a lot of options now, which is a so smart tonight. she had six as-we played with great poise down good thing. so it’ll be game-to­sists and really was able to hit the stretch.” game based on how we want to brianna turner on the pick and led by sophomore guard defend.” 
the next man up against roll. she probably could’ve taken allisha gray, North carolina with a tie for second place in 

more shots, but she is just so hap-scrambled its way back into the conference secured, Notre 
M Bball 
georgia tech was fresh­coNtiNued From page 16 

py to pass the ball. she just wants the game in the final minutes, dame returns from chapel hill, although he didn’t start, man forward bonzie colson. 
to win. that’s all that matters to in large part due to the squad’s North carolina, to face No. 6 atlanta on wednesday for the colson contributed 10 points 
her.” 3-point shooting. on the night, tennessee at home monday. team’s win against georgia and four rebounds in the 22 
however, Notre dame entered the tar heels shot better from tech due to an academic mat-minutes he was on the court. 
the break up by three, largely due long range (39.1 percent) than Contact Greg Hadley at     ter, leaving the irish without “bonzie is a great kid on and 
to the first part of a career night from the field (37.3). ghadley@nd.edu their second-leading scorer and off the court, and i think if rebounder. along with scoring you watch some of our prac­
14.3 points per game and re-tices, you’d say that he works cording 6.4 rebounds per game, very hard, day in and day out,” Notre dame will be missing connaughton said. “a lot of us one of the most efficient scor-were expecting him to have a ers in the nation saturday. great game. one of the most im­
“Nobody is really yelling at pressive things about bonzie, him or anything,” grant said especially as a freshman in a “he’s texting us and letting us program like this on a team know to keep our heads up and that is very successful, is that just go out there and get the he hasn’t gotten the minutes win.” that he may have wanted early 
as someone who has also on in the season, but that’s nev­dealt with academic issues, er faltered his presence or the grant said auguste needs to way he felt and showed emo-stay optimistic. tion. … he is one of the louder 
“[he] just needs to keep voices in the locker room and his head up,” grant said. the huddles.” “everybody makes mistakes. i colson said the team played think he’ll be alright.” hard for auguste in its come­
connaughton also said that back win against georgia tech. even if auguste does not suit “that game was for Zach; we up against the hurricanes, the had to come through for him,” team will continue to play like colson said. “Just as a unit, we a contending team. had to come through and to get 
“i think we’ve grown in areas the win for him was great.” like that,” connaughton said. looking towards the match­“we’ve had struggles like that, up against miami, colson and we see it sometimes across brought up irish coach mike Notre dame campus in other brey’s motto of “next man up.” sports teams. they struggle, “you always should be ready and things like that unfortu-no matter what happens,” nately happen. we didn’t want colson said. “you just have to to have that as an excuse. be ready and when the coach­
“we had quote-unquote ‘ex-ing staff said i was ready, i was cuses’ last year, and we didn’t ready.” want to have to back on those the irish will look to improve again. i think it made us focus to 5-1 in the acc on saturday a little harder and work a little when they face miami at 2 p.m. harder and get contributions at purcell pavilion. from people who were ready to step up when the time was Contact Manny De Jesus at called.” mdejesus@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shortZ 
Across 25 1980s “Meet 44 Land of ___ 
1 Actress the Press” host (destination in Rachel of “The Marvin “The Pilgrim’s Notebook” 26 Attends to as Progress”)
one might a 46 Play maker? 
8 Newsman 
captured soldier 48 Heat in one’s 
who famously 
29 Hit group? car
defined news 
as “something 30 Something 50 Oxygen-somebody you’d rather not dependentdoesn’t want discuss organismprinted” 32 They’re written 51 They get 
for two-part canned
14 ___ Avenue 
(Monopoly harmony 52 He’s inclined to 
property landed 33 Amateur agree on the most) geologist’s 53 Pot holder? purchase
16 Ascribe 
34 Lawn care item 
17 Big mess Down 
35 Course of 
1 Amusement 
18 Attractive sewers, for 
2 Saint ___
feature short 
of Assisi, 19 Makes copies 36 Retro candy co-founder of of, maybe containers the Order of 37 Drinks bourbon Poor Ladies
20 Responsibility 
neat, maybe 3 Missal stand’s 
22 Building 
38 Ecuador is a place
material for 
member of it 4 Puts off 
Great Plains 
42 Fifth word of 5 Last monarch 
settlers 
the lyrics to of the House of
23 Decorated one “American Pie” Stuart 24 Cut short 43 Mass event 6 Hangout for Homer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Familynickname 8 Ask for a donation 9 Winged runners 10 Mo. when the Civil War began11 Tries to catch 12 Crime reporters?13 Take orders, possibly15 “Star Wars” extras 21 Small biters 24 Dickensian surname 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  
30  31  
32  
33  
34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  
52  53  

Puzzle by Patrick Berry  
25 Only person to guest-host “TheTonight ShowWith Jay Leno” 27 More upscale 28 State 29 Like some photo paper  31 A zebra has a short one 32 Livestock auction info 33 Vacation spot 37 Fabulous singer 39 Original scheme 40 Breathless, say  43 “___ #1’s” (2005 countrymusic album) 44 Exposed to the elements 45 13th-centurycomposition 47 Certain cat  
30 Gowns that are rarely worn out  41 One beaten by an ape  49 Small part of a meal  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christopher brucker 
SUDOKU | the mepham group 



DOME NUTS | ALEXANDRIA WELLMAN 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

HOROSCOPE | eugeNia last 
Happy Birthday: keep your emotions in check. productivity will be jeopardized if you mix business with pleasure. it’s important to compartmentalize every step of the way this year. you have plenty to gain if you are frank and display knowledge, experience and solutions. taking control will be easy if you are prepared to present what you have to offer. your numbers are 2, 14, 22, 25, 31, 39, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make a contribution that will draw attention to what you have to offer and benefit a cause, group or industry to which you belong. don’t let finances or emotions stand between you and what or who you want. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make plans to do something active or supportive of a group you belong to. don’t let anyone talk you into spending more than you can afford. Focus on what you can do for others reasonably and sincerely. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stick to the truth and avoid being singled out for gossiping or meddling. put more effort into the relationships that are important to you personally or professionally. don’t promise more than what you can afford or deliver. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you have what it takes to make things happen. use your imagination to come up with solutions that will help you bring about exciting new changes. a day trip to a 
destination that will inspire you should be considered. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): ask questions and leave nothing to the imagination. precision and accuracy will count when it comes to details and getting what you want. love is in the stars, and securing your place in someone’s heart will lead to future plans. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): participate in events that interest you, and you will make new friends. put your heart into your plans and take care of any problems you think might stand in your way. a change in a contract must be looked at carefully. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let little aggravations at home bother you. get out with friends or do something that will make you feel good about who you are, how you look or what you have to offer. romance is highlighted, but don’t overspend to impress.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a tug of war is likely to unfold if you are dealing with someone who doesn’t see things your way. be creative in your approach, use reverse psychology and be willing to give a little in order to get what you want. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick to the truth. taking a laidback approach to life will help you reach your goals without conflict or additional stress. a romantic relationship will alter your lifestyle. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): step outside your comfort zone. using your skills, knowledge and experience will lead to greater opportunities. a less conservative approach to what you do will turn heads and give you the boost you need to seal a deal.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): sit tight and let things unfold naturally. be prepared to answer questions and to console those facing conflict or loss. express your ideas openly and it will make a difference to your reputation as well as your position. gains can be made. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t mislead someone in order to get approval. you have to abide by the rules and stick to the truth if you want to get ahead and uphold your reputation. your options are good if you do your best. 

Birthday Baby: you see, you think and you do. you are curious but conservative. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
WRABN  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CAFET  

FUTOIT TRONDE  
 


Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: KNIFE DEPTH NEURON TRAUMAYesterday’s 
Answer: When the unprepared hunter ran into the giant buck, he said this — OH “DEER” 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  the observer  
p.o. box 779  
Notre dame, iN 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

address 

city      state Zip 

the observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 2015 | Ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 89, North caroliNa 79 MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish edge out Tar Heels 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
behind pinpoint second-half shooting and dominant post play, No. 7 Notre dame pulled away for a pivotal, 89-79, con­ference road win against No. 12 North carolina on thursday night. 
Freshman forward brianna turner led the way for the irish (16-2, 4-1 acc), tying or setting career highs in points (29), re­bounds (18) and blocked shots (7). she shot 76.9 percent from the field and helped the squad outscore the tar heels (15-3, 2-2) in the paint, 48-22. 
in a game that featured wild swings in momentum, with each team taking turns leading by more than 10 points, turner provided a solid presence inside, collecting four rebounds and two points in Notre dame’s final 9-0 run. 
“she was phenomenal,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “she got every rebound, especially down the stretch, when we ab­solutely had to have the ball. she did a really great job of rolling off the pick and roll. she got really MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish freshman forward Brianna Turner during Notre Dame’s see w bball PAGE 14 104-29 win over Holy Cross on Nov. 23 at Purcell Pavilion. 


ND buckles down for ’Canes 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
coming off a 62-59 win over georgia tech on the road, No. 12 Notre dame will host a hot miami team on saturday. 
the irish (16-2, 4-1 acc) will play the hurricanes (12-4, 2-1 acc), which upset No. 4 duke on tuesday. after miami beat the blue devils on the road by 16 points, irish players acknowl­edged the threat miami presents in saturday’s matchup. 
“they’re a hot team,” senior guard Jerian grant said of the hurricanes. “they’re coming in with a lot of confidence. Not a lot of people beat duke on the road like they did … but we have a lot of confidence at home, too. we lost the last one here, so to be able to get back out here and play against a great team, it’s going to be fun.” 
grant said beating miami would be critical for the team to move up in the national rankings. 
“coming off last year, where we were struggling, but being able to be 5-1 [in the acc] and maybe even ranked in the top 10, it’s going to be huge,” grant said. 
the last time the two teams faced each other, miami bested Notre dame, 71-64, in their first matchup as acc foes last season. one difference this season is the presence of grant, who is a mid-season finalist for the wooden award, leading the irish in scor­ing with 16.3 points per game and dishing out 6.3 assists per game. 
senior guard/forward pat connaughton said he recognizes miami has also emerged as one of the elite teams in the acc. 
“they’re a very good team, obviously, after beating duke,” connaughton said. “obviously, every team in this league is a very good team, but they have capabilities to really go off, night in and night out. they’re the best team in the acc as far as we’re concerned for the next two days getting ready for this game.” 
Notre dame might be without auguste manning the paint for the second straight game. the junior did not make the trip to 
see m bball PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
besler drafted fifth 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
For the fourth straight year and the sixth time in the last seven, Notre dame had a player selected in the first round of the mls superdraft, as 2014 captain and midfield­er Nick besler was selected fifth overall by the portland timbers on thursday. 
besler, who was a two-time all-acc selection and a mem­ber of the National soccer coaches association of america’s 2014 all-american second team, became the first-ever former irish player to be selected in the draft’s top five. his brother, sporting kansas city captain and united states national team defender matt besler, was taken eighth in the 2009 superdraft, while 2013 mls rookie of the year dillon powers was selected 
see besler PAGE 11 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame troubled by inconsistency 
Notre Dame and UConn to meet for the first time as Hockey East rivals 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer assistant managing editor 
Notre dame will hit the ice 

hank aaron is reported to Friday at home and sunday in 
have said, “consistency is what bridgeport, connecticut, for a 
counts. you have to be able to do home-and-home series with 
things over and over again.” hockey east foe connecticut. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson, now Notre dame (9-11-2, 4-2-2 
more than halfway through the hockey east) looks to halt a 
season, has yet to find that level three-game slide, which in-
of consistency in either of the cludes a pair of losses to western 
two young irish goaltenders, michigan last weekend. despite 
sophomore chad katunar and the struggles, irish coach Jeff 
freshman cal petersen, neither Jackson said locker room morale 
of whom has emerged as the No. has not dipped. 
1 guy between the pipes. “the attitude has been good,” 
“as soon as one steps up Jackson said. “the work ethic’s 
and says, ‘hey, this is my job,’” been good. they want to turn 
Jackson said. “Neither one of around, too. they don’t want to 
them is close to a 92 save per-be where we are.” 
centage right now. if somebody the irish now turn to the 
stepped up and showed me some huskies, new to hockey east for 
consistency.” the 2014-2015 season and a first-
in 13 starts and 14 games time opponent of Notre dame. 
played, petersen has allowed 34 the huskies (7-10-4, 4-4-1) are 
goals on 354 shots for a .904 save winners of four of their past six 
percentage, while katunar has games since returning from their 
a .900 save percentage in nine mid-season break. during that 
starts and 10 games played. span, freshman forward spencer 
Jackson has been adamant Naas has scored six goals, push-
throughout the season that he ing his season total to MICHAEL YU | The Observer will continue to use two goalies 
Irish junior center and captain Steven Fogarty jostles with a Union see ucoNN PAGE 13 College defender during Notre Dame’s 3-2 overtime loss Nov. 28. see goalies PAGE 13 






