The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 46 | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Campaign applies social justice to fashion 
Students create magazine to publicize economic and human rights concerns in apparel industry 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
several notre dame students have come together to produce a magazine as part of a social awareness campaign combat-ting the fast fashion trend of buy­ing and throwing away clothing items made in sweatshops. The magazine will promote slow fashion, fair trade, made-in­america brands and thrift store shopping. 
according to marie bourgeois, a research associate with the visual communications de­sign (vcd) program, the social awareness campaign is a larger project under which students create their own campaigns based on societal issues they see. 
“The visual communication design 8: design for social good class was started by professor robert sedlack, who brought a model of social design to notre dame’s vcd program,” bourgeois said in an email. “Throughout his seventeen years teaching at notre dame, he would have students create social awareness campaigns fo­cusing on contemporary issues in society. i have been a guest critic on these projects for years throughout my graduate school career at notre dame, and after graduation. 
“last fall, i had the joy of be­ing able to co-teach with robert for the design for social good course, which brought me closer than ever to the brilliant projects 
see magaZine PAGE 3 



smc performs ‘glass menagerie’ 

By MARTA BROWN 
news writer 
The saint mary’s college de­partment of communication studies, dance and theatre is sponsoring the performance of the Tennessee williams play “The glass menagerie” Thursday through sunday in the little Theatre of the moreau center. 
associate professor of theatre Katie sullivan, who will direct the play, said the story tells of a family trying to survive de­spite the great depression, and focuses each family member’s different reactions to their cir­cumstances. amanda wingfield adheres to her southern ways to procure expectations for her two children after she is abandoned by her husband. Tom, the older son, itches to move out and fol­low his dreams as a writer, and laura, the younger daughter cre­ates her own world with her col­lection of glass menagerie. 
sullivan said she has always loved williams’ plays. 
“[‘The glass menagerie’ is] a beautiful play with haunting and 
see play PAGE 5 



Professor analyzes O’Connor 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
southern, catholic and bird lover are some of the words used most frequently to describe au­thor flannery o’connor, the subject of a lecture delivered Tuesday afternoon by angela alaimo o’donnell, professor at fordham university and associ­ate director of the curran center for american catholic studies. 
o’donnell touched on these three facets of o’connor’s life in her talk, entitled “between the house and the chicken yard: The life and legacy of mary flannery o’connor.” o’connor was born in savannah, and her family moved to andalusia, a rural georgia farm, alaimo o’donnell said, where the author took a great delight in raising chickens. 

“o’connor’s first brush with fame occurred courtesy of her bird collection — when a pathé newsman caught word of a georgia girl who taught a bird to walk backwards, he made his way south and filmed mary flannery and her trick chicken,” she said. “she had a hunger for fame after this, and from that day forward she began to col­lect chickens, though of course her fame would come from other things.” 
The author received an mfa from the prestigious iowa writers’ workshop and moved to new york, actively participating in literary and intellectual circles, she said. however, o’connor was forced to return 
see o’connor PAGE 5 


lecture explores binaries 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Kroc institute luce visiting professor of religion, conflict and peacebuilding sherali Tareen delivered a lecture ti­tled “beyond good muslim/ bad muslim: debating the boundaries of innovation in islam” on Tuesday afternoon at the hesburgh center for international studies. Tareen focused on polemics over the ethical question of “bid’a,” or heretical innovation, among two major modern muslim re­form movements in south asia: the deobandis and barelvis. 

The lecture began with a brief overview of the two major reform movements: the deobandis and the barelvis. Tareen said both are sunni groups in india and that, being so similar, it made the polemics “bitter and more caustic because they were so personal.” he elaborated on the groups and explained how the two are usually assigned to a binary with the stereotypically more law-focused deobandis on one end and the stereotypi­cally more peaceful and mysti­cal barelvis on the other. 
“This kind of binary is inti­mately intertwined with the larger discourse of, which today is a very insidious and well-fund­ed discourse, of what we might call the good muslim-bad muslim discourse,” he said. “goodness is often measured by what is most 
see islam PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

How do you feel about Christmas music before Thanksgiving? 


Colleen Maus 
junior 
le mans hall 
“100 percent into it.” 
Hannah Anderson 
junior 
le mans hall 
“i love it, but don’t over play it.” 
Grace Kumor 
junior le mans hall 
“no.” 

Mackenzie Griffin 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“i personally start listening to it in october.” 
Leann Tulisiak 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“it’s an abomination. more than a month before christmas is unaceptable.” 
Meghan McAleer 
junior holy cross hall 
“not necesary. let Thanksgiving happen.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lauren weldon adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Public Reading “The Morality of Silent Retreat Hockey vs. Minnesota Volleyball vs. 
caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 

Hammes Bookstore Capitalism” Moreau Seminary Compton Family Ice Pittsburgh 
7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library 5:30 p.m. Arena Purcell Pavillion Acclaimed fairy 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Retreat focused on 6:35 p.m. 1 p.m. 
Corrections 

tale author Kate Steve Forbes delivers silent prayer and The Gophers challenge The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Bernheimer will read. a lecture. reflection. the Irish. Panthers. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Student Micro Retreat Men’s Basketball vs. Volleyball vs. Virginia “Pericles” Gesualdo Quartet 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

LaFortune Student Caldwell Tech Washington Hall Joyce Center 
however, recognize that we will make 

Center Joyce Center Joyce Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

7:30p.m.-8:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Production by the Not-Beethoven, performed 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

New micro retreat The Irish take on the Notre Dame squares So-Royal Shakespeare by Notre Dame’s
we can correct our error. 

series. Cougars. off with the Hokies. company. Quartet-In-Residence. 


Magazine 
conTinued from page 1 
he had conceived and perfected. robert and i agreed last spring, before his passing, that we would teach this class together again this fall, so i have decided to keep as true to his structure for the course as possible with this semester’s class.” 
“Typically, students gear their campaign toward the university community,” bourgeois said, “such campaigns have received a great deal of attention from notre dame students, faculty and staff over the years, as our design students tend to come up with creative, striking inter­ventions that disrupt daily life on campus and cause viewers to think deeper on an issue that may not be top-of-mind.” 
Juniors amy ackermann and mary Kate healey have combined forces to create a magazine to combat ‘fast fashion,’ a trend that, according to bourgeois, has been steadily rising over the past two decades 
(Editors Note: Ackermann is a photographer for The Observer). 
fast fashion is “the shift within the fashion industry toward cheaper, more rapid production of items,” she said. 
many of the most popular clothing companies among young adults have participated in fast fashion behavior in order to be able to offer high-fash­ion products at slashed prices through quick turn-around. 
“one major outcome of this market trend toward fast fash­ion is that a style’s season is greatly shortened — what used to be six months or longer is now measured in weeks,” bourgeois said, “This is results in huge profits for companies as they are able to sell at higher vol­umes, encouraging consumers to buy cheaper clothing more frequently, contributing to a sense that clothing is somewhat disposable.” 
bourgeois said the fast fash­ion model exploits vulnerable populations in an effort to drive down the cost of goods and contributes to environmental concerns. 
“when clothing is viewed as disposable, that is exactly what happens to it. many of these cheap garments are ending up in landfills where their syn­thetic fibers are releasing toxins into the atmosphere,” she said. “every step of a garment’s pro­duction, from dying to sewing, to packaging, can create harm­ful pollutants if the environment is not a top focus throughout the making process. The cheaper the production, the less the en­vironment is considered.” 
according to bourgeois, as found in elizabeth l. cline’s book “overdressed: The shockingly high cost of cheap fashion,” between 1996 and 2011, more than 500,000 american garment industry jobs were lost due to apparel production being outsourced to outside of the united states. finally, only 20 percent of do­nated clothes are sold in charity thrift shops. around 50 percent is turned into fibers or wiping rags, and the rest is shipped overseas and used as clothing 
“in high school, i spent a week helping out at a thrift store in northern minnesota,” sophomore emily schoenbauer said, “what i learned there was shocking. in the back room, there was a mountain of cloth­ing ... 
“i realized that all of those racks of clothing in depart­ment stores that i usually sifted though mindlessly were going to end up in someone’s closet, be worn a dozen times, go out of style, and then be brought where? places like this where they have more than they know what to do with? in the gar­bage? no matter where it ended up, i now know that there is an 
paid adverTisemenT 

unsustainable amount being produced. something has to be done.” 
schoenbauer is serving as a model for the project. 
“it simply involves having a super fun photo shoot with amy [ackermann] while wear­ing some of my favorite cloth­ing items that i have bought sustainably, like a dress from a thrift store, a sweater from a garage sale, and even a couple blouses that i may or may not have permanently borrowed from my mom,” schoenbauer said. 
ackermann and healey have prepared for the magazine’s production by researching fast fashion statistics and informa­tion, interviewing fellow stu­dents about their buying habits and collecting stories about eth­ically produced clothing items. 
“Their hope for the project is to encourage our generation to start buying clothing more sustainably,” schoenbauer said, “The way the fashion world works right now requires that people who want to stay up-to­date should be buying basically a new wardrobe every couple years. Think about the racks upon racks of clothing that are in every forever 21 or h&m around the country. That is not all being purchased, but they will overproduce their cheap merchandise to ensure that they make as much profit as possible. 
“we have created a never-ending cycle of waste through something that seems harm­less, wanting to look your best. That is why … we have to begin shifting our mentality. while it is fun to buy the low qual­ity, merely-for-dollars shirt from the department store, we can find even cheaper, more unique options at second-hand stores, which are everywhere.” 
schoenbauer said students should know that the magazine is not calling for radical lifestyle changes. 
“i still shop at the mall ... i would just like to ask people to start making small changes,” she said. “next time you’re go­ing shopping just for fun, decide to peruse through goodwill. if there are local garage sales hap­pening, stop by. i guarantee that you will find something cheap and incredibly special to you.” 
bourgeois said these cam­paigns serve to promote deeper thinking on issues surrounding our everyday life. 
“with this particular cam­paign, the hope is that my stu­dents will bring more meaning and understanding to some­thing so ubiquitous as clothing,” she said. “The reality of that gar­ment, however, goes back to the crop that was harvested to cre­ate the fibers for the material. ... with heightened awareness around something we as con­sumers encounter daily, we can begin to make choices that push the industry toward a more de­sirable and thoughtful means of production.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




O’Connor 
conTinued from page 1 
permanently to andalusia, after she was diagnosed with lupus, an autoimmune disease. 
“o’connor would endure this exile gracefully and with good humor until her death,” she said. “flannery no longer belonged to georgia, to the small-town world of milledgeville, and her mother’s friends. her childhood sense of herself as a freak returned, a preoc­cupying idea that appears in the sto­ries she wrote. … o’connor’s stories often feature characters who clearly do not belong, sometimes by virtue of some physical affliction or defor­mity, or by virtue of a radically dif­ferent way of seeing the world from those around her.” 
o’connor’s fiction became her lifeline, and she drew inspiration from the people and events in her southern community, alaimo o’donnell said. 
“she wrote every morning – two hours was all she could manage, despite the painful and debilitat­ing effects of both the disease and the medication prescribed to rem­edy it,” she said. “against all odds, o’connor would produce two nov­els, 32 short stories, and many es­says, reviews and commentaries and hundreds of letters.” 
o’connor may not occur to many readers as a christian writer, she said, for she does not appear to write from a particular religious viewpoint. however, although o’connor’s characters are rarely catholic, they require an experi­ence of grace. 
“o’connor’s characters, like the freak chickens she raised as a child, are grotesques of every imaginable kind. They include mass murder­ers, social misfits, religious zealots, moral cretins, fake bible salesmen, one-legged women with ph.d.s,” she said. “The one thing that binds all of o’connor’s characters togeth­er is the fact that they are all in need of conversion or radical change.” 
implicit in her creation of charac­ters in need of conversion, her use of violence as a means of grace and her mingling of the comic and tragic, is a deeply religious vision, she said. 
“flannery sees the possibility of redemption available to human­ity in all places, at all times and through the most unexpected of means,” she said. 
while o’connor saw her life as utterly ordinary, alaimo o’donnell said o’connor was an author who integrated her faith and art so thoroughly that they became one practice. 
“her own art becomes sign and symbol of the creative force that generates and governs the world, and so her own writing becomes, both in practice and in fact, a form of sacrament,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 
Play 
conTinued from page 1 
lyrical music, and i think it’s timeless,” sullivan said. “it’s re­done on broadway so often. i’ve loved his [william’s] plays since i was thirteen.” 
sullivan said the events and scenarios in the play are some­what parallel to Tennessee williams’ personal life. as Tom narrates the play as an older version of himself, williams is reflecting on his own perspec­tive of leaving his family to be­come a writer. 
Islam 
conTinued from page 1 
proximate to a modern western interpretation of what is a legiti­mate religion and, frankly, what is most conducive to american foreign policy at that moment in time.” 
Tareen said innovation in islam refers to changes within islam itself. 
“‘bid’a,’ or heretical innova­tion, is the inverse of what is known as the normative model of the prophet, or sunna,” he said. “‘bid’a’ consists of new, un­sanctioned practices.” 
To explain the differences in the deobandi and barelvi other horses — it has the horn. and she’s different than others.” 
notre dame senior stephen seitz said he plays the role of Jim o’connor, the gentleman caller of shy laura. 
“i find it very easy to relate to Jim o’connor,” seitz said.“he’s an ambitious, happy-go-lucky fellow who is always quick with a joke and a smile. Jim intro­duces some much-appreciated comedy and romance to an oth­erwise depressing story,” seitz said. 
Contact Marta Brown at mbrown04@saintmarys.edu 

“it’s like all of you guys, you’re here in college to learn and choose what you want to do,” sullivan said. “you’re ready to go out into the world. ” 
sullivan said the title, like many aspects of williams’ work, is a metaphor. 
“Tennessee william writes poetically — he was a poet be­fore a dramatist,” she said. “he writes with lyrical language, us­ing metaphors. and laura and the unicorn [in the play] are symbolic of each other. 
“The unicorn is a beautiful mystic animal — it’s different than everyone else, than the 
definitions of “bid’a,” Tareen used the definitions as defined by two hanafi muslim jurists and sufi masters who were in­volved in the founding of both groups. 
Quoting ashraf ‘ali Thanvi, one of the founders of the deoband madrasa, Tareen said, “bid’a” is an innovated practice in religion that simulates the “sharia” in the intensity and dis­cipline in which it is undertaken. 
“in other words, such conven­tions were kept alive and perpet­uated by the invisible pressure to societal expectations and norms, rather than to divine law and divine will,” Tareen said. he added something can be considered heretical when it’s treated as being obligatory without a historical context to back it up. 
ultimately, Tareen said that by trying to compare the two groups within the context of a binary was harmful and fails to fully explain the traditions of each. 
“rather than approaching debates on normative practice through the lens of a law-sufism binary, or other binaries like good muslim-bad muslim, lib­eral-conservative and so forth, it might be more productive to look at the internal logics within the tradition,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  meganvalley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Down ‘Rape Road’ 
Save the trays 
Kelly McGarry 
scene writer 
we’re given two arguments for going trayless: reduction of food waste and waster usage. The placards in the dining hall state that going tray-less saves 70 gallons of water per day. we’ll take that as true. The flow rate of an efficient shower-head is approximately two gallons per minute, so for a 10 minute shower you’re already at 20 gallons. now we have the perspective that tak­ing away everyone’s trays is equivalent in water usage to three or four people skipping their daily shower, an inconsequential amount. 
The claim was made that taking away dining hall trays reduces food waste by 32 percent, but it has no logical basis. This phenomenon is more a social/psychological experiment than a practi­cal cause. i don’t doubt that seeing a big empty tray may compel some people to fill it with more food, but there’s no practical reason to do so. 
we need to consider the tray dilemma more critically. is the inconvenience of going trayless worth the benefits? is abandonment of the tray necessary to achieve these benefits? 
a la national Tray association, i’ll boldly make the claim that trays don’t waste food, people waste food. every person has complete control of what goes on their tray. The banning of trays is an insult to the ability of students to take re­sponsibility for their food waste. in the reverse, food waste is equally possible without the use of trays, so banning isn’t even an effective method of control. mindfulness is more effective as tray control, and there are other campus-wide meth­ods that have greater potential and less negative impact. one interesting idea is serving food by the serving size to make people less likely to take too much, and if they need more they can always go back for seconds. This is the kind of food waste prevention i’d be excited to participate in. 
i mentioned the water usage of showering, but no one is proposing restricting showers. That’s because it’d be a huge and infringing inconve­nience. The tray case isn’t as extreme, but we need to analyze it in the same way. consider the price of the meal plan and the ways we already waste much of that cost when we can’t make it to the strict meal times. most of us end up wasting meals at the end of the week, so the meals we do use should be quality. 
i have breakfast in the dining hall often, and it’s notoriously a small-bowl affair: a small bowl for grapefruit, one for potatoes, maybe some oatmeal, a bagel, etc. That’s not to mention bev­erages — hydrate with water, coffee for the caf­feine fix and a nice glass of orange juice. at north dining hall,  the front tray return is never in service so all those dishes need to be carried to the back. The other thing about breakfast — you have to make it to your morning classes so you don’t have time to go back and forth to your seat multiple times. students here do not have time to deal with trayless meals. 
if you’re not confident in your ability to refrain from wasting food with all that space on your tray, or you simply don’t require a tray for a par­ticular meal, then go trayless. i care about the environment as much as anyone, but the tray-banning argument is simply not logical. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 
There is one reason to attend saint mary’s: to meet and marry a man from notre dame. 
no one would ever choose to attend saint mary’s based on how comparatively easy we make it to study abroad, our programs like nursing or education that aren’t offered at notre dame, the fact that some people prefer smaller classes and a calmer campus or even — gasp! — the pros­pect of attending a women’s college. 
no, saint mary’s women live forever in the shadow of the dome. even if we are unable to find a man and get our “ring by spring,” saint mary’s women are often considered little more than sexual playthings for the men of notre dame. 
as shocking and uncomfortable as that statement is to make, it’s true. some of the clearest examples of this come from the language used to describe saint mary’s, our women and our campus. as any good english major knows, everyday language is a powerful force that can shape the way think about things. 
Take, for instance, the nickname of the #17 bus that runs from hesburgh library, past eddy street to the grotto, to regina hall at saint mary’s, then works its way along douglas back to “club hes.” or the #7a, which runs essen­tially the same route but with stops at university edge and corby boulevard. colloquially, both go by the name “The sluttle.” get it? like a shuttle full of sluts? 
simply because these buses stop at saint mary’s, they are re-christened to imply moral looseness. The assump­tion made is that any woman on the bus is going to notre dame to drink and have sex. never mind that we smicks (a self-christened nickname for saint mary’s women, com­ing from “smc chicks”) sometimes go to notre dame for things other than partying, like classes or starbucks. be sure not to consider, too, that men and women from notre dame would take the #17 or #7a from notre dame to saint mary’s. “The sluttle” serves one purpose and one purpose only: to bring sluts from saint mary’s to notre dame. 
of course, many saint mary’s women use the term as well. most of the time, it’s regarded as a just a joke. but “The sluttle” is anything but funny. 
by calling the bus between campuses “The sluttle,” the idea that all saint mary’s women are sluts is subcon­sciously yet firmly established. by establishing us as sluts and whores, an expectation of sex is set. all saint mary’s women are sluts who will have sex with you. even if they say no or try to fight you off, their ride on “The sluttle” to come party with you is evidence that they want sex. 

There are other examples of this subtle linguistic sex­ism between campuses, like the concept of ring by spring, or that every saint mary’s woman aspires to be engaged (to a notre dame man, of course) by graduation. The term “smitches”— a combination of “smick chicks” and “bitches” — is also vernacular. The freshman dorm, mccandless, is called “mcscandlous.” The most damn­ing evidence of this trend is the nickname for saint mary’s road, the private road between campuses: rape road. 
saint mary’s road is rarely referred to by its real name, perhaps because of some confusion between it and the main road onto campus, The avenue. There are a million possible epithets better than this one. but the metaphori­cally-perfect rape road persists. 
The normalization of rape and sexual assault is referred to as rape culture in feminist thought. most commonly, rape culture is defined as a culture which, through general opinions about sexuality and gender, accepts and excuses sexual assault as an inevitable part of life, and therefore promotes it. when someone says rape road, they imply that rape happens between campuses. and when they say it all the time, they imply it’s just something that happens. rape between our campuses is not startling or appalling, but simply expected. 
i’m sure someone reading this would love to challenge the idea of rape culture. To you, o noble protector of men’s rights, i say this: go spend some time at a women’s college where 1 in 4 women are the victims of sexual violence and you have to walk down rape road to get a decent latte, and then we’ll talk. 
The vocabulary used to talk about saint mary’s estab­lishes us as gold diggers, bitches and (primarily) sluts or whores. Terms like “The sluttle,” “rape road,” “holy cross hoes,” “mcskanks” and even “smitches” have no business at a reputable catholic university like notre dame, and especially not from the mouths of our own saint mary’s women. describing an entire college full of women like this is dangerous. 
and it’s leading us all straight down rape road. 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. She can be contacted at cphela01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

greend: good to be tray-free 
This past Thursday, greend held Tray inconvenient day in conjunction with the Junior class council and notre dame food services. a day we have been planning for some time, it accomplished exactly what it was set to do. we challenged and upset the norm by generating talk around trays. we’ve only just begun on this endeavor and there are still kinks, but we’re excited to see this initiative come to fruition in the coming years. 
The mission behind every greend action has always been simple. we are immensely fortunate to inhabit this planet and therefore support treating this blessing as an enormous gift, not a right. This ethic extends across all creatures, social disciplines and campaigns. 
The tray free campaign is twofold. we have an ethical duty to cut waste, as less wasted food in our dining halls equates to more food that can go to hungry mouths in our local community, and an ethical duty to conserve water, as less trays means less water is used washing them. 
hence, Tray inconvenient day was born so people could experience going tray-free just for one day. it was a risk-free environment: try it if you like, but the trays were tucked just around the corner if you didn’t want to participate. it was low pressure, as all the trays would be back to their right­ful place the next day. The goal, which is very far down the road at this point, is to move away from trays entirely. 
it’s important to note that getting rid of trays is not going to raise the price of the meals at the dining hall. The survey put out last week by student government was only meant to gage interest in different kinds of pursuable dining hall initiatives. still, we were thrilled to see how many people accepted the trayless challenge. 

as a catholic institution, a world-renowned university or just as moral human beings, we need to think about how our local actions contribute to global climate change. notre dame must invest much deeper into sustainable initia­tives to truly do our part to mitigate climate change. This change cannot come from just students or just the admin­istration, but needs to be the result of an integrated dia­logue where all individuals involved pledge their support to change their own ways for the benefit of the whole. 
removing trays is a tiny action but it has a positive effect on the environment we inhabit, both socially and environ­mentally. even the smallest changes count. 
for those in support: Thank you for going trayless, even if it was just for a day. Thank you for contemplating what role food waste and trays play at notre dame. 
for those in dissent: we’d love to hear from you. This is an initiative that needs all voices and your feedback will be extremely helpful going forward. please feel free to reach out to us if you have strong feelings on the action. 
Abigail Veres 
director of communications greend 


Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 
fall break is just that for most students — a break. it gives students some much-needed time to get away from roommates, classes and responsibility in general. for more than 250 notre dame students, however, fall break was not quite as restful and leisurely. after the night game against usc, we made our way across campus at 7 a.m. to load into minivans and depart for locations across the appalachian region as a part of a center for social concerns seminar. 
although everyone has their own unique take­aways from appalachia, most people tend to encoun­ter frustration at some point during the experience. sometimes that frustration is a result of things not going as planned or conflict between group members, but often there is an overwhelming sense of frustration with feeling helpless. 
students wonder why no one seems to care about the many issues the people of appalachia face on a daily basis. They get the chance to pause to consider the injustices of poverty, drug addiction, poor healthcare and the systems that enable this status quo to contin­ue. There is obviously much that needs to be done, but it seems impossible to find where to start or to know which direction to take. 
Towards the end of our immersion, as the inequali­ties and maltreatment we saw and heard about began to weigh on us more and more, we made one of our final stops in west virginia at an organization that serves the local blind community. They provide career and vocational training, vision service referrals and rehabilitation. 
do the dishes 
There we met Tom, one of the employees who teach­es computer classes to other blind people. he told us about how one night he went to bed and then woke up the next morning suddenly without sight. without warning and through no fault of his own, Tom would never be able to see again. 
Tom explained how he sometimes gets so frustrated with not being able to do seemingly simple tasks sighted people take for granted that he wishes he could punch a hole in the wall. for someone with such a calm and friendly demeanor, this was quite a statement. 
he went on to tell us that when he starts to feel this way, he considers the fact that if he did punch the wall, he would have to fix it. so instead, Tom makes the con­scious choice to do something small that he knows he can do, like the dishes. it may not solve everything and it won’t do anything to bring his sight back, but it is something helpful that he is confident in his ability to do. 
as we consider the unfairness of life, it could do us some good to consider Tom’s message in light of the frustration we feel in our own lives. we are not all go­ing to be able to rid the world of the injustices we see and experience, but we can start by doing small, good things we know ourselves to be capable of achieving. 
maybe we start by dealing with smaller frustrations, such as bad drivers or people who congregate inap­propriately in busy areas. it is easy to let road rage and irritation get the best of us, but that ultimately solves nothing. we are all capable of smiling, however. while that might not do much to resolve the issue, at least we can prove to ourselves that we are capable of exercising muscles other than those in our middle fingers. 
on a more serious note, perhaps one views the university’s parietals policy as unfair and a contributor to poor gender relations, unnecessarily reinforcing dif­ferences between sexes. This topic seems to be a source of increasing frustration on campus. it is not realistic to expect one student’s strong opinion to lead to the university’s reversal of the policy, but one can start by having intelligent, rational conversations with hall staff or administrators. 

social, economic and political injustices such as poverty and oppression are among the most profound and unfathomable frustrations we will encounter in our lives. when comparing our own relatively comfort­able lives to those who struggle to feed their families or to feel free and safe from harm, it is obvious that life is not fair. 
instead of allowing ourselves to be consumed by an­ger when we consider these issues and metaphorically punch a hole in the wall, we can turn our efforts to small things that we know how to do. one person may not rid the world of evil overnight, but we do have the ability to vote. we have the capability of talking to one another and raising awareness of various topics. There are resources and opportunities everywhere for us to engage with those around us and turn our frustration into something productive. 
ultimately, life is always going to be frustrating and unfair, and we are powerless to resolve that completely. but that doesn’t mean we can’t at least do the dishes. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore living in Lewis Hall. She hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is studying political science with a minor in international development studies. She can be reached at  ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Go trayless despite inconvenience 
in regards to last Thursday’s Tray inconvenient day, there was some grumbling among students on social media platforms arguing that taking away the trays was more than inconvenient — it was an in­fringement on students’ rights. some conversations noted that the high cost of room and board should guarantee the use of trays. others objected to the idea of an environmentally sustainable agenda be­ing forced upon students. The underpinning of all these arguments was that a right was being denied to students and it should not be within the scope of the university’s power to remove it. 
however, we would like to speak on behalf of the majority of students who pleasantly cooperated with the experiment by addressing some of the concerns raised and encourage everyone to make going trayless a more regular occurrence. 
seeing the issues of resource and energy overcon­sumption being addressed campus-wide exciting. it has a lot of potential for good not only on an envi­ronmental impact level but also on an educational level. one of the major pushbacks we’ve encoun­tered regarding sustainability issues involves a lack of knowledge on the subject. discussing these is­sues (or holding thought-provoking events like Tray inconvenient day) tends to bring to light the facts concerning the subject. 
The study of sustainability involves the relation­ships between the environment, the economy and the population. one of the main reasons Tray inconvenient day is a great idea is that it encompass­es all of what sustainability is about. 
a few weeks ago, fr. Jenkins announced new university energy goals, including eliminating coal use and opting for more sustainable energy alterna­tives. fewer trays in the dining halls means less hot water, chemicals and energy being used to wash them 
— and less environmental degradation caused by the university and you. fewer trays also means less food waste, which in addition to being a social injustice is just plain expensive. 
we would be remiss to not include pope francis’s most recent encyclical, “laudato si.’” pope francis en­courages all citizens of the world (not just catholics) to ensure the survival of our communal home. his passionate analysis of environmental issues and each person’s duty to care for this planet should hit home at notre dame of all places. 
pope francis makes it clear that securing environ­mental sustainability requires a serious conversion, and an ability to be vulnerable to inconvenience. Thus, none of us should really be all that concerned about a small inconvenience when there are clear benefits to going trayless. 

call us tree huggers. call us hippies. ask any of our friends and they’ll tell you how enthusiastic we are about sustainability. but you should be too. as a uni­versity, notre dame has a proud history of fearlessly confronting social justice issues. 
evidenced by the number of clubs, events and courses that focus on improving the lives of those in poverty, both local and international, notre dame students tend to feel passionately about engag­ing in various forms of social justice movements. fundraising and educational initiatives are meant to result in action, though, so if we truly care about issues like poverty, minority rights, education and everything else catholic social Teaching exhorts us to advocate for, it is imperative to make changes in our own lives — even when inconvenient — for the good of all. 
bon apetit, 
Rachel Ganson 
junior 
Maria Sasso 
sophomore 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ROBERT WOZNIAK 
scene writer 
halloween comes and goes, but never fails to leave behind a plethora of statements about our culture, indi­viduality and shrewd ingenuity. The annual celebration of all hallows’ eve provides an opportunity to trans­form into whoever you want to be in the most bizarre context of the year. stepping outside and into the public notre dame atmosphere catapults you into an idiosyncratic nightmare filled with ghouls, goblins, witches and the occasional donald Trump. halloween is always an incredibly fun time to ob­serve who dressed in the most com­mon costume, who came up with the cleverest idea and who crossed the line, going from hilarious to absolutely ridiculous and sometimes slightly of­fensive. it is important to reflect on what went right, what went wrong and what went somewhere in between; re­gardless, halloween 2015 was surely one for the books. 
as i hinted at, donald Trump was ev­erywhere this halloween. absolutely everywhere. normally seeing this many donald Trumps in one place at one time would immediately motivate me to transfer schools as soon as pos­sible; however, the effect was quite hi­larious. watching one donald Trump spill his drink in one corner only to find another donald Trump belting out the ghostbusters theme song in the other made his (or, rather, “their”) presence so much more tolerable. so, donald, thank you for yet again bring­ing some hilarity into my life with your everlasting absurdity and costume-worthy persona. 
what made the multitude of Trump costumes even more amusing was the amount of drakes standing in close proximity. dressing as drake for halloween is pretty great to be­gin with, but the best part was the amount of variations i witnessed. There was drake-meek mill duos (with the occasional nicki minaj thrown in between), “hotline bling” drakes and absurd interpretations of drake’s pro­file from his 2013 “nothing was The same” album cover. usually, common costumes are some of the least inter­esting, but the personal touches and individuality each person brought to their drake guises made it one of the best costumes of the year. 
yet another hilarious common cos­tume came with the male take on stereotypical female halloween cos­tumes. There’s nothing more enter­taining than seeing one of your guy friends dressed as a sexy cat (equipped with cat ears, face paint and booty shorts) or minnie mouse (again, mouse ears, face paint and booty shorts). one of the best i saw was a man decked out in long red hair, a seashell bra and glit­tering mermaid tail. i’m not necessar­ily saying disney should remake The little mermaid and replace ariel with a merman, but i am saying it would be ingenious if they did. 

on the other hand, with countless amazing costumes come a few not-so­amazing costumes. as we embark on the journey that is halloweekend each year, we must remind ourselves that cultures are not costumes. cultural appropriation runs rampant when people are allowed to dress as some­thing/someone else for the day. i’m talking about the “thug” that puts cornrows in their hair and further ap­propriates black culture, the “eskimo” that throws on a winter jacket in a feeble attempt to represent an entire group of indigenous people and the “indian” that puts a feather in their hair and runs around chanting. it’s not cool; it’s actually quite disrespect­ful. so, as we continue to recover from “halloweekend” and start brainstorm­ing ideas for next year, let’s keep this in mind; and not gain 15 pounds from all that candy. 
Contact Robert Wonziak at rwozniak@nd.edu 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 

refunds. 
FOR SALE 
Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, finished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools , 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,90 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you can make changes this year, but don’t do so for emotional reasons. consider what will help you the most and calculate your costs mentally, physically and financially before you make a move. your beliefs, life philosophy and goals will be challenged if you don’t follow basic rules and incorporate discipline, detail and accuracy into your everyday routine. your numbers are 1, 8, 22, 24, 31, 36, and 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do what you do best, and don’t give in to anyone trying to bully you. not everyone will do things the same way you do. your uniqueness will draw attention, resulting in greater recognition. a financial gain is within reach. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): check out different cultures or philosophies that inspire you to be true to yourself and to use your skills and knowledge in a helpful and satisfying manner. make improvements that will boost your confidence. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make your place more comfortable and inviting. invest in the things that will benefit you. don’t lend or donate to any individuals or organizations that use emotional tactics to guilt you into giving. deception or misunderstandings can be expected. avoid overindulgence. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): host a networking event or gathering that will encourage the people you work with to get to know you better. your ability to put people at ease will lead to greater opportunities to work on interesting, attractive projects. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll be anxious and emotional. Try not to get into a confrontation with someone you live with over matters that you cannot change. an unpredictable situation will occur that will lead to an abrupt but long-overdue change. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): revisit the past and you will find it much easier to move forward. getting together with old friends will spark new interests in projects you had put aside. communication will be your strong point, so clear up any matters that require serious discussion. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): hidden matters will become apparent. ask questions if you don’t fully understand something. Take whatever information you are given and turn it into something that can strengthen your position personally or professionally. initiate change and walk away from chaos. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): observe situations closely and you will come up with solutions to ongoing problems. your insight will put you in a good position. don’t let anyone limit what you can do. a creative imagination will help you outmaneuver people with stodgy attitudes. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do your best to avoid controversy by keeping your thoughts to yourself. a moneymaking idea won’t turn out to be as good as you think. don’t let your emotions take over or lead to an impulsive decision. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): contracts, agreements, money and health matters can all be addressed and dealt with today. a discussion about future plans with someone you want to spend more time with will turn out well and lead to a proposal or commitment. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t believe everything you hear, especially if it involves money, health or a legal settlement. someone will mislead you regarding his or her feelings. Trusting someone else to do your job for you will lead to disappointment. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): generosity will be your downfall. weigh the pros and cons of whatever situation you face before you make a commitment. love will play a role in a decision you make. make sure you are clear about the motives behind your choices. 


Birthday Baby: you are unique, strong-willed and practical. you are fearless and intense. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
TUYIN  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
OSPUY  

 
 
 
 
 

PRELUP  

 
 
 
 
 
 

VERRET  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Print your answer here: 
Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Jumbles: DOZED NACHO AFFECT DRIVERYesterday’s 
Answer: The politician spoke frankly to his dinner com­panion because he was a — CANDID DATE 



(Answers tomorrow) 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 
p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing 
FOR RENT 
IVY QUAD 3 BR 2 BA Garage washer/dryer, granite, furnished, walk to campus grocery. Ideal for family, grad students. Available 6/1/2016 Tom 215 913-9191 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Experience wins championships 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
i have been told the royals won the world series. i cannot say i’m surprised. The royals had a deeper lineup than the mets (seriously, the mets needed to put daniel murphy on a milk carton), better relief pitching and the real Johnny cueto actu­ally stood up. 
however, the most important aspect in the royals’ champion­ship was their experience. They had been there before. in fact, they took the giants to seven games last world series and fell short on an other-worldly performance from madison bumgarner. 
in other words, the royals wanted it more. They had been so close just a year before and they sure weren’t going to let another world series slip out of their grasp. 
This drive, this experience was what give the royals the clutch hitting they needed. The boys from Kansas outscored the mets 15-1 after the sixth inning in the series. 15-1. That is an unbelievable statistic. and it is that same experience that helped them finish on top in two extra-inning games including game 1 and its power outages (spooooky). 
i could spend the rest of this column praising the royals, but i won’t. They’re no 1908 cubs after all. i do, however, want to touch on the experience fac­tor and how important it is to championship winning teams. 
recently, it appears that one of the biggest criteria for a champi­onship team is if they’ve made a deep playoff run the year before, and this year’s royals team is the perfect example. 
now, this may seem self-fulfilling, as it can be boiled down to ‘you have to be good to be good.’ as mentioned above though, going into the playoffs helps build chemistry, experi­ence for younger players in close games and most importantly, losing deep in the playoffs gives a team the drive for next season. 
This isn’t the case just for baseball. for example, michael Jordan’s bulls lost in the eastern conference finals of the 1990 nba playoffs. To make matters worse, it was the third year in a row they were ousted by the pistons. six championships later, it is safe to say the bulls had the drive necessary to be a dominant team. 
similarly, before the blackhawks first recent stanley cup (can you tell i like chicago sports yet?), they lost in the western conference finals to the detroit red wings. That loss, however, gave the blackhawks core group (Jonathan Toews, duncan Keith etc.) the work ethic that has defined the orga­nization ever since. 
staying in the nhl, the 2013 los angeles Kings lost a tough western conference finals to the aforementioned blackhawks but came back the next year to win the stanley cup, knocking off chicago in the process. 
now, i grant that this pro­cess is not a hard and fast rule. for instance, the cleveland cavaliers would have been in the nba championships last season (looking at you Kelly olynyk) despite not making the playoffs the year before. but that’s what happens when you get lebron James in free agency. 
similarly, certain nfl teams like the patriots are always con­tenders because of Tom brady, but even the pats lost to the broncos in the afc title game in 2014 before winning it all the next season. 
generally though, for sports in which one player cannot domi­nate the game like hockey or baseball, teams that go deep in the playoffs the year before are more likely to be championship winners in the years to come. 
even vegas agrees with me. currently, the odds-on favorite to win next year’s world series is the chicago cubs, who went to the nlcs. 
so kudos to the royals and may the best loser win next year. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING | nd 158, msu 80; purdue 169, nd 123; osu 176, nd 113 
irish earn mixed results against big Ten opponents 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
in a competition-packed weekend for notre dame, the irish beat michigan state on friday before falling to purdue and ohio state in a triple-dual meet saturday afternoon. 
The irish hosted their pink meet friday night to fund-raise for river bend cancer services. at the meet, notre dame defeated regional rival michigan state, 158-80. 
The irish won nearly every event behind strong perfor­mances from junior Katie miller and freshman nicole smith. miller and smith fin­ished with times of 4:23.61 and 4:30.70, respectively, in the 400 individual medley. senior lindsey streepey led the way for the irish in diving with a 1-meter score of 294.00 and a 3-meter score of 332.80. The irish also dominated the relays, with the a-team of juniors catherine mulquin and danielle margheret, se­nior catherine galletti and freshman sofia revilak post­ing a time of 3:46.78. The b-team of freshmen alice Treuth, meaghan o’donnell and nicole smith and junior elizabeth house finished second with a time of 3:51.63. 

The irish jumped right back in the water saturday to compete against the boilermakers and buckeyes in a triple-dual meet, hosted by purdue. despite the irish’s strong performance friday, purdue edged the notre dame with a 169-123 victo­ry, while ohio state finished ahead of both teams, 176-113. 
“it was an important week­end for us to learn how to properly respond to back to back competition,” said notre dame head coach mike litzinger. “we matched up well with michigan state and were able to take a lead, then be confident in building it. at purdue it was the opposite. ohio state and purdue came out of the gate very strong, and put early pressure on us. The response was varied, and we climbed back a bit, but we needed to step forward with more confidence.” 
despite the pair of losses saturday, the irish had good performances across the board. mulquin finished second in the 100-yard back­stroke (55.76) and fourth in the 100-yard freestyle (51.56), while Treuth placed second in the 200-yard back­stroke with a time of 1:59.56. 
revilak followed suit with a fourth-place finish in the 50-yard freestyle (23.92) and second-place time in the 100-yard butterfly (56.00). streepey also had a strong diving performance for the irish, finishing third in the 1-meter with a score of 283.20 and second in the 3-meter with a score of 300.35. 
“i really enjoyed watch­ing lindsey streepey com­pete in her diving events,” said litzinger. “she has the potential to do well for us down the line. catherine mulquin and fellow Junior Katie miller stepped forward and [also] raced well this weekend. freshman alice Treuth is poised to do well, as she is consistently putting some great backstroke swims together.” 
The irish next head to christiansburg, virginia, where notre dame will par­ticipate in a two-day meet against pittsburgh and virginia Tech. The meet is set to begin friday at 5 p.m. and then open saturday morning at 10 a.m. at the christiansburg aquatics center. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
NBA | hawKs 98, heaT 92 

Teague lifts balanced Atlanta over Miami, 98-92 
Associated Press 
miami — The formula is clear for the atlanta hawks. plenty of balance and sticking with what works was good enough for them to win 60 games last sea­son, and it seems to be just fine so far this year. 
Jeff Teague used his speed to break down the miami defense time and again on his way to 26 points and nine assists, al horford scored 17 points and the hawks saw what was a 15-point lead trimmed to four midway through the fourth quarter before beating the heat 98-92 on Tuesday night. 
paul millsap had 12 points and 10 rebounds and Kent bazemore added 10 points for atlanta, which has won four straight following a season-opening loss. 
hassan whiteside finished with 23 points and 14 rebounds for miami. dwyane wade scored 21 points despite spend­ing a long stretch of the second half back in the heat locker room for reasons that weren’t immediately clear. 

goran dragic scored 19 points and chris bosh grabbed 14 rebounds for the heat. 
miami got within 79-75 with 
8:27 left on a layup by mario chalmers, the subject of trade rumors. but on the next atlanta possession, Teague set up Justin holiday for one of atlanta’s sev­en 3-pointers on the night and the hawks kept at least a two-possession lead the rest of the way. 
Tip-ins 

hawks: Teague had more as­sists in the first half (five) than the heat (four). ... Kyle Korver, who made 49 percent of his 3-pointers last season, was 1 for 6 from beyond the arc and is off to a 5-for-20 start from long range through the first five games. ... The hawks are off to a 4-1 start for the first time since 2011-12. 
heat: miami was without gerald green (illness), and amare stoudemire was inac­tive. chris andersen was active and made his season debut in the third quarter. ... The heat had four left-handed shooters together in the second quarter with bosh, Tyler Johnson, Josh mcroberts and Justise winslow. dragic, another lefty, was on the bench during that stint. 
Atlanta turnabout 
for a while, atlanta couldn’t beat miami. 
The inverse is now true. 
between Jan. 5, 2012 and dec. 23, 2013, the hawks went 0-9 against the heat — losing by an average of 10.4 points per game. in the seven games between the clubs since, the hawks are 7-0, with four of those wins by double digits. 
Wade milestones 
it was a night of milestones for wade. 
he got his 1,000th career dunk, slamming home a missed layup by dragic in the second quarter — and grabbing the 25,000th offensive rebound in heat history in the process. he also eclipsed the 1,000-point mark in his career against the hawks; including playoffs, he’s now scored that many points against seven franchises. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


SMC SPORTS 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 
belles take fourth 
ahead of ncaas 
By MICHAEL IVEY, RYAN KLAUS and BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writers 
Cross Country 
The belles took fourth place saturday at the miaa championship race, hosted by olivet college at broadway acres golf course in charlotte, michigan. 
Junior brittany beeler, who has been the top runner for saint mary’s at all meets this season, once again ran a noteworthy race. beeler finished sixth overall and earned all-miaa first Team hon­ors. she finished the race in 22:40.5, the second best time in program history at the miaachampionship race. 
senior allie danhof posted her second consecutive personal re­cord with a time of 23:53.3, which put her in 23rd place overall. 
following their efforts at the miaa championships, the belles will have this weekend off before returning to action in the ncaa regional race. That race will take place on nov. 14 in Terre haute, indiana and is set to begin at 11:00 a.m. 
Volleyball 
saint mary’s season ended over weekend after the belles recorded two losses and a victory friday and saturday. 
The belles fell, 3-1 (25-20, 25-18, 24-26, 25-22), to conference oppo­nent alma at home friday. They split results saturday, losing 3-0, on-the-road to albion, before re­bounding, 3-0, over Kenyon that afternoon. The belles closed the season with an overall record of 15­13 and a conference record of 7-9. 
alma won the first set on friday night by a score of 25-20 and re­sponded, 25-18, to win the second. alma capped off the match victory with a fourth-set score of 25-22. before the scots closed the match, the belles managed to win the third set, 26-24, after coming back from 15-9 deficit. Junior meaghan gibbons recorded 12 kills, 10 digs, three aces and one assist, while ju­nior collen Kilgallon had six kills, three digs and one assist. senior Katie hecklinski had eight kills and 14 digs. 
saturday saw the belles lose three straight sets to albion (25-17, 25-23, 25-16). The belles and brits were tied, 9-9, in the first set right before the brits went on a 7-0 run to that paved the way for their 25-17 win. halfway through the second half of the second set, the brits out­scored saint mary’s 12-4 to close the set, while the brits never trailed in the 25-16 final set. gibbons had eight kills and eight digs for the belles, while mcmillan had one kill, eight digs and 15 assists. 
The belles rebounded in their fi­nal match of the weekend, winning three straight sets to defeat Kenyon (25-11, 25-17, 25-19). The belles held 9-3 leads in both the first and sec­ond sets and maintained a cushion of four in the third set. hecklinski had 15 kills, eight digs and one as­sist for the belles, while grady had seven kills, 10 digs, and 19 assists in the match. Kilgallon had seven kills in the match, while gibbons had four kills and eight digs. 
Soccer 
saint mary’s concluded its sea­son monday, dropping its final match to alma and also falling in a match against adrian saturday. 
The belles’ (2-15-1, 2-13-1 miaa) penultimate game pitted them against the bulldogs (5-9-6, 3-9-4 miaa) on saturday. after recog­nizing the careers of its three se­nior captains —  defender lindsay rzepecki and midfielders maggie mclaughlin and Kathryn lueking 
— the belles were unable to estab­lish any momentum on the field, and they were shutout for the 12th time this season in the 2-0 loss. 
adrian opened the scoring game when sophomore forward mackenzie wilcox knocked in a rebound following a save by belles junior goalie liza felix in the 14th minute. The teams then went back and forth in goal-scoring op­portunities until the 63rd minute, when bulldogs sophomore for­ward allyse Zondlak found senior forward Katt sutherland on a cross to secure the 2-0 victory for the bulldogs. 
The belles faced the scots (9-8-1, 8-7-1 miaa) in their final game of the season. The game was a tale of two halves, with the belles control­ling the first half of play before the scots dominated the second half to win 3-1. 
in the first half, saint mary’s was able to outshoot alma, 10-6. The advantage paid off early for the belles, as rzepecki scored her third goal of the season in the 14th minute to give the belles an early lead. felix also had a strong half, securing four saves to maintain the belles, 1-0, lead going into halftime. 
The scots, however, came roar­ing back in the second half, partic­ularly on offense. They outshot the belles 13-2 and scored three goals in 11 minutes to secure a 3-1 vic­tory. Junior midfielder Jessica burg scored the first goal of the half in the 72nd minute. Junior midfielder megan Kalanik and senior mid­fielder lyndsey malson followed up with goals in the 78th and 82nd minutes, respectively, to hand the belles their 15th loss of the season. 
saint mary’s ends its season with an eighth place finish in the miaa and loses all three captains from this year’s squad to gradua­tion, including its leading scorer, rzepecki. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu, Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu and Benjamin Padanilam at      bpadanil@nd.edu 





paid adverTisemenT 
Aubrey 
conTinued from page 16 
wall and luke mishu helped me a lot.” 
aubrey’s adjustment to defense didn’t just mean a learning a new role, though. with clark favoring consis­tency along the back, aubrey has played almost every minute for the irish for the past two years, starting and finishing all but two games in that span. aubrey said his team’s training regimen has helped him get used to his schedule. 
“boss doesn’t like chang­ing the back four,” aubrey said. “so once you find your­self in ther,e you’re not going to come out unless you find yourself injured, and i’ve been lucky enough to not get seriously injured, and the few minor injuries i’ve got­ten, our great training staff, mario and steve, have gotten me back on the field. 
“it does get tiring, but we do a really good job of recov­ering. we put a lot of empha­sis on it.” 
aubrey’s versatility was already on display before he arrived at notre dame, and clark said the range of skills he took from playing all over the field have made him a 
paid adverTisemenT 
better defender. 
“he can play all different positions,” clark said. “at his club team, he played up front, he played midfield, and he played as a defender. when the team was hold­ing a lead, he was a defend­er, and when they needed a goal, he was a striker. his freshman year, the year we won the national champi­onship, he would spell us a little bit up front. he actual­ly came on in the final for a little while as a forward. he’s got a good range of pass, he’s tough, he’s strong, he’s real­ly improved greatly in one­on-one defending and he’s fantastic in the air. That’s a lot of good traits. if he keeps working on his game, he can be one of the best center backs i’ve ever had the plea­sure of working with.” 
despite becoming more at home at the back, aubrey has had his share of impres­sive moments going for­ward too, particularly off of set plays. with two goals and two assists this season, including a deflected ef­fort against pittsburgh on saturday, clark said the de­fender hasn’t lost his natural eye for goal. 
“i think the fact is that ob­viously he’s good in the air, but he’s good on the ground, too,” clark said. “he’s got good feet, and he likes to score goals. he’s got a very powerful shot, so it’s great when you’ve got a defender who’s good in the air but also can score goals. he’s got a nose for goals, possibly be­cause of his early career as a forward, and that’s certainly an added asset on set pieces on the attacking end of the field.” 
off the field, aubrey is a computer science major. he said that adjusting to his college workload was one of the greatest challenges he’s faced at notre dame. 
“i know a lot of the guys here went to a private high school where they prepare you really well, but i went to a public school,” aubrey said. “so adjusting to the workload was tough, and i stayed up freshman year a lot getting it done, but once i figured out that i needed to drop video games and get schoolwork done, i started doing better.” 
aubrey and the irish will begin postseason play this saturday at 1 p.m. at alumni stadium, where they will take on virginia in the acc quarterfinals. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 



Mazurek 
conTinued from page 16 
go cold, or as the miami game showed, one defensive lapse is all it takes. 
also of note, the irish will most likely end up with a four or five seed, which means that to make a deep run, they will have to win two or more games away from home as the underdogs. again, the team is capable of this, but it’s hard to expect the irish to pull it off twice or three times in a row. 
having senior captain midfielder glory williams back in the lineup should help the team’s continu­ity, but even so, the irish will rely heavily on contribution from younger members of the team like sophomore defender/midfielder sabinaflores, sophomore defender monica flores and freshman for­ward natalie Jacobs. even junior midfielder sandra yu has not played the last two season due to injury. 
These pieces have certainly con­tributed thus far for the irish, but whether or not they can continue in the home stretch will determine how far notre dame will go in the tournament. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Patberg 
conTinued from page 16 
will be a terrific college career. all of us in the notre dame women’s basketball family will be behind ali 100 percent during her rehabili­tation and give her all the resources she needs to be ready to go next season.” 
patberg will undergo sur­gery on her acl, a recovery process that will take 8-10 months, the release said. 
before the injury, patberg had been expected to con­tend for playing time in notre dame’s rotation this season. with the departure of guard Jewell loyd for the wnba, mcgraw said at the team’s media day oct. 12 that junior guard lindsay allen would be expected to take on a greater scor­ing load. in allen’s place, patberg would have been expected to run the point, mcgraw said. 
“lindsay is really playing like an all-american right now. she can pretty much play any spot,” mcgraw said. “i like her with the ball in her hands, but i think ali is more of a setup, traditional type of point guard.” 
mcgraw also compared to patberg to past irish point guard greats. 
“she’s going to be a tre­mendous leader,” mcgraw said. “i think she’s going to be one of the best leaders we’ve ever had as she ma­tures and grows into her game. she is very strong with the ball, and she’s a great communicator, which is something that we really need, so we’re really excited about her.” 
as an indiana native, patberg was also expected to draw fan interest this sea­son, mcgraw said. 
at media day, patberg did not mention any specific goals for her season, but did say she was hoping to grow throughout the year. 
“it’s a learning process,” she said. “i’m going to play and work my hardest.” 
patberg is now the sec­ond irish player to miss time with injury before the season has even started. mcgraw said on media day that junior forward Taya reimer has missed practices to rest her achilles. 
no. 3 notre dame will be­gin its season nov. 7 with an exhibition game against wayne state at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 





Football 
conTinued from page 16 
his staff would be paying attention to in regards to the cfp rankings. of notre dame’s four remaining op­ponents, only stanford is ranked, checking in at no. 11. 
“we won’t think much about it at all, other than talking about what we need to do, what we need to do better as a football team,” he said. “There’s a lot of areas 
paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 
within each group that we felt like after the Temple game that we’ve got to focus all of our time and energy on if we want to be in this con­versation next week and then the week after. 
“so our goal is to be in this conversation into december. The only way we can do that is if we clean up some of the things from the Temple game. That’s how i’ve addressed it to our team.” 
Red-zone struggles 
while notre dame has not been exceptionally efficient in the red zone throughout the season, the team’s short­comings were especially present against Temple on saturday, when sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer threw two interceptions in that area and the irish had to settle for a field goal on an­other trip. 
“it’s certainly a number that we’re aware of, that we have to really clean up the turnovers, converting field goals into touchdowns,” Kelly said of his team’s red-zone ef­ficiency. “ … we’ll take some extra time this week. we’ve done some more self-scouting in terms of play calling, what we’re doing down there. but i think at the end of the day execution from everybody, a heightened awareness of where we are, then a little bit more extra practice time.” 
Kelly said his staff will try to get all 11 players on the field in sync when it comes to red-zone situations instead of focusing in on the play of a single player or position group, like the offensive line. 
“when you get down there, it’s so game-plan centric,” he said. “Teams are really dictating down there what you do. are they laying off in coverage? are there eight or nine guys on the line of scrimmage? i mean, you’re in a short field, right? it’s so game-plan oriented down there in terms of what you’re doing and how you’re doing it. 
“it really requires all play­ers to be functioning togeth­er. That’s the real point of this relative to efficiency down there. you can’t just rely on your offensive line because they may not be able to block everybody. a back may have to run through a tackle or two. a quarterback may have to be on time to hit the corner route and be precision and precise with that throw and be on time.” 
Now vs. then 
after eight games last sea­son, the irish also stood 7-1, with the lone loss to one of the country’s top teams in florida state. however, the season spiraled out of control from that point, and notre dame lost its last four reg­ular-season games to finish 8-5. 
but don’t think the 2015 squad is the same as the 2014 one because of those similari­ties, Kelly said. 
“i think the schedule’s a little bit different,” he said. “we had to go out to the west coast twice, to arizona state and to usc. Then we had a big Ten team in northwestern and louisville — had a very tough schedule, didn’t play quite as well, obviously. 
“This team is a different group, different personali­ties, a little bit different of­fensively in terms of what we’re doing, as well. last year is probably more of a learning experience that we have go­ing into this november than it probably is more than any­thing else.” 
a big part of that turn came as the result of a string of in­juries beginning around that time in the season. This year, the irish suffered similar bad luck at the start of the season. Though he said he’d prefer to not have any hurt players at all, Kelly said the 2015 inju­ries came early enough to al­low notre dame to adapt the rest of the way. 
“if you start having injuries late in the year, it’s a lot more difficult, i would think, to get your guys ready,” he said. “we’ve been able to work to­gether and get these guys put into a very good position rela­tive to where they are right now. To start having injuries late in the year would be very difficult.” 
Quote of the day 
“Totally unacceptable. it’s not what we’re about. it’s not who we are.” — Kelly on Kizer flapping his arms after scor­ing two touchdowns against Temple. Kelly said the back­story was Kizer, an eagles fan, was mimicking eagles play­ers, but added, “it’s not who we are as a team or as a pro­gram. it won’t happen again.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses playoff, struggles in red zone 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
placed behind three un­defeated teams and one-loss alabama, notre dame stands fifth in the season’s first college football playoff (cfp) ranking, released Tuesday night. 
however, the irish (7-1) are seeded ahead of eight undefeated teams — baylor, michigan state, Tcu, iowa, memphis, oklahoma state, Toledo and houston — and the only team to have defeat­ed them, clemson, took the no. 1 slot. 
while notre dame sits on the outside looking in at the current top four seeds, the ones who will advance to the playoff semifinals in January, head coach brian Kelly said he believes in the strength of his team’s résumé. 
“we have to win more games, but i’ll stand up our schedule to anybody else right now,” he said. “we still have a loss, so that obviously counts. but it’s really for us what’s in front of us and what we have to do each and every week.” 
Kelly especially pointed out the most recent games notre dame has played against no. 1 clemson, navy, usc and no. 22 Temple, a four-game stretch in which the irish earned three wins and one loss, a two-point defeat to clemson. 
“The last four teams we played, three were unde­feated when we went into the game, and one was our natu­ral rival in usc,” Kelly said. “They had a combined re­cord of 25-6 right now. i don’t know many teams that have had that kind of record, op­position’s record, in the last four games. what i’ve told them is they’ve been tested. Their mettle has been tested over the last four weeks. let’s use that to our advantage in the way we play. don’t worry about the score. you can’t control those things.” 
along with not worrying about the score, Kelly said there wouldn’t be too much 
see fooTball PAGE 15 


MEN’S SOCCER 
aubrey solidifies nd’s defense 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
in soccer, the num­ber 10 is one of the most iconic jersey numbers of all time — from pelé to diego maradona to lionel messi, those two digits have become synonymous with exciting creative play and goalscoring. at notre dame, it’s been worn by the likes of former acc offensive player of the year harrison shipp and 2006 mac hermann Trophy win­ner Joe lapira. 
so junior brandon aubrey, a nearly ever-pres­ent stalwart in the center of head coach bobby clark’s irish defense, seems like an unusual addition to that list. but aubrey, a 6-foot-3 Texas native, said he had no idea he’d find himself man­ning the back four when he got his hands on his jersey. 
“freshman year i was playing striker,” aubrey said “The position opened up when harry [shipp] left, and they asked us what number we wanted, and i took 10 thinking i’d be a striker, but when i got back, they told me in the spring i’d be a center back. but they let me keep it, and i was happy with that.” 
since that moment, aubrey’s number 10 jer­sey has been found in the notre dame backline for almost every outing, as he firmly established himself as a regular part of one of the strongest defensive units in the acc. aubrey said he found the unlikely positional adjustment to be relatively simple. 
“i didn’t think it was too difficult,” aubrey said. “i think the further back on the field you go the easier it is because you get to see more of the field, and re­ally you have less pressure on you when you have the ball in the back because no one’s trying to take it off you or anything. it was re­ally difficult learning what positions to be in at what time, but [former players andrew] o’malley, [patrick] 
see aubrey PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish have talent, need consistency 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
notre dame has been one of the most puzzling teams in the country this season. currently the irish are ranked 14th, but their season has been a roller coaster to say the least. 
The irish dropped a heart­breaking, double-overtime loss to no. 11 clemson on sept. 19. five days later, the team knocked off no. 1 virginia. and when you thought the ride was over, they lost to no. 2 florida state three days after that. 
Though things calmed down a bit as the irish moved into october, consistency continued to be an issue as they lost in coral gables, florida, to give miami its first acc win. Their most recent game again shows what the team is capable of as it dominated no. 5 virginia Tech, 3-0, on friday. 
granted, the series of games just described would be a difficult stretch for any team. and yes, the acc is far and away the most com­petitive conference in the nation. 
but the fact this team has prov­en it can beat the country’s best team makes the losses to clemson and miami more painful. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo acknowledged the team’s lack of consistency after the loss to florida state and said that is an area for improvement. 
“we need to be more profes­sional in how we approach games,” romagnolo said. “we can’t choose when we’re going to play hard. we have to play hard and have composure in every opportunity that we have.” 
with a 13-4-1 overall record and wins over virginia and virginia Tech, notre dame is a virtual lock for the ncaa tourna­ment, though they won’t make the acc tournament after going 6-4-0 in conference. when the irish return to the postseason, nothing is a given. 
This is a team that could win the championship. Their strong, experienced defense paired with senior forward anna maria gilbertson’s ability to score on any given run means they’re well-equipped to outlast teams with more raw talent. 
but this is also a team that could lose in the second round if not careful. gilbertson could 
see maZureK PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
patberg out for season 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
irish freshman guard ali patberg will miss the entire 2015-2016 season after tear­ing her right acl in practice monday, the team announced in a press release Tuesday. 
The columbus, indiana, native was a mcdonald’s all­american and 2015 indiana miss basketball. patberg is one of three guards who make up the irish freshman class, along with marina mabrey and arike ogunbowale, both of whom were mcdonald’s all-americans as well. 
“our hearts go out to ali, and we are disappointed she won’t be able to play this season,” head coach muffet mcgraw said in the press re­lease. “however, ali is an ex­tremely tough young woman, both mentally and physically, and i’m confident this is only a temporary setback and a brief delay to the start of what 
see paTberg PAGE 14 




