The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 48 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students play role in elections 
Municipal elections offer students opportunity to engage in local politics 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
in the midst of ongoing speculation about the 2016 presidential race, the city of south bend reelected democratic candidate pete buttigieg to serve a second term as mayor Tuesday. 
some notre dame and saint mary’s students – who for the most part could not vote in the south bend elec­tions as residents of other cities  – nevertheless found a way to participate in the election process. 
more than 20 interns from notre dame and saint mary’s 
see elecTion PAGE 5 



Magazine mogul explores ethics 

parties release suit details 

Oberver Staff Report 

a nov. 5 press release from the law firm of anderson agostino & Keller, p.c. pro­vided new information on the lawsuit initiated by a stu­dent against the university and a former academic coach alleging sexual harassment and racial discrimination. 
The release stated the university has refused to correct the official state­ment made by notre dame’s vice president for public af­fairs and communications paul browne. 
“even after modifying his original statement to admit that an investigation oc­curred and the academic coach was terminated, mr. browne persisted in restat­ing that the allegations made by the male student are unfounded,” the release stated. 
browne said in an email to The observer on Thursday that the university acted im­mediately when informed of the problem. 
“The student identified as John doe in the lawsuit complained on aug. 26 to the university’s office of institutional equity about an employee’s conduct. The employee was identified in the lawsuit as Jane roe. soon thereafter, notre dame employed outside counsel to conduct an independent investigation of the allega­tions,” he said in the email. 
even though the student and the academic coach did not work together in a pro­fessional capacity, browne said, “due to the nature of the allegations the university put roe on leave pending res­olution of the investigation.” 
“John doe told the inves­tigator that while roe never 
see suiT PAGE 4 


NOTRE DAME FORUM 


Bishop speaks on religious liberty 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
bishop daniel e. Flores of the diocese of brownsville, Texas delivered the opening ad­dress of the notre dame law review symposium. This year’s symposium is titled “religious liberty and the Free society: celebrating the 50th anniversary of ‘dignitatis humanae’” and is part of the 2015-16 notre dame Forum. 
Flores focused on the intellec­tual issues at the core of ‘dignitatis humanae,’ the declaration on religious liberty issued by the second vatican council. 
“within the tradition of the church, 'dignitatis humanae' represents a magisterial judg­ment about religious freedom,” he said. “Just as importantly it represents a magisterial judg­ment on the proper way to frame the issue of religious freedom. This should not be surprising since this is what councils do. 
The bishops who wrote the document framed the issue of religious liberty within the theo­logical tradition, articulating the freedom required for the act of faith, Flores said. The conciliar judgment about the frame and context of the teachings suggests that related topics, such as the dignity of the human person, human freedom and human intellectuality are best under­stood from the point of view of revelation. 
“simply put, the human per­son as a rational and choosing being is best perceived from the vantage point of the highest acts available to us in this life: namely, the dynamic of truth apprehend­ed and freely chosen in faith,” he said. “That this human dynamic happens with the aid of grace does not obscure the fact that it is essentially human in character. on the contrary, it renders it more intelligible.” 
John courtney murray, an american theologian who played a large role in drafting ‘dignitatis humanae,’ favors the first para­graph of the document as the principal lens for its interpreta­tion, Flores said, whereas other theologians prefer to employ the 
see bishop PAGE 3 



By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
capitalism has been false­ly maligned as an amoral or even immoral system, ac­cording to steve Forbes. 
chairman and editor-in­chief of Forbes media and a former presidential can­didate, Forbes was invited by young americans for Freedom, the potenziani program in constitutional studies and the Tocqueville program to speak on “morality and capitalism” in hesburgh library’s carey 
auditorium  on  Thursday  
evening.  
Forbes  began  the  lec­ 

ture by discussing how 
see marKeTs PAGE 4 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


If you could be a biblical character, who would you be? 

Grace Linczer 
senior off campus 
“Judith.” 

Jack Puetz 
sophomore alumni hall 
“habakkuk.” 


Kathryn Dennee 
senior badin hall 

“mary from martha and mary.” 



Nick Miles 
sophomore o’neill hall 
“ehud.” 


Aaron Swope 
freshman 
sorin college 

“Joseph of egypt.” 

Gregory Conti 
sophomore duncan hall 
“elijah.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
clare Kossler alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
matthew mcKenna marek mazurek alex winegar maureen schweninger 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Silent Retreat Service Event Volleyball vs. Workshop Tai Chi in the 
annmarie soller Tara carone 

Moreau Seminary Robinson Community Pittsburgh Brownson Hall Galleries 
5:30p.m. Learning Center Purcell Pavilion 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Retreat focused on 8:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Learn how to craft 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

silent prayer and Rake leaves for The Irish take on the a compelling grant Relax in the Transitory 
The observer regards itself as reflection. community members. Panthers. proposal. Waterscapes exhibit. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Volleyball vs. Virginia “Pericles” Baraka Bouts- Lecture Lecture 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Tech Washington Hall Semifinals DeBartolo Hall Eck Visitors Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Purcell Pavilion 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Joyce Center Fieldhouse 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. Production by the Not-3 p.m.-7 p.m. Dr. Richard Jackson Marie Reimers will 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Notre Dame squares So-Royal Shakepseare All proceeds benefit the will discuss healthy discuss end-of-life 
we can correct our error. 

off with the Hokies. company. Holy Cross Missions. communities. issues. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | The observer 
Author examines social mobility in US 
By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
american author, essayist and social critic peter sacks examined the relationship between class and its influence on the american college experience, as well as colleges' current relationship with social mobility, in a lecture Thursday night. 
“The american dream is on life support,” sacks said in the lecture, titled “climbing the class ladder: do college and universities help — or do they stand in the way?” 
Though “we often talk about american higher education as be­ing this meritocracy … [and] we like to think of our schools, colleg­es and universities as great equal­izers,” sacks said, this is not the case in a modern america where “advantages and disadvantages of class undergird so much of what transpires in higher education.” 
sacks said despite the u.s. com­monly being thought of as a land with equality of opportunity for all, this status is undermined by the country’s system of capital­ism, run by the rule of the survival of the fittest. There is a class divide in education, he said, and colleges and universities are doing a poor job of bridging it. 
“we live in a democratic society, 
Bishop 
conTinued From page 1 
second paragraph of the docu­ment as an interpretive lens. 
“‘dignitatis humanae’ num­ber two, with its emphasis on human dignity as rooted in our being, endowed with free will and therefore privileged with personal responsibility, states the matter in terms of a posi­tive good within the person with juridical consequences," he said. " … This a properly but it has become one where out­comes are too heavily influenced by money and power, and equal educational opportunity is not immune to the influences of money and power,” sacks said. “when we talk about the class divide in education, those who benefit from the existing rules of the game might feel threatened. out in the open, the vastly un­equal educational opportunity is exposed.” 
sacks said colleges are not doing a good enough job reaching and aiding economically disadvan­taged students, as only 21 percent of “college-qualified” students from low-income families eventu­ally complete a bachelor’s degree, and roughly six million college-qualified students do not attend college due to financial restraints alone. Furthermore, sacks said, while recruited athletes, legacies and under-represented minori­ties receive a substantial boost in the admissions process, low-income students are given little to no advantage. 
“our exclusionary way of run­ning our educational system con­tradicts our founding ideologies, and so we can’t come out and ad­mit that exclusion on class lines is the primary way we do things,” he said. “ … america is not the land of equal opportunity. so we see that many academic institu­tions aren’t welcoming places for students from families of low and modest incomes.” 
“That begs the obvious ques­tion: are colleges and universities the right place to climb the social and economic ladder, or are there other ways to do this?” sacks said. 
in fact, he said, there might be better ways, or ways that serve some people better than others. The middle class has declined pre­cipitously since 1979, sacks said, and that decline is linked with the successful assault on unions by large corporate interests. 
“a recent paper [was] re­leased by the national bureau of economic research in which the researchers estimated the ef­fects on intergenerational eco­nomic mobility from the decline of unionism in the united states. The research found that parents’ unionism has had a significant effect on their child’s well-being,” sacks said. 
“The adult children of union­ized parents earn higher labor in­come compared to the offspring of non-union parents, and the children of unionized parents of­ten obtain higher education and better health outcomes compared to those whose parents were not unionized.” 

These intergenerational ben­efits from unionization are more powerful for poorer and lesser-educated parents and tend to spill over into the broader community, sacks said. The result is that al­though collective action among workers has come under attack across the u.s., there is a proven way through unionization to pro­mote economic mobility beyond college. 
sacks also said there are those who claim too many people are going to college. he said critics of higher education deny a link be­tween higher education subsidies and economic growth, as well as that public support of higher edu­cation in the u.s. increases eco­nomic equality. 
“These critics of higher edu­cation have essentially argued that colleges and universities are useless as a social or eco­nomic investment,” sacks said. “higher education is both a pub­lic good, and investment into it is essential.” 
sacks said those born at an economic disadvantage and who drop out of high school have only a one-percent chance of reach­ing the top income quartile by the time they are 40. additionally educational attainment is 
are only partially known in this life.” 
Flores said to hold the teach­ing of 'dignitatis humanae' as primarily theological does not necessarily suggest the doc­trine is altogether out of reach of non-theological discourses such as political philosophy or constitutional theory, which was murray's fear. 
“it does mean though, that when we engage in the cur­rent discussion about religious freedom with any contem­porary society of religious highly correlated with reduced unemployment, public assis­tance, smoking rates and poverty rates, as well as increased voting rates and volunteerism. 
sacks closed by saying the re­duction of subsidies for public institutions has caused some to turn private and has created a situation where one’s ability to pay determines whether one de­serves a college education. he said students from families who have the ability to pay for admis­sions slots at universities could become a new, self-perpetuating aristocracy. 
“at the dinner table, in the real-world, equal opportunity means that parents want their kids to have opportunities they never had. … we have what we have of because of sacrifices and invest­ments in human capital past gen­erations made for us,” sacks said. 
sacks’ lecture was the keynote address for the 2015 anbryce Forum, which according to its website is “meant to encourage a campus-wide dialogue on the means by which a range of ac­tors attain access to opportunity in the complex landscape of the american 21st century.” 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchenell@nd.edu 
pluralism and governmental indifference to religious doc­trine we have to be both rea­sonable and aware of how our political philosophy receives its direction from properly theological sources,” he said. 
an accurate historical nar­rative recognizes the decisive fact that the issues of equality and freedom became disen­gaged at some point from the theological context which bore them, Flores said. 
“it is important to note that ‘dignitatis humanae’ reposi­tions for the church the dis­cussion about church, society and freedom within a properly theological frame," he said. "it remains to be seen if it is pos­sible for us to influence the wider social fabric by means of such a recovery of our best life. ‘dignitatis humanae’ would insist we are better off looking at the issue from the perspec­tive of the best lights: namely the gospel narratives, st. paul, st. augustine and of course, st. Thomas.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

theological perspective, citing the revealed word of god.” 
This theological belief is fur­ther articulated later in the document, where the teach­ing on religious freedom is discussed in the light of rev­elation, Flores said. drafting the text represented a “dance” between two different kinds of Thomism. 
"murray’s Thomism, a politi­cal philosophy, and the theo­logical Thomism of wojtyla and others, ultimately the council Fathers relativized," he sad. " … by relativized, i mean the council made it be seen in relation to the higher theologi­cal signs.” 
‘dignitatis humanae’ pro­poses teaching rooted within revelation, clear and at the same time mystery-laden, he said. 
“clear, because the preroga­tives and operations of rea­son are discernible to all and open to inspection,” he said. “but mystery-laden because the light of the Trinity and its reflections on the human soul 


paid adverTisemenT 


did not initiate contact with he said steve Jobs and embodies the ideal of the un-

Suit 
the academic coach for as-Markets steve wozniak, the duo be-likely entrepreneur, Forbes 

conTinued From page 1 
sistance in the course but 

conTinued From page 1 hind apple, utilized their said, because of his initial began dating the daughter. 
different strength to lead struggles and later meteoric tried to seduce him, she pres-“over the course of time 
capitalism is portrayed the personal computing rise to the top of the busi­sured him to have sex with [student] and [daughter] be-
in popular culture and by revolution. Jobs’s under-ness world. her daughter. upon conclu-came serious. They engaged 
hollywood specifically. standing of consumers and “he was a guy in his 50s sion of the investigation and in sexual activities very of-
according to Forbes, films the marketplace helped who had never achieved review of its findings, notre ten, to the point of being 
and Tv shows characterize him lead apple’s business great success and was sell-dame promptly terminated unnatural,” the document 
businessmen as greedy vil-development and sales, ing milkshake machines in roe on oct. 5,” he said in the stated. 
lains willing to sacrifice all while wozniak’s technical california,” he said. statement. “Further, a num-according to the document, 
ethical principles in search knowledge and engineering yet Forbes said the ben­ber of media outlets mistak-the student became close 
for profits. background allowed him to efits of capitalism are not enly reported that plaintiff with the academic coach, as 
“research has shown that perfect the actual products constrained to a few lucky was a student-athlete or well as the daughter. 
in the movies, businessmen themselves. individuals. instead, capi­that student-athletes were “[daughter] and [mother] 
kill more people than serial Forbes cited the essay “i, talism spreads knowledge among other complainants. both were his best friends 
killers do,” Forbes said. pencil” by leonard read as that continually improves neither is true. The sole on snapchat. They talked 
however, Forbes said this an example of how even the society by encouraging in-plaintiff is not now and has about everything. [student] 
vicious stereotype rarely most seemingly simple prod-novation. he said the ex-never been a notre dame shared with them his per-
reflects reality, and in fact, ucts require a sophisticated ample of post-world war ii student-athlete.” sonal thoughts, experiences 
the marketplace actually en-web of cooperation in order europe and Japan proves caitlin rourk, a spokes-and feelings,” the document 
courages moral behavior. to be successfully manufac-this idea because their econ-person for the academic stated. 
“The reason that com-tured and sold. omies were built on infor­coach’s family, released a before leaving for his study 
merce is based on morality is nonetheless, Forbes said, mation and merely physical statement from the family abroad program in the sum-
very simple: in true free mar-finding this kind of success capital that was destroyed to the associated press on mer, the student stayed with 
kets, you succeed by meeting is often a difficult task that during the conflict. Thursday evening. the daughter, according to 
the needs and wants of other involves repeated failure. “Thanks to the u.s. securi­“There are two sides to ev-the document. The student 
people,” he said. “sometimes there’s prodi-ty umbrella, western europe ery breakup and that this alleged that throughout the 
This principle of coopera-gies, but most of us have to and Japan, a few years after is being played out in the student’s and daughter’s re­
tion extends not only to how learn the hard way,” he said. this devastating conflict, media is incredibly painful lationship, the mother made 
companies interact with as an example, Forbes dis-were producing more than to us,” the statement said. repeated inquiries regarding 
consumers, Forbes said, but cussed the bankruptcies of before the conflict began,” “while we may not be a per-their sexual encounters. 
also to how businesspeople henry Ford before he suc-Forbes said. fect family, we are a close-“[mother] knew they were 
and entrepreneurs work to-cessfully manufactured and concluding the lecture, knit one and welcomed this having sex, and afterward 
gether to form corporations. sold the original model a. Forbes said the impact of young man into our lives at she would ask them how 
“when we say the word Forbes said capitalism’s religion and christianity a time when he, himself said, the condoms were and how 
corporation you think big, process of creative destruc-in particular is essential to he couldn’t rely on anyone the sex was,” the document 
cold and greedy, but the fact tion and progress through growth of capitalism in the else.” states. “[mother] talked to 
of the matter is corporations competition gives opportu-western world. The law firm also released [student] about her sex life. 
are about working together nities to a greater amount of “our Judeo-christian a document prepared by an … she also said she always 
towards a common goal,” he people than do more strati-heritage led to more curios-attorney for the university wanted to have sex with a 
said. fied systems. ity and experimentation in during the course of its in-black man.” 
Forbes also said the con-“it enables people from the a way no other faith did,” he vestigation, “in order to pro-in august, the student be­
cept of comparative advan-most unlikely backgrounds said. tect the student from the gan considering ending his 
tage is key to understanding to rise up,” he said. substantial undue prejudi-relationship with the daugh­
how the exchange of goods ray Kroc, the cofounder Contact JP Gschwind at  cial effect of notre dame’s ter, which the student felt 
and services works. of mcdonald’s corporation, jgschwin@nd.edu false statement.” was further complicated be­
“This document shows that cause his belongings were in someone acting on behalf of the mother and daughter’s the university of notre dame storage unit. was aware of the factual basis “even if he had wanted to for the allegations, including break up with [daughter], he a reference to a notre dame would not have done so be-Football player living at the cause he is not sure if they academic coach’s house for would have given him his a couple weeks, and who had things. … [daughter] said, also ‘dated’ the academic ‘you know, if you break up coach’s daughter,“ the press with me, i am going to kill release from the law firm you, right?’ [student] wasn’t stated.  sure if she was joking,” the 
The document, dated sept. document stated. 9 and with the names and de-at the beginning of the se­tails of the involved parties mester, the student tried to redacted, gives the student’s distance himself from the account of the timeline of mother and daughter but was events and provides details reluctant to express his feel-on the student’s interactions ings and told his parents of with the former academic his discomfort. coach and her daughter. “[student]’s parents con-
The student stated he was tacted his ra, who is re­introduced to the academic quired to report the matter coach by a friend on march to the university,” the docu­
18. The coach had been asked ment stated. to attend one of his class-The student filed for a re-es by the teacher “to give straining order, and the him pointers and advice on restraining order for the teaching.” The student met daughter was granted, but the academic coach’s daugh-the one for the academic ter the same day. The student coach was not. 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | The observer 

Election 
conTinued From page 1 
volunteered for buttigieg’s campaign, performing a va­riety of functions including calling voters to find out their concerns and to en­courage them to vote, going door-to-door to speak with constituents and sending out absentee ballots to vot­ers, notre dame sophomore andrew pott said. 
pott, who was the intern coordinator for buttigieg’s campaign, said many stu­dents initially became involved in the cam­paign through the college democrats and from there took on varying degrees of responsibility. 
“There were a few people who were really involved and who were there every day or every other day, but then there were other people that were there once or twice,” pott said. 
he said overall, buttigieg received more than 80 per­cent of the vote. 
“we wouldn’t have gotten that if it wasn’t for all these students showing up,” he said. 
notre dame junior casey baker, one of the college interns for buttigieg’s cam­paign, said she chose to work on the campaign because she agrees with buttigieg’s platform and his approach to governing. 
“even though we’re not going to have a say directly in the polls, everyone’s out there because they really support pete’s message and think that he is the best op­tion for south bend,” baker said. “it’s really cool to be able to indirectly have a voice. … you get to make a difference without even casting a vote.” 
because this was a smaller election, baker said, student interns were able to inter­
“When young people make their voices heard, when they show up, they can have a tremendous impact on our political system and our civic environment because [they] have a lot to say.” 
Alex Rosselli 
campaign manager 
Pete for South Bend 
act directly with buttigieg and his campaign manager throughout the campaign. 
alex rosselli, buttigieg’s campaign manager, said the dedication and commitment of student volunteers was a central component to the campaign as a whole. 

“[students] have been coming in multiple days a week, we’ve got students in every day, and they’ve just been unbelievable,” rosselli said. “They’ve really been the core of our campaign. 
“They’ve brought a ton of energy into our operation.” 
rosselli said he hopes the students who helped with buttigieg’s campaign will continue to participate in politics on a local, as well as regional and national level. he said student engagement in politics is important be­cause current students are the same people who will be assuming leadership roles in future campaigns and elections. 
“when young people make their voices heard, when they show up, they can have 
paid adverTisemenT 

a tremendous impact on our political system and our civic environment because [they] have a lot to say,” rosselli said. “[They’re] going to be around a long time.” 
sophomore sarah Tomas morgan, a south bend na­tive, was one of the few notre dame students who was able to vote in the election. she said this was her third elec­tion voting and that she val­ued the opportunity to be able to cast a vote in person. 
“i felt like i could make an informed decision [in the election] and cast my ballot in a way that i felt comfort­able with,” Tomas morgan said. “i do feel like it’s my responsibility to choose the people who will be leading my city because inevitably someone will get elected, and i would like to have a say in that.” 
Tomas morgan, who is also a co-chair of nd votes ’16, said nd votes hosted a few events earlier in the year that offered students from south bend the oppor­tunity to register to vote in Tuesday’s election. 
buttigieg’s opponent, the republican candidate Kelly Jones, said like buttigieg she recognized the political value of engaging students and a younger demographic. Jones said she made an effort to connect with the younger voting population by means of Facebook, as well as through her daughter, who encouraged her friends and acquaintances to vote in the election. 
“i honestly believe we did everything we could to run a fair and clean race,” Jones said in an email. 
no students worked for Jones’ campaign, although Jones said she reached out to the college republicans several times and received no response. she said she found their lack of response “disheartening.” 
secretary for the college republicans rachel o’grady said she was not aware of any attempts to contact the college republicans on the part of Jones (editor’s note: rachel o’grady is a news writer for The observer). 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Getting our stuff together 
Jack Rooney 
managing editor 

as a senior, i have noticed my classmates and i speak more and more of needing to get our stuff together (“stuff” is not the preferred vernacular, but the preferred vernacular is not quite fit for print). it’s true, graduation looms ahead of us, and soon enough, we will be flung unwillingly into the long-dreaded and much-mythologized “real world,” but for the time being, i’m fine with not having my stuff together. 
i often hear my friends say they need to take a weekend, or an afternoon, or even a whole week of break to get their stuff together. i’m guilty of the same, and much as i tried to use my fall break a few weeks ago to catch up on senior thesis work, map out the rest of my semester and make some headway on the job hunt, i didn’t accomplish nearly as much as i had hoped for. in retrospect, that was predictable, and really, not having our stuff together is something college students really excel at — and that’s fine, too. 
right now, i am fine with the knowledge that i don’t have all my stuff together, but i know what all my stuff is. i have my job at The observer. i have my thesis and other schoolwork. i have my job search. i have my friends, family and a little bit of free time to actually enjoy senior year. all my stuff is there, and i can easily identify it, but it’s nowhere near together. i don’t even know what that would look like, and i’m convinced the people who seemingly have all their stuff together are just better at faking it than the rest of us. 
but knowing what all my stuff is works for me. i’m not sure if i’ve ever completely had my stuff together, and to be honest, i’m not sure i would like it all that much. not having it all together means that my work is always incomplete; there’s always something more to be done. That’s how i live my life now, and that’s how i want to live when i leave here. i think we’re all just works in prog­ress, and the prospect of progress is what gets us up in the morning. 
of course, i could be completely wrong and woefully unprepared for life after college. i cer­tainly allow for that possibility, but unless i fail out of all my classes in the next semester and a half (a course of action i haven’t yet ruled out), i’m getting kicked out of this place in five months, whether i have my stuff together or not. but mak­ing it up as i go along, without my stuff together, has worked pretty well for me for 21 years, so i think i’ll keep it going even when i leave notre dame. i’d much rather live my life like i spent fall break — setting irrationally lofty goals that i never quite reach but taking breaks for naps and food and time with friends and family. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
avoid epoch fall job interviews 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
while the notre dame community recently vacated campus to enjoy a well-deserved au­tumn holiday, i participated on job interview panels questioning finalists who were com­peting for public affairs, program manage­ment and detention officer positions. many of the interviewees held impressive credentials and graduated from notable universities like virginia, chicago, michigan and northwestern that business insider ranked in their top 25 colleges that hiring managers listed as the best in the nation. yet, i was horrified at the overall lack of preparation, professionalism or limited whiffs of persona that permeated throughout a week of daily interview sessions. at one point, i counted a person say “basically” 67 times in 20 minutes, and at its height, used the word four times in one sentence. 
unfortunately — perhaps “fortunately” at this point — i did not interview a notre dame (business insider #24) graduate against whom i could compare and rate for either lacking or impressive moments. but make no mis­take about how to approach an interview. an internet search displays thousands of “how to” preparation and strategy advice columns to peruse that are a base from which to build a successful interview that in turn secures a job offer. learn how to be engaging with your voice without sounding overly eager. discover ways to successfully answer without stum­bling or sounding stupid answering a tricky question that asks you to discuss your biggest failure. 
a potential new hire does not need to speak perfect grammar, display perfect humor or perfectly know every aspect of a prospec­tive employer’s organization. however, the perfect new hire candidate who succeeds is the one who works without distraction as though already in the workplace while prepar­ing for an interview. practice answering your internet-found questions out loud to a friend, and remember, the pace at which you answer demonstrates your confidence and prepara­tion. your voice, speed and content tell the interviewer much about your enthusiasm and competencies. 
here are a variety of caruso’s best practices and specific lessons learned to consider before your next interview — failure to avoid these during an interview before me will guarantee that i will not hire you. 
First, your appearance is not first in impor­tance, but your smell certainly can eliminate you before you sit down to utter your first “ba­sically.” do not fragrance yourself other than with deodorant. some of us interviewers are excessively sensitive and allergic to even the fresh breeze fabric softener used in your dryer. imagine, then, how the pungent Jasmine oil-based scent can overpower someone trying to decide if you should sit outside his or her door? 
secondly, you are not Facebook friends with the interview panel, even though they may have viewed your Facebook page. consequently, if you refer to your group of college friends as “you guys,” do not address the panel, which includes a woman sitting next to me, by hoping “you guys” choose soon. Furthermore, i can overlook a detention of­ficer who says she took “these kind of files” or says, “it was the person that went with me,” but i lower my evaluations of a public affairs candidate who does not correctly pluralize both words saying “these kinds of files,” or does not know that “who” refers to people and say, “it was the person who went with me.” 
if you interview for any visible frontline or public affairs position, take it from this american studies major and learn how to cor­rectly write and speak english before your interview. as a southwestern pennsylvania native, i overcame my colloquial shortcom­ings for “yinze guys eating pren-zils while the picks-burgh stillers play against wursh-ington dune-town.” 
Finally, know what words mean. you do not “feel” which is a sense, but you “believe” that notre dame is a good school. “over” is an act of hurdling above something while “more than” is a comparison of a number of objects. sadly, online journalism has become sloppy in its content, but many nationally broadcast and print presentations misuse “over” to shorten their content. For example, the second para­graph of business insider’s top 50 colleges edi­tion contains “we asked over 1,000 business insider readers.” i hope that writer did not graduate from notre dame. while preparing this column, i noted a wal mart television ad and a pbs documentary about the hazards of climbing mount everest misuse “over” instead of use “more than.” 
most job interviews are a strict pass/fail pro­cess. should i ask you to write a press release, and you return a perfectly grammatical prod­uct, i may hire you on the spot. but if i provide a scenario from notes “in excess of 500 persons at the last meeting, and we scheduled a meet­ing for december,” do not write that “over” 500 people met or that dhs “is holding” a meeting or a meeting “is being held” or “there will be a meeting” in december. nothing “is being” in the future, and never begin a sentence with “there.” 
i will, however, hire someone who writes that “more than 500 people met, and dhs will hold, or a meeting will be held” in december. because, basically, i dun lurned to rite gud at notre dame and want to see you succeed when interviewing. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter: @GaryJCaruso or email: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Board of Trustees, respond to student government 

EDITORIAL 

on oct. 17, student body president and vice president bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas presented the first of two reports they will make this year to the university’s board of Trustees. 
The report, which totaled 30 pages, is the product of an immense amount of work that included interviews with university administrators, members of hall staff and students who have been through the Title iX pro­cess either as a complainant or respondent. 
The last section of the report lays out a series of rec­ommendations to the board based on student govern­ment’s findings, which have been divided into four categories: campus climate for reporting and support, campus sexual violence policies, the Title iX process and accountability. 
while all the recommendations should be taken into consideration, we identified a few as not only the most important, but also the most feasible. 
we emphasize the need to improve notre dame’s communication with saint mary’s on matters relat­ing to sexual violence and other Title iX offenses. saint mary’s students currently face significant barriers and disincentives to reporting sexual assaults and abuses that do not exist for notre dame students. 
For example, the report explained when a no-contact order is issued between the complainant and respon­dent in Title iX cases, the university notifies ndsp and hall staff if the complainant is a notre dame student. if the complainant is a saint mary’s student, though, she must take it upon herself to inform the college’s 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

you glance down at your phone screen as inconspicu­ously as you can, trying not to make it obvious that you are looking at a map app. There are butterflies in your stomach and that distinct deer-in-the-headlights look on your face. 
you know how the story goes: eventually you stop and take a deep breath. you look around and realize the very same first-day insecurities are alive in the eyes of every other student. your stom­ach settles, and your life becomes the story of another nervous freshman that has found a happy ending un­der the dome.
 Flash forward to your first day back from fall break. now you don’t feel quite as lost among the trees in god Quad. you know to stay off the grass and where the trees look the most incredible in their new fall colors. Finally, you’re starting to call notre dame home. 
you love your campus and the community here. you still have little moments in which you can’t believe you’re actually here. you decide to take a walk and go watch the sunset from south Quad. Then you decide maybe you’ll go to laFun, back to your dorm or to your next night class. 
you’re just minding your own business when you happen to overhear it. maybe you don’t recognize it as important at first.
 “ oh, you’re a minority? did they give you a full schol­arship to fill that quota?”
 “you’re black and native american? why aren’t you at harvard?”
 “can i touch your hair?” 

unable to think of what else to do, you choose to ig­nore it. but you can’t shake the feeling that the girl whose hair is being touched looks a bit uncomfortable or that the guy who didn’t “go to harvard” got here by working hard, like you did. 
here is the twist to that story: 

it’s been weeks since those first few disorienting days and the headlights have faded into the distance. long after your roommate, quadmates and floormates have started to feel at home, you have to admit you still feel security and administration. 
Though this may seem like a small issue, it is a bur­den placed on saint mary’s students that notre dame students do not face. more communication between the university and the college could alleviate added pres­sure on survivors. 
The report also requests the inclusion of emotional violence in the university’s dating and domestic violence policy. This would classify emotional violence as a Title iX crime, allowing victims of emotional vio­lence access to more resources than they would other­wise be entitled. since emotional violence is so often a precursor to other violent behavior, we feel this action would have the potential to prevent further sexual and physical violence. 
The final section of the recommendations calls for greater accountability and transparency from the university. in particular, it requests the university re­lease raw data from the 2015 campus climate survey, as well as data on sexual assault reports from the office of community standards (ocs). The report claims 27 schools in the association of american universities — peer institutions of notre dame — have released the data and findings from campus climate surveys they have conducted in the last few years, so there are prec­edents. The report additionally requests the release of data about how many cases are reported each year, how many of those proceed to university conduct pro­cess hearings and how many respondents are found responsible. 
while students’ privacy must be taken into consid­eration, many students underestimate the number of cases of sexual violence that occur on campus and 
It’s time ND 
like a bit of an outsider.
 To be honest, it’s unnerving to walk across a room or a quad or a hall and feel like you stand out, but you’ve learned to deal with it, and you feel life is good. a fall chill hits your face, and you pull your hood up on your jacket to keep your ears warm. 
you try to ignore the fact that the police car driving in front of laFun has been stopping every time you pretend to look down to check the time to watch you. before long, this becomes “just another Tuesday night.” 
one day, you find yourself standing in line at reckers, in your dorm or in your classroom when you hear it. your roommate. your new best friend. a perfect stranger. The guy standing in line behind you. and you can’t ignore it.
 “oh, you’re a minority? did they give you a full schol­arship to fill that quota?”
 “you’re black and native american? why aren’t you at harvard?”
 “can i touch your hair?” 
you are left speechless. how do you respond to some­thing like that? how to feel? how can you be so sure that the person even realizes what that sounds like to you?
 Though the stories written above are fictional, they are based on real situations that have been experienced by current notre dame students — most within the last few months. it was situations like these that pushed the diversity council of notre dame to meet at its annual summit before the fall semester to brainstorm ways to improve existing relations between the many different groups and individuals on campus. during its meet­ings, the #itsTimend campaign was born.
 #itsTimend seeks to emphasize the importance of remembering there is no single story that fits every single student at notre dame and no generalization correctly encompasses the experiences of the entire student body. The campaign is a call to awareness and acceptance of issues that, though we may never experience them ourselves, many face on a daily basis. 
between its students. we take issue with this; if we con­tinue to underestimate the problem, we cannot address it properly. 
importantly, in addition to its recommendations to the board, student government developed a nine-item list of commitments it has pledged to take on itself, in­cluding continuing efforts for sexual assault prevention and awareness and working with campus administra­tors, hall staff and students. 
The university does not require the board issue an official response to the report or the recommendations put forth within it. we demand they do so anyway. 
a meaningful response must do more than simply reaffirm the board’s commitment to survivors. it must thoughtfully outline how the board intends to respond, what recommendations it will consider implementing and an explanation of why it will not implement the others. 
The fact of the matter is students — and student government, by extension — can only do so much, and change needs to come from both students and admin­istration. we all want to live on a campus where sexual assault doesn’t happen, but given the grim national data, that isn’t a realistic expectation. 
what is realistic, however, is expecting an institution­al commitment to listen to and heed what survivors on this campus say and to take seriously any suggestions they might have for improving campus climate or the disciplinary and investigative processes. 
To board chairman richard notebaert and the other Trustees: you have been given the opportunity to visibly demonstrate your commitment to survivors of sexual violence at notre dame — how are you going to use it? 
Through the campaign, diversity council hopes to encourage students to elicit understanding, become educated on micro-aggressions and stereotypes and spread the belief that we as students should hold each other and ourselves accountable in our interactions with others.
 The campaign kicked off this week with several events including an information session, pledge-signing and a whiteboard multimedia display. on Thursday, diversity council held the first talk of the “it’s Time nd” series at legends, featuring a panel dis­cussion regarding the cultural climate on campus and the meaning of prejudice. The panel included msps director iris outlaw, student body president bryan ricketts, grc assistant director maureen doyle and director of africana studies maria mcKenna. 
it is key to remember that #itsTimend is more than a week-long campaign. it is about fundamentally becom­ing aware and changing the manner in which we live, look at and treat others. in the words of Fr. hesburgh during his 1975 address, “The endless conversation,” “notre dame can and must be a crossroads where all the vital intellectual currents of our time meet in dialogue … where differences of culture and religion and conviction can co-exist with friendship, civility, hospitality, respect and love; a place where the endless conversation is harbored and not foreclosed.” diversity council invites you to join the conversation.
 To learn more or get involved, please visit: Facebook: it’s Time nd Twitter: @itsTimend hashtag: #itsTimend website: http://diversnd.wix.com/diversitycouncilofnd 
The diversity council 

Niko Porter  Rosemary Agwuncha  
sophomore  sophomore  
Lauren Hill  Jessica Altamirano  
sophomore  freshman 
 Arlyn Barlaan  Libertad Heredia 
 junior  freshman  

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

on Friday at 7 p.m., the doors of stepan center will open, and hunter hayes will perform for hundreds of his closest notre dame friends. 
The sub-sponsored concert will host the young, famous country star with an opening performance by fel­low artist ryan lafferty. The pair, per­forming a variety of songs well known to country fanatics throughout the nation, will surely put on an unforget­table show. 
hayes, a small-town louisiana na­tive, signed with atlantic records at a mere 18-years old. since then, the now-24-year old has co-written and performed his own songs, as well as opened throughout Taylor swift’s “speak now” tour. The country star released his first self-titled album in october 2011, including fan-favorites such as “storm warning,” “somebody’s 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

what do “guy code,” “The eric andre show” and “lucas bros. moving co.” all have in common, besides being your immature son, brother or boyfriend’s favorite com­edy shows? Kevin barnett. comedian Kevin barnett works in front of the camera on mTv2’s cult favorite “guy code,” and writes for both the absurd late-night talk show and the surreal animated show, respectively. and, on Friday, barnett will be adding legends of notre dame nightclub to his list of recent praiseworthy credits. 
barnett is sure to bring his patented heartbreak” and the ever-famous “wanted.” 
“wanted,” released in 2011, helped the 21-year-old star to top the billboard charts, being the youngest male artist to do so. 
hayes either wrote or co-wrote each song in his first album. To showcase his talent even more, he played each instrument and sang every vocal track. 
shortly after, hayes recorded a re­prise to his autobiographical album, which he entitled “hunter hayes encore”. This album, released in 2011 as well, included eight new and rear­ranged songs, such as “light me up” and “i want crazy.” 
hayes, a talented singer, is also an avid musician. Fans praise him for both his vocals and his ability to play an astounding 30 instruments, includ­ing the guitar, piano, bass, mando­lin and the drums. This exceptional ability, coupled with his high-energy stage presence, will surely please fans 
laid-back personality and socially conscious comedy to the notre dame campus. his relaxed delivery pro­vides a unique counterpoint to his commentarial material and is part of the reasons the comedian has been sought after by many great, new projects. 
barnett has been quickly making a name for himself by contributing to a number of popular, successful com­edy endeavors. mail order comedy and “workaholics” member adam devine got barnett for his comedy central stand-up showcase “adam devine’s house party.” barnett also recently appeared in the chris rock-written and -directed film “Top Five.” 
now, off the success of his TruTv Friday night. 
The four-time grammy nominee and cma new artist of the year win­ner continues to accomplish music feats since his self-titled album. in may 2014, he released his most recent album, “storyline”, in which he opened the floor for guest musicians and sing­ers. Though hayes had originally pro­duced 60 songs for “storyline,” 14 of them made the cut. This album, simi­lar to its predecessor, contains upbeat tracks with country twang and pop music mixes. 
hayes also frames a large portion of his songs, including “invisible,” within his “storyline” album, with meaning­ful lyrics and messages. 
The chorus to “invisible” states, “hear me out, there’s so much more to like than what you’re feeling now. someday you’ll look back on all these days, and all this pain is gonna be invisible.” 
his strong lyrics, combined with a 
sketch comedy show, “Friends of the people,” on which he serves as a cast member, executive producer and head writer, barnett and his writing partner, Josh rabinowitz, have been developing a show for nbc. The com­edy partners have previously worked with fellow nyc comedian mike birbiglia on his two films, “sleepwalk with me” and “don’t Think Twice.” 
The barnett- and rabinowitz­co-created show will star both as 30-something best friends who agree to quit their crappy jobs to try to do what they have really wanted to with their lives. 
barnett is a real talent, who is continually being recognized as of late for his comedic chops. he has mixture of upbeat and tranquil melo­dies, will make for a great show Friday night. hayes, a passionate performer, carries an animated stage presence. 
i can attest to hayes’ performance personality. Three summers ago, i watched him perform at a county fair, where he kept the audience on their feet for the entire show. dripping with sweat, hayes never sang a song without dancing, jumping or swaying. he belted fast-tempo tracks, only to slow it down and sing emotional tributes to family members or friends, bringing audience members — myself included — to tears. 
The young, talented and accom­plished singer will rock the stepan center stage this Friday night. For only $15, notre dame, smc and hcc students alike can celebrate the crisp 
— yet maybe still warm — fall season with music, dance and friends. 
Contact Kathy Minko at             kminko@nd.edu 
often opened for eric andre, of “The eric andre show” he writes for, and proves to be of equal skill and memo­rability as the hugely bizarre genius that is andre. 
Kevin barnett builds his sets around smart observations about culture and modern life. his con­versational style is both entirely en­grossing and easily connected with by his audiences. For fans and those uninterested in the sub’s country concert but looking for an alterna­tive, barnett will be appearing at legends of notre dame on Friday at 10 p.m. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                 mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 
p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

FOR SALE 

Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, finished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools , 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,90 
FOR RENT 

IVY QUAD 3 BR 2 BA Garage washer/dryer, granite, furnished, walk to campus grocery. Ideal for family, grad students. Available 6/1/2016 Tom 215 913-9191 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ve got more going for you than you realize. don’t be afraid to show off your skills, knowledge and experience, as well as your solutions to problems. you can bring about positive change and substantial gains. love and romance will improve your personal life and encourage a unique and awesome lifestyle that will suit your needs. your numbers are 4, 12, 25, 31, 34, 36, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): put your responsibilities behind you and move on to the things you enjoy doing the most. personal changes can be made that will alter the way you earn your living. negotiations are favored and contracts can be signed. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll be the center of attention if you share your ideas and do your best to help those experiencing difficulty keeping up. discussing concerns with someone you are in a partnership with will bring about workable solutions. romance is encouraged. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be careful how much you take on. it’s okay to want to help others, but not being able to live up to the promises you make will lead to criticism and blame. invest in yourself and make positive emotional, physical or financial changes. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you can make positive alterations to your living arrangements. your curiosity regarding different cultures, lifestyles and beliefs will help you bring about unique personal changes. invest more time in travel and education. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a day trip or indulge in a seminar, lecture or tradeshow that offers all sorts of ideas that can help you expand your interests and make new and influential connections. avoid getting into arguments with the people you live with. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Temper your emotions to avoid an unfortunate encounter. someone will make demands on you if you allow them to. stay busy and you will avoid being dragged into situations that are uncomfortable and unlikely to help you excel. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put your time and effort toward projects that count. listen, learn and gain experience from someone who has knowledge and information that you can benefit from. don’t alter your life because you are bored. make sure your motives are worthwhile. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll attract a lot of attention personally and professionally. consider the motives behind the offers you receive before you make a decision to get involved in a joint venture. romance will improve your relationship with someone you love. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do your homework and check out facts thoroughly before you make any decisions that can affect your reputation, position, status or income. you’ll be led astray if you allow someone to play with your emotions. deception is apparent. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will have a clear passage to achieve your dreams, hopes and wishes as long as you don’t let someone’s unpredictable behavior get in the way. distance yourself from anyone who might pose a problem to your plans. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep an open mind. don’t expect others to agree with what you do, but be strong enough to follow through with the plans that seem to work best for you. go it alone and make the changes that suit your needs. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t take on someone else’s responsibilities or dealings with institutions. you don’t want to miss out on the opportunity to do your own thing. explore a personal relationship with someone who shares your interests and concerns. 

Birthday Baby: you are imaginative, practical and detailed. you are outspoken and a humanitarian. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Long-distance love for Portland 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
it probably wasn’t supposed to happen. 
i’m a midwestern boy, and i’ve never known anything else: born in ohio, raised a hoosier two hours down the road from south bend. 
so why have i fallen for a soccer team from the west coast? 
i couldn’t help it. 
you see, there’s two types of kids who grow up in suburban america: one plays travel soccer religiously for the entirety of his or her childhood, watches the sport on television, and when the world cup comes around, obsessively watches every game, professing his or her love for the sport. 
The other was me. For 15 years, aside from a miserable experi­ence playing recreational soccer as a four-year old — i was bored, and i didn’t take to my coach — i largely ignored the “non-ameri­can” sport. 
so when i finally got around to adopting soccer as a thing i was willing to get into a little over five years ago, i went into it without allegiances. Thanks to landon donovan’s stoppage-time win­ner against algeria at the 2010 world cup, i got into following the united states men’s national team and from there, i turned my head to the highest level of the sport: the english premier league. 
pretty quickly, i found my al­legiance there — it’s aston villa. don’t ask about how that’s going. 
but as time went along, i couldn’t attach myself to a major league soccer club: i considered myself a “fan of the league.” 
i should’ve been a columbus crew fan. no doubt about it. my sports fandom has always paral­leled my birth state — i’m chiefly a cleveland sports fan, while my hockey allegiances lie with columbus’ other team — and it would’ve been a natural fit. The stadium’s the closest to my home in the league, and if you’re a soc­cer fan in indianapolis, odds are you support the crew or the chicago Fire. 
and i sure as hell wasn’t sup­porting a chicago team. 
it may have been the colors — black and yellow are particularly ugly and remind me of pittsburgh sports — or maybe the apathetic ownership that was driving the club into the ground, but it never happened. 
For a couple years, i was a loner. 
Then i decided to do it on my own terms. no fretting about ge­ography or who i “should” root for. aside from the Fire or crew, there was one team i’d ever see mls gear for in school — the seattle sounders. 
when i realized that, i knew instantly i hated that club in the ugliest shade of green ever worn on a sports field. 
but regardless, i still turned my attention toward the pacific northwest, and to a city three hours down interstate 5 from seattle: portland, oregon. 
be it the raucous fans in the north end of portland’s providence park that create a home-field atmosphere better than any you’ll find in england, the link between aston villa hero peter withe and the Timbers, the odd, counterculture nature of the rose city — “portlandia” is hilarious — or the attractive foot­ball that was on display a couple years ago, i fell for the portland Timbers. 
There was no turning back. 
This summer, i finally made the pilgrimage to portland. and now i understand it. 
in the 85th minute of every match, the Timbers army — those aforementioned raucous fans — sing the same song. 
“wise men say only fools rush in,” the supporters sing. “but i can’t help falling in love with you. 
“Take my hand, take my whole life too. ‘cause i can’t help falling in love with you.” 
i couldn’t help it. despite liv­ing three time zones away, when i heard the Timbers army sing, i knew in that moment i was head over heels. There was no turning back. 
so sunday, at 10 p.m., i’ll be sit­ting in front of my laptop screen, watching a stream as the Timbers compete in the mls cup playoffs. 
it probably won’t be done until early monday morning, at least out east, and if extra time and penalties beckon, i might be up past 1 a.m. watching a team i’m madly in love with for the second time in a week and a half. 
but that’s what you do for love, right? 


PGA 

langer takes the lead in champions Tour finale 
Associated Press 

scoTTsdale, ariz. — bernhard langer left colin montgomerie and Jeff maggert and everyone else behind Thursday in the champions Tour’s season-ending charles schwab cup championship. 
langer shot a 7-under 63 on desert mountain’s cochise course to take a two-stroke lead. 
“i felt tremendous peace to­day, i really did,” the 58-year­old german star said. “That’s when i play my best, when i’m not bothered by anything, i’m just walking along enjoying the scenery and having a blast playing golf and doing it well.” 
langer began the week third in the charles schwab cup race, 66 points behind montgomerie and 27 be­hind maggert. with players receiving a point for every $500 earned in the $2.5 mil­lion tournament, langer was $33,000 behind montgomerie and $13,500 behind maggert. 
montgomerie had a 70, leav­ing him tied for 17th in the 30-man field. maggert three-putted the par-5 18th for a bo­gey and a 72 that dropped him into a tie for 24th. 
langer is trying to win the season title for the second straight year and record third time overall. The champion will receive a $1 million annu­ity, the runner-up a $500,000 annuity, and the third-place finisher a $300,000 annuity. 
“i’m going to keep an eye on it, but the key is i’ve got to play my own golf,” langer said. “i’ve got to play my game and that was my mindset go­ing into the tournament. i’ve got to play the best i can and if i do really well, then i might end up in front of them, and if somebody else is better than me, so be it. it’s not life and death.” 
scottsdale resident michael allen and billy andrade were tied for second at 65. andrade had a hole-in-one on the 190­yard second hole, using a 6-iron. 
“it was a great way to start,” andrade said. “haven’t start­ed a tournament like that with a hole-in-one before, so, of course, you automatically bogey the next hole.” 
Fred couples, the 2013 tournament winner at Tpc harding park in san Francisco, was at 66 along with Kenny perry and olin browne. 
langer played the front nine in 5-under 30, birdieing nos. 2 and 5-8, and added birdies on nos. 12 and 13. he hit 5-irons to a foot on the second and 6 inches on the fifth. 
“got off to a really nice start, hit most of my targets, hit fairways, hit greens and hit it pretty close,” langer said. “Then started to putt nicely, too.” 
The two-time masters champion had only 24 putts. he made a 12-foot par save on the par-4 16th after hit­ting into the left greenside bunker, and got up-and­down from the right bunker on the par-3 17th. 
The tournament is langer’s last before the Jan. 1 ban on the anchored putting stroke that he has used with a long putter for 17 years. 
“i’ve thought about it a little bit,” langer said. “i’ve gath­ered a few putters, different styles, different lengths, dif­ferent grips. my first thought is i’ll probably go back to what i did before i went to the long putter, which was what (matt) Kuchar does, holding the putter against the left forearm that way, and soren Kjeldsen in europe does the same thing. i putted that way for seven years and i won a number of tourna­ments including the masters, and if you can putt on the masters greens and win with a grip like that, i would think i could do it in other tourna­ments, but we’ll see. There’s other options.” 

NBA  | warriors 112, clippers 108 
Golden State rolls on with a fourth-quarter rally 
Associated Press 

oaKland, calif. — after four lopsided wins to open the season, the golden state warriors were happy to find themselves in a nail-biter for a change. 
stephen curry scored 31 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with just over a minute to go that led the de­fending champion warriors to their fifth straight win to open the season, 112-108 over the los angeles clippers on wednesday night. 
“it was good for us to feel a little bit of adversity against a good team like that,” curry said. “we’re not going to blow everybody out this year. we answered the bell.” 
The warriors had outscored their opponents by a record 100 points in the first four games but fell behind by 10 in the fourth quarter to the clippers. harrison barnes then scored 10 of his 17 points during the 16-2 spurt with golden state’s small-ball line­up to turn the tide. 
chris paul scored 24 points and blake griffin added 23 for the clippers, who also had won their first four games of the season to give extra meaning to this early season matchup. 
“we had a lot of game-plan mistakes throughout the game,” clippers coach doc rivers said. “That’s the dif­ference right now between us and them, them being togeth­er and them executing.” 
an offseason war of words that has been waged between rivers and several warriors about what role luck played in their championship last sea­son only added to the drama. 
barnes hit a pair of 3-point­ers to start the spurt. curry then made his first two bas­kets of the second half — both from long range — to give the warriors the lead. he raised his arms to the crowd after a 27-footer made it 103-99. 
The clippers went ahead 106-105 when deandre Jordan made one of two free throws with 1:16 to play. curry an­swered with his seventh 3-pointer to give the warriors the lead for good as they be­came the fifth team to start consecutive seasons with five straight wins. 
“when we really needed him most, he stepped up for us and he made huge plays shooting deep 3s with people draped all over him,” interim coach luke walton said. “he’s a winner. he showed why he’s mvp of the league.” 
both paul and curry dealt with early foul trouble, with curry going to the bench with two fouls less than three min­utes into the game and paul being forced to sit early in the third quarter with his fourth. 
both teams actually ral­lied without their star point guards, with golden state building a 17-point lead early in the second quarter and the clippers rallying to the lead with paul on the bench in the third. 





Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
with teams,” Jackson said. “if they’re a good team and you’re a good team and you play them on a regular ba­sis, you develop these kinds of rivalries. minnesota, even though we’re not in the same conference, they got up big for us last year, and they hammered us. and our guys, generally, when we play them, it’s a big game for them. For us, hopefully with a year under our belts af­ter what happened last year, we’ll be prepared for a team that can skate with us, make plays, and they’re gonna be a really good test for us.” 
as Jackson mentioned, the irish dropped a pair of games in minneapolis early last november, losing 5-0 and 4-2 to the then-no. 1 gophers. 
sophomore goaltender cal petersen, who was named hockey east defensive player of the week on monday for his strong performances against connecticut, said he remem­bers facing minnesota a year ago and hopes to build off that experience this weekend. 
“i got a pretty good taste of [minnesota] last year, in my first road game,” petersen said. “it was a hard place for me to start, facing the no. 1 team and also one of the harder places to play. i think it was a big growing mo­ment for me, whereas there
 was young and maybe a little overwhelmed by who we were playing and the at­mosphere — i think as the season progressed i was able to play in other big build­ings and be successful. it was a huge learning point for me, and our whole team was thrown into the fire a little bit there, but i think the way that it’s progressed from there i’m glad that we went through it as a team and i went through it personally. it was huge for individual growth.” 
as for the lucia connection, Jackson made it clear that the rivalry is a friendly one and a series he looks forward to. 
“[our relationship] is very positive. don and i have al­ways gotten along, been friends,” Jackson said. “i don’t think he would have let mario come here if he didn’t trust me or have respect for this university. i get a kick out the fact that, anytime we get a minnesota kid, if we’re in competition with them, i think they say, ‘oh, they’re too defensive,’ and i keep on saying, ‘well, do you think mario lucia would be here if we were too defensive?’” 
at the end of the day, this weekend’s games will be a strong early-season test against one of college hock­ey’s blue-blood programs. coming off a pair of victories over a conference opponent on the road, the irish will look to build a winning streak in the early stages of a long season. 
The puck drops at 7:35 p.m. Friday and again at 6:40 p.m. saturday. both games will be at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 

until the regular season begins nov. 15. 
however, the irish will benefit from having sophomore forward and acc preseason player of the year brianna Turner under the net. sophomore forward Kathryn westbeld will be filling in for reimer alongside Turner. 
mcgraw also noted graduate student guard madison cable has been important in the irish re­bound game during practice. 
“maddie was the leading re­bounder in a couple of our scrim­mages, even more than bri,” mcgraw said. “she’s someone we can really count on to rebound. we need arike to rebound more, and Kathryn and bri, of course. really, it’s everybody’s job.” 
Junior forward Kristina nelson, who is known as “Koko” and was sidelined all of last year as she re­covered from shoulder surgery, should also be able to help create offense for notre dame as the sea­son progresses, mcgraw said. 
“Koko’s going be able to score,” mcgraw said. “she’s a really good passer; she can hit the free throws and the jumper. i really like what she’s doing on offense. you still see sometimes when she’s a little hesi­tant to go up for a shot with her left [because of her injury].” 
still, Turner, who finished her freshman season with the league’s best field-goal percentage and an average of 13.8 points per game, remains the most formi­dable force in the irish frontcourt. 
yet mcgraw said she expects Turner to exceed even last sea­son’s production, though the progress has not fully material­ized in practice. 
“[Turner] does some things ef­fortlessly, and we’re looking for her to do more,” she said. “even when she scores, she needs to do more. she’ll be hearing that a lot this year. i want her to average a double-double, but i’m not sure 
paid adverTisemenT 
that 10 and 10 is enough.” 
while the score of saturday’s game doesn’t matter, mcgraw said it will help the team get back into the swing of things — es­pecially the freshmen, though mcgraw said she did not antici­pate starting any of them. 
“The thing i like about the ex­hibition is they put on a uniform, they get in front of fans for the first time, lights are on, it’s starting to matter now,” mcgraw said. “it’s important for us to get into the pregame routine where we come out and do our walkthrough. i think all of that is good for them, so when they come out for the reg­ular season, they feel a little more comfortable.” 
The irish tip off in their exhibi­tion against wayne state at noon saturday at purcell pavilion. The regular season will get underway with a nov. 15 home game against bucknell. 
Contact Renne Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | The observer 

on sunday with a place in the championship game at notre dame stadium on the line. 
while the Finest (6-1) pulled out a nail biter last sunday, slip­ping past no. 5 pasquerilla west by a score of 8-6, the whirlwinds (6-1) had seemingly no trouble in their quarterfinal matchup, dispatching no. 8 pangborn, 32­
0. whirlwinds captain and ju­nior cornerback sharon chiang said she was pleased with her team’s focused improvement last week. 
“pangborn beat us last year in the championship, so it was nice to get a little revenge,” chiang said. “our pass offense and pass defense was something we were struggling with a bit, so we’re definitely improving where we need to.” 
looking ahead to sunday’s matchup, chiang said the whirlwinds will have their hands full trying to neutralize Farley’s offensive weapons. 
“i think Farley is really good,” chiang said. “i heard their quarterback’s fast, so we’ll have to watch out for her, especially when she starts scrambling”. 
That quarterback is Farley ju­nior lizzie moulton, one of two key players senior linebacker and co-captain ali buersmeyer expects to have a big game. 
“we love [lizzie] and all that she can do for us offensively,” buersmeyer said. “[senior co-captain and] safety michelle summers is a key part of our defense, which has a lot of ex­perience considering all three captains play on that side of the ball.” 
in fact, the entire team has experience in big games, as al­most every Farley player has made it to the championship while on the Farley “b” team. in addition, buersmeyer said she is confident in her team’s identity entering the matchup. 
“we’ve had a lot of great team wins this year,” buersmeyer said. “we’re focusing on sharp­ening our own skills while also 
paid adverTisemenT 
adding some plays to the offense and defense, so i think we’ll ad­just well to whatever welsh Fam throws at us.” 
however, chiang, noting that welsh Family’s “b” team has won the championship the past two seasons, beating Farley twice, said she believes she has a team talented and experi­enced enough to win this game and the championship. 
“our team is extremely well-rounded, so we don’t necessar­ily have a star player,” chiang said. “all we need to do is play how we want to play”. 
Kickoff between welsh Family and Farley is at 1 p.m. on sunday at labar practice complex. 
Contact Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 
No. 2 Howard vs. No. 3 Ryan 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
a spot in the title game at notre dame stadium is on the line sunday when ryan and howard meet in the semifinals. 
ryan (5-0-2) is coming off a strong comeback against lewis. down 6-0 at halftime, ryan came back out fired up to win and succeeded, with the final score being 24-6. The de­fense contributed significantly to this win through three pick-sixes. captain erin clark said she attributes the defense’s success to the leadership. 
“The defense has really been in sync, which is due to the leadership of shawn hall and cathy baxter,” clark said. 
as for the offense, clark said the key for her team is to get into a flow. 
“we do so much better when we settle down and get into a rhythm,” clark said. “staying calm on offense has been really key for us.” 
clark also said howard will be a tough team to beat, and its goals for the game will be mak­ing smart decisions on offense. 
“[we’ve] heard howard is a great team, and [we] are defi­nitely going to be prepared for them,” clark said. 
howard (6-1) is coming off a big win as well — it had its first shutout of the season last sunday in a 13-0 win against cavanaugh. all 13 points were scored in the first half, and despite its quar­terback being hurt, the team still rallied for the win. 
senior captain stephanie peterson said the key to beating ryan is to continue playing well and having fun. 
“[we want to] play like we played in the first half against cavanaugh, come out with a lot of energy, have fun and win,” peterson said. 
For howard, junior Kaitlyn hegewald, senior maria ianni and sophomore abbie midlige are key players to watch, peterson said. 
sunday’s game between howard and ryan will be at labar practice complex at 2 p.m. 
Contact Jackei Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 
Interhall 
conTinued From page 16 
said the manor are not making any major changes to prepare for the game. 
“we’ve been to playoffs before, and we know what to do,” Zidar said. “run the ball, defend it well. we’re honestly just trying to fo­cus on it like a normal week.” 
morrissey’s run game was a highlight of last year’s champi­onship squad and continues to be the team’s greatest strength this season. babiak said defend­ing the run is a special area of fo­cus for the griffins this week. 
“obviously, morrissey runs a unique offense, a wing-T, and we need a special game plan to be able to essentially shut it down,” babiak said. “so we’re focused on implementing that and mak­ing sure that we execute it in-game. it really all comes down to execution.” 
The griffins will have to learn from their experience 12 months ago in order to avenge last year’s loss. The game begins sunday at 4:45 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschwenin@nd.edu 
No. 4 Keenan vs. No. 8 Dillon 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
dillon and Keenan, who will meet in a semifinal game sunday, started this season in very different places. 
For Keenan (4-1), this year was about redemption after losing in last year’s final to morrissey. dillon (3-2), on the other hand, failed to make the playoffs last year and was looking to take this season one game at a time. 
dillon goes into this weekend’s matchup with plen­ty of momentum after taking down top-seeded st. edward’s. big red sophomore captain John walsh said he is excit­ed about the energy the win brought to his team. 


“The win got people excited throughout the league, and we are feeling especially good about it,” walsh said. 
Keenan junior captain michael Koller said he is not concerned about dillon’s un­derdog win. 
“in interhall football, any­one can win any game,” Koller said. “we don’t focus on upsets or change strategy based on an­other team winning.” 
The two teams have already gone head-to-head once this season, with Keenan prevailing, 5-0. but Koller said his team’s previous success against dillon does not make the big red less of a threat. 
“we are expecting them to come out strong since they want revenge,” Koller said. “we are going to play our game, clean up some mistakes and bring home the win.” 
walsh said he is excited to have a healthy team in the up­coming rematch. 
“we got some guys back from injury, and we put some new wrinkles into the playbook,” walsh said. “right now, the goal is to beat Keenan. That’s it.” 
Koller also said he has high hopes for the Knights. 
“we can be a pretty dominant team,” Koller said. “our goal is to win the championship.” 
Keenan and dillon will play at 3:30 p.m. sunday at labar practice complex. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
No. 1 Welsh Family vs. No. 4 Farley 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
welsh Family takes on Farley 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
top-seeded irish, 1-0, in the ncaa tournament’s round of 16. 
“i think we’ve gotten to know them very well in the last few years,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “They’re a very daunting foe. 
“we got the better of them in the acc tournament, but they came back to get us in the ncaas and went on to win. They are a very well-or­ganized, well-coached team with a lot of talent. it’s going to be a classic acc game, a very high-level soccer game. it will be little things that will make the difference, with special players and plays it will be a great game.” 
earlier this season, the irish gave the cavaliers their first loss of the season sept. 25, when the irish took a 3-1 victory at home. They outshot virginia, 13-5, with an 8-3 margin in the second half, as well as a 6-2 advantage in corner kicks. 
The midfield dominated the offensive action for the irish that day, with senior mid­fielder evan panken, senior midfielder connor Klekota and junior midfielder/for­ward mark gormley grabbing the three goals. since then, clark said his midfield has be­come even more dynamic. 
“we are getting smarter, and our wide midfielder play­ers have been great [in the second half of the season],” clark said. “evan has been very, very good, and [senior midfielder patrick hodan] is starting to find his nod. we need pat to come in good if we want to win. he’s a special player, and if he could find his form, we could play well into december.” 
notre dame enters this matchup after its shutout win over pittsburgh last weekend. however, prior to that, the irish fell to no. 1 wake Forest on oct. 23, after drawing 1-1 with northwestern on oct. 20 and 0-0 with virginia Tech on oct. 16. 
“i think we have been play­ing well,” clark said. “There haven’t been easy games. even though we didn’t get a win out of the northwestern game, we played very well in that game and then against wake Forest. That was just a fantastic game, and the pitt game was a nice sendoff. i feel we are really starting to play well, and this is the time of the year when it should all come together.” 
now the acc semifinals are on the line for the irish and the cavaliers. 



“when we first met back in back to our preseason open-great game. i really hope the august, can we say we could ing scrimmage against ohio students come out and sup-take something about of ev-state, we’ve come a long way port because it’s going to be a ery game, and this team really since then. fantastic soccer game.” has done a great job of get-“now come tournament ting better after every game,” time, you’re only going to play Contact Kit Loughran at  clark said. “and if i go way the good teams. it will be a kloughr1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | The observer 



M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
with five assists while senior for­ward Zach auguste scored nine points and hauled in a game-high eight rebounds. 
beachem believes that the ex­hibition games give everyone the experience necessary to be ready to play whenever his number is called later on in the season. 
“sometimes we’re playing out there with lineups that don’t re­ally practice together that much,” beachem said. “but that’s one thing we have to figure out be­cause we never know who’s going to be in the game together in a real game.” 
The irish, while slow to defend at the start of the contest, held caldwell to just 33.3 percent shoot­ing from the field. senior guard dawan lighty scored a game-high 15 points on 6-for-15 shooting for the cougars, but the team com­mitted 10 turnovers, which the irish scored 11 points off of. The cougars also struggled with notre dame’s length, as the irish blocked 14 of their opponents’ shots. 
of the 81 points scored by notre dame, just 28 were scored by the bench. sophomore guard matt Farrell led the backups with nine points and five assists. last season, Farrell played limited minutes, but brey is adamant Farrell is going to be in the picture this year for the irish. 
“i’m really pleased with matt Farrell,” brey said. “having an­other ball handler out there and shot maker, it really helps us. … when matt goes in, you can open that floor up. he handles the ball, so he takes some pressure off demetrius, and he makes shots too. he’s really a key for us.” 
each trying to work his way into the regular-season rotation, freshmen forwards rex pflueger and matt ryan played 10 and 15 minutes respectively against the cougars on Thursday — plfueger only tallied two points while ryan showcased his range knocking down two 3-point shots along with a couple of free throws to finish with eight points on the night. 
brey knows that he has some tough decisions to make be­fore next Friday’s season opener against st. Francis (pennsylvania) on who is going to play consistently given the depth of the roster. 
“i didn’t give [sophomore for­ward martinas] geben a lot of min­utes tonight, but he’s been pretty darn good,” brey said. “[Junior forward austin] Torres is going to be Torres, bouncing around flying around. is it pflueger or is it ryan? we’ll see. or is it neither? where does that put [freshman forward elijah] burns if we play small? [senior forward austin] burgett is a veteran. does he come in? Those are the really important discus­sions to have leading up to Friday.” 


regardless of who gets a spot in the rotation, ryan understands that every minute given is anoth­er opportunity to help the team achieve its goals and prove that he belongs. 
“whatever role i have, i’m going to make the most of it,” ryan said. “it’s not like watching at home anymore where i’m saying, ‘i hope they make the elite eight again.’ now we have to do it. we have to put in the work to do it. nothing’s going to be given to us just because we did it last year. coach is still 
paid adverTisemenT 

trying to figure out when to sub, who to put in, so it’s going to be a growing process.” 
with the exhibition sched­ule complete, notre dame will compete against higher-quality, division i opponents, and brey be­lieves that now is the time to figure out which players will be a part of a consistent rotation. 
“you want to give everybody a shot in these two exhibitions,” brey said. “Just to kind of see how they compete and see how they are with the lights on. especially with the younger guys in the pro­gram and see who they are. but eventually interhall basketball is over, where everyone gets to play. now we’ve got to shave it down, and that’s what we’ll start to do tomorrow.” 
The irish will have a week to figure out their personnel before hosting the red Flash to open their regular-season campaign next Friday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND prepares for ACC tournament opener 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The past two national champions are pitted against each other in the acc cham­pionship this week, as no. 9 notre dame hosts no. 17 virginia in the quarterfinal round sunday afternoon at alumni stadium. 
The irish (9-3-5, 4-2-2 acc) enter the tournament seed­ed fourth after taking down pitt, 5-0, last saturday, while the cavaliers (9-3-3, 4-2-2) find themselves seeded fifth following a scoreless draw with no. 5 north carolina on oct. 30. 
sunday’s quarterfinal matchup marks the fourth occasion the irish have host­ed virginia since the start of the 2014 season and the third time in a postseason game. 

The irish defeated the cavaliers, 3-0, in an acc quarterfinal matchup a year ago, but three weeks later, the cavaliers took down the AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 
Sophomore defender Blake Townes, left, and senior midfielder see m soccer PAGE 14 Evan Panken celebrate a goal in a 3-1 victory against Virginia. 

HOCKEY 
irish to host golden gophers 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish return to cam­pus this weekend to build on their budding rivalry with minnesota in a pair of games 
Friday and saturday.  
coming  off  a  sweep  
of  hockey  east  rival  
connecticut,  no. 18  notre  

dame (3-1-2, 2-0-0 hockey east) welcomes the golden gophers (2-3-0, 0-0-0 big Ten), a team it has played annually in recent years and one that shares more than hockey with the irish. 
notre dame senior left wing mario lucia will skate against father don lucia’s minnesota team for the fourth consecutive year. The elder lucia, a notre dame graduate who played un­der former head coach lefty smith from 1977 to 1981, is in his 17th year as minnesota head coach. 
Though minnesota is off to an uncharacteristically slow start, irish head coach Jeff Jackson understands the type of challenge that this weekend’s games will pose to his team. 
“minnesota’s a team that started off a little slow, but they’re a very skilled and fast team,” Jackson said. “They’re not as veteran-oriented as they’ve been in the past, but they’re still the same type of team. They’re gonna be very dangerous offensively, and they do a lot of things with their speed. 
“it’ll be a big challenge for us this weekend. They took apart northeastern pretty good last week, and they’ve had a week off, so i’m sure coach lucia was pre-scout­ing us this weekend, under the guise of being a dad.” 
Though the golden gophers will be coming off the schedule in the future to make room for other obliga­tions, Jackson recognizes the importance of playing qual­ity programs like the one at minnesota. 
“you develop rivalries 
see hocKey PAGE 12 
INTERHALL 
squads to play in semis 
No. 2 Stanford vs. No. 3 Morrissey 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
stanford faces morrissey this sunday in a matchup eerily simi­lar to the very same semifinal both teams faced in notre dame stadium just one year ago. 
The manor (4-1) emerged from that encounter victorious, and stanford senior linebacker dan babiak said it was a loss the griffins (5-0) have not forgotten. 
“it was a pretty tight game,” babiak said. “They were just a lit­tle more prepared than we were. but they run pretty much the same thing as they did last year, so we’ve got a good idea of what we’re getting into. we just need to out there and play our game, force them to adjust to the way we play.” 
morrissey sophomore captain and quarterback declan Zidar 
see inTerhall PAGE 13 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 81; caldwell 56 
Notre Dame dominates Caldwell 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 

in addition to no. 19 notre dame finishing its exhibition slate after beating caldwell 81-56, irish head coach mike brey said Thursday night was the final time he’ll play 12 players in a game. 
against the cougars, the irish had 10 lineup combinations, which consisted of all 12 players on the roster, in just the first half. 
despite the constant rotations, notre dame shot 50 percent from the floor and 33.3 percent from beyond the arc. 
“i’m playing too many guys,” brey said sarcastically after the game. “but no, we’re still evaluat­ing. … i do think we need work on half-court offense with our key guys. i gotta look at the tape and see what are we doing and where are we moving? so we’ve got some work to do at that end.” 
notre dame struggled to find the net early, converting just one of four field goal attempts in the first few minutes of the game. however, a corner 3-pointer from junior forward v.J. beachem sparked the irish, who went on a 21-4 run to go ahead 23-12. The cougars went on a run of their own to close the gap to five points, but notre dame’s defense crushed any hopes of a comeback by limiting them to just six more points in the first half. 
The irish picked up right where they left off in the second half of­fensively, putting up 44 points in the final 20 minutes of the game. 
beachem led the team with 13 points, while junior forward steve vasturia’s 11-point first half also put him in double digits. Junior guard demetrius Jackson contributed 11 points to go along 
see m bball PAGE 15 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Turner leads Irish into exhibition 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 3 notre dame will take the court in front of fans at purcell pavilion for the first time this sea­son when wayne state visits for an exhibition matchup saturday. 
wayne state is a division ii program, and irish head coach muffet mcgraw said the game will mainly be an opportunity to evaluate her own team following a second-place finish in the 2015 ncaa tournament and the early departure of star guard Jewell loyd to the wnba. 
“we worry about us, [not wayne state],” mcgraw said. “we worry about execution, details, taking care of the little things, looking at the defense mostly. 
“on offense, we’re looking at ex­ecution more than scoring. i don’t care what the score is, it’s all about ‘did we run the play, did we get the screen, did we get the shot we wanted?’ That’s what we’re really trying to key on.” 
The exhibition will also be a chance to take a look at notre dame’s guard rotation, which was already shaken up by the torn acl of highly recruited freshman guard ali patberg. at the team’s media day last month, mcgraw said patberg’s presence might have allowed top junior guard lindsay allen to move away from the point position at times. 
now, the setup will be more like last season’s, with allen usually bringing the ball up the court. 
“[senior guard] michaela [mabrey] will be the backup point guard,” mcgraw said. “we’ll look at just having all the guards handle the ball more now, with [freshman guards] marina [mabrey] and arike [ogunbowale] handling the ball a little bit more. it’ll be pretty much like it was last year.” 
The frontcourt will also be af­fected by injuries in saturday’s exhibition, as junior captain and forward Taya reimer is nursing an achilles injury and will not play un­til the regular season begins nov. 15. 
however, the irish will benefit from having sophomore forward 
see w bball PAGE 12 




