ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPAPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE dAME ANd ANd rEPOrT SAINT MAry’S IT ACCurATELy 

VOLuME 48, ISSuE 90 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Commencement to return to Stadium 
Jenkins announces change in ceremony location, addresses core curriculum concerns during town hall 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
News Writer 
university President Fr. John Jenkins announced Tuesday that the Class of 2015’s commence­ment ceremony will take place in Notre dame Stadium in­stead of the Joyce Center, as the university originally planned. 
Jenkins made the announce­ment at an undergraduate town hall meeting in deBartolo hall, during which Jenkins, university Provost Tom Burish and Executive Vice President John Affleck-graves also updat­ed the student body on staff di­versity and inclusion, the Keough School of International Affairs, the core curriculum review and Campus Crossroads progress. 

Commencement 2015 
Jenkins said the Commencement ceremony’s location change comes due to a relatively mild winter, which led to better-than-expected prog­ress on the Campus Crossroads project. 
“Campus Crossroads won’t be finished; there will be a little in­convenience, but I’m sure it will be minimal, and it will be a great Commencement,” Jenkins said. 
see TOWN hALL PAGE 5 





Law professor receives Fulbright research grant 
By SELENA PONIO 
News Writer 
Notre dame law professor douglass Cassel, an interna­tional human rights law scholar, won a Fulbright Fellowship to do research in the spring semes­ter of 2016 on Mexican courts’ enforcement of Inter-American human rights law. 
Among his credentials, Cassel served as Legal Advisor to the united Nations Commission on the Truth for El Salvador, was an award-winning commentator on human rights and represent­ed victims of human rights vio­lations in Colombia, guatemala, Peru and Venezuela. 

Cassel’s research in Mexico is for one of the Fulbright Programs for the social sci­ences, he said. he competed not only against other legal schol­ars, but also against anyone else involved in the social sciences. 
“The research is on the en­forcement of Inter-American human rights law, and it’s re­ally important in the field of in­ternational human rights law,” Cassel said. 
Cassel said a new doctrine implemented in Mexico not only tells national courts to enforce international human rights, but also tells them how they should do it. 
“It’s a radical departure. ... It’s going to be fascinating how the courts react to it,” Cassel said. “The purpose of my research is [to see] how the doctrine is working in practice.” 
According to a Notre dame 
see FuLBrIghT PAGE 5 


Alumni create endowment for women’s basketball 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Notre dame wom­en’s basketball player Karen robinson Keyes and her hus­band Kevin Keyes made a $5 million gift to Notre dame to underwrite the salary of the women’s basketball head coach, the university an­nounced Monday in a press release. 
The Karen and Kevin Keyes Family head Women’s Basketball Coach, as the posi­tion will be titled, is the first endowed coaching position in university history and is thought to be the largest en­dowment in women’s college basketball, according to the press release. 

“We are so very grateful to Karen and Kevin for this 
see ENdOWMENT PAGE 4 


Panel examines social media in the workplace 
By MARTHA REILLY 
Newa Writer 
Saint Mary’s hosted a panel Monday called “Beyond Just Being Social” to teach students about integrating social media into their careers. 
Speakers included College alumnae Liz harter, a 2009 graduate who works as a so­cial media program manager at Notre dame; Megan harr, a 2014 graduate and the cur­rent social media coordinator at Flourish Boutique; and Angela rupchock-Schafer, a 2003 gradu­ate who serves as the assistant director of communications at Church World Services. 
Although all three women work in different branches of public relations, they offered similar advice for anyone seek­ing a job that revolves around social media: Personal accounts should abide by the same rules that professional ones do. 
“Of course I want to hire some­one with a personality, but when 
see PANEL PAGE 4 



NEWS PAGE X VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 9 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett  Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 

News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’Mara Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you do for Valentine’s Day? 

Francis Vu 
senior 
Keough hall 
“rA dutz.” 
Kaley Cohen 
sophomore 
Breen-Phillips hall 
“Ate my weight in chocolate.” 
Spencer Jones 
freshman 
Carroll hall 
“Nothing.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Grace Hills 
freshman 
Mcglinn hall 
“Lacrosse game and ice skating with my friend Margaret.” 
Margaret Prakel 
senior 
Mcglinn hall 
“rA dutz.” 
Susan Nace 
junior 
Lewis hall 
“I went to the Keenan revue.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Lesley Stevenson Marek Mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Katie galioto Christine Mayuga Selena Ponio Alex Carson 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Mary Mcgraw Caelin Miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Basketball Bengal Bouts Mindful Meditation Junior Parents Third Coast 
Jodi Lo Tabitha ricketts 
Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Coleman-Morse Weekend Percussion 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Center campus-wide DeBartolo Performing The Irish take on Wake Quarterfinals of 85th 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Today - 2/22 Arts Center 
Corrections 

Forest. Bengal Bouts. Open to students, Most major events 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as faculty and staff. require a ticket. Open to the public. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Student Skate Night Ross Gay Reading Spirituality Series Film: “Force Majeure” Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Compton Family Ice Hammes Notre Dame Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arena Bookstore Center Arts Center Heart 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
10 p.m. - 11:50 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Proceeds support Free for Notre Dame Campus Ministry A favorite at this year’s Worship service. 
we can correct our error. 

Operation Smile. students. hosts. Cannes Festival. 


Brazil Club promotes Carnaval celebration 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 
This week, the Brazil Club, along with the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, is hosting two events to highlight contem­porary topics in Brazil and to celebrate Carnaval, a fes­tival held during the four days before Ash Wednesday and Brazil’s most important holiday. 
Senior Pedro Suarez, co-president of the Brazil Club along with senior Fernanda Osthoff, said celebrating Carnaval furthers the club’s mission but is not its only project. 
“Our hope is to bring Brazilian culture to both the Notre dame and South Bend community, as well as provide an educational com­ponent where those inter­ested can learn more about Brazil beyond the tradition­al Carnaval celebration,” he said. 
Suarez said the club wants to educate students on the importance of Carnaval in Brazilian culture. 
“To the casual observer, Carnaval may seem like just a large dance party; howev­er, it is so much more than that,” he said. “It is one of the few times during the year where everyone in the country, no matter what socioeconomic class, race or religion, stops what they are doing to celebrate their nation, culture and each other.” 
On Monday in Montgomery Auditorium, the club host­ed a discussion with Ann Mische, associate profes­
“It is one of the few times during the year where everyone in the country, no matter what socioeconomic class, race, or religion, stops what they are doing to celebrate their nation, culture and each other.” 
Pedro Suarez 
president 
Brazil Club 
sor of sociology and peace studies, on the recent pro­test wave. The discussion was followed by a short documentary film “June: the riots in Brazil.” Suarez said this event shed light on events in Brazil and what they mean for the future. 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 


“Both the speaker and the movie [added] more depth to the current situation in Brazil, especially with the increased attention it has received in hosting both the World Cup and the Olympics in 2016,” Suarez said. 
On Tuesday, the club will host a Brazilian Carnaval celebration in the Legends Club room from 7 p.m. to 9 
p.m. Food and drinks will be provided. 
The Carnaval celebra­tion will feature the dance company Planeta Azul from Chicago. They are all 
authentic Brazilian musi­cians and samba dancers, 
“Our hope is to bring Brazilian culture to both the Notre Dame and South Bend community.” 
Pedro Suarez 
president 
Brazil Club 
called passistas. Planeta Azul has traveled all over the 
world, as well as to several universities in the midwest, and Suarez said the Brazil Club has been eagerly await­ing the group’s arrival. 
“Brazil Club is excited to be bringing the entertain­ment group on to show­case an authentic rio de Janeiro-inspired Carnaval experience, including a per­formance and an interactive portion where everyone can join in on the dancing,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 


SMC hosts cancer awareness brunch 
By CECILIA GREUBEL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s, along with the participation of the South Bend community, will host its annual Stand up to Cancer brunch March 1. The event will take place from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans hall. 
Club president, senior Christina hutch, said she believes the event succeeds due to the wide population of people who have had to confront cancer. 
“It seems like everyone knows someone who has been affected by cancer, whether they have had it, a loved one has had it or they have been a caretaker for someone with it,” hutch said. 
One such volunteer, junior Catherine Smith, said, “My sister passed away two years ago from cancer. So many people around us are affect­ed by it.” 
The purpose of the brunch is to celebrate the lives of those touched by cancer, to bring hope to those who have experienced loss from it and to bring the community to­gether for a common cause: working towards a cure. The event will include a catered brunch and a raffle, and ad­mission will be free. 
“Saint Mary’s has a mis­sion of preparing women in­
“Saint Mary’s has a mission of preparing women intellectually for their futures and also a mission of social responsibility.” 
Christina Hutch 
president 
Saint Mary’s Stand Up to Cancer 
tellectually for their futures and also a mission of social responsibility,” hutch said. “I think that our club aligns with it through service and community involvement.” 
Contact Cecilia Greubel at cgreubel01@saintmarys.edu 


ThE OBSErVEr | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

Endowment 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
generous and groundbreak­ing gift,” university President Fr. John Jenkins said. “It is especially fitting, given the central role Karen played in the early success of a wom­en’s basketball program that has become — on and off the court — one of the very best in the nation.” 
Karen Keyes, who studied American studies as an un­dergraduate and earned a master’s degree in business at Notre dame, played for the Fighting Irish from 1987 to 1991 under head coach Muffet Mcgraw. Keyes earned the title of Midwestern Collegiate Conference player of the year both her junior and senior year. 
“Muffet is one of the most important influences in our lives,” Karen Keyes said. “We are proud to honor her, rec­ognize her dedication to the university and continue to admire all of the successful women she has coached and developed over her entire career.” 
Kevin Keyes, also an alum­nus, played varsity tennis for the Irish while earning de­grees in economics and busi­ness administration. 
“We are very grateful to Karen and Kevin for this re­markable gift,” Jack Swarbrick, vice president and director of athletics, said. “The fact that Notre dame’s first head coach endowment comes from one of Coach Mcgraw’s former players and her family speaks volumes about the impact Muffet has had on the young women who have been a part of the Notre dame women’s basketball program. 
“Kevin was also a varsity athlete at Notre dame, and we know that both he and Karen believe passionately in the role that athletics plays in the education of young student-athletes and the power of a great educator like Muffet to impact lives.” 
Karen and Kevin Keyes currently serve on the university’s Student-Athlete Advisory Council, which, ac­cording to its mission state­ment, focuses on improving relationships between dif­ferent sports and individual athletes, encouraging partici­pation in community service projects, aiding communi­cation between the Athletic department and the athletes and “creating awareness among the campus communi­ty of what it is like to be a stu­dent-athlete at the university of Notre dame.” 
Karen Keyes currently coaches women’s basketball at ridgewood high School in New Jersey and serves on the board of rEEd Academy, a school serving students with autism. She is also a member of the Women for health Network at The Valley hospital, according to the press release. 
Mcgraw is currently coach­ing her 28th season of wom­en’s basketball at Notre dame, during which her teams have logged 686 wins. She is a member of both the Women’s Basketball hall of Fame and the Indiana Basketball hall of Fame. 
“I am overwhelmed and humbled by the incredible generosity that Karen and Kevin have shown with this gift,” Mcgraw said. “Karen holds a special place for me as one of my first point guards here, and she, Kevin and their family remain a treasured part of the Notre dame wom­en’s basketball program. 
“It means so much to me to have our alumnae remain close to our program year after year as we continue to build on the foundation that they created, both on the court and in our community.” 
Panel 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
I’m in the process of hiring, what people post on Twitter helps me decide whether or not to put them in the ‘let’s go fur­ther’ pile,” rupchock-Schafer said. “you want to build yourself up as someone who is hirable.” 
harter agreed social media performance can either help or hurt someone when applying for a job. 
“We want to know who we’re going to be dealing with,” harter said. “We want to be able to get along and have simi­lar backgrounds and likes and things of that nature. It’s really a balance. Social media can be a really great way to get to know someone, but you also don’t want to take it too far.” 
Besides discussing the appro­priate online presence required to land a job, the panel spoke about how workers can network and connect with other people, or even companies, to expand their brands. 

“you have to think of who you’re trying to market to be­cause different people use dif­ferent types of social media,” 
“Social media can be a really great way to get to know someone, but you also don’t want to take it  too far.” 
Liz Harter 
social media program manager 
Notre Dame 

harr said. “At Flourish, we have to focus a lot on the demo­graphic and who we’re trying to sell to. 
“On Facebook, a lot of older women try to interact with us, but on Instagram, we post the younger-looking outfits. We try to post specific things based on the age group we are trying to appeal to.” 
According to harr, a profes­sional regard can mix with a conversational tone to engage customers. 
“We’re constantly like ... ‘Look at this top!’” harr said. “We want to look as professional as pos­sible while still talking to people and getting them interested.” 
harter, however, said her job does not permit abbrevia­tions or slang over social me­dia, as she represents a premier Catholic university. 
“If it can’t be said in 140 char­acters, it’s not said,” harter said. “It’s a balancing act. It’s about building that brand and under­standing the words that people are seeking and the needs of our followers. There are very defi­nite needs and wants from our audience.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 




and to send feedback to the com­

Town Hall 
mittee by email. CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
“Examining the core cur­
riculum and how it could help 

Jenkins said he “can’t speak you in your future and expand-definitively” on the location of ing the way we become a global the 2016 Commencement, but university are two of the most did not rule out the possibility of important [academic concerns], having the event in Notre dame and I hope all of you will partici-Stadium. pate in both of those,” he said. 
“I think it looks good,” he said. When asked if the two theol­ogy course requirements were Keough School in danger, Burish said while all 
While the focus of the new university course requirements Keough School for global Affairs stand to be reworked, there is no will be its Masters program, push to reduce or eliminate the Burish said the School will offer theology requirement. an undergraduate program in in-“We’ve asked everyone to ternational affairs. address any one of the ques­
“It’ll be initially be a supple-tions,” Burish said. “We haven’t mentary or a secondary major, said, we won’t listen to you if and there may be a five-year you ask about theology classes. Bachelor’s/Master’s program,” Someone might say, there should he said. be three. Someone might say, 
Burish said the School, Notre there should be one. Someone dame’s first new college since might say there’s a different way 1921, will be housed in Jenkins to substantiate Catholic char-stadium. environment if it’s a more diverse different categories of staff, hall, a building which will replace acter which includes theology, “Instead of having a beautiful environment,” he said. “Second though he did not give any con-the parking lot on Notre dame but we should add other kinds football stadium, very tradition-is, we can attract a wide variety crete plans. Avenue in between the hesburgh of courses. We’re not going to al, in the middle of campus, used of students, faculty, staff. The “I purposefully try to avoid Center for International Studies say, we won’t listen to you; we’ve eight or nine times a year — six third is that the people who are putting in a quota,” he said. and the deBartolo Performing already made up our minds.” football games, the Blue-gold here, if we’re more diverse and “What I’m trying to do across Arts Center. game, commencement, which is inclusive, are happier with their my division, which is mostly the 
Burish said the Keough School Campus Crossroads what it gets used for — we’ll take experience.” business side of the university, is is part of a larger effort to become graves primarily addressed it and make it a space that is used Jenkins said the university’s to say, what are the areas where a “global university,” which Campus Crossroads, the $400 300 days a year,” graves said. student diversity initiatives in-we need to improve, and to chal­includes sending more Notre million stadium addition When asked how the university cluded spreading awareness of lenge my nine direct reports dame students abroad and set-which began construction in will keep the project on budget, Notre dame’s spirit of inclusion; to tackle the situation. I’m not ting aside space in the two new November. he said the project graves said $200 million of the the creation of Speak up, a web-going to go to one person and dorms for international students. will add academic and student project’s budget comes from do-site with information about and a say, you have to hire someone. 
“No university can be a great space to an area close to where nations and money already set reporting mechanism for sexual What I’m saying is that across university unless it’s a global students live and go to class. aside for specific purposes, such assault and harassment; Martin the nine of us, two years from university,” Burish said. “If you “At many many other schools as moving the psychology and Luther King, Jr. day celebrations; now, we should look differently focus on a specific region, even if that have built up around their anthropology departments. The increasing hall staff diversity and from how we do now. We jointly that region is the united States of stadium, the decision was to other $200 million will come awareness of socioeconomic di-have to take that responsibility.” America, your education will be move the stadium. We weren’t from the sale of season tickets for versity and the first-year course outdated, and it will be delimited. going to do that. At least, I wasn’t the premium seating. that will replace the physical ed-Divestment It won’t acknowledge the interac-going to do that and live,” graves graves said rolfs will become a ucation requirement. In response to a student’s tion and interconnectedness of said. “So the question was, can practice facility for the basketball Jenkins said faculty diversity question asking whether the all the countries in this world.” we use the stadium in some way? teams and the rockne Memorial initiatives have included sur-university would divest from fos-
And that was really the genesis gymnasium will remain a gym. veys, ongoing inclusion training sil fuel companies, Jenkins said Core curriculum review of the idea. So the idea was to The future use of other buildings and special efforts to recruit and the plan is to move towards a 
Burish also addressed the include some academic spaces such as haggar hall, which cur-retain faculty of color. New staff more gradual reduction of fossil upcoming review of university in the complex in the heart of rently houses much of the psy-now have multicultural compe-fuel usage. course requirements. he said campus, and then put a student chology department, is unclear. tency training; the university “We’re sitting in a room that’s over this semester, the Core center there which would serve By August, the steel struc-recently hired Eric Love as direc-heated and lighted, and when we Curriculum review Committee all the students.” tures on two sides of the sta-tor of staff diversity and inclusion drive to where we go, we use fos­will consider five questions, in-The additions, built on three dium will be constructed, and Christina Brooks as diversity sil fuels,” he said. “It seems to me cluding the curriculum’s relation sides of the stadium, will house and the project will be com-recruiting program manager, that it would seem to be hypo-to Notre dame’s Catholic char-the music, sacred music, an-plete in July 2017, graves said. and it created a strategic plan to critical to say, ‘we’re going to di­acter and the role of Advanced thropology and psychology de-address staff diversity issues. vest from the companies we rely Placement credits. partments, as well as a digital Diversity and Inclusion When asked to elaborate on on for the energy, what we need 
The committee will make a media center, a student union Jenkins recapped three of the staff diversity initiatives, graves to do business.’ So I think what recommendation for a new core with restaurants and a common motivations in the university’s said he directed his office to cre-we need is a gradual but more de­curriculum and lead a campus-space, a gym to replace the rolfs efforts to increase diversity and ate a two- to three-year action termined effort to make our use wide discussion for a year before Sports recreation Center, space inclusion, which he said has been plan for increasing staff diver-of energy sustainable.” a final decision is made. Burish for clubs and student media, of special importance to the ad-sity and inclusion, which would invited the student body to at-the Career Center, a ballroom ministration for the past year. address specific areas such gen-Contact Emily McConville at tend forums and focus groups and premium seating for the “First, it’s a richer educational der and ethnic diversity across emcconv1@nd.edu 

Fulbright 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
press release, “The Inter-American Court of human rights provides a forum where citizens can sue their own states for viola­tions of the American Convention on human rights. Because the Court has limited capacity, it recently developed the innova­tive but controversial doctrine of ‘control of conventionality’ that, in effect, deputizes the far more numerous national courts to en­force the Convention.” 
Cassel said in the press release his proposal outlined a 6-month stay in Mexico, “the country where efforts to carry out the new ‘control of conventionality’ doctrine are most advanced,” to focus on the policy and exam­ine how it is being carried out by Mexican judges. 
“Can it actually work?” Cassel said in the press release. “If so, how? do national court judges know about it? In practice, do they resist or embrace it? Without training in international human rights law, how can they get its application right? how expan­sively do they interpret their own jurisdiction, under national law, to become international human rights enforcers?” 
Cassel teaches regional as well as international human rights law at Notre dame, and this year, one of his students is writing a thesis on this doctrine. 
“I will be reading his entire doctoral thesis, which is going to be the most complete and up­to-date scholarly reading on the subject,” Cassel said. “So I’ll have plenty of advanced academic re­search before I go.” 
during his time in Mexico, Cassel will stay at the Institute of Legal research of the National Autonomous university of Mexico. Cassel’s host scholar there is one of the university’s se­nior researchers as well as a for­mer judge of the Inter-American Court of human rights. 
“It’s the right institute in the right country at the right time to study a novel doctrine that will have potential implications not only for Latin American but also for countries across the world,” Cassel said. 
Cassel said the application deadline was back in August 2014, and the entire applica­tion process went through three stages. 
“I got a notification in early November that I made the first cut, did a Skype interview with a group of decision-makers in Mexico City, and then I finally got the notice a week or two ago,” Cassel said. 
There were only four recipients of this particular fellowship, and Cassel said the competition was especially strong this year. he said the competition included a variety of political scientists, sociologists, psychologists and more, so he was thrilled when he received the news he was award­ed the fellowship. 
“It’s very gratifying for any seri­ous academic to be given a grant that enables you to devote an entire semester to research and scholarship,” Cassel said. “I love teaching, but this frees me up for a semester to really dig in on the scene at the leading edge of a new doctrine in international law.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

Oscars in the trash 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Cynically romantic 
Rebecca O’Neil 
News Writer 

The second definition of cynic in the Oxford English dictionary is “a member of a school of ancient greek philosophers founded by Antisthenes, marked by an ostentatious contempt for ease and pleasure” as they distracted the quest for self-knowledge. I fancy I may be related to a member of Antisthenes’ school — a churlish protégée who eventually relocat­ed to Ireland sometime during the dark Ages. down the line somewhere, clever and eloquent critiques became mute sar­donic eye rolls, and then I was born. 
My sister undoubtedly fertilized this tendency. She helped me fight budding insecurities in middle school by remind­ing me: “No one cares. They have other things to think about, rebecca.” We share a deadpan humor, not to be fol­lowed without a comprehensive knowl­edge of current events and an affinity for irony. We set ourselves apart from the human race by surmising that we aren’t poor suckers — not for love, not for mis­information, not for any of it. 
And yet, the New york Times’ Style sec­tion titled “Vows” has been a part of my weekly routine for a while now. I started reading it years ago after my sister and I watched a beautifully shot and scored short on a random couple featured on the Times’ website. 
The nation’s divorce rate is around 50 percent and people still believe in mar­riage. Further, not only do they believe in marriage, but they also believe in the spectacle of, as the Times titles it, “Weddings and Celebrations: Stories of triumph, hope, loss and love.” 
The stories shared are never quite the same, nor do they ever fit any one cli­che. They make you feel like you’ve seen a romcom once about this particular couple, but only because the real deal is that good. 
recently, I’ve been struck most by the unions announced by older couples. Whether they’re divorcees or gays only just now able to take advantage of new laws, marriage means opportunity. It’s easy to become swept up in the beauty of overcoming obstacles, even time, to live presently. 
“The Wedding Watchers” is another one of my favorite clips on the Times’ website. It shows a band of women (sometimes accompanied by husbands of their own) who come to grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn every Saturday to watch people take their wedding photos. Many of these women have been coming since the 1970s, and oddly enough, I want to join them. 
I like to think I’ll always be a cynic. Those Sunday Style stories of love though. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at       roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
Let’s Talk Smart 
It’s an open secret in hollywood that certain films do not win awards. Science fiction, fantasy, action and com­edy are toxic as far as the Academy is concerned. Every once in a while, an exception sneaks through — a “return of the King” or “gladiator” — but by and large, films of these genres are lucky even to be nominated. The Oscars, the Academy seems to say, don’t belong to these “trash” genres. Instead, we see award after award go to period dramas and overcoming adversity storylines (I’m picking on the Academy here largely because of their visibility; the problems I discuss are more or less universal). 
Perhaps the starkest example of this trend was the 1988 Academy Awards. The winner for Best Picture was “rain Man,” a film about an autistic savant (dustin hoffman) that seemed tailor-made to snag a golden statuette or eight. Meanwhile, the Academy chose to ig­nore “die hard.” despite having a killer script and great performances from Bruce Willis and Alan rickman, the film that would be its genre’s gold standard for the next decade received only four nominations for technical awards, of which it won none. Too lowbrow for the deli­cate sensibilities of the Academy, the film was written off as a mere “guilty pleasure.” 
This kind of condemnation is symptomatic of a com­mon attitude among both elder-statesman film critics and certain members of the film-going public — that all action flicks are empty, cash-grab pablum, devoid of artistic merit. don’t get me wrong, there’s some horrible action out there — B-actors like Jean-Claude van damme and Steven Seagal have made entire careers out of serv­ing up lifeless machismo. But to conflate their efforts with those who rise above the lowest common denomina­tor only discourages future action directors from trying to elevate their craft above the sea of sameness. good action ought to be unironically praised, not cast aside as “popcorn cinema.” 
In fact, there’s a case to be made to prioritize the blockbuster over the drama when it comes to awards for directing. The complex makeup of a fantasy world, the careful choreography of a sword fight or the precise timing of a comedy testify to the obsessive skill of the filmmaker. Further, film is primarily a visual medium; therefore, a picture that “goes big” ought to be reckoned more faithful to its art than one with more modest cam­erawork. Example: Which film would lose more of its es­sential filmic character if it were transcribed as a radio screenplay — “raiders of the Lost Ark” or “Twelve Angry Men”? 

In order to motivate change, I therefore announce my own personal nomination for Best Foreign Language Film of 2014 — “The raid 2.” director gareth Evans follows up his original “The raid,” released in 2010, with the contin­ued story of honest cop rama, who now seeks vengeance for the murder of his brother by infiltrating Jakarta’s organized crime scene. rama, played by martial artist Iko uwais, must use his mastery of pencak silat (national martial art of Indonesia) to keep himself alive and undis­covered while thwarting the schemes of local kingpins. 
Though tonally similar to John Woo heroic-bloodshed flicks like “hard Boiled,” “The raid 2” focuses more on in-your-face melee combat than gun ballet. rama punch­es, elbows and kicks his way through wave after wave of baddies, inflicting bone-shattering punishment that literally dropped my jaw as I watched. Imagine if “The departed” starred Bruce Lee and was directed by a more misanthropic Quentin Tarantino. 
“The raid 2” illustrates perfectly how a top-notch director like Evans can use big visuals to tell his story, rather than interfere. The first fight sequence begins with rama locked in a prison bathroom stall as angry inmates rattle the door. The tension as the lock weakens perfectly builds anticipation of the battle to come. After a brutal free-for-all in a rain-soaked field and a bloody fight in a restaurant, the film climaxes in the aseptic white of a restaurant kitchen with a one-on-one fistfight between rama and a man known only as “The Assassin.” Without a single line of dialogue, this seven-minute duel still con­veys a complete narrative arc, punctuated by explosive choreography that solidifies “The raid 2” as the greatest action movie of this millennium. 
“The raid 2” won’t win the Oscar — it wasn’t even nominated. Evans’ gleeful borderline-exploitation was never likely to play well with the Academy’s prejudices. Nevertheless, I’d advise you to check it out if you like ac­tion. If nothing else, remember that Iko uwais and two of his co-stars have been cast in the upcoming “Star Wars 
VII: The Force Awakens.” So when all your friends are buzzing about how epic that one light saber duel was, you can smile proudly and, with a hipsterish smirk, declare “I was watching them before it was cool.” 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Tuition increase: some explanation required 
Austin Hagwood 
do I Sound Clever yet? 

Subtle, wasn’t it? In what has become an an­nual tradition, our administration came forward wringing its hands last week and murmuring gentle phrases such as “gratitude and connection,” “pas­sionate alumni network” and “significant sacrifice” to soften the blow of yet another tuition hike bring­ing next year’s total cost of attendance to $61,775. 
After spending a few happy moments think­ing of other ways one might spend $61,775 
— CouchSurfing Scandinavia, for instance, or bicy­cling in the himalayas — I wondered whether such unassuming yet persistent climbs in tuition costs really passed the smell test. 
In 1991, the average u.S. worker earned $21,811 and spent just over $17,000 to send sons and daugh­ters to Notre dame. The year 2001 witnessed sala­ries and total costs rise to $33,000 and $29,100, respectively — a 5.2 percent tuition upswing that was heralded then (as this year’s is now) as “the lowest percent increase” in decades. As of 2013, the average salary was $45,000, yet the university’s price now far outstrips what an average American worker earns. 
An increase is still an increase, and celebrating how low it remains fails to mask basic disparities. While household income grew by a factor of 6.5 over the past four decades, private university fees and expenses rose by a factor of 13. Soft explanations and the “value of a Notre dame degree” also fail to account for how the university’s price could have doubled over the course of 13 years and grown at a rate well beyond annual inflation. As I continue to remark when passing the inexplicable dumpster-turned-modern art-piece entrenched in front of riley, “Something is wrong with this picture.” 
We continue to accept the yoke of annual tuition spikes but never stop to question the logic behind them. If costs continue to rise at a rate of three percent per year, the price of a Notre dame educa­tion 25 years from now will be over half a million dollars. 
But the arms race among private universities competing for prestige, applicants and ever-fatten­ing endowments is nothing new. Similar surges in price apply to all of Notre dame’s peer institutions. hiring more administrators, maintaining compli­ance, funding research and spending $400 million on a stadium expansion are expensive endeavors, after all. harvard’s cost has doubled since 2000, so what’s the problem? 
Since Princeton implemented its “no loan” policy in 2001, other universities across the country have followed suit. One notable exception is Notre dame. Although schools such as harvard, Princeton, Amherst, Penn and Vanderbilt compete with Notre dame in price, they all have “no loan” policies re­placing student loan offers with additional gift aid and give 100 percent of students the opportunity to graduate debt-free. At Stanford and yale, families earning under $100,000 pay no tuition; families making under $60,000 pay nothing at all. 
By contrast, the average student loan debt for Notre dame’s class of 2013 was $27,000. When you keep in mind that only 45 percent of first-year students receive gift aid and many students can’t afford the cost outright, the figure for indebted stu­dents becomes much higher. 
“But harvard, Stanford, Princeton and yale all have endowments larger than ours!” you say. “how can we hope to be so generous?” 

Consider this. By 2014, Vanderbilt’s endowment reached $4 billion, and it has offered a “no loan” policy since 2009. Notre dame’s endowment now stands at $10 billion and rivals that of Ivies such as Penn and Columbia, yet we continue to fall behind the schools with which we hope to compete and cannot match the financial aid scheme of a univer­sity with an endowment less than half of our own. When paired with the wheels of industry digging around Campus Crossings to the tune of $400 mil­lion, it seems a difficult and unnecessary pill to swallow. 
Not only would a “no loan” policy alleviate the burden of debt on recent graduates, it would attract more applicants, place Notre dame in the company of our nation’s elite institutions and affirm the university’s commitment to accessibility irrespec­tive of economic background. As only 45 percent of first-year students needed gift aid last year, it repre­sents a modest investment with power to transform the post-graduate options of lower-income students. 
The university owes students and families a pub­lic and thorough explanation for how tuition is used and why it keeps increasing, and the administra­tion should explain its continued resistance to a “no loan” financial aid policy. until then, I will find it difficult to depict Notre dame as a better invest­ment than the institutions it claims to rival. 
Austin Hagwood is a senior from northern California who studies English and hermits himself in Dillon. Tell him a story at ahagwood@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What if Notre Dame were co-ed 
Amanda Pea 
Find your Voice 

during my four years as an undergraduate at Notre dame, I have witnessed most, if not all, students complain about gender relations, the hook-up cul­ture and the social roles both males and females feel they are expected to maintain as students living on campus. These uncomfortable and sometimes tense gender relations are further validated by events de­signed to encourage the men and women of Notre dame to interact in healthier ways, engage in dia­logues about dating and sexuality and even embrace their own individual quirks and awkwardness to build better relationships with each other. 
Although these activities have inherent value for helping individuals navigate the unique social culture here, there seems to be an overwhelming consensus that the university’s structures not only create, but perpetuate, a number of these social is­sues. The gender relations Center does a tremen­dous job in trying to create safe spaces for students to explore their identities as men and women and understand how they influence interpersonal rela­tionships, but it is an issue every department and in­stitute of the university needs to address, especially the Office of Community Standards. 
What does it mean to cultivate a spirit of inclusion for a diverse group of students? If we are to call Notre dame home, it becomes the responsibility of the entire community to develop and nurture spaces for all of its students to thrive in an environment they feel fully accepted in, beginning with the place they are to call home — their dorms. As we know, Notre dame requires its undergraduate students to live on campus in single-sex residence halls during their first academic year. The dorm a student is randomly assigned to as a freshman becomes their place of residence for the next four-to-five years unless they opt to transfer to a different hall, join a specific hall if one of its residents pull them in as a roommate or move off-campus after the first year. Most students, however, will usually spend all four years in the same dorm they were first assigned to as freshmen or opt to move off campus as seniors. 
dorm life at Notre dame can be a phenomenal and enriching experience that allows students to meet people of all races, ethnicities, countries and socioeconomic backgrounds. Although Notre dame does not have sororities and fraternities, dorm life certainly offers many of those same greek-life ex­periences to its residents, from signature events to exclusive dances and charity drives. Additionally, each dorm has developed its own identity, mascot and stereotypes that most students characterize its residents by. Through a variety of university com­petitions and activities, these identities become something to take pride in, to protect, uphold and maintain — creating rival dorms and brother-sister dorm coalitions. While boosting competition and pride in one’s hall can be a great way to strengthen the unity and camaraderie students feel in their dorm and with other dorms, it can also impact and alienate its students’ social and individual identity development by promoting a hetero-normative living experience with defined gender roles and expecta­tions. It can be a place of isolation and alienation if you do not fit the mold the student body single-sex living is intended for. 
don’t get me wrong — single-sex dorms can be great, but they are not for everyone, and I seriously think it’s time we stop shutting down the conversa­tion and start exploring how these living arrange­ments construct a social expectation of masculine and feminine identities specific to Notre dame, as well as perpetuate those that are not always in­clusive of other students’ gender, racial and sexual identities. With incoming students at Notre dame compulsorily assigned into single-sex dorms, they are deprived of the opportunity to select the living arrangements that are most ideal for their indi­vidual identity development, comfort and safety. Consequently, it sets up and maintains racial, gender and sexual identity inequities other students experi­ence while living on campus. Who, then, is this sys­tem really intended to benefit? 

I know many gay male students who moved off campus because they did not feel safe or included in their respective dorms’ male identities. The rules for a men’s residence hall are more relaxed and loosely enforced, making parties more likely to be held there and creating potentially less safe environments for women to drink in. With regard to the university’s Spirit of Inclusion, it is important and worthwhile to explore how on-campus living environments influ­ence the social culture that either promotes or sub­verts inclusion for students from all walks of life. It would also be important to recognize how the struc­tures of dorm life nurture or potentially threaten student safety and racial, gender and sexual identity on campus. Students already come from diverse backgrounds and living situations and often share bathrooms and living spaces with different kinds of people. What would really happen if Notre dame had a few dorms dedicated to co-ed living? Whether it had gender-based floors is an entirely different dis­cussion, but it would certainly change the nature of campus gender relations. 
Amanda Pea is a senior with a self-designed  major in sustainable development and minor in poverty studies. She enjoys having fruitful discussions on race, poverty, gender and interpersonal relations. She can be reached at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MEGHAN CLEARY 
Scene Writer 

I feel any review of Marilyn Manson’s work is best pref­aced with a brief backstory. The established and highly recognized shock rocker is frequently criticized for his recent albums because of a more mellow and personal approach. Most of his fan base commended Manson for his mid-1990s political statement that shaped a large por­tion of a culture which challenges conservative America. But Manson should also be commended for his 21st­century output. The focus has shifted from the political to the personal, which caused many fans to lose interest. The statement on personal struggle is, however, equally as relatable, if not more so, than the response to political restraint. 
Although industrial rock, heavy riffs and pitches that make you crave a canteen of water were staples to Manson’s introduction to the world, this is not where we should limit our expectations. Immediately beyond this, he had laid sounds and aesthetics of glam rock, channel­ing legends such as david Bowie. In the 2007 album “Eat Me, drink Me” Manson shifts the focus from the instru­mental stress to the lyrical interpretation of something connected to many members of his audience: childhood story. Although counterintuitive, it is better to think of Manson as an individual and a band that collaborate to give rise to different emotions, thoughts and questions with each release. That is where this review of “The Pale Emperor,” released Jan. 15, differs vastly from that of the average Manson follower. 
“The Pale Emperor” takes on possibly the most drastic change in sound and reaction for Manson to date. This 
By KEELY BERGIN 
Scene Writer 

Jon Stewart started his comedic career doing stand-up in New york City at the Comedy Cellar. he later developed a television show called “The Jon Stewart Show,” which aired on MTV in 1993. It was the network’s first talk show, but its meteoric rise was quickly extinguished by 1995, and it was cancelled. Stewart worked a few short-lived television shows until finally landing the role as host of “The daily Show.” 
When “The daily Show” first aired in 1996, it was a brand new show that brought politics to a place in the media where young people were actually interested in watching it.  The show poignantly satirizes the insanity that is u.S. politics. 
What many people might not know is that the show was originally hosted by Craig Kilborn; Jon Stewart took over as host in 1999. The show has been wildly popular, bringing in guests from all sectors, from President Barack Obama to author Kurt Vonnegut. “The daily Show” has also played major roles in the careers of many now fa­mous comedians, including John Oliver, who hosts “Last Week Tonight” and actor Steve Carell. 
during last Tuesday’s “The daily Show,” Stewart an­nounced he would be retiring later this year.  he has hosted the show for an astonishing and incredibly album cultivates a mood that is simultaneously soporific and attention-grabbing. dedicated to his mother, who passed away last May, the tracks compile a depressed mood and a struggle to cope with the inevitable truth of human mortality. There are tracks where the intensity compares to white noise; there are also tracks that stomp feet and bob heads. despite the change in tempo and intensity, it would be false to call the album an uplifting listen. 
Opener “Killing Strangers” and closing track “Odds of Even” set conflicting tones to Manson’s album. Lyrically invariant and cliché, as well as instrumentally monoto­nous, these songs are hard to categorize as highlights of the album. If you are looking to implant a subliminal message in your studying regimen or would like to prime yourself for a grim night’s sleep, consider giving these a play. Other than that, their obvious message is dragged out for over five minutes each. 
Additional slower-paced songs, such as “Third day of a Seven day Binge,” shed a contrasting light to the way the album begins and ends. The gothicism of Manson’s voice over a bassline and guitar riff of a much more mainstream air makes for a great combination. Although it is troubling to some that Manson would be described as mainstream, it is imperative to remember how he uses different rising emotions, which merely fill in the Tetris-like puzzle that is Manson’s repertoire. A mellow Manson is not detaching from the past Manson — it is all reactive, and this track truly embodies the influence of the past on the present. More mainstream sounds can be heard in other tracks such as “Cupid Carries a gun,” which is featured as the theme song of WgN America’s TV show “Salem.” 
Then we come across the more upbeat tunes. “deep 
entertaining 17 years. 
“Seventeen years is the longest I have ever in my life held a job by 16 years and five months. The upshot being that I’m a terrible employee,” Stewart said, characteristi­cally finishing with a joke. 
This announcement was met with considerable dis­appointment on the part of the audience. Thankfully, Stewart will still be hosting the show up until he actually does retire. 
“We’re still working out details,” Stewart said on when the final show would be. 
Comedians and celebrities also had something to say, or at least tweet, about his retirement. Craig Ferguson, of the “Craig Ferguson Show,” tweeted: “Congratulations to Jon Stewart on an extraordinary groundbreaking run.” 
Others were not quite as calm and collected as Ferguson. “NOOOOOO Jon Stewart!! We shall tie you to that chair until they can find someone who can fill your shoes,” tweeted harry Shum Junior, an actor best known for his work on “glee.” 
Comedy Central sent Stewart off with warm regards in a statement: “[Stewart] is a comedic genius, generous with his time and talent, and will always be a part of the Comedy Central family.” 
Stewart has maintained his usual sense of humor on the show since his announcement. Among his first re­marks on the Wednesday show included his response Six” is a brief return to a more familiar style that many identify with Manson. The lead guitar rightfully domi­nates on this track. With Manson’s age, it is no surprise that an attempt at focusing on melody would go on even the hardest and head-banging of songs. Although Manson has a melodic range no wider than Sinatra’s, he does manage to throw in a shrill chorus that is very nos­talgic, if only for a moment. 

Overall, Manson leaves us with a taste of the new and the familiar. Still, the direction and focus are shifted. Manson’s focus is vastly more emotionally and person­ally fixated in “The Pale Emperor” and opens his work to a much wider and more diverse audience. “The Pale Emperor” is just as telling of Manson’s opinion as any other album; it is merely the topic that is different. Ironic and seemingly reversed, this album would likely be the initial recommendation for those interested in easing into Manson’s discography. 
Contact Meghan Cleary at mcleary2@nd.edu 
“The Pale Emperor” 
Marilyn Manson 
Label: Hell, etc. 

Tracks: “Third Day of a Seven Day Binge,” “The Mephistopheles of Los Angeles,” “Slave Only Dreams to Be King! 
If you like: Tom Waits, Death from Above 1979 

to the Internet more or less exploding in reaction to his eventual departure. 
“did I die? ‘Cause it all seems very ‘I died,’” Stewart said. 
Beyond that comment, the show was very much busi­ness as usual, with Stewart berating Arby’s and the “in­vented beef” between him and the fast food chain. The show quickly moved back into usual territory: drawing attention to newsworthy politics. he discussed a move by the governor of Kansas that removed an earlier executive order forbidding the state government from discriminat­ing based on sexual orientation. 
“… And it being Kansas, I guess Brownback clicked his heels and said, ‘There’s no place like homophobia,’” Stewart said. 
Clearly, the show has no plans to enter into the down­ward spiral that has been predicted on media such as Buzzfeed, Tumblr and Twitter. Since the announcement, these websites have been buzzing with questions about who will take over and what Stewart will do next. One thing is certain. Whoever does take over will certainly have huge shoes to fill. 
“I don’t have any specific plans. I got a lot of ideas, I got a lot of things in my head,” Stewart said on what he would do after “The daily Show.” 
Contact Keely Bergin at kbergin@nd.edu 

MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
Scene Writer 

“Saturday Night Live” celebrated its 40th anniversary this weekend with a star-studded, three-and-a-half hour special that aired, ironically, on Sunday night. SNL has always been hit-or-miss, varying wildly in quality from sketch-to-sketch. It’s just that in its four decades as a sketch comedy show, the show has racked up such a col­lection of highs — from Coneheads and Wayne’s World to debbie downer and “d**k in a Box” — that the lows start to fade from memory. 
Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake kicked off the spe­cial with a musical cold open, singing and rapping their way through a medley of the show’s most memorable catchphrases. As a sketch in its own right, it was unim­pressive, coasting solely on nostalgia and the sheer force of Fallon and Timberlake’s combined charisma. 
But as an introduction to “SNL 40,” a charming, if uneven, tribute to the show’s impact on American cul­ture, it set the right tone. The special was not perfect by any means, but fittingly enough, the highs more than eclipsed the lows. 
Among the highs was Weekend update, which fea­tured the unbeatable trio of Tina Fey, Amy Poehler and Jane Curtin behind the famous desk. Fey joked that co­caine, “one of the show’s original producers,” was in the audience, while Curtin stole the show with her Fox News 
Rebecca O’Neil 
Scene Writer 

Last year, I left Indiana for winter break with Chet Faker’s “Thinking in Textures” ringing in my ears. “I’m Into you” came up on a Flume binge sometime around Thanksgiving and soon after infiltrated every playlist I created. 
youTube’s “suggestions for you” just get me. 
Faker’s warm raspy voice against the crisp sound of a Prophet synth piano incite the image of a glowing body hidden and protected inside a NorthFace gore-tex parka. The Australian beatmaker’s voice bursts forth as the soul propels said jacketed body forward through frigid conditions. 
It treads steadily onward guided by a rhythmic bass, a groove given by smooth manipulations of field record­ings and seasoned with keyboard echoes. On my lighter days, somewhere close to Christmas but definitely be­fore finals reared, I thought of an attractive, young Santa Claus when I listened to Faker — an image undoubtedly inspired more by his beard than his rich voice. 
upon returning to the frozen tundra that was South Bend in January 2014, I was introduced to Son Lux and his album “Lanterns.” The self-proclaimed sound “col­lagist” recreates pizzicato on a synth and pairs it with jab: “I used to be the only pretty blonde woman reading the fake news. Now there’s a whole network for that.” They then introduced a segment of celebrities doing impressions of their favorite SNL characters, including Emma Stone as roseanne roseannadanna and Edward Norton as Stefon. Most memorably, Melissa McCarthy did a spot-on take on Chris Farley’s motivational speaker Matt Foley, ending the segment by jumping on top of and breaking the Weekend update desk. 
The tribute to the show’s musical skits, overseen by Martin Short and Maya rudolph as Beyoncé, was also excellent. The medley spanned the show’s 40-year his­tory, from Steve Martin’s classic “King Tut” to Kenan Thompson’s always-funny “What’s up With That?” Best of all was Bill Murray, in character as lounge singer Nick Ocean, singing a hilarious version of the “Jaws” theme. 
Later, Mike Myers and dana Carvey broke out their long-haired wigs for a “Wayne’s World” reprisal, featur­ing an SNL-themed top ten. It was thrilling to watch Myers and Carvey play off each other again, making fun of Kanye West and doing Lorne Michaels impressions like they never left the show. Even the in memoriam segment 
— which featured a still-living Jon Lovitz and ended with Murray cracking, “generalissimo Francisco Franco is still dead” — managed to be both touching and funny. 
The musical guest has always been an SNL staple, and Sunday’s performances were equally memorable and spanned artists from the past 40 years. West, whose 
his mildly gravelly voice for a sound so perfect and so winter. 
The quivering tones emulated in his voice, piano and strings reach operatic highs that give me goosebumps on my neck the same way a too-loose scarf on a windy day might. 
My interest in seasons and their correlation to tem­perance of the soul manifested through music is mild. good sound is good. There are artists, albums, songs that will pierce humans’ interiors in indescribable ways always, but by simply examining the subjectivity of the term “good,” I’ve realized that even the very best sounds sound better in certain weather. 
I’m trying a different approach to this winter’s tunes 
— a genre so quintessentially summer in my mind, it’s a challenge — funk. My personal classification of modern-day “funk” is rooted in a distinct sway in sound that makes my mind want to “shoegaze” as its vessel bobs vehemently. I’m not talking Nile rogers; I’m talking what jazz purists might relegate as corrupt. 
It all started with “The heat” by Jungle. Somewhere between my regular searches for psychedelic rock, house music and occasional reggae binges, I ended up on the r&B front. 
I don’t watch music videos often but had a pleas­ant zone sesh as Jungle moonwalked on pink roller-skates. The song is now on my most-listened-to Spotify “runaway” performance on the show in 2010 is still awe-inspiring, performed a medley of “Jesus Walks,” “Only One” and “Wolves” underneath a gorgeous light instal­lation on an all-black stage. Keith richards introduced Paul McCartney, who sang his classic solo cut “Maybe I’m Amazed” as images of his younger self played on the wall behind him. Miley Cyrus performed a surprisingly great country cover of Paul Simon’s “50 Ways to Leave your Lover,” while Simon himself closed the show with a stir­ring performance of “Still Crazy After All These years.” 

The biggest disappointment was Eddie Murphy’s anti­climactic return to SNL after 32 years; Chris rock’s intro­duction lasted longer than Murphy’s brief appearance. Likewise, a reprise of the soap parody “The Californians,” which drove its already tired premise into the ground, lasted an interminably long nine minutes and managed to be completely unfunny. 
yet, despite a few missteps, “SNL 40” was a surprisingly enjoyable tribute to what has become a TV institution and a reminder of why SNL is so important to so many comedy fans. 
From old cast members reliving their formative years on the show to the bevy of celebrities who wanted to be in on the action, “SNL 40” celebrated a show that has made Americans laugh for four decades and whose hits far out­weigh its misses. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
compilation of the winter season. The playlist is called Escapists and is inspired by songs that make me think of not being here, there, anywhere. It features everything from the beach goth genre, Beach Boys, red hot Chili Peppers, songs with the word “California” in them and forget-yourself dance vibes. 
Funk fits well into my step as I walk to class on un­salted sidewalks. When my legs give on the ice, recovery feels smooth if I keep my eyes down and focus on the dipped beats. My wobbly steps feel more like subtle dance moves, although I’m sure I look ridiculous. The electric bass working on a downbeat boosts my confi­dence. Complex groove dominates the mind, and I’m good to go. 
As I continue to recognize funk’s presence in my win­ter-really-summer-vibe playlist, I’ve noticed my taste has not deviated much. 
The up-stroke and chord progression characteristic of funk have appeared more and more in the electronic music scene. The adaptation of jazz into modern-day synth has led to a proto-funk (dillon Francis’ moom­bahtoon — someone debate me on this). Boogie at a rave? 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Why the All-Star Game matters 
Marek Mazurek 
Sports Writer 
I will admit I did not want to watch the NBA All-Star game. 
The spectacle surround­ing the game has increased to absurd proportions, and, unlike in baseball, the game does not actually count for anything. I’m sure that there are others like me who just want the regular season to resume so we can get caught up on the storylines that re­ally matter. however, despite my personal aversion to the pageantry of all-star week­end, here are a few important reasons why the NBA holds its annual festivities. 
First and foremost, all-star weekend allows the NBA to promote its product. By show­casing its best players, the hopes that the all-star game provides a casual fan with a good game of basketball to get them interested in the game. The actual game, however, is of a far lower quality than a real game because the players don’t really care, but the NBA is hoping the big name recog­nition will get people interest­ed. For example, if you aren’t a die-hard basketball fan, are you more likely to watch the Minnesota Timberwolves against the Orlando Magic or Lebron James and russell Westbrook dunking all over the place? 
This is also why the NBA has expanded its program of events in recent years to include a red carpet event and new skills challenges. More stuff going on equals more media coverage, which leads to more people hearing about the NBA. This exposure becomes vitally important for the NBA considering how important sports ratings are. The popularity of the NFL requires the rest of the sports world to scrap for the NFL’s leftover viewers. The decline of baseball is a testament to this harsh fact, and the NhL has adopted a number of skill-oriented challenges to its all-star game in order to keep up with the NBA. Which shoes the players are wearing, how many dunks are thrown down and which celebrities show up to watch the game may seem like fluff, but they are events that do generate buzz, and that is the NBA’s ultimate goal. 
Another reason all-star weekend matters is that it gives younger players a chance to get their names out there and grow their brand exposure. Just think, before Saturday no one knew that Zach LaVine existed, but be­cause of the Sprite Slam dunk Contest, LaVine and other young players are able to get their names out there. 
In recent years, the NBA has added the BBVA rising Stars Challenge, The Taco Bell Skills Challenge and the degree Shooting Stars events to the slam dunk and 3-point contests in an effort to give younger players around the league a chance to have their day in the sun. In this respect, the NBA all-star weekend is a lot like the lesser college bowl games: it doesn’t really mat­ter too much and the players have fun. 
Lastly, people watch the all-star game because simply be­cause it’s fun. As I mentioned earlier, I don’t like all of the hoopla and red carpet events, but you can bet your tuition money I enjoyed watching russell Westbrook going ber­serk. And therein lies the real draw of all-star events like this. People enjoy watching the best players on the planet playing against each other and having fun doing it. It is for that reason that I will probably watch the All-Star game every year until I die. There is something extremely compelling about watching the players you know and love joking with the referees and each other. It’s like being let in on a big inside joke for fa­mous people. 
So enjoy the big dunks, en­joy the somewhat-fabricated camaraderie and enjoy the fact that the NBA all-star weekend allows 5-foot-4 Kevin hart to have as many MVP awards as LeBron James. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | VILLANOVA 80, SETON hALL 54 
Villanova takes down Big East foe Seton Hall 
Associated Press 
VILLANOVA, Pa. — darrun hilliard scored 18 points, daniel Ochefu had 11 points and 12 rebounds, and No. 6 Villanova cruised to an 80-54 victory over Seton hall on Monday night. 
dylan Ennis had 12 points and ryan Arcidiacono and JayVaughn Pinkston each scored 10 to help Villanova (24-2, 11-2 Big East) win its seventh straight game. 
Isaiah Whitehead scored led the way with 15 points for Seton hall (15-11, 5-9). Sterling gibbs had 12 be­fore he was ejected for a flagrant foul in the second half. The Pirates have lost five in a row. 
Coming off a comeback win at No. 19 Butler, the Wildcats led from the start and never let up in aveng­ing a 66-61 overtime loss at Seton hall on Jan. 3. 
hilliard shot 6 for 16 two days after scoring a career-high 31 points, including a 3-pointer with 1.5 sec­onds left Saturday to give Villanova a 68-65 victory over Butler. 

hilliard got the Wildcats started in the second half with a lay-up to give them an 18-point lead. But Seton hall outscored Villanova 16-8 to cut the deficit to 46-36. Kris Jenkins then scored six straight points for the Wildcats on three free throws and a 3-pointer to extend the lead to 52-38. 
After Villanova’s Josh hart fought for a pair of offensive rebounds, Ennis hit a jumper, Arcidiacono made a 3-pointer, Pinkston scored on a lay-up and Ennis sank two free throws to give the Wildcats a 61-40 lead. 
The lead soared to 30 as nine players scored for Villanova. The Wildcats’ relentless defense forced Seton hall into 32.3 percent shooting (20 for 62). 
The first half was filled with runs. Villanova scored the first seven points be­fore gibbs hit a 3-pointer 
3:34 in. Seton hall had a 9-0 run, but Villanova an­swered with a 12-0 spurt to take a 26-13 lead. 
Seton hall missed eight straight 3s at one point be­fore Whitehead knocked one down with 4:04 left in the half. The Wildcats finished the half with six straight points to take a 36-20 lead into the locker room. 
TIP-INS 
Seton hall: The Pirates are 8-11 since starting the season 7-0. They’re 3-9 since upsetting Villanova last month. That win pre­vented the Wildcats from the best start in program history. They were 13-0. 
Seton hall visits St. John’s on Saturday, while Villanova visits Marquette on Saturday. 
FOOTBALL 

Study shows coaching can reduce injuries 
Associated Press 
INdIANAPOLIS — A new study shows young football players are less likely to get hurt or sustain head inju­ries when playing for coach­es who have been trained in teaching proper tackling fundamentals. 
Last fall, researchers at the Indianapolis-based datalys Center for Sports Injury research and Prevention col­lected data from 2,108 football players ages 5 to 15. The orga­nization monitored injuries of 100 teams in 10 youth leagues and four states. 

FOR SALE 
Well maintained ranch in Granger. 3BR, 2BA, beautiful sunroom. Open House Feb 15, 2-4. Call Janessa Traylor 574-340-1651 
FOR RENT 
Nice house for rent. 905 Stanfield. 3 beds, 2 baths. Sun porch, rec room. Available now. 608-658-6910 

The data showed players who competed for coaches with training in uSA Football’s “heads-up Football” program are better protected than those who did not. 
uSA Football, the sport’s national governing body, commissioned the study. 
The data show that players in heads-up leagues were 34 percent less likely to get a con­cussion in practice, 29 percent less likely to get a concussion in a game and could greatly reduce the amount of signifi­cant head impacts each sea­son, perhaps by an average of 90 fewer hits per season. 
dr. Tom dompier, the presi­dent of datalys and the study’s chief researcher, believes the information is so convincing, he’s putting it to use in his own household. The full results are expected to be released later Monday. 
“My son is 6 and he played (flag) football last year and probably will this year. If he does play tackle football next year, it will be under two con­ditions. One is whether we can find equipment that fits and the second condition is that the league will have to go through heads-up Football,” he told The Associated Press. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Tune me in to the wild side of life, I’m an innocent young child sharp as a knife, Take me to the garretts where the artists have died, Show me the courtrooms where the judges have lied, Let me drink deeply from the water and the wine, Light coloured can­dles in dark dreary mines, Look in the mirror and stare at myself, And wonder if that’s really me on the shelf, And each day I learn just a little bit more, I don’t know why but I do know what for, If we’re all going somewhere let’s get there soon, Oh this song’s got no title just words and a tune, Take me down alleys where the murders are done, In a vast high powered rocket to the core of the sun, Want to read books in the studies of men, Born on the breeze and die on the wind, If I was an artist who paints with his eyes, I’d study my subject and silently cry, Cry for my darkness to come down on me. For confusion to carry on turning the wheel. 



PGA 

Snedeker stands out at Pebble Beach Pro-Am 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACh, Calif.  — The fog began to roll in off the coast of Pebble Beach, though it didn’t matter. Brandt Snedeker had the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in hand, and he had a clear view of where he was going. 
There is no better wait than on the 18th tee at Pebble Beach. For Snedeker, there was no better feeling than walking up the famous closing hole with a four-shot lead, his ball in the middle of the fairway and a big re­ward for a lot of hard work and hard times. 
A conservative par gave him a 5-under 67 and a 
three-shot victory Sunday, week that was close to best players might gather and it brought a renewed perfect. without him. sense of direction. Snedeker made only one he didn’t like being Mr. 
“I think I’m relevant bogey over 72 holes on three Irrelevant. again,” Snedeker said after golf courses, and it still “Not fun,” he said. “Not his second win at Pebble gnawed at him even as he when you’re used to it. Beach in three years. left the room with a crys-I don’t like playing golf 
For the first time in more tal trophy. he didn’t have a and not feeling like I can than three years, Snedeker three-putt, no small feat on compete and win. For six fell out of the top 50 in the poa annua greens played on months, eight months of last world at the end of last year by 156 players and 156 ama-year I didn’t feel I could do after his worst season on the teurs over three days. that. I didn’t feel like my PgA Tour. he wasn’t in the he’s in the Masters. By game was where it needed to Masters or any of the World moving up to No. 31 in be, it wasn’t sharp.” golf Championships. he the world, he can count he began working with already was making plans on all four World golf Butch harmon to under-to play new tournaments. Championships. he’s also stand his swing and how he was going to play every in the PgA Championship to play the game. That took week until the Masters to (he already was eligible for time. And when the 2015 give himself every chance to the u.S. Open based on his season began, it was time for secure another tee time at top 10 at Pinehurst No. 2 last him to prove all over that he Augusta National. year). Snedeker was irritat-belonged in the big events. 
All that changed in one ed at the thought the world “This is going to be 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 


hopefully the kind of player I am for many years going forward,” he said. 
That didn’t make Sunday at Pebble Beach easy. Snedeker might have looked calm during the final 5 1/2 hours. he was a wreck in­side, especially in the early going when it appeared that any number of players would have a chance. 
Jim Furyk had a one-shot lead and disappeared early with a 38 on the front nine, though it was three birdie putts inside 10 feet that re­ally cost him. Furyk felt like he hit the ball where he was aiming and couldn’t be­lieve he was losing ground. he closed with a 74, and for the ninth time since his last win at the 2010 Tour Championship, he failed to convert when he had at least a share of the 54-hole lead. 
Torrey Pines winner Jason day made a brief charge in the middle of the round. So did Pat Perez until a pair of bogeys around the turn did him in. The consolation for Perez was winning the pro-am title with Pandora Jewelry co-founder Michael Lund. 
The big challenge from Nick Watney, who already had a dream week by hav­ing San Francisco giants catcher Buster Posey as his partner. Watney opened with four straight birdies and had a two-shot lead. It turned on a bad break and a bad shot. A photographer shot off his camera at the top of Watney’s swing on the par-3 fifth, and he came up woefully short in a bunker and made bogey. 
With a 4-iron for his sec­ond shot on the par-5 sixth, Watney hit his “worst swing of the week.” It sailed to right off the cliffs into Stillwater Cover, leading to bogey. Just like that, he was one shot be­hind, and after another pair of bogeys on the back nine, he was along for the ride. 
“Even though I only lost a shot there, it was a momen­tum stall,” Watney said of the bogey on No. 6. “Along with making the bogey on No. 9 with a pitching wedge. Those two, if I could have two back, it would be that swing on 6 and the second shot into No. 9.” 
There was no stopping Snedeker. he is swinging well. he is putting well. he was a winner again, his sev­enth on the PgA Tour. And he broke by two shots his tournament record with a 265, and the winning score to par at 22 under previously held by Phil Mickelson and Mark O’Meara. 
“I’m just so excited about what’s next,” Snedeker said. 



WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish gear up for ACC championships 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame will travel to Atlanta this week as it com­petes in the ACC champion­ships, starting Wednesday and continuing through Saturday. 
The Irish (7-9) enter the con­ference championships on a wave of momentum, coming off three straight comfortable wins at rolfs Aquatic Center, over Iowa and Incarnate Word at the Shamrock Invitational and against Cleveland State one week later. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh said he believes his team’s success at the Shamrock Invitational marked a turning point in the season, and he thinks this newfound form can continue in Atlanta. 
“I think the momen­tum since the Shamrock Invitational meet has been ter­rific,” Welsh said. “I thought that the Shamrock Invitational was a breakthrough meet for us, and so I’m really excited by what happened, and we’ve been building on that since. 
“That was our breakthrough meet and we’ll be carrying that forward into this weekend.” 
The Irish will be looking for a big performance from senior All-American Emma reaney, who won the 100- and 200­yard breaststroke and 200­yard individual medley at last year’s championships. In addi­tion to reaney, who holds the American record in the 200 breaststroke, sophomore Katie Miller will be looking to fol­low up a third-place finish in last year’s 400-yard individual medley with a strong perfor­mance this weekend. 
Welsh, though, said the pri­mary goal for the Irish this week is just about setting new fast marks for the year. 
“What we’re interested in primarily is best times,” Welsh said. “We’ll be trying to be faster than we’ve been all year, and if we’re in real good shape, faster than we’ve ever been in our lives. For us, it’s going to be all about best times this week. 
“The work is already done; these people have been train­ing since school began in the fall, and so what we’re trying to do now is just to make sure that everything is organized, focused, concentrated and ready to go.” 
Although this is only Notre dame’s second conference meet since moving to the ACC, Welsh said he believes last year’s performances from the Irish, and in particular reaney, prove that they can compete with their opponents. 
“We haven’t paid a lot of at­tention to the field,” Welsh said. “Emma reaney was the swimmer of the year at these championships last year, so she’ll be in position to defend her titles. 
“The work’s been done; we’ve had some rest; we’ve got a big meet in a great facility, so we just have to maintain our focus and our concentration and let loose.” 
Welsh said the team will just enjoy its chance to perform at the conference championships and hope to see the season’s work pay off. 
“We’re just looking forward to a great meet,” Welsh said. “These people trained hard all year, and it’s just great to be here with both the swimmers and divers in Atlanta.” 
The ACC championships begin at the georgia Tech Campus recreation Center in Atlanta on Wednesday at 10 a.m. with the diving pre­liminaries and continue until Saturday evening, with the fi­nal session starting at 6 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | VIrgINIA 61, PITTSBurgh 49 
No. 2 Virginia ups offensive output in win 
Associated Press 
ChArLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Malcolm Brogdon insists that No. 2 Virginia’s offensive in­consistency isn’t as big a deal as many seem to think. 
The Cavaliers struggled to score for long stretches Monday night, but had their defense to thank for keeping Pittsburgh at bay until the shots started falling, clearing the way for Virginia’s fifth straight victory, 61-49 against the Panthers. 
“It’s frustrating when your shots aren’t falling and you can’t seem to get things going offen­sively, but at the same time, as long as we were getting stops we weren’t going to be too frustrated with ourselves,” Brogdon said. “When your offense isn’t going well, you’ve got to lean on some­thing, and for us, our identity is defense. It works out great for us.” 
Brogdon scored 18 points, in­cluding the 1,000th of his career, causing coach Tony Bennett to joke that he needs to follow the lead of NFL quarterbacks that reward their linemen and buy watches for the teammates whose screens he has used. 
Virginia used a late 8-0 scor­ing run — and another defense-forced scoreless spell for the Panthers — to pull away. 
The Cavaliers (24-1, 12-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) three times held Pittsburgh scoreless for more than 5 minutes, and they needed all three. The vic­tory tied the best start to a season in program history, first done in the 1981-82 season. 
darion Atkins, the lone senior on the team, said the Cavaliers “have gotten used to” the offen­sive struggles. 
“We just have to stay poised and not settle for a good shot but a great shot,” he said. 
And, he said, remember what has brought them to this point. 
“If we can’t do it on the defen­sive end, offense is just not going to win it for us,” Atkins said. 
Jamel Artis scored 20 and Sheldon Jeter 10 for the Panthers (17-10, 6-7), who got no points from scoring leader Michael young (13.3 ppg). he fouled out in 21 minutes and took just three shots. Nonetheless, the Panthers cut a 10-point deficit to three with just under 8 minutes to play, but the Cavaliers then reeled off eight straight points. 
“They keep coming and they keep making you make the right play time and time again,” Pitt coach Jamie dixon said. “Their size at all positions, I think, is a real attribute for them. Their size and their strength and experi­ence at all spots.” 
Anthony gill added 12 points and London Perrantes had 10 points and six assists for Virginia. 
The Panthers trailed 25-15 at halftime, but scored 10 of the first 15 points after the break to get within 30-25. Jeter had sev­en in the burst and he and Artis each contributed a 3-pointer. For the third time, Pitt then went more than five minutes with­out a point. They missed five free throws in the drought, but Virginia had a similar dry spell, so the game remained close. 
A 3-pointer by Artis pulled the Panthers within 36-32, and Cameron Wright had a chance to cut the deficit to two, but he made only the first of a pair of free throws with 7:54 remaining. 

NHL | rANgErS 6, ISLANdErS 5 
Rangers win on Klein’s goal 
Associated Press 

uNIONdALE, N.y. — Kevin Klein scored with 
4:32 left, and the New york rangers overcame a pair of two-goal deficits and netted three third-period goals to stun the New york Islanders 6-5 on Monday night. 
After falling behind 11 seconds in, the rangers completed their game-long, uphill fight and beat the Islanders for the first time in four tries this season. They trail the Metropolitan division-leading Islanders by two points and have two games in hand. 
defenseman ryan Mcdonagh had the first two-goal game of his career, and Chris Kreider, derek Stepan and Martin St. Louis also scored for the rangers, who completed a 4-0 road trip. 
Stepan and St. Louis scored 1:37 apart in the third to tie it. Cam Talbot made 38 saves and im­proved to 5-1-1 while filling in for injured goalie henrik Lundqvist. 
The Islanders appeared headed for their fifth straight win, but they couldn’t hold a 3-1 lead in the second period or a 5-3 edge in the third. 
ryan Strome scored twice, and John Tavares, Frans Nielsen and Johnny Boychuk had goals for the Islanders, who dropped to 18-3 against Metropolitan opponents and 11-1 at home. 
They had outscored the rangers 13-4 in three pre­vious wins this season. The teams will meet once more in the regular season. 
Jaroslav halak stopped 36 shots but struggled in his attempt to tie the Islanders’ record for wins in a season. 
Tavares scored 11 seconds in, Nielsen added a first-period goal, and Boychuk scored in the second for the Islanders. 
Klein won it with a shot from the right circle after an Islanders turnover in the neutral zone. 
Strome put the Islanders in front 4-3 with 12:19 left in the second when he dug out the puck after Travis hamonic’s shot and knocked it past Talbot. The goal came 3 seconds af­ter an Islanders power play expired. 
Boychuk had given the Islanders another early strike when he raced from the neutral zone to keep the puck on the blue line and ripped a drive that beat Talbot at 1:20 to make it 3-1. Boychuk scored on the Islanders’ first shot of the period just as Tavares had done in the first. 
The rangers shook that off and scored twice in 23 seconds to tie it 3-all. 
Kreider started the first comeback by chasing down the puck on the left side of the offensive zone and firing a drive past halak at 3:07 for his 14th goal. The excitable Kreider leaped into the glass at the end of the rink to cel­ebrate his goal. 
Before it could be an­nounced to the split crowd filled with fans decked out in Islanders and rangers colors, Mcdonagh con­nected for his second of the game with 3:30 gone. Mcdonagh let go a drive from inside the blue line that appeared to tip the stick of Islanders defense-man Lubomir Visnovsky be­fore sailing past halak. 
That briefly got the rangers even after their early meltdown in the first. 
Talbot immediately put his club in a hole when he went behind his net and at­tempted to pass the puck to Mcdonagh in the right corner. Tavares intercepted the errant pass and fired the puck into an empty net to make it 1-0. Tavares’ 27th goal was his third in two games after a two-goal, four-point performance against Columbus on Saturday. 
Nielsen doubled the lead at 11:46 when he cleaned up the rebound of hamonic’s drive and scored his 11th goal. 
The rangers got one back before the intermission when Mcdonagh took a pass from defense partner dan girardi and fired a shot in while down on one knee with 5:25 left in the first. It came less than a minute after Talbot stopped Casey Cizikas on a breakaway. 




M Basketball 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
carry the Irish to the win over Clemson, pouring in 22 points and adding five as­sists. The 6-foot-5 guard is one of just four players in the country — along with hofstra junior guard Juan’ya green, Northwestern State junior guard Jalan West and Oakland sophomore guard Kahlil Felder — averaging at least 17 points and six assists per game. Of the four, grant is the only player shooting at least 50 percent from the floor. 
“Nobody is more involved in an offense in the country than Jerian grant, whether he’s scoring it or assisting on baskets,” Brey said. “he just makes plays for himself and for people.” 
Brey added he doesn’t think there’s a better player in the country than grant in crunch-time. The senior made crucial plays down the stretch against the Tigers 
— a steal and feed to Irish sophomore guard demetrius Jackson and a clutch fade-away jumper — en route to the victory. 
“We have been an amaz­ingly resilient group all year,” Brey said. “I think we actually believe the end of the game is our time. We have the ultimate closer in Jerian grant.” 
Notre dame is now 7-2 in games decided by five points or fewer. 
“They find ways to win 
close  ballgames,”  Wake  
Forest  head  coach  danny  
Manning said.  

Manning’s demon deacons couldn’t do the same against No. 2 Virginia on Saturday. Wake Forest couldn’t muster a shot in its final possession and fell 61-60 to the Cavaliers in Charlottesville, Virginia. 
The demon deacons have also suffered single-digit conference losses to Louisville, duke (22-3, 9-3), Syracuse, Clemson and Florida State. 
“We had a chance to get a win,” Manning said. “We just weren’t able to make the plays down the stretch. … We still need to tighten up some defensive rotations and value the ball a little bit throughout the course of the ballgame.” 
Junior guard Codi Miller-McIntyre (14.2 points and 5.1 rebounds per game) and ju­nior forward devin Thomas 
(12.3 points, 9.4 rebounds) pace the demon deacons. 
Notre dame and Wake Forest tip off Tuesday at 7 
p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at  jmonaco@nd.edu 
Track 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
better results at the SPIrE dI Invitational. 
“At the SPIrE Invitational, the results were a little bit mixed,” Turner said. “I was looking for [senior] Jade Barber in the 60-meter hur­dles to have her best time of the year. She had some solid races; she finished third, but I was expecting her to run a little bit faster, in the 
8.2 range.” Barber ran the 60-meter hurdles in 8.42 seconds. 
Additionally, Turner said he expected more from freshman Parker English. 
“My freshman 400-meter runner, Parker English, I was expecting her to have a much better 400-meter race,” Turner said. “She was only [at 55.69 seconds] and I was expecting her to be at least full second faster than that. So the results were a little bit mixed.” 
Turner did praise sopho­more pole vaulter Nathan richartz, who won his event at the SPIrE dI Invitational. 
“Nate richartz, he had a [personal best] in the pole vault,” Turner said. “he had 16 feet there, so he’s had some hamstring inju­ries. his hamstring is feel­ing much, much better, and he vaulted well. he’s going to have to get mid-16-foot jumps at the ACC to get some big points for us. he’s coming around.” 

Next week, the Irish will host the Alex Wilson Invitational at Loftus Sports Center. It will be the last regular-season indoor meet before the ACC champion­ships, and Turner said he plans to rest some of his athletes. 
“The majority of our ath­letes who are going to be at the ACC, we’re going to rest them at the Alex Wilson [Invitational],” Turner said. “Our athletes that are very, very good that need a much better mark to qualify for the NCAA championships, we’re probably going to put them in their main event and have them run one time. The goal at the Alex Wilson is not to load our athletes up and have them run in three or four races with the ACC the following weekend.” 

Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Divers head to Atlanta for ACC championships 
Observer Staff Report 
After finishing their regu­lar season with a convincing victory over Cleveland State 226-66, the Irish prepare for the ACC championships which start this week in Atlanta. hosted by georgia Tech, the diving champion­ships begin Wednesday, in georgia while the swim­ming championships a week later on Feb. 25. 
At the ACC diving cham­pionships, the Irish will look for a strong perfor­mance from sophomore Joe Coumos. Coumos had a school record-break­ing performance against Cleveland State on Feb. 7, when after notching a score of 361.35 in the 1-meter dive he set a new school record in the 3-meter dive, posting a score of 409.27. The previ­ous record was set in 2011, when Eric Lex compiled a score of 405.15. 

After his strong per­formance last weekend, Coumos was awarded the ACC diver of the Week award for the third time in his career; he notched to honor twice in his freshman year. It also marked the first time this season that an Irish men’s swimmer or diver has taken home one of the conference’s weekly honors. 
Coumos will not be traveling alone, as he is also bringing sophomore James Lichtenstein, se­nior Michael Kreft and se­nior Nick Nemetz with him to georgia for the event. Against Cleveland State, Lichtenstein finished sec­ond in the 3-meter with a score of 371.25, and Nemetz finished third with a tally of 364.95. 
The swimmers will take to the pool a week later as they will look to continue their momentum from the win over Cleveland State that saw the Irish win 14 of the 16 events. 
The Irish divers get under­way at the ACC champion­ships tomorrow in Atlanta at georgia Tech Aquatic Center with the meet run­ning through Saturday. 



ThE OBSErVEr | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

W Basketball 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
as the shot clock hit zero to give Notre dame its first lead of the night, which it never lost. 
“At one point, I think with ev­ery shot we took, it felt like they were going in, and we were hot for a little bit there,” Cable said. 
Loyd led all players with 21 points, but Mcgraw said her contributions on the defensive end were what really propelled the Irish. Loyd matched up with Blue devils redshirt freshman guard rebecca greenwell and limited her to four points, well below her 14.2 season average. 
“I was really, really happy with the job that Jewell Loyd did on rebecca greenwell,” Mcgraw said. “[greenwell] didn’t get much of a clean look all night long and held her un­der her average. I thought her defensive intensity and focus was phenomenal.” 
One of the biggest challenges facing the Irish coming into the game was the matchup on the boards. The Blue devils lead the nation in rebounding mar­gin and sit fourth in defensive rebounds. 
duke grabbed the game’s first six rebounds, but the Irish had a 19-18 advantage at half, with Cable pulling down six and freshman forward Kathryn Westbeld coming off the bench to grab seven, allowing the Irish to head into the break with a 34­24 lead. 
“Just knowing coming in that there were some big girls and obviously that they we’re gonna have a height advantage and that they were leading rebound­ing in the country, so you’ve got to come in with some tough­ness right away,” Westbeld said. “That’s just my mindset right when I came in, to just have high energy and be ready to box out.” 
The Blue devils held a sig­nificant size advantage over the Irish. They started four play­ers 6-foot-1 or taller, including 6-foot-3 senior center Elizabeth Williams, who led duke with 18 points and 11 rebounds. Notre dame, on the other hand, started three players 5-foot-10 or shorter. 
By the 14-minute mark of the second half, however, Notre dame opened a 10-point lead that never fell to single digits. 
“I just don’t think we were consistent,” Blue devils coach Joanne P. McCallie said. “I think at times, we were strong, domi­nant, and I think it waned a little bit. … We did win the board bat­tle and the offensive rebound­ing battle, but we also didn’t convert the offensive rebounds. If you give us some free throws and a few offensive rebound conversions, this is a different game.” 
With their lead in the ACC ex­tended to one game over Florida State and Louisville, the Irish return to action Thursday for a road matchup with georgia Tech in Atlanta. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


PAId AdVErTISEMENT 




CROSSWORD | WILL ShOrTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChrISTOPhEr BruCKEr 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM grOuP 


DOME  NUTS  |ALExANdrIAWELLMAN 



HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: This will be a great year for educational pursuits. Whether you learn on the job, online or in a classroom, the knowledge you gain will help you make headway in a direction that offers greater satisfaction mentally, physically and financially. Believe in your abilities and set reasonable but high standards. Imagine your dream and make it happen. your numbers are 2, 6, 13, 21, 35, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let your emotions take over. Productivity will be the name of the game, so stay focused and do a good job. Spend time helping people in need, not those who are in competition with you. refrain from sharing your secrets. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your eyes and ears open. you will discover valuable information that can save you from making a big mistake. Overdoing and overspending must be controlled. A positive change will be successful if developed and executed in secrecy. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): demands will be made, but that doesn’t mean you have to oblige. Consider what’s being asked of you and whether or not it is something you want to do. Now is a good time to act with intelligence, not emotion. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try to focus on personal changes that encourage you to feel better as well as boost your confidence. Implementing a unique or creative edge to whatever job you do will separate you from any competition you face. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Question your current vocational direction. If you want to make a change, consider what skills or knowledge you will need in order to reach your goal. Connect through networking events that deal with the industry that interests you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put greater importance on partnerships and working alongside people who enhance and contribute to your plans. A change in your financial standing or dealing with a legal concern must be handled cautiously and with moderation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Making alterations to the way you live based on your needs will be beneficial. don’t hesitate to follow your dreams and reach out to people from your past who can help you get ahead now. don’t take no for an answer. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t feel the need to make decisions before you are ready to do so. Work on projects or activities that allow you to use your creative imagination, and you will avoid being pushed into a situation that leads to unnecessary excess.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Listen and you will detect if anyone is trying to lead you astray. Stay on top of matters involving other people to avoid being taken advantage of. Make changes based on facts you have uncovered, not hearsay.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Carefully consider what you want to do. don’t make impulsive decisions. use your insight and intuition to guide you financially. An emotional matter will escalate if you are too pushy. good fortune will come from helping others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make positive professional changes if you use discipline, knowledge, past experiences and connections to help you advance. Approach change with optimism and positive results will unfold. don’t be a follower when you should be a leader. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t stop offering suggestions to others. It’s how you deal with others that will make a difference. your intuition will lead you in the right direction, so follow your heart and do what comes naturally. 


Birthday Baby: you are popular, imaginative and independent. you are a free spirit. don’t let others tell you what you can and cannot do and don’t be afraid to be assertive. Stand up for what you believe in, and remember that good things will come to those who ask. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNurEK 



Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  

 Notre dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information   Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an  Name  
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  Address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
City  State  Zip  


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 63, duKE 50 
Loyd’s perimeter play paces Irish 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Editor 
There’s something about a 3-pointer that fires up a crowd, and the long-dis­tance shot was exactly what fueled No. 4 Notre dame to a 63-50 victory over No. 10 duke on Monday at Purcell Pavilion. 
Junior guard Jewell Loyd hit four of her eight at­tempts from behind the arc, and senior guard Madison Cable added three more. Sophomore guard Lindsay Allen and junior guard Michaela Mabrey rounded out Notre dame’s sharp­shooting with a make each in the victory, which helped the Irish (24-2, 11-1 ACC) re­tain their hold on first place in the ACC. 
The Blue devils (19-7, 10­3), on the other hand, missed all 12 of their attempts from behind the arc, the first time they have failed to hit from deep all season. 
The Irish had not played a game since a Feb. 8 win over Boston College, and they showed some early rust, as the Blue devils won the opening tip and climbed out to a quick 14-5 advantage. 

“We were back on our heels a bit, and maybe the week layoff wasn’t as good as I thought it was gonna be,” Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “Offensively, [duke] 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Grant leads Notre Dame into clash 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
roughly 11 months ago in greensboro, North Carolina, Mike Brey walked off the court following Notre dame’s first-round loss to Wake Forest in the ACC Tournament. 
Brey told reporters it was best to end the “saga” of the 2013-14 season, Notre dame’s first losing season since 1998-99. 
Fast forward 22 wins and 180 degrees later, and the No. 10 Irish will battle Wake 
Forest  (12-14,  4-9)  again  
Tuesday  night  at  Purcell  
Pavilion.  

Following Notre dame’s 60-58 win over Clemson last Tuesday, the Irish (22­4, 10-3 ACC) had a much-appreciated bye weekend, a reprieve after seven games in 20 days. 
“We were able to get a little rest and also get back into a good practice rou­tine,” Brey said. 
Brey hopes the extended practice time jump-starts Irish junior forward Zach Auguste, who tallied just two points against the Tigers (15-10, 7-6) on Feb. 7 following a scoreless show­ing against duke. 

“I think three, four days of practice is your best way to do it, getting into a lot of five-on-five Friday and Saturday. We scrimmaged a lot,” Brey said. “That’s your best way when a guy’s struggling to get back in a rhythm and get going again. I thought he was moving pretty good and in a pretty good flow.” 
Brey said Irish senior guard Jerian grant and se­nior guard/forward Pat Connaughton have been “key” in holding Auguste ac­countable. The senior lead­ers pulled Auguste aside last week following the Clemson game and “confronted” the big man before saying they have his back, Brey said. 
“When you have that dynamic going on with a group, that is so powerful for a coach,” Brey said. 
grant himself helped 
see M BASKETBALL PAGE 13 

KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer 
Senior guard Jerian Grant pulls up for a shot during Notre Dame’s 75-70 win over Miami on Jan. 17 at Purcell Pavilion. 
TRACK & FIELD 
Seidel sets Nd record 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend, Notre dame sent athletes to the SPIrE dI Invitational in geneva, Ohio, and to the Iowa State Classic in Ames, Iowa, with the goal of fine-tuning results before the ACC indoor championships in two weeks. 
“The goals were to just try to improve on the athletes’ individual marks,” Irish coach Alan Turner said. “This was the last weekend for a lot of our kids to get in a few races just to better their marks coming in.” 
during a weekend that was about individual per­formances, one of the high­lights for the Irish was junior Molly Seidel’s school record-breaking performance in the 5,000-meter run. Turner said he was impressed with Seidel’s time of 15:54.45. 
“The big result was Molly Seidel at the Iowa State Classic setting a new Notre dame record in the 5,000-meter,” Turner said. “That time, I believe, puts her at 12th in the country, and she won that race pretty easily. She’s in great shape. We feel she’s gonna do very well for us in the ACC meet in a couple of weeks, and she should do very well in the NCAA meet two weeks after the conference championship.” 
Junior Michael Clevenger also set a personal best competing in the 5,000-me­ter run on the men’s side. Clevenger recorded a time of 
13:59.91 seconds, which cut 23 seconds off of his previous personal record. Turner said he is happy with Clevenger’s performance but believes he can do even better. 
“[Clevenger] had a person­al best,” Turner said. “That puts him at 32nd or 33rd on the national list and moves him up pretty high in the ACC. he was looking for a little better finish than that, but he’s another one that’s just rounding into shape. Molly [Seidel] and Michael [Clevenger] had great cross-country seasons, and you see that carrying on now during the indoor season.” 
Turner said he expected 
see TrACK PAGE 13 
went right inside, looking for some mismatches, and on our man-to-man defense, we had some mismatches, and they took advantage of it.” 
But the Irish started to get hot from behind the arc, and a string of 3-pointers from Loyd, Cable and Allen in a three-minute span helped turn the tide. Cable was able to put up her attempt right 
see W BASKETBALL PAGE 14 





