The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 30 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Glee Club to celebrate 100 years with concert 
Singers from throughout 70-year period to perform at Morris Theatre in downtown South Bend 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
more than 500 glee club alumni and current mem­bers will take the stage at the morris performing arts center in south bend on Friday night to celebrate a century’s worth of performances on campus and around the globe. 
current glee club presi­dent senior stuart streit said alumni from as far back as the 1940s and from all areas of the country are coming to partic­ipate in the centennial con­cert and additional reunion weekend activities. 
“it’s been really cool to see what a footprint the glee club has now, after a hundred years,” he said. 
The club has been plan­ning the reunion weekend for nearly two years, he said. 
“it’s really been a lot of works by alums, they’ve re­ally been outstanding,” streit said. “we have two young al­ums who live here in south bend who have been handling a crazy amount of logistics. we have some older alums who have been working on it from remote locations.” 
streit said involvement in the preparations for the week­end has given him a much greater awareness of the his­toric nature of the group. 
“i think that it wasn’t 
see glee club PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Soren Kyhl 
ND Glee Club members perform in Leighton Concert Hall. Alumni from around the nation will join current students to participate in reunion activities during this weekend. 



Ricketts, Ruelas host town hall 

By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
on the eve of irish state of mind week’s mental health awareness campaign, stu­dent government hosted a town hall meeting Thursday evening and answered the questions of senators, hall presidents and other students. 
“we’re at a different place in the conversation with mental health than we are with sexual assault,” se­nior student body president bryan ricketts said. “we’re just trying to define the problem with mental health in general right now.” 
on monday, student gov­ernment kicks off mental health awareness week with their irish state of mind initiative. 
“we decided that mental health awareness needs 
see Town hall PAGE 5 


Blue Mass honors servicemen 
By MADDY DEL MEDICO 
news writer 

The basilica of the sacred heart was filled with fire­fighters, police officers, emergency medical person­nel and many other service­men and women and their families on Thursday for the 15th annual blue mass, an event to honor the men and women who dedicate their lives to service. 
The presider for the mass was Fr. peter rocca, and Fr. James bracke gave the 
homily. steve chikerotis, a recently retired deputy dis­
trict  chief  of  the  chicago  
Fire  department,  offered  
the final remarks.  

according to the notre dame Fire department web­site, the blue mass began one month after the 9/11 terrorist attacks as an an­nual event to honor all ser­vicemen and women. 
“it’s a wonderful way to remember those who have gone before us… and also [to say] thank you to all of you who protect and serve us,” rocca said. “we can never say thank you enough.” 
in his homily to the con­gregation, bracke said ser­vicemen and women give unfailing aid and effort to their community. 
“who is my neighbor?” bracke asked in his hom­ily. “[The servicemen and women] teach us how to be a neighbor. They go without question … they serve, they mend, they bring healing.” 
see mass PAGE 4 

men of nd compete for charity 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 

walsh hall held its signature event, the mr. nd talent compe­tition, Thursday eve­ning in washington hall to raise money for the ronald mcdonald house. according to liz berndt and charlotte hogan, this year’s organizers and em­cees, this was the first year all 15 male dorms 
see mr. nd PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 irish insider wiThin 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What needs to stop being a ‘thing?’ 

Bri Prusakowski 
senior pasquerilla east hall 
“salmon shorts.” 
Conor Clingen 
junior morissey manor 
“bae.” 
Danny Funaro 
junior Keough hall 
“netflix and chill.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Ryan Palmer 
senior 
duncan hall 
“every video being John cena.” 
Lena Madison 
senior 
off-campus 
“donald Trump.” 
Rohit Fonseca 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“clemson football.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

matthew mcKenna manny deJesus martha reilly molly murphy 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

ND Volleyball vs. East-West ND Volleyball vs. ND Energy Week Blood Drive 
annmarie soller Tara carone 

Boston College Transnationalism Syracuse Quad Display Grace Hall Joyce Center McKenna Hall                  Joyce Center                  South Quad 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 9 a.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 10 a.m.-2 p.m. Participants will 
Corrections 

The Irish take on the Symposium on literary The Irish take on the Fair to focus on the receive a free t-shirt 
The observer regards itself as Eagles. intersectionality. Orange. future of energy. and piece of fruit. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Movie Night Domer Run Wildflower ND Votes ‘16 Cookies and 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse Legends of DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall                                  Conversation 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Notre Dame                                                Arts Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Hesburgh Library 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9:30p.m.-11:30 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Learn about political 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free screening of the Run to benefit local ND Theatre NOW responsibility and Enjoy a study break 
we can correct our error. 

movie “Rudy.” cancer education. performance. register to vote. with cookies. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | The observer 

Domer Run benefits cancer survivors, spreads awareness 
By CHRIS CARBONARO 
news writer 
saturday at 9 a.m., roughly 400 people will line up for notre dame’s annual domer run. 
The race originally began to give students something to do on a saturday when the football team was on the road, but since then, the race has taken on additional service component. 
“notre dame is such a tradi­tional university,” said Justine morneau, a recsports intern in charge of organizing the run. “i think that is what re­ally draws a lot of people in, the notre dame tradition. i am really excited to get to the day and have everyone running, to get to see the smiles on every­one’s faces.” 
according to notre dame’s recsports website, the domer run has raised over $65,000 since its inception 32 years ago. The proceeds go to char­ity, funding programs which help to educate both the notre dame community and the sur­rounding areas about various forms of cancer. 
“i’m excited to be a part of this because of what it stands for,” morneau said. “usually we donate anywhere from $3,000 to $5,000. i’m expecting we’ll donate about the same this year.” 
The money raised will ben­efit riverbend cancer services, morneau said. according to their website, riverbend cancer services offers pro­grams for survivors of cancer designed to aid in readjust­ment to everyday life. 

in cooperation with recsports, a branch of riverbend cancer services called gyna-girls will help or­ganize the race on saturday. 
“we have about 70 volun­teers,” morneau said. “inside, the gyna-girls … volunteer. They bring a bunch of their survivors.” 
half of the 70 volunteers are notre dame students, morneau said. most of those students will be at various places along the course, work­ing to manage water stations. 
“The domer run isn’t just notre dame,” she said. “it’s michiana. i have a couple peo­ple registered that are all the way from Florida. people have heard about it, and anyone that is a survivor of cancer or had a scare like this, they want to support it and tell people, ‘hey, it’s okay to go get checked out. you don’t need to be scared.’” 
according to the recsports website, each of the three of­fered routes — a six-mile run, three-mile run and two-mile walk — will take the runners through notre dame’s cam­pus, starting on irish green near eddy street commons. 
however, the course will be slightly different than in past years. 
“The course has been the same for so many years,” morneau said. “but with all this construction, from this year forward for about four or five years, we’re going to have to do a new course every single year.” 
while a few changes will need to be made to the course, recsports has made an effort to preserve the tradition pres­ent in the run, morneau said. she said the most iconic land­marks, like the lakes, will be included in the routes. 
“The lakes are a big part of it,” morneau said. “we always want to make sure that the participants get to run around the lakes. it’s a really beautiful spot to run around, especially in the fall.” 
The course itself isn’t the only aspect of the race which is different this year. according to morneau, the registration process has also changed. 
“usually we do it through recregister,” she said. “anyone from the community would have to come in here to reg­ister. This way, we’re doing it through raceentry.com. doing it that way allows everyone to register.” 
The new method of registra­tion is more convenient and customer friendly, morneau said. although it is past the registration date, anyone look­ing to donate money may still do so by visiting www.raceen­try.com. 
Contact Chris Carbonaro at ccarbona@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

mundy named to board of directors 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
every notre dame student used the common application to apply to the university, but not many people think about what goes into creating and up­dating the popular application platform. 
according to the common application’s website, a board of directors consisting of deans of admission, directors of college counseling, vice presidents of en­rollment and high school coun­selors runs the application and makes changes to it throughout the year. 
in august, notre dame’s direc­tor of admissions bob mundy was elected to the board of directors for the common application. 
mundy said his election to the board will not affect the notre dame admissions process. 
“i will be representing a much broader constituency," mundy said. "it’s not notre dame specif­ic, but it focuses on much broad­er issues affecting the common application. it’s just a different position in that regard.” 
mundy said the election was national, among all schools who use the common application. each university or college that is a member of the common application can vote on who they want on the board of directors. 
in the early stages of the pro­cess, mundy said, he nominated himself. he said after the nomi­nation occurs, there is a vetting process which ultimately leads to the creation of a ballot, which is then distributed by the current board. 
after the ballot is produced, all members get a chance to vote. 
according to the common application’s website, more than 600 colleges and universities use the common application, and nearly one million students apply through the common application every year. 
mundy said his goal for the common application is sim­ply a return to stability, as over the past few years the common application has been marked by technical failures and instability. 
“what i hope will happen in the next few years is that the common application will return to being a stable platform for col­lege applicants, and secondly, once we get that stability, we can then talk about making it a much better experience for students,” mundy said. 
as a member of the board of directors, mundy will serve on one of three committees — the application committee, the out­reach committee or the gover­nance committee. mundy said he doesn't yet know on which committee he will sit. 
according to a university press release, mundy has been working in admissions for over 30 years. however, he has only been working with the common application for the past seven years. 
“[notre dame] joined the common application in 2008, [and] we began using it for the 2009 class," he said. "it provided for us a great technology plat­form that we were not able to duplicate on our own. one big change that was coming after we joined was the electronic trans­mission of high school forms. we were running our own applica­tion at that point, but we were not in a position to duplicate that functionality... 
"That was a big reason [notre dame switched to the common application], because of the functionality it provided to stu­dents who were applying.” 
according to the press release, this electronic convenience spurred mundy to implement multiple major software up­dates, such as a central student information system, a document management product and a cli­ent relationship manager. 
mundy said one of perks of the common application is its ability to reach students of all different backgrounds, as it provides an accessible platform that is easy to use and encourages students to apply to college by limiting the paperwork they have to fill out. 
“what the common app pro­vides for students in terms of access is great, it makes it easy for students to apply to college," mundy said. "There is a mission ... of creating great access for stu­dents. in many cases there are students who aren’t even think­ing about college, and we want to make it accessible for them. That is the goal.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

FT5K to commemorate life of former Riley patient 
By MARTA BROWN 
news writer 
The saint mary’s college dance marathon (smcdm) will host its annual FT5k saturday at 9 a.m. This year’s event is dedicated to charlotte Terry, a girl who lost her battle with cancer this past summer. 
“smcdm raises money and awareness for the children at riley hospital for children, through year-round events, fundraisers and personal giv­ing efforts that all culminate into our big, 12-hour mara­thon event in the spring,” co-president of smcdm maranda pennington said. “our hopes for the FT5K event is to raise awareness for riley kids in our community and have more people realize why what we do is so important.” 
although the event takes place annually, this year marks the first time the event is dedicated to a child at riley hospital. 
allison lukomski, pennington’s co-president of smcdm, said upon learning of charlotte Terry’s story, she shared it with members of the smcdm executive board. 

“she was this little angel that i introduced to the executive board, who soon after fell in love also,” she said. “charlotte not even a year old was diag­nosed with a brain tumor that had spread down her spinal cord. The way in which the family spoke and kept a posi­tive attitude throughout her entire battle is what truly in­spired me.” 
although neither lukomski nor pennington met charlotte, they said she greatly impacted their own lives personally. 
“charlotte provided me with a new outlook and perspective on life, making sure each mo­ment is cherished,” lukomski said. “although i never had the chance to meet charlotte, she will be a part of my eter­nity. and i hope that the saint mary’s community can soon feel the same. 
“if anything, the dance marathon board would like to have all community members who are willing to come and share this morning with us as we share a story of love and inspiration of our little super­hero, charlotte Terry.” 
in honor of charlotte, co-fundraising chair member of smcdm Katherine slisz said, “our tanks all will say, ‘charlotte strong,’ on the back to remind us why we raise money for riley hospital for children.” 
“i also think a huge goal of every event is to show the riley kids and families that we are there to support and love them. at the end of the day, every single thing we do if FTK 
— for the kids,” pennington said. 
mary claire burchett, a co-fundraising chair member, said the members of smcdm “hope the school and commu­nity will come out and have a fun day walking [and] run­ning as we strive to help raise money and awareness for such an unbelievable cause and help the kids at riley.” 
For more information, vis­it the smcdm webpage at smcdm.org. 
Contact Marta Brown at mbrown04@nd.edu 

Mass 
conTinued From page 1 
Following the homily, Jim hassig, a captain of the notre dame security police, asked the congregation to remem­ber the firefighters, police­men and women and rescue workers who have lost their 
“They give it their all; they may risk their life for total strangers.” 
Steve Chikerotis 
deputy district chief (ret.) 
Chicago 
lives over the past year, as well as the servicemen and women that gave their lives on 9/11. 
rocca said the mass also honored st. Florian, the pa­tron saint of fire brigades, and st. michael the archangel, the patron saint of the mili­tary and police. he said the church prays to these saints to grant protection to the gathered servicemen and women. 
giving the closing remarks, chikerotis said the day and the event itself means a great deal to him, and that he was honored to be there. he said it is important to “never for­get” the men and women who have died in service to their community. 
chikerotis also said he re­members many heroes from the days following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, including Todd beamer from Flight 93 and the hundreds of firefight­ers and emergency medical personnel that rushed to the site to assist in rescue efforts. 
looking back on the trage­dy, chikerotis said it prompt­ed a return of patriotism to the u.s. 
“people were good neigh­bors. people looked out for each other,” he said. 
The way that people view servicemen and women has changed for the better, chikerotis said. he said he believes the american people appreciate the work that fire­fighters, police officers and emergency responders do ev­ery day. 
“They give it their all; they may risk their life for total strangers,” chikerotis said. “it’s a very noble thing to do. That’s why i’m proud to be standing in front of this group in this church. 
“Thanks for what you do, thanks for who you are.” 
Contact Maddy DelMedico at mdelmedi@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | The observer 




a lot of time with the ad-these things, they’ll bring some of the same places on Town Hall ministration trying to fig-two or three people with 
Glee Club 
tour, had a common vocabu­conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 ure out the problem with them. ... we’re holding more 
lary for events and songs, and mental illness ... we wanted people accountable for their 
shared many traditions,” he to be education in tandem to work with the colleges actions,” ricketts said. 
something i appreciated my said. “For instance, in the with action,” senior student to figure out how they can “... The more conversa­
first three years of the group, cold days of the late autumn, body vice president nidia specifically help,” ricketts tions we have about it, the 
and since being thrown into we had a bonfire and hayride ruelas said. “The idea is said. “... it will be differ-better. if you can convince 
event planning, i’ve really at a random rural midwestern that we’re going to release a ent with the architecture that person, that naysayer, 
gotten a better grasp on the farm. i found out later that al­video next week in conjunc-majors than the arts and that one person who dwells 
history of the glee club,” he most 40 years ago, my uncle tion with other acc schools, letters majors.” in the what-ifs, if you can 
said. went to the same farm with with the message ‘Just ask.’ in addition to addressing 
The glee club was formed the club.” it means asking really, truly mental health, ricketts and 
in 1915 after a notre dame howard bathon said he has 
“We as a 

how someone is doing, find-ruelas emphasized their student visiting harvard saw been anticipating the centen­
community are 

ing out how they really are continuing attention to the their glee club perform and nial reunion for several years. 
responsible for 

underneath the facades we issue of sexual assault at the 
decided to start a singing so-“The glee club was one of put on in high stress situa-university. 
ciety at notre dame, streit the biggest experiences in my tions, which we obviously “we as a community are 
what happens in 

said. time at notre dame. my best 
this community.” 

have a lot of here.” responsible for what hap­“in the ‘40s, dean pedtke friends from notre dame are 
Bryan Ricketts 

ruelas said she has also pens in this community,” became the director and he in the glee club,” he said. 
student body president 

started to work with a vari-rickets said. “... holding ended up serving for almost “when Josh told me he was 
senior 

ety of focus groups to deter-one another accountable 
40 years,” he said. “it was dur-going to try out for the glee mine different and better has kind of been the under­
ing that time it really became club, i was ecstatic. ... To solutions to student mental pinning of change regard-convince them that it’s on 
entrenched, traditionally get back together and know health needs. ing sexual assault here.” them too, that really is tan-
within notre dame the way it that guys 40 years before me “we want to figure out if last year, student govern-gible change.” 
is now.” and 40 years behind me sang we’re doing the proper out-ment launched the it’s on ruelas also spoke about 
Today, the glee club per-some of the same songs that reach to groups, and trying us campaign to help pre-the recent push to make 
forms multiple concerts in i’m singing is just the coolest to figure out how to better vent sexual assault. reporting sexual assault a 
the fall and spring semesters, thing in the world.” respond to all of that,” she “The it’s on us campaign simpler process. 
as well as touring interna-The glee club was the only said. “we found with racial all starts by being like, “we put out posters at the 
tionally every other year and singing group on campus dur­and ethnic minorities that ‘hey, we’re going to look beginning of the semes­
domestically twice a year, ing howard bathon’s time, he they responded really well out for each other. we’re ter describing how to deal 
streit said. however, Friday’s said, and so they performed with group setting, so it’s going to be there for each with sexual assault,” she 
concert will be different from for many different events for about understanding what other,’” ruelas said. “but said. “it’s simple enough, 
the glee club’s standard the university. our target is and how to best that doesn’t end with your so that if you see something 
concert. “notre dame has a far serve them.” friends.” when you’re out and about, 
“This is a really exciting better developed and well­ricketts also introduced The green dot program you can say something. 
concert. … we’re singing rounded music program now a new partnership between also helps to educate stu-it’s a whole part of the cul­
pieces from each of the four than when i was here. we student government and dents through training ses-ture piece in order to effect 
main eras based on different were kind of it,” he said. “if the individual colleges to sions, they said. change.” 
directors,” he said. “it’s a lot they wanted music for any-target more specifically the “you see the difference 
of notre dame songs, a lot thing, we were tapped to do issue. when we reach out to peo-Contact Rachel O’Grady  
of popular choral music. you it.” “This summer, we spent ple to come to trainings for rogrady@nd.e 
can see the way not only the he said highlights from way the music of the glee club his time in glee club includ­evolved, but also how notre ed performing for football 
deejaying, harmonica play-high school and continues 
dame evolved over time. it’s a coach Frank leahy’s national Mr. ND ing and performing poetry. to do so at notre dame, per-
really neat look into the his-championship teams during 
conTinued From page 1 

tory of notre dame.” a reunion, as well as touring petition this year includ-the talent competition. 
The judges for the com-formed a dance routine for 

streit said the morris in amsterdam, belgium and had representatives at mr. ed walsh’s rectress liz “This was a great experi­
performing arts center also munich. nd. detwiler, walsh ra sarah ence because i have a lot 
has a historic connection to “The glee club was the berndt and hogan said it witt and last year’s winner of friends in walsh, and to 
notre dame. closest thing we had to a fra­took a lot of coordination of mr. nd, nick barella. be able to do an event with 
“it’s also just such a storied ternity on campus at that to find all 15 representa-barella, who represented them is a really good experi­
space. our director keeps time,” howard bathon said. tives and to put the event Keough hall last year, said ence,” harris said. “i got in 
saying that 75 years ago the “we didn’t live together, but together. he judged the contestants touch with my feminine side 
movie ‘Knute rockne all we sure did everything else “most of the guys came to purely on talent. with beyoncé but still had 
american’ premiered at the together. we toured together, us, or our friends found peo-“it was really tough,” he my groove on with a couple 
morris,” he said. “it’s cool to we sang together, we played ple who were interesting, or said. “There were very di-other songs. and i just like 
be singing in that space on together, we ate together and girls in walsh found people verse talents, and it was re-dancing, and this was a 
a major anniversary for that it just a tremendous experi­who knew boys in other ally funny this year.” great way to express that.” 
movie, too.” ence for me.” dorms,” berndt said. Filipiak said he had a lot The final award for the 
Josh bathon, who graduated Tom cook, who graduated hogan said they also post-of fun meeting the other night was mr. Fan Fave, 
in 2014 and was a member of in 1988, said he is also look­ed on the mr. nd Facebook contestants. which went to chris collins 
the club for three years, said ing forward to singing along-page and announced at hall “it’s been really wonder-from Zahm hall. 
he enjoyed the sense of broth-side his brother and father, council they were looking ful. it’s so great to have the at the end of the night, 
erhood that all the members who was president of the glee for contestants. rest of the dorm out here berndt and hogan said they 
shared in his time with the club in 1959. in the end, 15 male stu-and all of my friends to sup-were proud of how well this 
club. “it’s going to be a real privi­dents agreed to represent port me,” he said. year’s mr. nd competition 
“To this day, i am astounded lege to be there with my dad their dorms at mr. nd, although the judges chose had gone. 
that i could look upon some-and my brother because we and charles Filipiak from who won the title of mr. nd, “it’s really fun, low-key,” 
one and call him my brother were there at all different siegfried hall was crowned the women of walsh hall hogan said. “really en-
simply because we sang to-times,” he said. “For me, the winner of the event. voted on their favorite con-tertaining, and it goes to 
gether,” he said. “The profun-concert is going to be really This year’s mr. nd fea-testant and crowned Jack charity.” 
dity of this is not lost on me: cool, meeting everyone and tured a variety of talent per-harris from dillon hall as 
familial bonds are forged in being on stage with everyone formances, which included mr. walsh. Contact Courtney Becker at 
the harmony of voice. i came ... but especially my dad and break dancing, freestyle harris, who danced in cbecker3@nd.edu 
for the music, and stayed for my brother.” the family.” many of the men he met 

bathon said he is excited to while a member of glee club return for the reunion week-turned into life-long friends, end, especially as he will be cook said. able to sing with his uncle, “it was great to know all howard bathon, who gradu-these people from all over ated in 1974. campus, multiple years, 
“we lived in very different freshmen through seniors as times, had different peers well as grad students,” cook and directors, and sang a lot said. of different music. but there was also a lot of music that Contact Catherine Owers at we both sang, we stopped in cowers@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 

about my anxiety 
Caitlyn Jordan 
photographer 

This past sunday was supposed to be a typical sunday afternoon here in south bend, indiana: a photo department meeting at 3 p.m., photo event at 5 and a pile of homework i needed to finished. however, this week’s photo schedule begged to differ. There it was, my name, signed up for the “inside column.” whaT?! The inside column? oh god, why? i’m JusT a lowly phoTographer who no wriTe good! i can’t do anything like this! i’m not smart. why am i even in college? i’m a horrible person. i should just die. etc. etc. etc. yeah… that’s just from getting assigned a 500 word column. (you should’ve heard my thoughts when i got assigned to shoot the virginia football game. They would’ve made even lil wayne blush.) 
i guess that’s why i decided to write about my experiences with anxiety. There are many con­notations attached to the word “anxiety.” For me, it means having panic attacks from every­day activities in my life. For those who do not share the chemical imbalances in their brain, an event such as the one i mentioned above might only cause thoughts such as, “oh jeez, i have to write something. That’s a little scary,” and they can still function as a normal human being. For those with anxiety, however, un­planned occurrences can be crippling. 
i’m very open about my anxiety. i have mostly accepted that anxiety is another part of my life. i have to take 100mg of Zoloft every night in or­der to keep the 100,000,000,000,000,000 butter­flies from storming into my stomach every time a normal, unplanned event happens in my life. my friends know the signs of when i’m having a panic attack. usually, i start stuttering like that scene where dr. evil was in space (“it’s freak­ing freezing in here mr. bigglesworth.” classic.) or i get very quiet and run into a corner to stay away from all the people. This usually happens at parties, which is not the best for college. 
i have good people in my life who understand that i take things a bit slower than the average person, or a panic attack might ensue. i’m ex­tremely lucky to have these people in my life. without my friends and family, i would not be here today living up the college life. however, i’m not naïve. i know there are many more people in our community who have shut them­selves out from the rest of the world. recently, i met a fellow student who, for some odd reason, could not grasp the concept of anxiety. “you take medicine for being nervous? what the hell is wrong with you?” For those who don’t have the support or someone they can cry with when experiences such as these happen, anxiety can be unbearable. To live in a constant state of fear can and will take a toll on both a person’s mind and soul. To those who have anxiety, i’m right there with you. i want to let you know that ev­erything will be okay. Find friends, professors, anyone to talk to about your feelings. we are not freaks with attention issues. we are normal human beings who understand what it means to be afraid. 
Contact Caitlyn Jordan at cjorda01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A must-see: ‘Counter-Archives to the Narco-City’ 
now that we’re halfway through hispanic heritage month (sept. 15-oct. 15), it’s probably a good moment to think about how to take advan­tage of this time in order to learn more about the contributions of latino/as to this country. one convenient way to commemorate this month is to head to the snite museum of art to see the “counter-archives to the narco-city” exhibit, which features artwork by two u.s. latina art­ists: alma leiva (honduras) and adriana corral (el paso). although this exhibit is a must-see for all spanish, latino studies and latin american studies majors and minors, the beauty about it is that it addresses a series of themes that will appeal to a wide audience. some of these in­clude: human rights, children’s rights, family life, violence (narco and state), crime, death, poverty, life, play, justice, education, history, christianity, indigenous beliefs, survival, trau­ma, politics and neo-colonialism, among others. 
inspired by the conditions in their countries of origin, leiva and corral try to convey the effects of extreme violence on individuals, families and communities. with the advantage that spa­tial and temporal distance affords them, they each address — in very different ways — what it means to live in two of the most violent cities in the world: ciudad Juárez, mexico and san pedro sula, honduras. and in addressing that violence, their art forces us to reconsider the role that the united states also plays in this context. it’s practically impossible to remain unmoved by this art because despite its deceptive simplicity, its stories speak truthfully about social justice and human rights. 
students of art, literature, history, religion, politics, psychology, economics, poverty, gen­der, race, ethnicity, education, latin america and latino/a studies, will get a lot out of this exhibit. so, if you have 15-20 minutes that you want to spend wisely, head to the snite and be ready to experience engaged art. luckily, the exhibit closes on dec. 13, so if you can’t make it during hispanic heritage month, you still have time. 
bonus: The exhibit reception will take place on oct. 8, from 4-6 pm and is open to the public. both artists, alma leiva and adriana corral, will be present as well as the co-curators: Tatiana reinoza and luis vargas-santiago. see the exhibit website for more information: http://sniteartmuseum. nd.edu/exhibitions/current-exhibitions/ counter-archives-to-the-narco-city/ 
marisel moreno associate professor of latino/a literature sept. 30 
Obama’s ‘honorary’ degree 
some seven years ago, your university and president Fr. John Jenkins conferred an hon­orary degree on the united states’ most pro-abortion president. in response to well-earned criticism, Fr. Jenkins promised that this action would result in a dialogue with the president, presumably over such issues as abortion. i have yet to see or hear of any report issued by Fr. Jenkins as to the content of this “dialogue.” perhaps The observer could direct its journal­istic endeavors to reach out to Fr. Jenkins for a response. 
i keep hearing, as the parent of an alumna, that notre dame is and was such a special place, and a wonderful catholic institution. For me, i think the iconic Fr. hesburgh put notre dame on a much different path. it was a path that led to president obama’s “honorary” degree, though for what honor i do not know. 
mark s. Fenice sept. 25 



Change our state of mind about mental health 

EDITORIAL 

with nothing to lose and everything to gain, it makes sense for students to get their free flu shots next week, right? during a stressful time in the se­mester, with the advent of seemingly endless exams, papers and projects, it seems obvious that the average student might become especially susceptible to physical ailments and illnesses. so it seems like a foregone conclusion that, in order to maintain physical well-being, students would seek out the proper help and resources. 
but what if instead of talking about just physical illnesses, like the flu, we talked about mental illnesses, like depression or anxiety disorders? it seems as if students still hesitate to attend to their mental health with the same initiative and matter-of-factness as they do their physical health. 
next week is irish state of mind week, which is dedicated to raising aware­ness about mental illness. Though there does seem to be a changing senti­ment, both on campus and around the nation, in the perception of mental illness, there is still an undeniable wariness and sense of uneasiness when discussing the topic, whether it be one’s own mental illness or someone else’s. 
mental illness is present in various forms and exists across a wide spec­trum with varying degrees of severity. while discussing this editorial, we as a board realized we have each been affected by mental illness, whether we were reminded of one of our loved ones, or if it was something we quietly acknowledged ourselves. 
yet somehow the different ways we as a society and community view physi­cal and mental illness seem to still differ: one with an urgency to visit a trained health professional to treat such an illness, the other with apprehen­sion and hesitation. 
physical diseases and mental health issues are, at their very cores, illnesses. similar to how a diabetic may need to take medication to supple­ment their lack of insulin, someone with a major depressive disorder may need to take medication to address abnormally high concentrations of neu­rotransmitters, such as serotonin, or various forms of neurological receptors. 
what it boils down to is that either form of illness is not always within our control, and thus we need to be confident in attending to it and getting the help we need. 
people who suffer from various forms of mental illness may shy away from seeking help. sometimes, the stigma surrounding mental illness proves to be too intimidating to seek out the various resources we have on campus to maintain our mental well-being. at other times, we may shunt our mental health issues aside and aimlessly tell ourselves to “suck it up.” but mental ill­ness, as is the case with physical illness, left unattended can only make mat­ters worse and affect other facets of our lives. 
it is tough — perhaps even unimaginably so — for someone living with a mental illness to accept it and talk to the appropriate professionals or to even open up to loved ones. perhaps it is easier for those suffering to write off resources such as the university counseling center as not being “right” for them. Those talks might be awkward, and the pursuit for the right profes­sional resources might be uncomfortable, but they will be worth it because our mental well-being affects every other aspect of our lives. 
irish state of mind week has been, and will continue to be, a powerful op­portunity for the university as a whole to raise awareness about the reality of mental health and to significantly improve the well-being of students. in high-pressure environments like those the university and campuses nation­wide naturally develop, it is essential students take care of themselves, both physically and mentally, in order to perform and succeed throughout their educational careers. 
while the free T-shirts to commemorate the week are nice, there is so much more to gain: the prospect of living happily and healthily. 
shadowing pope Francis 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

our nation’s capital routinely accommodates visiting heads of state, therefore establishing an expertise for extraordinary security measures. The government designated the highest priority level as “a national special security event” dur­ing president bill clinton’s tenure. with pope Francis’ visit, we attained the 50th such designa­tion, 25 of which have been held in washington. as such, the u.s. department of homeland security (dhs), specifically the u.s. secret service, led the security efforts to protect the pontiff throughout his stay in the united states. 
while collaborating with the gendarmerie corps of vatican city state (police) and pontifical swiss guard (military), dhs coordinated with and sought manpower from multiple american federal agencies, the national guard, state and local law enforcement organizations. The se­curity footprint reached from a joint command center well beyond the pope’s actual physical location. duties ranged from surveillance opera­tions through visible as well as undercover and hidden tactical personnel. many, including me, worked or volunteered extended overtime hours to protect the american public and pope Francis during his visit. 
such intricate security planning by two nations separated by the atlantic ocean depends upon a vast collection of personnel. one slightly obvi­ous security man, best known for his handing of children to the pope while riding in the pope mobile processions, was dr. domenico giani, the personal bodyguard of the pope and inspector general of the vatican. appearing just off the pope’s side while walking the transit routes, giani led the pontifical police and security team during the united states visit. in march, he also formally recognized that the terrorist group isis poses a real threat to pope Francis and the vatican. 
giani’s value as a diplomat, knowing the pope’s desires, was as important as his tactical training to protect the pontiff. he assuredly was party to the pope’s every planned and spontaneous moves, including one kept from the media on Thursday afternoon. officials arranged to sneak the defiant same-sex marriage Kentucky county clerk, Kim davis, by car into the vatican embassy to privately meet with the pope. spending nearly a week in jail for disobeying a federal court or­der, davis has become the face of a nationwide controversy about government employees and private businesses attempting to refuse same-sex couples based on personal religious beliefs. giani deftly managed that covert transportation effort. 
much has also been noted of the colorfully-dressed swiss guard stationed around the vatican gates, but little has been said to describe them when they travel abroad dressed in modern attire. Founded as the vatican’s official merce­nary force for pope Julius ii in the 16th century, the swiss fighters had a long history proving themselves as the original fierce elite special Forces team. Their original absolute devotion to the holy roman empire — sacrificing their lives to protect the pope from ransacking armies — re­mains today as they primarily protect the vatican city grounds and the college of cardinals during papal transitions. 
The swiss guard’s arsenal is as modern as any foreign presidential protection unit, including the united states. while their armory contains primitive weapons like a spiked club used cen­turies ago or manual bolt-action rifles, they carry the modern sig sauer p220 semi-automatic pistol, which is similar to the american navy seal Team six p226. They also deploy deep concealment glock 19 pistols. an extraordi­narily interesting and detailed description of vatican security operations entitled, “The pope has a small but deadly army of elite warriors protecting him,” is posted on the website Foxtrot alpha. 
yet heavily armed personnel cannot alone as­sure the success of protecting such a highly vis­ible and overwhelming participatory public. many volunteers and persons unaffiliated with law enforcement agencies were needed to assist as escorts, ushers and gatekeepers. washington as well as the later venues of philadelphia and new york city required charitable volunteers to assist in processing the security measures. unfortunately, terrorists utilize any means to in­filtrate perimeters, so strict screening led to pub­lic indignation as the philly.com website posted a photograph of a nun with arms outstretched while a hand wand scanned over her. however, ask any survivor of the boston marathon bomb­ing if they would have preferred better screening of backpacks and persons on that fateful day. 
in washington, many of my fellow eucharistic ministers, lectors and ushers volunteered from my home parish, st. matthew’s cathedral. while my archbishop donald cardinal wuerl and rector monsignor Jameson escorted pope Francis through the ceremonies, ordinary faces seen each week at mass littered the background. The same was true at the basilica of the immaculate conception during mass later that day. Together, volunteers served our patron servant. 
For me, i declined an opportunity to escort the cardinals’ motorcade. as a blue and gold notre dame graduate, crimson red is not my color. i declined an opportunity to attend ceremo­nies on the white house lawn. i chose rather to wear casual clothes along the pope’s route from the white house parade back to st. matthew’s cathedral where i could video the pontiff from three feet away. i additionally chose to stand at the catholic university on a grassy knoll posi­tioned nearly the farthest from the mass altar amongst the most ordinary in attendance. a 15-second video and communion seemed the perfect reward. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter @GaryJCaruso or at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MAURA MONAHAN 
scene writer 

The new broadway musical “hamilton,” from Tony, emmy and grammy award-winner lin-manuel miranda, is taking the world by storm. 
when “hamilton” opened off­broadway last winter, the sold-out run received so much acclaim that by the time it premiered on broadway this august, new york Times critic ben brantley knowingly acknowl­edged the hype in the opening of his rave review, writing, “yes, it really is that good.” with the release of the original broadway cast (obc) album last Friday, all who have not scored tickets finally got the opportunity to partake in “hamilton.” while theatre is quintessentially a live medium, and no recording can fully encapsu­late the experience of a production in the flesh, like all obcs, this album at least shares the production’s music. as it turns out, the music alone is pretty genius. 
“hamilton” chronicles the life of founding father alexander hamilton from his immigration to new york as a young orphan through the trials of the revolution and developing america up to his — spoiler alert for a two-centu­ries old event — death at the hands of aaron burr. The subject matter might seem stiffly academic; yet, its render­ing is anything but. Frame hamilton’s life as a hip-hop musical and let a daz­zling multiethnic cast perform it, and “hamilton” produces a brand new revolution. 
miranda, who wrote the book, mu­sic, and lyrics of “hamilton,” also stars as the play’s title character. miranda previously composed and starred in “in the heights” in 2008. listening to “hamilton,” it is easy to detect echoes of his earlier work, in particular his harmonies and rhythms. however, the latin music tropes that infused “heights” — brass flourishes, bolero guitar strains, fluid bilingualism — are replaced here by a musical lan­guage inspired by genres including baroque counterpoint, the bass of rockabilly and stylistic r&b. 
The integration of rap — a total rarity on broadway — into both miranda’s scores moreover serves different pur­poses in each. “heights” used rap to authentically represent the vernacu­lar and tastes of a twenty-first century washington heights neighborhood. in “hamilton,” the use of hip-hop is unapologetically anachronistic and serves a critical interpretive function: miranda, by framing hamilton’s life through hip-hop, creatively and bold­ly forges connections between expe­riences and fervors in the eighteenth and twenty-first centuries. 
in “hamilton,” form suits function perfectly. probably the most pervasive image of revolution in musical theatre is that of French schoolboys leading idealistic anthems from the top of bar­ricades in “les misérables”; revolution in “hamilton” is grittier, sharper, and closer to earth, dripping with fever­ish speed from impassioned mouths. The stakes are high. miranda knows how to generate momentum in a track, opening with a single voice over a minimalist snap beat and gradually adding characters, each with unique individual motifs, until the full en­semble explodes into thrilling sound. 
meanwhile, hamilton’s cool, prag­matic foil and rival aaron burr, played fascinatingly by leslie odom Jr., who narrates the show, repeats this mantra to hamilton: “Talk less.” it is a strik­ing thing to say in a loquacious rap musical, and it frustrates the fervent hamilton, who finally lashes back, “burr, we studied and we fought and we killed / For the notion of a nation we now get to build / For once in your life take a stand with pride.” every bit as ambitious as hamilton, but less in­ventively, less nobly so, burr provides vital counterweights to hamilton’s ideals in a show that is deeply interest­ed in how power is created and main­tained in a democratic nation. 
if in act one rap is the language of a band of brothers striving together, in act Two, with the war won, rap be­comes the key of torrid political debate in a more fractured cast. Federalist hamilton wages slamming, intense, “8 mile” styled “cabinet battles” with democratic-republican Thomas Jefferson, played by a versatile daveed diggs, making a convincing case that all congress sessions should be con­ducted in rap. 

miranda’s characters sound modern, but the setting’s use of elevated eigh­teenth century diction helps create a witty fusion of vocabularies brimming with philosophical contemplation. “hamilton” ruminates on Thomas paine, macbeth, and timeless immi­gration politics; it alludes musically and lyrically to beyoncé, notorious big and gilbert and sullivan. Jefferson’s eruption in “washington on your side” demonstrates the electricity found when rap meets natal politics: “i’m in the cabinet. i am complicit in watching him grabbing at power and kissing it / if washington isn’t gon’ listen to disciplined dissidents, this is the difference: This kid is out!” 
The r&b that occasionally slides into the broadway belt of the score tends to be the mode for women and love. The principal actresses, phillipa soo and renée elise goldberry as schuyler sis­ters eliza and angelica, respectively, deliver with smartness, feeling, and impressive riffs. miranda may be more of a rapper than a singer, but the vo­cal talent of the rest of the cast is top­notch. in fact, the sparseness of fully lyrical musical moments makes their appearances all the more impactful, like eliza’s heartbroken turn in “burn” or burr’s jazzy self-revelation in “The room where it happens.” 
similarly distinctive, the loyalist position is articulated wildly differ­ently from any other music in the score. “The Farmer refuted” has a classical melody accompanied almost exclusively by harpsichord and strings. Jonathan groff as King george sings three of the album’s forty-six tracks, and they all have the same tune: a catchy radio pop melody that becomes an outright earworm. if it sounds friv­olous in a score full of hardcore rap, it is supposed to. miranda illustrates the empty allure of the british empire’s promises to the colonies with a musi­cal language that is full of platitudes and eventually devolves into a saccha­rine chorus of nonsense syllables. The revolutionaries’ ability to see through the music’s irresistibility emphasizes their clear-sightedness. comedic lyri­cal and musical disjunction reinforces britain’s hypocrisy, as the king sings, “and when push comes to shove / i will send a fully-armed battalion / To remind you of my love.” 
King george is also the musical’s voice of doubt, dooming the american project to fail from afar. additionally, his cynicism underscores the com­ment that george washington, played by the dignified and command­ing christopher Jackson, makes to hamilton: “winning was easy, young man / governing’s harder.” 
it is a challenge that hamilton faces, if not undauntedly, willingly. he is the heart of the show, fully flawed and ful­ly human, bearing the weight of goals that are almost too much for any man to carry. he raps, “i’m past patiently waitin’. i’m passionately smashin’ every expectation / every action’s an act of creation / i’m laughin’ in the face of casualties and sorrow / For the first time, i’m thinkin’ past tomor­row / and i am not throwin’ away my shot.” what starts as a vow — built on a darkly and ironically foreshadow­ing image — to take the opportunity to challenge oppressors and make his name accumulates meaning through­out the show to become hamilton’s re­frain, pledging to build an impactful legacy with the time he has. he makes convictions that bright people have a duty to make a difference. “god help and forgive me,” hamilton says, “i wanna build something that’s gonna outlive me.” 
maybe with “hamilton,” miranda and his team will accomplish just that. “hamilton” is a triumph of a bio-musical, succeeding not only in thor­oughly and compellingly conveying the story of alexander hamilton’s life and legacy, but also in binding this history to contemporary america. The energy and complexity of the play’s rhymes demand subsequent listens, and each will be enjoyable. For history enthusiasts and for anyone who seeks thoughtful and fun entertainment, “hamilton” is a must-listen. 
Contacrt Maura Monahan at           mmonaha4@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

To try to recap this week’s episode, which had a “different” feel to it, i my­self am going to write this week’s re­view also in a “different” manner. 
The Notre Dame Student’s Perspective 
This episode felt pretty weary, to say the least. on the bright side, i finally got my wish: no new heart-breaking injuries, after what felt like an endless onslaught of broken ankles, torn acls and muscle tears. it was nice just to see the irish secure a good win against an opponent they should have beaten, while still seeing how much coach brian Kelly and his staff prepared their players to stay vigilant. Kelly was adamant in this episode of keeping his players on their toes, reminding them that if they sleepwalk through this game, massachusetts very well could beat them. 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

Father John misty, the musical per­sona of Josh Tillman, is continually proving he is one of the most bizarre an-ti-pop stars around. in between releas­ing one of the best albums of the year, filming music videos where he seduces himself and making The late show with david letterman’s audience laugh uncomfortably, the former Fleet Foxes drummer managed to find time to re­cord and share his own covers of Taylor swift’s “blank space” and “welcome to new york” from her latest album, “1989,” done in the style of the velvet underground. 
except these aren’t really covers of Taylor swift’s renditions of these tracks. rather, Father John misty highlighted in a Twitter post sarcastically announc­ing these two tracks that they were “his reinterpretation of the classic ryan adams album ‘1989’.” previously, on sept. 21, ryan adams released his own full-length cover album of Taylor swift’s 
it was also refreshing to see the players in a different light, putting an emphasis on the “student” part of stu­dent-athlete. in one particular case, seeing Jerry Tillery in a chemistry lab was pretty amazing. as a fellow sci­ence nerd, i can appreciate how time-consuming being in those underclass chemistry labs are. so it spoke to how amazing it is for student-athletes in general to keep up with the rigorous coursework here at notre dame while also staying sharp in their respective athletic fields. 
on the other hand, there was just an overload of scenes showing the play­ers coaching the womens’ flag football games. yes, it is truly nice to see the players be a part of the university and the student body in such a close set­ting, but as a student who was watch­ing this episode, i just felt that we were being force-fed this message over and over and over again. now admittedly, if i was one of those women playing on the flag football team, i would have 
“1989” done in the style of the smiths. so, Father John misty, while pretend­ing he was The velvet underground, covered ryan adams, who covered Taylor swift as the smiths might have. confusing right? 
but the story doesn’t end there. less than a day after releasing these covers, Tillman removed them entirely from his soundcloud. he explained this move in a rather absurd Facebook post, in which he explained how he encountered the ghost of lou reed, lead singer and gui­tarist of the aforementioned The velvet underground in a dream, among a bar­rage of other things. 
The supposed dream began with Tillman crab-walking in new orleans and meeting one of his old friends, who reminds Tillman that he owes a tennis shop $7,000. Then French psychologist Jacques lacan harassed Father John misty about his pride and gave him a burger King birthday crown while a crowd travelling on treadmills sang to him. as if the dream couldn’t get any weirder, Tillman then panicked about been ecstatic, trying to see if i some­how got any camera time. but as a stu­dent who knows about it but is not a part of it, i would have liked to see the producers just move on already. 

The Non-Notre Dame Student’s Perspective 
This was such a light-hearted epi­sode, and a refreshing break from the past three episodes of high intensity and lasting images of heartbreaking injuries and subsequent heartbreak. while it was nice to see how much Kelly stayed on his players to ensure they were prepared to fully respect — and thus fully defeat — their opponent in massachusetts, to see the players still enjoy the life of a student off the field was arguably more rewarding. seeing their interactions as coaches on the flag football team and appreciating how much fun they had being a part of it all was nice and seemed to evoke a sense of “innocence” that is arguably becoming more and more lost in the 
being late for a soundcheck, so president obama offered him a ride on air Force one to discuss important policy de­cisions and play sports in hawaii. at one point, Tillman recalls that obama transformed into Tillman’s father, so Tillman leapt out of air Force one and landed on a pink blob. inside the blob were thousands of people, chief among them reed, who told Father John misty to “delete those tracks, don’t summon the dead, i am not your plaything. The collection of souls is an expensive pas­time.” as a result, Tillman woke up and deleted his covers. 
altogether, this shaggy dog story of a Facebook post, combined with the cov­ers themselves, comes off as an abso­lutely insane mockery of pop music and ryan adams. This type of behavior is typical for the Father John misty char­acter that Tillman has created, though. misty’s most recent album “i love you, honeybear” features a number of tracks that mercilessly attack modern pop cul­ture with dripping sarcasm. with this particular assault, Tillman seems to be cynical coverage of college athletics. 
along the same train of thought, seeing the players working hard in the classroom also speaks to the kind of student-athlete who plays for notre dame: one with a dedication both on and off the field (or court, or whatever it may be). arguably, one of the best parts of hbo’s “hard Knocks” series is its ability to give the audience an in­side look into players’ lives away from the game, humanizing them and giv­ing viewers at home more to identify their favorite players with other than their jersey number. while it can be said that “a season with notre dame Football” makes its bread and butter with the intense, action-packed shots of the team’s practices and games, there’s a lot to be said for giving the players and viewers alike room to breathe and truly see the person un­derneath the football helmet. 
Contact Miko Malabute at               mmalabut@nd.edu 
criticizing the cyclical nature of pop music and the general absurdity of ryan adams both dedicating an entire album to someone else’s music and borrowing the sound of someone else entirely to do so. 
whatever the message may be behind this stunt, you should still give Father John misty’s covers a listen, if you can find them online. Tillman clearly put a lot of the work into the tracks and the results are incredible. The “welcome to the new york” cover features a full back­ing band and a very channeled velvet undergound style jam session in the middle that stretches the radio-ready pop hit well past the five-minute mark. The “blank space” cover, meanwhile, strips the song entirely of its original melody and gives the lyrics a very sar­donic tone. regardless of attitude, Josh Tillman has nailed his lou reed im­pression and should probably cover an entire The velvet underground album. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                            jkemper2@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The best gift soccer has to offer 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
For the first time, well, ever, the world’s greatest soccer league has been available to american consumers en masse. 
and it’s glorious. 
“wait, hasn’t the english premier league been on nbc for a few years now?,” you ask. 
absolutely. The issue? The premier league isn’t the greatest league in the world. 
it’s the bundesliga. 
yes, that’s right, germany’s national league is the best the world of soccer has to offer. 
granted, critics will point out that bayern munich have won the last three champion­ships going away, and if you’re only concerned about what goes on at the top, you’d be right to criticize the league. but unlike the premier league, it has so much to of­fer throughout the league. 
a simple look the table over the last few years reveals a number of clubs who have se­riously fought the “big clubs” for the elusive champions league places: Fc augsburg last year, sc Freiburg and eintracht Frankfurt two years earlier, hannover 96 and 1. Fsv mainz 05 in 2010­
11. That’s five in as many seasons — only everton and newcastle united have seri­ously pushed the big six clubs in england for those same spots in that time period. 
or look at the makeup of the league. sure, aFc bournemouth provides a cinderella story in the premier league, but the bundesliga has its own debu­tant this year, Fc ingolstadt 04, and sv darmstadt 98, a tiny club who returned to the top-flight for the first time in 33 years this campaign. 
The fun thing? both have been competitive so far; ingolstadt sit eighth and darmstadt ninth after the first seven games of the campaign. 
and the bundesliga is lit­tered with those small clubs every year — sc paderborn 07 played the role last year and in the two years before them, a pair of once-famous clubs did; 1967 german champions eintracht braunschweig and three-time winners spvgg greuther Fürth. 
Then there’s the ultimate “cult” club, Fc st. pauli: if you know a friend you’d consider to be borderline socialist, and he or she follows soccer, it’s a good bet they support the hamburg-based club in some capacity. They’ve be­come synonymous with their pro-equality and anti-fascist stance, and whenever they’re in the top flight, it’s always a treat to see. 
now, european sports have this pesky thing known as “promotion and relegation.” i’ve alluded to it already, but at the end of the season, the worst teams in the league get relegated to the second division, and the best teams from the second league come up. it’s part of what lets clubs like paderborn, ingolstadt or greuther Fürth make it into the top flight — and what captivates us every time they do. 
of course, the other fun thing is looking at the “big” clubs who have stared down the barrel of relegation, and suffered it. newcastle united were relegated from the premier league a few years back, sure, but the bundesliga has had more than its fair share of widely-supported clubs go down recently: eintracht Frankfurt did it, capital club hertha berlin did twice in three seasons and 1. Fc nürnberg and 1. Fc Kaiserslautern currently languish in the second divi­sion. each of them averaged over 30,000 fans per game last year. 
and naturally, that leads to the biggest reason why the bundesliga is the best league in the world: its fans. 
it’s the most-attended soc­cer league in the world — yes, more than the glorious premier league — and has more passionate fans than perhaps anywhere else in the world. Their “choreo,” giant banners and card stunts per­formed before games to send messages of support to their teams, never cease to amaze, and the noise that comes from the crowd in germany is entirely different from what you see in england. 
germany’s low ticket prices have a part to play with it — and despite them, the clubs remain in excellent finan­cial shape — but 11 of the bundesliga’s 18 clubs drew over 40,000 fans per game last year; just 7 of 20 did in england and only 5 of the spanish la liga’s 20 did last term. 
so next time you’re look­ing for a saturday or sunday morning soccer fix, flip on FoX’s bundesliga coverage. you’ll be treated to the best gift the sport has to offer. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PARALYMPICS 

U.S. teams groom future Paralympians 
Associated Press 

bosTon — Two years af­ter losing his lower leg in a car crash, matthew Freitas is faster and stronger than ever. 
The 14-year-old is near­ing a 6-minute mile on the track, running with a pros­thetic foot. he was the star goalie on his youth lacrosse team, and next spring the freshman will compete for his high school’s squad. his swift progress has stunned doctors, teammates and, to his delight, opponents. 
“before games, i hear a lot of people going, ‘oh, that goalie has one foot. it’s go­ing to be easy to score goals on him,’” said Freitas, of weymouth, massachusetts, on the state’s south shore. “last game i heard some­body say that, we won 6-0, and i ran full-field and scored a goal.” 
but lately, he’s been train­ing for something else: This weekend, Freitas will join other athletes with physi­cal and visual disabilities hoping to get noticed at a scouting event for the u.s. paralympics. coaches from national teams will run them through a circuit of tests, looking for the next top talent. 
The event is one of four regional “gateway to gold” stops across the country, a campaign by the u.s. paralympics to route prom­ising athletes into the pipe­line for national teams. in boston, coaches will work with athletes to gauge their potential in swimming, rowing, skiing, and track and field events. 
“it’s kind of like a com­bine, where they can come in and test themselves in all four sports,” said Joe walsh, president of adaptive sports new england. 
To qualify for a national team, paralympic athletes have to prove their mettle among the world’s top com­petitors. most spend years training for a spot. but scat­tered among the rosters of elite athletes are others who discovered their talent later, sometimes only by a fluke. 
before a scouting event in boston last year, Katelynne steinke had no interest in rowing. coaches saw in­credible potential, though, and urged her to compete. within months, steinke, who is paralyzed from the waist down, had finished eighth at the world rowing championships. 
“There are a lot of ath­letes who are discovered by chance,” said Thomas darling, director of para­rowing for the u.s., who spotted steinke’s talent last year. 
part of the problem is that, with a relatively small population, those with dis­abilities struggle to find local competition. 
“in any geographic area, it’s difficult to pull together 10 athletes who are all amputees, who are all run­ning, who are all interested in track,” walsh said. 
but advocates said they’re starting to see a shift. in 2013, the u.s. department of education ordered all schools to give students with disabilities an equal opportunity to join their sports teams, as long as it doesn’t require a modifica­tion that fundamentally alters the competition. 
more injured military veterans, too, are returning from combat to careers in adaptive sports. 
“some of them are re­ally good athletes, and so they’re able to transfer the skills that they had grow­ing up with sports into the analog paralympic sport,” walsh said. 
about 50 athletes are ex­pected to attend the boston event on sunday. some are established athletes. For others, it’s a chance to try new sports. on one ma­chine, athletes can pull two ropes to simulate cross-country skiing. with a laser rifle, they can test their ac­curacy for the biathlon. 

MLB | phillies 3, meTs 0 
eickhoff dominates mets 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — The new york mets are going home and hoping to stay there for a while. 

Jerad eickhoff struck out 10 in seven dominant innings, darin ruf hit a two-run homer and the philadelphia phillies beat the nl east champion mets 3-0 on Thursday to complete a three-game sweep. 
The mets are tied with the los angeles dodgers for home-field advantage in the division series, which be­gins next Friday. los angeles beat san Francisco 3-2 later Thursday. new york holds the tiebreaker. 
“we talked about the im­portance of coming here and winning games and then we didn’t win any,” mets man­ager Terry collins said. “we can’t worry about today. it’s over. Focus on tomorrow.” 

The mets host the washington nationals over the weekend and expect out­fielder yoenis cespedes to re­turn to the lineup. cespedes, as expected, didn’t play after bruising two fingers on his left hand when he was hit by a pitch wednesday night. collins said cespedes told him he was available, but he gave him the day off. 
“Just the way the series went, you knew there was going to be an energy drain,” collins said. “we rested some guys.” 
The phillies lost 14 of 16 to the mets before sweeping them in a three-game series for the first time since april 26-28, 2013, at citi Field. philadelphia needs to win one of its last three games against miami to avoid los­ing 100 games for the first time since 1961. 
an announced crowd of 13,238 was the small­est in the 12-year history of citizens bank park. only several hundred fans were in the stands for a game that was moved up seven hours because heavy rain is ex­pected later. 
eickhoff (3-3) gave up two infield singles, two doubles and no walks while tying his career-best with 10 strike­outs for the second consecu­tive start. Jerome williams pitched the eighth and luis garcia finished off the six-hitter for his second save in four tries. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NFL | ravens 23, sTeelers 20 (oT) 
ravens snap three-game losing skid against steelers 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — Josh scobee couldn’t. Twice. 
Justin Tucker could. Twice. 
The big-legged baltimore kick­er hit a 42-yard field goal to tie the pittsburgh steelers in the final seconds of regulation and made a 52-yarder with 5:08 left in over­time to give the ravens a 23-20 victory Thursday night. 
scobee had two chances to give the steelers some cushion late in the fourth quarter only to pull both kicks wide left. The sec­ond miss gave the ravens (1-3) enough time to put scobee well within range to send the game to an extra period. 
pittsburgh then twice opted to go for it on fourth down in baltimore territory in overtime rather than send scobee out for a long attempt into the tricky wind at the open end of heinz Field. michael vick, starting in place of injured ben roethlisberger, was stopped on fourth-and-2 at the 39 and later overthrew antonio brown on fourth-and-1 from the 33. 
neither vick or scobee would get a third shot. Joe Flacco led the ravens to the 35 and Tucker’s winner was never in doubt. 
Justin Forsett ran for 150 yards for the ravens. Flacco threw a touchdown pass and did just enough late to help baltimore end the worst start in franchise history. 
vick threw for 124 yards and a score and le’veon bell ran for 129 yards and a touchdown by the steelers (2-2) bumbled late. 
For most of the night, it ap­peared pittsburgh would survive with roethlisberger relegated to a sweatsuit after spraining his left knee last week against st. louis. 
The steelers sacked Flacco five times, forced a pair of turnovers and twice stopped the ravens on fourth downs in the fourth quar­ter to seemingly seize control only to have scobee let baltimore back in it. 
scobee, acquired from Jacksonville in august after in­juries to shaun suisham and garrett hartley, saw a 49-yard attempt sail wide with 2:24 to go. pittsburgh forced a four-and-out only to watch scobee flutter an­other one wide left with a minute left. 
it gave Flacco just enough wig­gle room to force overtime. seven plays took the ravens from the baltimore 31 to the pittsburgh 24, with Tucker drilling the 42-yard­er to tie it with 3 seconds left. 
pittsburgh received an un­expected boost from corner­back ross cockrell, signed off the waiver wire at the end of the preseason. cockrell picked off Flacco to end one baltimore drive in the second quarter and alertly scooped up a Flacco fum­ble early in the third that set up a 9-yard touchdown pass from vick to darrius heyward-bey as the steelers took a 20-7 lead. 

The ravens, desperately trying to avoid an 0-4 hole that would all but end their playoff hopes a quarter of the way into the sea­son, responded emphatically if not always smartly. 
Flacco found Kamar aiken — who slipped behind cockrell — for a 15-yard touchdown strike to cut it to 20-14 and the ravens had a chance to draw within three late in the third quarter. instead of a relatively short field goal, baltimore tried a fake field goal and ended up losing 3 yards when backup tight end nick boyle was tripped up by sean spence shortly after catching a flip from holder sam Koch. 
roethlisberger managed to make it into the field without crutches and even lobbed a few passes to teammates before the game. yet with their $100 mil­lion franchise quarterback’s troublesome knee several weeks away from being ready to go, the steelers’ chances of keeping pace in the crowded aFc north will rely heavily on the 35-year-old vick. 
MLB | rangers 5, angels 3 

Rangers inch closer to clinching AL West title 
Associated Press 
arlingTon, Texas — The music was a little louder in the Texas clubhouse, and there was the faint smell of champagne. 
otherwise, the rangers were still waiting on a bigger celebration — for winning the al west. 
Texas clinched a wild-card spot and moved to the cusp of the division title, with adrian beltre’s three-run double backing derek holland in a 5-3 victory over the los angeles angels on Thursday night. 
“we had a toast, yes,” first-year manager Jeff banister said. “we still have a mission to accomplish. and some­thing that as a group of play­ers we all talked about in spring training, when nobody else was talking about it but us.” 
The rangers (87-72), in the playoffs for the first time since 2012 after an al-worst 95 loss­es last season, are a win or a houston loss away from their first division title since win­ning two straight and going to the world series in 2010-11. 
Texas, which fell to Tampa bay in a playoff for a wild­card spot in 2013, lost ace yu darvish to season-ending el­bow surgery in spring train­ing and went 7-14 in april. 
The rangers were still eight games out on aug. 2 but are now on the verge of becoming the fifth team in 40 years — and the first since the Twins in 2006 — to win a division after trailing by that many games in august. 
“we knew it was going to be a chance,” said short­stop elvis andrus, who had a couple of tough plays among five straight balls late to help preserve the lead. “we talk­ed to everybody, we’ve got 60-something games ahead. baseball is so crazy. you don’t know what’s going to happen.” 
The angels can’t defend their al west championship, but still have a shot at the second wild card with three games left. los angeles (83-76) is a game behind the astros and tied with minnesota, which beat cleveland 4-2. 

beltre, who had the second-most rbis in the majors in september with 29, broke a 1-all tie with a bases-clearing double off andrew heaney (6­
4) in the fifth. beltre scored an insurance run after a lead-off single in the seventh. 
“we obviously knew com­ing in we needed to win ev­ery game,” said heaney, who walked a career-high five and hasn’t won since July 26. “obviously, that’s frustrating for me to feel like i didn’t give the team a chance to win.” 
holland (4-3), who missed most of the season with a left shoulder strain, allowed three hits and three runs in 6 1-3 innings for his first win since sept. 5. The left-hander struck out six, including Kole calhoun three times. 
calhoun also grounded out to andrus against reliever Jake diekman with the tying run at third to end the sevent 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL | cincinnaTi 34, miami (Fla.) 23 
Bearcats win without Kiel 
Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — Two quick touchdowns settled hayden moore’s nerves. 
The redshirt freshman threw two touchdown pass­es and ran for another score in his starting debut, and cincinnati’s struggling de­fense held on for a 34-23 vic­tory over miami on Thursday night to end the hurricanes’ streak of 10 straight wins over the bearcats. 
moore followed up the best passing game in cincinnati history with a solid perfor­mance. The bearcats (3-2) surged ahead 14-3 and over­came a scoreless third quar­ter behind moore, who was 22 of 33 for 279 yards with an interception. 
“he grew up a lot tonight,” coach Tommy Tuberville said. “i saw his eyes. he was a little nervous going into the game. he knew what he was going to face. but he held in there good.” 
good enough to end cincinnati’s streak of two straight last-minute losses and create a competition for the starting job when gunner Kiel is healthy. Tuberville said moore will get a chance to keep the job. 
moore filled in with Kiel sidelined by a neck injury suffered during a 53-46 loss at memphis a week earlier. moore took over in that game and threw for a school-record 557 yards with four touch­downs and two interceptions in only three quarters. 
Kiel helped him get ready for the game and cheered him on. 
“literally nothing changed,” moore said. “he was in the locker room be­forehand. at halftime, he was pumping me up.” 
miami (3-1) was coming off a 36-33 win over nebraska that featured five field goals by michael badgley. he made three more Thursday but missed from 51 and 53 yards as the hurricanes repeatedly failed to reach the end zone. 
Trailing by 11 points, the hurricanes went for it on fourth-and-goal from the 5 instead of taking the field goal. brad Kaaya’s pass was incomplete with 4:41 left. Kaaya finished 24 of 39 for 255 yards without a touch­down or interception. 
Tion green’s 41-yard run then put cincinnati in posi­tion to finish it off. green had 90 yards on 15 carries. 
“our offense has played well all year,” Tuberville said. “our defense finally grew up a little bit.” 
moore got off to a solid start, leading the bearcats to a 27-20 halftime lead. he completed his first three passes as cincinnati pulled ahead 14-3, the first time the hurricanes had trailed this season. after five straight completions, he threw an in­terception — hung the ball in the air too long — that set up a miami touchdown. 
The bearcats had 300 yards in the first half, with moore throwing for a touch­down and scoring on a 1-yard sneak. 
“it was tough to watch that first half, but it’s something i had to deal with,” hurricanes safety deon bush said. “we got better in the second half because people just did their jobs.” 
The main point of empha­sis for cincinnati was avoid­ing turnovers. cincinnati led the nation in turnovers com­ing into the game with nine interceptions and five fum­bles. miami has been among the best at forcing turnovers. 
aside from moore’s first-quarter interception, the bearcats avoided the big mistake. 
both defenses regrouped in the second half. The hurricanes had 38 yards in the third quarter and missed a field goal, while moore was sacked twice as the bearcats managed only five net yards. 
moore finally got going, mekale mcKay in stride for a 52-yard gain. he then threw a 7-yard touchdown pass for a 34-23 lead with 6:54 to go. 
“They played really well, but we aided them,” miami coach al golden said. “we were playing better defense in the second half but they got that one in the fourth quarter that was a back breaker. we haven’t given up one of them in a while.” 
The hurricanes then had the chance to cut it to an eight-point game, but came up empty on the fourth-down incompletion. 
cincinnati’s offense was missing running back mike boone and receivers Johnny holton and chris moore to injuries. 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INTERHALL 

Gentlemen aim to stay unbeaten against Zahm 
St. Edward’s vs. Zahm 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
undefeated st. edward’s (2­
0) will take on Zahm (0-1-1)  in week 3 interhall action sunday at riehle Fields. 
st. edward’s (2-0) is coming off a close 7-6 win against carroll in which its defense had two key interceptions. both plays put the gentlemen in scoring position, and junior lineman and captain phineas andrews said he is feel­ing confident in his team’s de­fense against Zahm (0-1-1). 
“we think our defense has been playing great the last cou­ple weeks and they’ll hopefully continue that this week,” said andrews. 
andrews also said st. edwards has been working on strengthen­ing its offense to match the cali­ber of its defense. 
“we’re still looking to fine-tune our offense,” andrews said. “we’re getting more plays put in, and we’re working on finding a balanced offense.” 
Zahm senior captain and of­fensive lineman steven Jepeal said he also hopes to improve on his team’s offense coming off of last week’s 6-6 tie against sorin. 
“This week, we hope to turn over the ball less and have a bet­ter scoring rate in the red zone,” said Jepeal. “we also hope to keep up the success on defense.” 
although the two teams are striving to improve from last game, both know this weekend will be a challenge. 
“Zahm is going to be tough,” andrews said. “They’re taking it a lot more seriously this year from what i hear, so we’ll just keep practicing and keep run­ning our plays.” 
st. edward’s will attempt to re­main undefeated against Zahm on sunday at 3:30 pm on riehle Fields. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
Duncan vs. Alumni 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
duncan and alumni enter their meeting sunday afternoon on opposite ends of the emotion­al roller coaster. 
alumni (1-1) is coming off a 14-7 win over defending cham­pions morrissey, while duncan (0-2) attempts to recover from a close loss against Knott. 
Junior duncan captain stephen Treacy said there is a growing rivalry between the highlanders and the dawgs. 
“we have had some hard fought battles with alumni in my two years here, and i expect an­other good game this weekend,” Treacy said. “i anticipate us con­trolling the line of scrimmage on both sides of the ball and shut­ting down both the run and the pass, resulting in a victory.” 
Junior alumni captain nicholas lund, however, said his team’s performance last week gives him hope for the game. 
“we had a big win against morrisey this past weekend,” lund said. “we have a couple guys hurt, but i still think we will be able to do well against duncan this sunday as long as they do not pull too many crazy stunts with their offense.” 
The highlanders aim to defeat the dawgs and claim their first victory this sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact bmoxley01@saint­marys.edu 
Pasquerilla East vs. Pangborn 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 
pangborn will take on pasquerilla east on monday night in a matchup with impor­tant playoff implications. 
according to senior pangborn captain gracie gallagher, this will be the week when the phoxes (1-1-1) will iron everything out. 
“we’ve been playing pretty well, but we just haven’t gotten everything to click at the same time quite yet,” gallagher said. “we’re hoping that with a few more practices we can get to where we want to be.” 
Junior pasquerilla east captain noelle gooding said the pyros (2-1) will look to get a big win but also keep the game lighthearted. 
“we’re obviously hoping to come out strong this week­end and get some more wins in the books before playoffs,” gooding said. “but it wouldn’t be pasquerilla east flag foot­ball without a lot of goofing off thrown in there because we try not to take ourselves very seriously.” 
both teams will have to face the challenges of a back-to-back weekend. pasquerilla east will be coming off a sunday game with Farley, and pangborn will be coming off a matchup with mcglinn. gooding said the pyros are still learning how to handle the doubleheaders. 
“its tough for sure to have two games in a row like that, and that’s something that i think we struggled with this past week­end, but we’re getting used to it and we just need to come out to every game like it’s the first and play the game we know,” gooding said. 
gallagher also recognized the difficulty of the back-to-back schedule. 
“games on back-to-back days can be tough, but it’s easy to get excited to play a big football game under the lights to start off the school week,” she said. “hopefully, we’ll be coming off of a good game on sunday and continue that momentum into monday.” 
The phoxes and pyros will square off under the lights at riehle Fields on monday at 10 p.m. 

Contact Dominic Iannelli at rianell@nd.edu 

Breen-Phillips vs. Pasquerilla West 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 

a winless breen-phillips team will take on undefeat­ed pasquerilla west at labar practice complex on sunday at 5 p.m. 
pasquerilla west (2-0) is com­ing into the game yet to give up a point at this early stage in the season, shutting down both cavanaugh and lyons. breen­phillips (0-2) has played two tight contests so far this season, including a one-possession loss to ryan last week. 
both teams appear to have the same mindset heading into this game, as captains on both sides said their goal in this game is to have fun while also staying fo­cused and striving to come out on top. 
senior pasquerilla west co-captain bernie Jordan said she was optimistic about her team’s chances. 
“we don’t know a lot about our opponent, but we feel confident and we’re just looking to make sure everyone gets comfortable early on so as to give ourselves the best chance possible” Jordan said. “we’ve got a strong defense that we feel good about, so we’re expecting a big game on that side of the ball.” 
breen-phillips captain sopho­more megan resnik said her team has a positive attitude heading into this game as well. 
“we have a lot of freshman on the team who are super excited to be playing, and we’ve been improving every day,” resnik said. “so we’ll put forth a good effort and hope for the best.” 
pasquerilla west looks to con­tinue its defensive dominance while breen-phillips seeks its first win of the season when the sides meet at labar practice complex at 5 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Alex Bender at             abender@nd.edu 
Badin vs. Lewis 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 

in week 3 of the interhall sea­son, undefeated lewis takes on badin. 
with half of the regular sea­son in the books, both teams are starting to find their iden­tity and look to keep improving each week. senior lewis cap­tain penny vorissis said she was confident she had found her best team possible. 
“we’ve definitely learned what our strengths and weaknesses are as an offense and defense,” vorissis said. “we’re not placing individuals based on where they want to play anymore, but rather in the best position where they can succeed”. 
on the other side, badin cap­tain and senior maggie long echoed the idea of trial-and-er­ror with her team through their first two games. 
“we’ve seen massive improve­ments between our first and sec­ond games,” long said. “we have new coaches, plays, and strate­gies this year, so the beginning of the season has been spent fig­uring out what works and what doesn’t”. 
That improvement will be needed against the chicks (1-0­
1) defense, which has yet to give up a point this season and drew the high praise of vorissis. 
“we have a really, really strong defense,” vorissis said. “it’s been incredible, and i was especially proud of their performance last game”. 
long gave insight on what badin (0-2) needs to do in order to spring an upset. 
“our team works very cohe­sively and communicates well,” long said. “i think communica­tion will be key in this game, as well as playing consistently well throughout the entire game”. 
vorissis said playing smooth throughout the game will be the key. 
“i think our biggest key will be making sure that our players are comfortable with the plays, and also getting in an offensive rhythm with good communica­tion between our quarterback and receivers.” 
The game kicks off sunday at 4 
p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Joe Everett at                       jeveret4@nd.edu 
Stanford vs. Dillon 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
after stanford and dillon face off this sunday, there will be one fewer team that can still dream about an undefeated season. 
both teams have high expecta­tions and goals of perfection. 
senior stanford (1-0) captain daniel babiak said he is pleased with his team’s performance in their one game so far, but also expects improvements in the up­coming face-off against dillon. 
“we’ve seen a few things both on offense and defense that have worked well,” babiak said. “every aspect of the team can still be improved in my opinion.” 
dillon (1-0) won its last game against o’neill by a 24-0 margin, giving stanford reason to be con­cerned about stopping the dillon offense. babiak said the big red’s offensive intensity has the po­tential to cause his team trouble. 
“dillon plays smash-mouth football,” babiak said. “The hardest part will be matching that intensity and making sure to hit them harder than they hit us.” 
babiak said he was fairly sat­isfied with the griffins’ perfor­mance in their victory against Keough, 14-7, but said he knows in order to defeat dillon, stanford will need to keep striv­ing for perfection. 
“we need to try and polish up the things that didn’t work well while continuing to excel at our strengths,” babiak said. “i’m confident in our system and we try to force teams to adjust to us.” 
The match-up will likely be a competitive one, but that does not change babiak’s outlook on the season. 
“our goals are the same as when we began,” babiak said. “win the division; win the league.” 
stanford and dillon will meet at 2:15 p.m. sunday at riehle Fields. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
Knott vs. Siegfried 
By TORI LLORENS 
sports writer 
competing for both the win and important bragging rights, Knott (1-0) faces siegfried (1-0) on sunday in one of the most anticipated games of the two teams’ seasons. 
Juggerknotts captain and se­nior middle linebacker casey mccaffrey said the team is excit­ed to play against its rival dorm. mccaffrey said his team has been working to ensure a win, and he feels good about their chances. 
“our [quarterback] threw four touchdowns last week so that was a very nice surprise,” mccaffrey said. “we’re working on more of our defense because the score [last week] was 28- 26. we gave up a lot of points for interhall. so we’re working on shoring up the defense and on offense just making sure we stay pretty balanced with passing and running.” 
senior siegfried safety and captain grady schmidt is con­fident in his team’s abilities and said they can win more securely than their first game. after beat­ing alumni 7-6 on a protested call in week 1, schmidt says the ramblers will take what they can get and improve for the future. 
“[we are definitely stronger] at defense,” schmidt said. “we’re working to improve the offense so i’m confident we’ll be able to score more. we’ve put in more plays. it was really a quick start to the year so we took advantage of our bye week just to learn more about what we’re going to do.” 
both captains said they expect a tough and physical game. 
Knott and siegfried face off in the battle for mod Quad on sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Tori Llorens at                     vllorens@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | The observer 


Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
the first set alone. Johnson said he stressed the importance of process to this irish team in their success going forward. 
“if we do as well as we can, the wins will come,” Johnson said. “if our efforts are right and we move the right way, our results tend to fall in line.” 
sophomore outside hit­ter sam Fry is the engine for the irish offense, and already has 167 kills on the season with an average of 
3.15 kills per set. her offen­sive efficiency will be test­ed against the eagles and the orange, who average 
2.1 and 3.0 blocks per set, respectively. Johnson at­tributes Fry’s success to the visibility she has at the net and her ability to maneuver around blockers. 

“The thing she does very well is she can hit with range, and she can adjust to different kinds of different sets,” Johnson said. “but once they send blockers to sam, that opens up other people up.” 
This was evident against Florida state, as fellow sophomore outside hitter sydney Kuhn led the irish with eight kills while Fry was held to six. 
ultimately, fundamen­tals are the keys to success for the irish this weekend, Johnson said. 
“controlling the serve and pass game is always first,” Johnson said. “are we serving well enough to get our opponents out of system, and are we receiv­ing well enough to get our­selves in system? 
“The second one is get­ting in a rhythm offensive­ly, our hitters being where they should be when they should be and our setter delivering the ball. and the third is defensively being in the right place at the right time based on what we’re seeing.” 
The irish seek their first acc victory of the sea­son as they take on boston college at 7 p.m. Friday and syracuse at 12 p.m. sunday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

MLB | yanKees 4, red soX 1 
Yankees clinch playoff birth 
Associated Press 
new yorK — cc sabathia stood near his locker in the back of the oval yankees club­house while excited team­mates celebrated new york’s return to the postseason. 
“it feels like an eternity,” the big left-hander said, not trying to hide his relief. 
with some help from the one of the old guard, the next generation of yankees will have a chance to make their mark in the playoffs. 
ending a rare two-year ab­sence from the postseason, new york clinched a wild­card berth with three games to spare by beating the boston red sox 4-1 Thursday night for the franchise’s 10,000th regular-season win. 
putting behind the vener­ated teams of derek Jeter and mariano rivera, new york (87-72) opens its 52nd post­season with a winner-take­all game on Tuesday. alex rodriguez and the yankees most likely will face houston or the los angeles angels. 
“we’ll never forget what derek did for this organiza­tion,” manager Joe girardi said, “but you have to move on. yogi retired. mickey mantle retired and Joe d re­tired — all these guys, they were great players, but the yankees continued to win.” 
masahiro Tanaka is lined up to pitch the wild-card game, with the winner ad­vancing to a division series against east champion Toronto or central winner Kansas city. 
carlos beltran homered along with rookies greg bird and rob refsnyder on a driz­zly, chilly evening that made sultry summer days seem long ago. sabathia (6-10) al­lowed one run in five innings to win for the second time since the all-star break. 
new york had failed to reach the playoffs in consec­utive years for the first time since its 1982-93 drought, just before the start of a golden age that included five world series titles and seven al pennants from 1996-2009. 
but these yankees bear little resemblance to even their last postseason team of 36 months ago. among the players swept by detroit in the 2012 al championship series, only rodriguez, brett gardner, mark Teixeira and sabathia remain, and Teixeira will miss this post­season because of a broken leg. 
now beltran, Jacoby ellsbury, chase headley, brian mccann and didi gregorius support a creaky starting rotation, a strong back end of the bullpen and sputtering middle relievers. The 40-year-old rodriguez played a big part, too, hitting 33 home runs after serving a drug suspension last season. 
“it’s kind of fitting that the 10,000th win clinches a post­season berth,” gardner said. 
after dellin betances struck out Josh rutledge to end it, the yankees jogged onto the field to congratu­late each other, along the lines of a normal win. rookie catcher John ryan murphy and betances did a little jumping, and the crowd — which seemed less than half the 40,033 tickets sold for the first night of october base­ball — stood and applauded. 
players then put on gog­gles in the clubhouse as they sprayed non-vintage chandon brut classic. 
while the yankees poured bubbly on their navy carpet for the first time since beat­ing baltimore in the 2012 division series, a wild card isn’t what they expected. new york led the al east by seven games before play on July 29 but has been a .500 club since then. The yankees had never before failed to finish first in a season in which they led by more than six games. 
“These guys to me did it a lot on just heart and hard work,” girardi said. “we had a lot of injuries. we have age on this team. we dealt with a lot of stuff. but they al­ways kept fighting and they always seemed to be bounce back.” 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
wolfpack have been left out of the top 25, but they argu­ably one of the most consis­tent offenses in the acc. The wolfpack have scored seven goals in both the first and second periods. They have outshot their opponents 107 to 72 while splitting that al­most evenly in the first and second periods at 50 and 49, respectively; the other eight shots have come in overtime periods. naturally, those eight shots are split 4-4 be­tween first and second over­time periods. They also have 17 more corner kicks than their opponents; 27 were in the first period and the other 26 were in the second. 
Two of their most efficient offensive weapons, junior midfielder yanni hachem and sophomore midfielder Zach Knudson, have both scored three goals and dished out one assist this season, tying them for first in total points with seven. 
in regards to honing in on a scheme to shut down the wolfpack’s offense, clark said he doesn’t think the irish need to change much. 
“we’ve just got to play our game,” clark said. “we don’t change very much regard­less of who we play. The only game i felt like we got outworked was in the first half of the Xavier game, and we lost. so we can’t get out­worked. That’s got to be the key.” 
against no. 11 virginia, the wolfpack failed to get a score on the board, falling 1-0. Then against louisville last week, nc state hung in the game and went blow for blow with the cardinals in the close matchup. louisville scored in the first period, and the wolfpack responded a minute later with a cross to redshirt senior midfielder philip carmon for a score. Their ability to remain per­sistent can prove to be an obstacle for the irish. 
despite  dropping  two  
straight  matches  in  
september  to  Xavier  and  

north carolina, clark said his team is confident it can get on a roll to close out the second half of the season in hopes of locking down a top seed in the acc tournament. 
“it’s going to take 100 per­cent concentration,” clark said. “The last time we were in north carolina, we lost our concentration on two goals. one on a throw-in with six seconds left, and the other was when we gave away the free kick. we decided to talk to the referee instead of focusing on the game. we’ve got to keep the three cs: consistency, confidence and concentration.” 
as they move into the sec­ond half of the 2015 cam­paign, graduate student defender max lachowecki said the irish need to focus on playing each game with maximum concentration, which has been emphasized across the team. 
“i hope [concentration] is something we’ve accumulat­ed over the season and hope­fully continue to maintain that focus,” lachowecki said. “especially in games, any time there’s a break in play, making sure that everyone i just locked in to set piece or a throw in is important. Just like that corner we gave up against Xavier; that’s how we lost. They didn’t really have any other great chances, but it’s one lapse in concentra­tion, and we go down a goal.” 
if hurricane Joaquin spares the east coast this weekend, notre dame will face off against nc state in raleigh, north carolina, on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

however, romagnolo said the box score does not tell the whole story. she had high praise for the mid­fielders, who contribute in a number of ways that do not show up in the stat sheet. 
“i think as a group, our midfielders do so much work for us in terms of defending well in the back and pre­venting problems from even happening,” romagnolo said. “They’re also good cre­ators on the ball.” 
unlike notre dame’s last two opponents, miami does not carry a winning record or a top-5 ranking. The hurricanes have been out­scored 19-15 and remain winless in acc play. They are led by senior forward amy schmidt, who is tied for the team lead in goals (four) and is also the club’s top fa­cilitator with four assists on the year. 
despite miami’s record, romagnolo said she is not letting her team look past Friday’s foe, pointing to the overall strength of the acc. 
“i don’t think there is a bot­tom team in the acc. miami took clemson to overtime in their last game and were even up a goal at one point,” romagnolo said. “They’re a good team and soccer is a funny sport where you can dominate, but at the end of the day you need to put the ball in the back of the goal.” 
putting the ball in the goal was something the irish failed to do in two of their first three conference games, including sunday’s 1-0 defeat. however, notre dame still holds a 204-50 shot advantage over their opponents, led by gilbertson 
(56) and Jacobs (39). 
with the regular season more than halfway done, romagnolo gave her team’s play a ‘b-plus’ so far. 
“at times we’ve been an ‘a’ and other times we’ve been a ‘c,’” romagnolo said. “we’ve done good things but our goal is to be an ‘a’ and play consistently.” 
Friday’s game will be played at miami’s cobb stadium and is slated to kickoff at 8 p.m. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 


XC 
conTinued From page 16 
time of 17:20.7. 

Freshmen  annie  
heffernan  and  rachel  
dadamio,  senior  Karen  

lesiewicz and sophomore sydney Foreman also had top-10 finishes for the irish, who finished 64 points ahead of second-place Xavier. 
in the men’s victory at the national catholic championship, senior Timothy ball led the way for the irish, finishing in third place with a time of 25:09.2. senior michael clevenger and sophomores calvin Kraft and Kevin pulliam also had top-10 finishes for notre dame. 
at the Joe piane invitational, notre dame will host new mexico, which brings the nation’s top-ranked women’s cross country team and a men’s team ranked 17th. despite the high rankings, the event will be the first the lobos have been a part of in 2015. 
The invitational is one of four events notre dame is set to compete in this month. outside of Friday’s event, the irish will also compete in the wisconsin invitational, the illini open and the acc championship in october. 
The Joe piane notre dame invitational is set to begin at 2 p.m. Friday at the notre dame golf course. The men will race at 2 p.m. and will be followed by the women, who are set to start at 2:45 p.m. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson and John roddy SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 



SOLUTION TO WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE 10/4/12 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take stock and pull things together. you will have the added discipline you need to organize and make decisions that will help you stabilize your personal finances and choose a direction that brings you the satisfaction and happiness you desire. romance is on the rise, and building a closer relationship with someone special will improve your life and your future. your numbers are 7, 12, 24, 31, 36, 45, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get your paperwork in order and update your resume. deal with any matters that concern a pet, colleague or professional responsibility. a subtle change to the way you present yourself will pay off. plan a romantic evening or party with friends. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t get down about the things you have yet to accomplish. Focus on the present and what you can do to get one step closer to your goals. Think big and put physical effort into making your dreams come true. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you will feel anxious due to a slowdown in work. Take a practical approach and be realistic about your objectives, and you will find a suitable and timely way to succeed. a change at home will turn out to be a delightful surprise. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be afraid to try something new. it’s time to broaden your outlook and delve into the interesting concepts or pastimes that will help you grow and improve your lifestyle. don’t disagree with someone until you have all the facts. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you can raise your profile and improve your reputation if you participate in community events. your suggestions and ability to take charge and make things happen will attract interest from others. don’t let someone’s jealousy ruin your day. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Think before you take on too much. anger will result if you feel anxious or if you think someone is taking advantage of you. if something isn’t working for you, take a different approach or head in the opposite direction. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): shake things up a bit. make a point to get involved in something that moves you or pushes you to make new friends. pursue an unusual pastime. romance is highlighted, and making a commitment or promise is encouraged. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): approach what you do differently than you have in the past. The experience and what you learn along the way will improve the outcome and the response you receive. alter the way you live and you’ll feel rejuvenated. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make positive changes to the way you live. Try to follow what has always worked for you in the past. love is highlighted, but try not to let it influence your beliefs or cause problems with friends and relatives. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): implementing ways to improve your health and well-being will result in added energy. socializing and networking functions will help you explore new possibilities and find a way to a prosperous future. invest more time and energy into your skills. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take control and get things done. your insight and ability to wheel and deal will bring about major improvements to the way you live and your relationships with personal and professional partners. love will conquer all and bring about positive changes. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): be brutally honest when dealing with people who are being vague or making unrealistic promises. look out for your interests and don’t take on something that has the potential to drag you down if someone else doesn’t do his or her part. 

Birthday Baby: you are creative, comprehensive and original. you are charming and resourceful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
OBSIN  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
DANST  

 
 
 
 
 

PICMAT  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


PHEHNY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GRILL CUBIC AWAKEN BROKENYesterday’s 
Answer: Yogi found the weather conditions to be — UNBEARABLE 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish look to extend 
notre dame 
three-game win streak 
travels to miami 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 7 notre dame, riding a three-game win streak, will travel to north carolina for the second time in two weeks to face north carolina state. 
The last time the irish (7-2­1, 2-1 acc) traveled to north carolina, they conceded a season-high four goals to the Tar heels in a top-five matchup. This time around, notre dame hopes to flip the results in its favor against the wolfpack (6-2-1, acc 1-1-1). 
“it’ll be another tough game,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “we watched some video on them and they’re certainly a good team. Just like all the acc teams, they’ll be a chal­lenge. They’re well coached by Kelly Findley, and he used to be down there in butler, and he did a good job.” 
nc state is coming off a 1-1 tie against no. 24 louisville. despite having a similar re­cord to notre dame, the 
see m soccer PAGE 14 


By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
after an emotionally charged weekend, the no. 14 irish continue acc play with a trip to coral gables, Florida to face off with miami. 
last week featured a thrill­ing double overtime win at no. 1 virginia for the irish (8-2-1, 1-2-0 acc), followed by a crushing 1-0 home over­time loss to defending na­tional champs Florida state. second-year coach Theresa romagnolo saw both posi­tives and negatives in her team’s last performances. 
“you know it was an inter­esting weekend. we came off that great high on Thursday and we wanted a simi­lar performance sunday,” romagnolo said. “we didn’t, but i think we learned from that. we’re going to see those kinds of weekends again.” 
as far as improvements romagnolo wants to see her club make against the hurricanes (0-3-0, 7-7-0), she pointed to shoring up 
the passing game. 
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

“i would like to see more 
Irish graduate defender Max Lachowecki controls the ball during 

composure out there,” 
Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Virginia on Friday at Alumni Stadium. 
romagnolo said. “we have to connect more on our passes to set up opportunities in front of the goal.” 
notre dame jumped up one spot to no. 5 in the rpi poll and two spots to no. 14 in the coaches poll. however, rankings mean little to a team squarely fo­cused on winning a national championship: romagnolo chuckled when asked about her team’s rpi. 
“i don’t even think they know what rpi is,” romagnolo said. “we don’t talk about rankings. our goal is to continue to im­prove so by the ncaa tour­nament we’re peaking.” 
senior forward anna maria gilbertson looks to con­tinue to torment opposing goalkeepers. The california product has seven goals on the year, including the game winner against virginia. she has been the beneficiary of a strong freshman campaign from forward natalie Jacobs. Jacobs leads the team in as­sists with five, many of them to gilbertson. 
see w soccer PAGE 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish turn focus towards boston college 

SARAH OLSON | The Observer 

Irish sophomore outside hitter Sam Fry winds up for a serve during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Mississippi State on Sept. 11. 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

after starting off acc play by getting swept in back-to-back losses to louisville and no. 17 Florida state, the irish return to action this weekend with home matches against boston college and syracuse. 
The focus of the week leading up to boston college has been on hon­ing in on the team’s pro­cess, according to irish associate head coach mike Johnson. 
“we’re going to get bet­ter every week, stay pro­cess driven, and continue to improve,” Johnson said. “For us, it’s about holding course.” 
The orange (11-2, 2-0 acc) and the eagles (8­6, 0-2 acc) have already squared off against each other in their opening acc 
matches,  with  syracuse  
downing  boston  college,  
3-1.  

The irish (5-9, 0-2 acc) 
first take on the eagles on Friday evening, looking to draw even with their 2014 win count with a victory at home. The eagles’ most serious threat to the irish is senior outside hitter Katty workman, who set a program-record 23 kills in boston college’s five-set loss to georgia Tech on sept. 27. workman also recently broke the school’s career record for kills. 
“we have to get on her tendencies and understand them,” Johnson said. “we have to identify her most prominent tendencies, take that away and force her to do something differently, and when she does that we have to adjust.” 
The irish are coming off two tough losses marked by a struggling offense and costly unforced attack er­rors. The seminoles on sunday held the irish to just a .136 attack average while forcing four errors in 
see volleyball PAGE 13 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
ND to host invite 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame returns to ac­tion at the Joe piane notre dame invitational on Friday afternoon following a week off. 
The event will be the second consecutive home meet for the irish, who hosted the national catholic championship in mid-september. 
at the national catholic championship, notre dame placed in first in both the 
men’s  and  women’s  team  
races.  
on  the  women’s  side  

at the national catholic championship, the irish were led by highly touted freshman anna rohrer, who placed first overall with a 
see Xc PAGE 14 






